2401109|Traditional wisdom of the evolution of lungs in fishes is that lungs arose when gill ventilation was hindered by an aquatic habitat that was low in oxygen. This scenario has been buttressed primarily by a proposed correlation between extant air-breathing fishes and hypoxic habitats, as well as by the fact that early vertebrate fossils were found in sediments believed to indicate a semi-arid environment. There are problems with this scenario, yet it retains a dominant influence on how the evolution of aerial respiration is viewed. This paper presents a new hypothesis for lung evolution that is more consistent with the fossil record and physiology of extant animals than the traditional scenario; I propose that lungs evolved to supply the heart with oxygen. The primitive vertebrate heart was spongy in architecture and devoid of coronary support, obtaining oxygen from luminal blood. By supplying oxygen to this tissue, lungs may have been important in ancient fishes for sustaining activity, regardless of environment. Furthermore, this function for lungs may have influenced cardiovascular adaptations of tetrapods because their divided cardiovascular system isolates the right side of the heart from pulmonary oxygen. I propose that three innovations compensate for this isolation: In extant amphibians oxygen-rich blood from cutaneous and buccal respiration enters the right side of the heart; in chelonians and lepidosaurs the intracardiac shunt washes oxygen-rich blood into the right side of the heart; in mammals, birds, and perhaps in crocodilians, support of the heart by coronary vasculature eliminates this problem.
2401074|Cladograms predict the order in which fossil taxa appeared and, thus, make predictions about general patterns in the stratigraphic record. Inconsistencies between cladistic predictions and the observed stratigraphic record reflect either inadequate sampling of a clade's species, incomplete estimates of stratigraphic ranges, or homoplasy producing an incorrect phylogenetic hypothesis. A method presented in this paper attempts to separate the effects of homoplasy from the effects of inadequate sampling. Sampling densities of individual species are used to calculate confidence intervals on their stratigraphic ranges. The method uses these confidence intervals to test the order of branching predicted by a cladogram. The Lophospiridae ("Archaeogastropoda") of the Ordovician provide a useful test group because the clade has a good fossil record and it produced species over a long time. Confidence intervals reject several cladistic hypotheses that postulate improbable "ghost lineages." Other hypotheses are acceptable only with explicit ancestor-descendant relationships. The accepted cladogram is the shortest one that stratigraphic data cannot reject. The results caution against evaluating phylogenetic hypotheses of fossil taxa without considering both stratigraphic data and the possible presence of ancestral species, as both factors can affect interpretations of a clade's evolutionary dynamics and its patterns of morphologic evolution.
2401029|Antarctic Hoploparia exhibit morphologic changes upsection in a stratigraphic record considered to be long (approximately 15 m.y.) and free of major hiatuses. Five characters exhibit change upsection, and the overall morphologies of the geologically oldest and youngest lobsters are different. The observed patterns could be the result of either phyletic evolution or gradual invasion of one or more species into the range of the original species. The most parsimonious interpretation of the data argues against the invasion hypothesis but supports the phyletic evolution hypothesis.
2400295|A population of shells of the Cretaceous oyster Agerostrea mesenterica was obtained from a single locality. The age at death for each shell could be determined, and the population was deemed to be essentially undisturbed and capable of providing a mortality record of the local population averaged over a span of time. We measured four morphometric characters which, on the basis of a functional morphologic model, could be expected to have adaptive value. The frequency distribution of each character was analyzed separately for the three year old and for the six year and older specimens in order to determine which individuals died young and which survived to old age. Ontogenetic effects were separated from those of differential mortality by independent means. The results indicated that there was (1) directed selection for maximum curvature, (2) centripetal selection for a plica number of about 8, and (3) a net centripetal effect on both are length and plica height, composed of selection against largest values coupled with a possible selection against smaller values that cannot be separated from ontogenetic effects. Only the selection for maximum curvature and optimal plica number can be reconciled with the predictions of the model.
2400274|The extinction of endemic brachiopods in North America at the end of the Ordovician and recolonization by European species has been related to glacio-eustatic lowering of sea level which disrupted conditions in epicontinental seas. North American species may have been narrowly adapted to relatively stable conditions of broad, tropical shallow seas. European invaders may have been less specialized because they were adapted to conditions in both the open ocean and in narrow European epicontinental seas. Being less narrowly adapted, European species probably were better able to cope with changing environmental conditions than were North American species. During the Lower and Middle Llandovery, shallow water, low diversity communities of Pentamerus Community depth were unstable and characterized by repeated extinctions and invasions. Following the crisis at the Ordovician-Silurian boundary 3 to 5 million years were needed to reestablish communities that were persistent in geologic time.
2400239|During the past 20 years, paleobiology has established the foundations of a nomothetic science based upon evolutionary theory. This radical break with a past philosophy based on irreducible historical uniqueness is still impeded by (1) overreliance upon the inductivist methodology that embodied this previous philosophy, and (2) an unadventurous approach to biology that attempts passively to transfer the orthodoxies of microevolutionary theory across vast stretches of time and several levels of a hierarchy into the domain of macroevolution. I analyze the major trends of recent invertebrate paleobiology in the light of these two impediments. The formulation, by paleobiologists and with paleobiological data, of new macroevolutionary theories should end the subservience of passive transfer and contribute, in turn, to the formulation of a new, general theory of evolution that recognizes hierarchy and permits a set of unifying principles to work differently at various levels.
2400472|Micropaleontology is a peculiar subject: it is not easily defined, it focuses on geologic problems, and it ignores fundamental paleontologic and evolutionary questions it could best attack. As a result of its historic development, micropaleontology is directed to the solution of stratigraphic, paleoceanographic and paleoclimatologic problems, but it has seldom addressed paleobiologic or evolutionary ideas. It is a tradition rather than a discipline. The term "micropaleontology" and all it signifies should be abandoned, for it obscures natural relationships, attracts people with geologic rather than biologic approaches, isolates its practitioners in a blanket of systematics, biostratigraphies, and terminologies, and, as a result, discourages outsiders with other viewpoints or contributions from utilizing its fine fossil record. The growth of the field has been exponential in people-power and literature but not in the development of fundamentally new ideas. Micropaleontology has therefore contributed little to recent paleobiologic or evolutionary hypotheses, in spite of the possession by the many organisms relegated to it of biological properties and fossil records which have much potential for the generation and testing of such hypotheses. Microfossil studies have served geology powerfully and they should continue in that role, but they should also be used to fulfill their promise in the interpretation of paleobiogeography, paleoecology, morphology, evolutionary processes and the origin of new groups and ground plans.
2400668|Phytogeographic analysis of three Early Carboniferous intervals (Tournaisian-early Visean, Visean, and late Visean-early Namurian A) indicates a high level of phytogeographic differentiation in the beginning of the Early Carboniferous that decreases toward the end of this period. Climatic amelioration (warmer or wetter conditions) in the north middle and high latitudes, caused by the collision of Laurussia and Gondwana at the end of the Early Carboniferous, may be responsible for this decrease in phytogeographic provinciality. Toward the end of the Early Carboniferous, a large number of equatorial genera expand their ranges northward, and the average generic diversity of assemblages in the north high latitudes (Siberia) also rises. Both support the hypothesis of climatic amelioration. Northward migration of equatorial forms and the appearance of new genera endemic to Siberia both contributed to the rise in Siberian diversity. Although this trend is not statistically significant, additional evidence of diversity increase in northern high latitudes tied to climatic amelioration comes from the northernmost limit of diverse ( 10 genera) assemblages, which rises from 20
2400419|Nature's discontinuities occur both in the hierarchical structuring of genealogical individuals and in the distinct processes operating at different scales of time, here called tiers. Conventional evolutionary theory denies this structuring and attempts to render the larger scales as simple extrapolation from (or reduction to) the familiar and immediate-the struggle among organisms at ecological moments (conventional individuals at the first tier). I propose that we consider distinct processes at three separable tiers of time: ecological moments, normal geological time (trends during millions of years), and periodic mass extinctions. I designate as "the paradox of the first tier" our failure to find progress in life's history, when conventional theory (first tier processes acting on organisms) expects it as a consequence of competition under Darwin's metaphor of the wedge. I suggest a resolution of the paradox: whatever accumulates at the first tier is sufficiently reversed, undone, or overriden by processes of the higher tiers. In particular, punctuated equilibrium at the second tier produces trends for suites of reasons unrelated to the adaptive benefits of organisms (conventional progress). Mass extinction at the third tier, a recurring process now recognized as more frequent, more rapid, more intense, and more different than we had imagined, works by different rules and may undo whatever the lower tiers had accumulated.
2401214|Paleobiologists have used taxonomic data for several types of diversity studies. Some systematists have charged that this practice obfuscates actual historical patterns of clades because many traditionally defined higher taxa are not monophyletic. Some have questioned whether ranked taxa ever represent comparable units, even when monophyletic. This study contrasts diversity patterns implied by phylogenetic estimates with those implied by ranked taxa. Early Paleozoic gastropods are useful as a test case because their generic taxonomy does not reflect the phylogenetic systematic philosophy, and fewer than one third of the genera represent monophyletic clades. Phylogenetic diversity is described in two ways: (1) numbers of lineages (i.e., observed plus phylogenetically implied "ghost lineages"), and (2) numbers of monophyla (i.e., clades whose sister taxa are other clades rather than species). "Monophyla" as tallied here are monophyletic relative to their contemporaries and older clades; however, they can be paraphyletic relative to "future" monophyla. Phylogenetic diversity is tallied with both maximum and minimum "ghost lineage" interpolations in order to reflect different possible speciation patterns and timings of speciation. Phylogenetic diversity as implied by a stricter cladistic criterion (i.e., taxa that are monophyletic relative to their contemporaries, older taxa and younger taxa) is discussed also. First differences between substage-to-substage standing diversities reveal significant congruence between generic data and both types of phylogenetic data. Taxonomic and phylogenetic data imply a major extinction event at the end of the Ordovician, although the phylogenetic data suggest greater extinction levels than do the taxonomic data. Both data sets also suggest diversity-dependent diversification reminiscent of logistic growth, which is the pattern predicted if one or a few major ecologic factors were constraining the diversification of gastropods. However, diversity described by strict Hennigian taxa is not highly congruent with diversity as described by either lineages or monophyla. Comparing subclade dynamics requires extensive redefinition of traditional orders, but lineages, monophyla and genera all suggest that the two major subclades had different logistic diversification patterns, with one ("murchisonioids") having a higher K than the other ("euomphaloids"). The concern that phylogenetic and taxonomic data might imply very different evolutionary histories is not borne out by gastropods, despite the nonphylogenetic nature of their traditional taxonomy.
2400849|A moving reference frame is introduced for the analysis of accretionary shell growth. Simple principles of motion and stepwise growth define the model. At each growth step, the aperture migrates from its present position to a new position, according to locally defined rules. The aperture becomes the focus of the analysis, mathematically and conceptually, in conformity with biological reality. Kinematic principles provide the analytical framework for describing the aperture's trajectory (kinematics is the study of motion). The aperture "translates," "rotates," and "dilates." The model offers exceptional flexibility in the analysis of accretionary growth forms and is particularly well-suited to analysis of conical and loosely coiled shell geometries. Computer simulations illustrate the principles of a moving reference model. The inverse problem of finding the aperture motions from actual shell data is rigorously specified, for both planispiralled and helicospiralled shell forms.
4096805| Sutural perimeters of 301 Late Jurassic ammonites scale as the 3/8 power of phragmocone volume. This implies that septal surface grows as the  power of body mass, the exponent of Kleiber's law (1932), one of the best-established empirical laws in biology, which is well known to be the scaling exponent of basal metabolic rate. Sutural complexity, as measured by fractal dimensions, emerges from the relationship between sutural perimeter and phragmocone volume, thus supporting the interpretations of septal folding as a mechanism for the increase in septal surface and as demanded by metabolic and physiologic processes (e.g., respiration or body chamber transport). The implications of these results strongly suggest that ammonite septa were involved in more than a simple structural support. 
3595509|Four vascular plant lineages, the ferns, sphenopsids, progymnosperms, and seed plants, evolved laminated leaves in the Paleozoic. A principal coordinate analysis of 641 leaf species from North American and European floras ranging in age from Middle Devonian through the end of the Permian shows that the clades followed parallel trajectories of evolution: each clade exhibits rapid radiation of leaf morphologies from simple (and similar) forms in the Late Devonian/Early Carboniferous to diverse, differentiated leaf forms, with strong constraint on further diversification beginning in the mid Carboniferous. Similar morphospace trajectories have been documented in studies of morphological evolution in animals; however, plant fossils present unique opportunities for understanding the developmental processes that underlie such patterns. Detailed comparison of venation in Paleozoic leaves with that of modern leaves for which developmental mechanisms are known suggests developmental interpretations for the origination and early evolution of leaves. The parallel evolution of a marginal meristem by the modification of developmental mechanisms available in the common ancestor of all groups resulted in the pattern of leaf evolution repeated by each clade. Early steps of leaf evolution were followed by constraint on further diversification as the possible elaborations of marginal growth were exhausted. Hypotheses of development in Paleozoic leaves can be tested by the study of living plants with analogous leaf morphologies.
1571659|The excellent fossil record of the past few million years, combined with the overwhelming similarity of the biota to extant species, provides an outstanding opportunity for understanding paleoecological and macroevolutionary patterns and processes within a rigorous biological framework. Unfortunately, this potential has not been fully exploited because of lack of well-sampled time series and adequate statistical analysis. Nevertheless, four basic patterns appear to be of general significance. First, a major pulse of extinction occurred 1-2 m.y. ago in many ocean basins, more or less coincident with the intensification of glaciation in the Northern Hemisphere. Rates of origination also increased greatly but were more variable in magnitude and timing. The fine-scale correlation of these evolutionary events with changes in climate is poorly understood. Similar events probably occurred on land but have not been tested adequately. Second, rates of origination and extinction in the oceans waned after the pulse of extinction, especially during the past 1 m.y. Thus, most marine species originated long before the Pleistocene under very different environmental circumstances, suggesting that they are "exapted" rather than adapted to their present ecological circumstances. The same may be true for many terrestrial groups, but not for the mammals or fresh-water fishes that have continued to undergo speciation throughout the Pleistocene. Third, community membership of late Pleistocene coral reef communities was more stable than expected by chance. These are the only paleoecological data adequate to test hypotheses of community stability, so that we do not know whether community structure involving other taxa or environments typically reflects more than the collective behavior of individual species distributions. Regardless, the strong evidence for nearly universal exaptation of ecological characteristics argues strongly against ideas of coevolution of species in communities. Finally, ecological communities were profoundly altered by human activities long before modern ecological studies began. Holocene paleontological, archeological, and historical data constitute the only ecological baseline for "pristine" ecological communities before significant human disturbance. Holocene records should be much more extensively used as a baseline for Recent ecological studies and for conservation and management.
40926782|Variations in the orientation and cross-sectional shape of filamentous microfossils provide quantitative measures for characterizing them and probing their native mechanical structure. Here, we determine the tangent correlation length, which is the characteristic length scale for the variation in direction of a sinuous curve, for both a suite of Precambrian filamentous microfossils and six strains of modern filamentous cyanobacteria, all with diameters of a few microns. Among 1.92-Ga microfossils, Gunflintia grandis, Gunflintia minuta and Eomycetopsis filiformis possess, respectively, correlation lengths of 360  40 m, 670  40 m and 700  100 m in two dimensions. Hundreds of times larger than the filament diameters, these values lie in the same range as the cyanobacteria Geitlerinema and Pseudanabaena, but are smaller than several strains of Oscillatoria. In contrast, the 2-Ga microfossil trichome Halythrix, is found to have a short correlation length of 29  4 m in two dimensions. Micron-wide pyritic replacement filaments observed in 3.23-Ga volcanogenic deposits also display a modest correlation length of 100  15 m in two dimensions. Sequences of species in two genera of our modern cyanobacteria possess tangent correlation lengths that rise as a power of the filament diameter DD 3.3  1 for Oscillatoria and D 5.1  1 for Geitlerinema. These results can be compared with power-law scaling of D 3 for hollow tubes and D for solid cylinders that is expected from continuum mechanics. Extrapolating the observed scaling behavior to smaller filament diameters, the measured correlation length of the pyrite filaments is consistent with modern Geitlerinema whereas that of Halythrix lies not far from modern Oscillatoria, suggesting that there may be structural similarities among these genera.
1571658|The environmental and biotic history of the late Quaternary represents a critical junction between ecology, global change studies, and pre-Quaternary paleobiology. Late Quaternary records indicate the modes and mechanisms of environmental variation and biotic responses at time-scales of 101-104 years. Climatic changes of the late Quaternary have occurred continuously across a wide range of temporal scales, with the magnitude of change generally increasing with time span. Responses of terrestrial plant populations have ranged from tolerance in situ to moderate shifts in habitat to migration and/or extinction, depending on magnitudes and rates of environmental change. Species assemblages have been disaggregated and recombined, forming a changing array of vegetation patterns on the landscape. These patterns of change are characteristic of terrestrial plants and animals but may not be representative of all other life-forms or habitats. Complexity of response, particularly extent of species recombination, depends in part on the nature of the underlying environmental gradients and how they change through time. Environmental gradients in certain habitats may change in relatively simple fashion, allowing long-term persistence of species associations and spatial patterns. Consideration of late Quaternary climatic changes indicates that both the rate and magnitude of climatic changes anticipated for the coming century are unprecedented, presenting unique challenges to the biota of the planet.
2400932|Morphological gradients in graptoloid colonies are explained by the production and diffusion of a morphogen from the sicula distalwards. Size of the thecae is inversely related to the amount of morphogen present. The graduate decrease of morphogen is given by a set of algebraic equations, and its effect on zooid growth is described by a modified Michaelis-Menten relationship. Changes in size of thecae computed on the basis of these equations fit the changes observed in graptolite colonies. Sets of differential equations are also given to describe the rate of morphogen diffusion and some other processes possibly involved in the development of uniaxiate graptoloid colonies. The suggested basic model of these colonies can be completed by a number of additional assumptions; however, computer experiments reveal that such assumptions do not affect the main properties of the model, namely the appearance of graded series of thecae. New evidence for regeneration of the sicular portion of the broken rhabdosome is presented, providing arguments that morphogen was produced by the siculozooid as a single bolus of secretion. Some local exclusions from the regular size gradient are discussed, and tentative explanations are suggested.
2400971|All erect, branching (ramose) organisms adhere to the same fundamental geometric growth law: the rate of distal growth decreases away from the branch axis. Regardless of the phylogenetic history of an organism, the formation of cylindrical branches requires adherence to this law. In colonies coordinate the growth rates of the individual modules to produce an integrated branch? This question is addressed in the context of three Ordovician and three Devonian species of ramose trepostome bryozoans. Using remnant growing tips in the endozone as isochronous surfaces, relative rates of skeletal secretion among zooids were measured. Measurements of skeletal and void spaces across a colony branch enabled calculation of the volume of skeletal material secreted by zooids between successive remnant growing tips. Results indicate that rate of skeletal secretion systematically decreases from the branch axis outward into the exozone. This suggests that zooid morphogenesis is controlled to a certain degree by the colony. Colonial control over zooidal growth rates in turn regulates the shape of the colony.
2666080|The Neogene paleoisland from the area of Gargano, Italy, has yielded numerous fossil vertebrates, some of them showing extraordinary morphological peculiarities due to island evolution. Among them, Microtia (Freudenthal 1976) is the dominant rodent genus in the Gargano palaeofauna and is represented by at least three evolutionary lineages. The incisors are used to describe the size evolution in these lineages, and we come to the conclusion that these lineages did not follow the same evolutionary trend: two of them evolve toward larger size, while the third one shows a slight decrease in size. In addition, we describe the evolution of the curvature of the lower incisor, compared with that of body-size. The evolution of Microtia is characterized by a specialization for burrowing, which may be accompanied by either an increase or a decrease in size. Finally, we propose that the evolutionary change among these three sympatric lineages allowed Microtia to minimize competition between species, by avoiding size overlaps.
2400644|Size variation among several species of large mammals is examined both throughout a wide geographical range today and within the Late Pleistocene-Holocene archaeo-faunal sequence of Israel. A regression of log dental size on environmental temperature produces similar negative slopes for recent Palaearctic foxes, wolves and boars as well as for Nearctic foxes. These species, and others which also exhibit an inverse correlation between size and temperature today, became dwarfed at the end of the Pleistocene in Israel. Abundant fossil gazelle and fox mensural data indicate that this diminution coincided with the temperature elevation 12,000 yr ago. Both the similarity of regression slopes for the recent material and the temporal coincidence of dwarfing among fossil species, representing different ecologies, strongly implicate temperature as the main body-size determining factor. Changes evidenced in the fossil record for boar, wolf and fox approximate a 15
4096990|A large, morphologically heterogeneous population of acanthomorphic acritarchs from the early Neoproterozoic Wynniatt Formation, Victoria Island, northwestern Canada, is ascribed to two form-genera, Tappania and Germinosphaera, but just a single natural taxon, Tappania. Analysis of Tappania morphology shows it to have been an actively growing, benthic, multicellular organism capable of substantial differentiation. Most notably, its septate, branching, filamentous processes were capable of secondary fusion, a synapomorphy of the "higher fungi/" Combined with phylogenetic, taphonomic and functional morphologic evidence, such "hyphal fusion" identifies Tappania reliably, if not conclusively, as a fungus, probably a sister group to the "higher fungi," but more derived than the zygomycetes. The presence of Tappania in the Mesoproterozoic Roper Group of Australia extends the record of putative fungi to 1430 Ma. Along with other Proterozoic acritarchs exhibiting fungus-like characteristics (e.g., Trachyhystrichosphaera, Shuiyousphaeridium, Dictyosphaera, Foliomorpha), there is a case to be made for an extended and relatively diverse record of Proterozoic fungi.
20445614|Body mass is an important organism-level variable in mammalian biology, correlated with physiology, life history, and ecology. To analyze the dynamics of body size evolution, increases and decreases in body mass were tallied for ancestor-descendant (AD) species pairs for 519 terrestrial caniform taxa. To account for uncertainty phylogeny, a bootstrapping routine shuffled hypothesized AD pairs, and average proportions of increases were binned as a function of ancestral body mass. A set of models relating the rate of body size increase were evaluated with the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC). AIC selected three models of the candidate set as equivalent in support by the observed body mass data. These three models propose body size increase for small AD pairs and body size decrease for large AD pairs, although they differ in their treatment of taxa at intermediate sizes. These results demonstrate the presence of constraints bounding the caniform distribution at large and small body sizes, stabilizing the distribution through time, which stands in contrast to a broader mammalian pattern. At a finer phylogenetic scale, subclades within intermediate size classes display proportions that are significantly different from unbiased, with several clades previously cited as examples of "Cope's Rule" showing biased increases in size, and basal mustelids (badgers, and allied genera), Mephitidae (skunks), and Vulpini ("foxes") exhibiting biased decreases. The caniform pattern is therefore the result of superimposed, clade-specific trajectories, demonstrating that the inferred dynamics of body size evolution and even the direction of trends in body size evolution within the Caniformia, and for mammals in general, depend on the hierarchical scale of the analysis.
4096898|Recent molecular analyses indicate that many reef coral species belong to hybridizing species complexes or "syngameons." Such complexes consist of numerous genetically distinct species or lineages, which periodically split and/or fuse as they extend through time. During splitting and fusion, morphologic intermediates form and species overlap. Here we focus on processes associated with lineage fusion, specifically introgressive hybridization, and the recognition of such hybridization in the fossil record. Our approach involves comparing patterns of ecologic and morphologic overlap in genetically characterized modern species with fossil representatives of the same or closely related species. We similarly consider the long-term consequences of past hybridization on the structure of modern-day species boundaries. Our study involves the species complex Montastraea annularis s.l. and is based in the Bahamas, where, unlike other Caribbean locations, two of the three members of the complex today are not genetically distinct. We measured and collected colonies along linear transects across Pleistocene reef terraces of last interglacial age (approximately 125 Ka) on the islands of San Salvador, Andros, and Great Inagua. We performed quantitative ecologic and morphologic analyses of the fossil data, and compared patterns of overlap among species with data from modern localities where species are and are not genetically distinct. Ecologic and morphologic analyses reveal "moderate" overlap (>10%, but statistically significant differences) and sometimes "high" overlap (no statistically significant differences) among Pleistocene growth forms (= "species"). Ecologic analyses show that three species (massive, column, organ-pipe) co-occurred. Although organ-pipes had higher abundances in patch reef environments, columnar and massive species exhibited broad, completely overlapping distributions and had abundances that were not related to reef environment. For morphometric analyses, we used multivariate discriminant analysis on landmark data and linear measurements. The results show that columnar species overlap "moderately" with organ-pipe and massive species. Comparisons with genetically characterized colonies from Panama show that the Pleistocene Bahamas species have intermediate morphologies, and that the observed "moderate" overlap differs from the morphologic separation among the three modern species. In contrast, massive and columnar species from the Pleistocene of the Dominican Republic comprise distinct morphologic clusters, similar to the modern species; organ-pipe species exhibit "low" overlap (<10%, only at species margins) with columnar and massive species. Assuming that "moderate" overlap implies hybridization and "high" overlap implies more complete lineage fusion, these results support the hypothesis of hybridization among species within the complex in the Bahamas during the Pleistocene. Hybridization involved introgression of three distinct evolutionary lineages, in association with Pleistocene sea level and temperature fluctuations, and appears to have been limited geographically primarily to the Bahamas and the northern Caribbean. Thus, not only does the structure of species boundaries within the complex vary geographically, but these geographic differences may have persisted since the Pleistocene.
2400921|Amino acid analyses of undecalcified samples of fossil crocodile and rhinoceros enamel and dentin from mature teeth revealed that the total protein content of these mineralized fossil tissues varied from 0.01-0.007% by weight. Except in one instance, amino acid analyses of the enamel proteins revealed them to be free of collagen and to have an amino acid composition similar to the proteins obtained from the enamel of mature modern vertebrates. Molecular sieving of the acid soluble enamel proteins demonstrated that the components consisted principally of small peptides and free amino acids, as in the enamel of modern vertebrates. Based on the presence of hydroxyproline (hyp) and hydroxylysine (hyl), collagen was detected in undecalcified mature dentin of fossil rhinoceros, but not in undecalcified crocodile dentin. It was only by sequential extraction procedures that the presence of collagen in the dentin of fossil crocodile was established, emphasizing the utility and importance of analyzing the soluble components in specific extracts of the fossil. Based on these data and the concentrations of hyp and hyl in the material solubilized by the various solvents, the dentin of fossil rhinoceros contained considerably more collagen per weight and as a percentage of the total protein in the dentin than did the dentin of fossil crocodile. As with modern dentin, EDTA and dilute acid solubilize the noncollagenous proteins and peptides found in fossil enamel and dentin, some of which contain O-phosphoserine [Ser(P)], an amino acid unique to mineralized connective tissues. Similar to recent reported findings from fossil bone, less of the original content of the noncollagenous proteins, including those phosphorylated, is degraded and removed from the enamel and dentin during fossilization than the percentage of dentinal collagen and the nonphosphorylated domains of the enamel proteins which are removed. This selective resistance to degradation and removal of the noncollagenous proteins, including phosphoproteins, may reflect the strong interaction of these proteins with the mineral phase of fossilized tissues. The amount and close packing of the inorganic crystals may also inhibit the interaction of the proteins in the interior of the enamel and dentin with the geochemical environment.
2400671|The late Precambrian genus Rangea Gurich, 1929, a frond-like fossil composed of repeated foliate elements, is one of the first discovered forms belonging to the now widely known soft-bodied assemblages characterizing the Ediacaran Period. Rangea occurs together with the genera Pteridinium Gurich, 1933, and Ernietta Pflug, 1966, in the lower parts of the Nama Group, Namibia (South West Africa). Investigation of the preservation and structure of Rangea, utilizing a methodology similar to that established by Wade (1968, 1971), indicates that it was probably a colonial octocoral consisting of a large tapering primary polyp, or oozoid, and a number of leaf-shaped, conjoined fronds which bore the feeding polyps; it is suggested to belong to a group of early Ediacaran anthozoans which provide a fossil link between the still living Telestacea and Pennatulacea. Similar investigations of Pteridinium and Ernietta disclose that their structure is different from Rangea and does not support ideas that they are related to it.
4096911|Ecological polarities are theoretical roles of organisms, reflected in evolved behaviors and characters. Ecological polarity includes what has been called life history strategies, functional types, habitat templates, and r and K selection. Three common ecological polarities emphasize reproduction, agonistic behavior, and withstanding harsh conditions. Such organisms can be called breeders, competitors, and tolerators, respectively. Polarities of ecospace can be envisaged graphically as apices of a triangular diagram within which each species occupies a particular region. Quantitative studies of ecological polarities rely on proxy measurements of specific morphological features, such as the proportional functional area of canines (for competitors), molars (for tolerators), and incisors (for breeders) among mammals. Such proxy measures of morphospace or chemospace are traditionally judged successful by the degree to which they reveal adaptive differences between species. This approach to approximating ecological polarity is here applied to modern soils, plants, snails, and mammals, as well as to comparable fossils of the Clarno and John Day Formations (Eocene and Oligocene) of central Oregon. An advantage of this approach is that adaptive similarities can be tested quantitatively, as shown here for Oligocene oaks and maples, rather than assuming that extinct species were comparable to related living plants. Paleosols that supported fossil creatures provide useful supporting evidence of past selection pressures for ecologically significant adaptations. Degree of hardship can also be quantified from paleosol features. For example, fossil snails had narrower apertures in paleosols of drier climates as revealed by their shallower calcic horizons, and leaves of extinct relatives of Meliosma and Oreomunnea were sclerophyllous in paleosols showing evidence of waterlogging, nutrient-deficiency, and metal toxicity. Evolutionary trends of ecological specialization revealed by this approach include molarization (interpreted as evolution toward the tolerator pole) in ungulates. Adaptive breakthroughs that initiated evolutionary radiations also can be reassessed by using these approximations of ecospace, for example, the convergent evolution by bears of degree of caninization previously evolved in an extinct creodont (Hemipsalodon). Ecological polarities provide new concepts and metrics for ordering morphological, chemical, and ecological characters of fossil and modern organisms, and for reassessing evolutionary trends.
2401201|The Brontotheriidae (Perissodactyla, Mammalia) are often used as an illustration of vertebrate macroevolutionary trends because their morphological evolution includes significant size increases accompanied by the disproportionate lengthening of bony frontonasal horns. The positive phylogenetic allometry for horn length vs. skull length is among the strongest known of such relationships in vertebrate phylogeny. Hypotheses explaining the change from small, incipient horns in Eocene ancestors to longer horns in Oligocene descendants have included two heterochronic mechanisms, hypermorphosis (extrapolation) and predisplacement (earlier onset time of horn growth). These proposed peramorphic mechanisms derive from interpretation of adult intergeneric allometries in logarithmic data spaces. Analysis of the raw (unlogged) data shows that the simple allometric model previously used is not an appropriate model for this specific problem. The heterochronic interpretations derived from them are therefore unsupported (but not disproven) by the allometries. A more appropriate allometric model for the data (full model) does not support any heterochronic interpretation. Previously unaccounted for in the heterochronic hypotheses is a complication due to body-size scaling effects on life history stage lengths. Neontological scaling patterns suggest that brontothere size increases were probably accompanied by increasing life spans and longer developmental stages. This effect broadens the types of heterochronies that may be postulated. Semiquantitative analyses comparing brontotheres with similarly sized extant ungulates show the hypothesized effect of larger size on brontothere life history stages. A scaled descendant ontogeny introduces the problem of relative vs. absolute time frames within which to view ontogenetic onset times. Thus, predisplacements, postdisplacements, or nondisplacements may be viewed as relative or absolute with respect to ancestral ontogenies. This raises a fundamental question about how development scales, which in turn affects how heterochronies are interpreted. A scaling effect suggests that brontothere horns are more likely postdisplaced in the traditional absolute time sense. Paradoxically then, while the descendant adult horn is peramorphic, its onset time may have shifted in a paedomorphic direction. Data for two Oligocene juvenile brontotheres suggest that most horn growth occurred late in their longer (i.e., descendant) ontogenies (hypermorphosis), and that the horns probably grew at faster rates (acceleration) than in Eocene taxa.
2400916|Geographic range appears to be an important aspect of the biology of species, but ranges cannot be unambiguously determined from the fossil record: ancient species can rarely be traced to the full extent of their original geographic ranges, and some ancient provinces are far better characterized than others. Here we test the degree to which paleogeographic range data for species within ancient provinces can be used to estimate the relative magnitudes of total geographic ranges, focusing on the 212 living bivalve species of the Oregonian Province, a north-south (N-S) province of the northeastern Pacific shelf. We break the total range of each species into its within-province and extraprovincial components. Nonparametric rank correlation tests and simple linear regressions yield highly significant correlations, both between within-province and total ranges (which are not independent variables) and between within-province and extraprovincial ranges. The strongest correlations are obtained when north-ranging species are excluded. These north-ranging species are thermally tolerant and have access to broad east-west (E-W) provinces, thus weakening the relation between their within-province and total ranges. On a coarser scale, we also found that the extraprovincial ranges of species with small within-province ranges (<650 km, ca. 25% of focal province) are significantly less than those for species with large within-province ranges (>1950 km, ca. 75% of focal province). The significant correlations of within-province range with both total and extraprovincial ranges hold for species with within-province ranges >650 km, so caution is needed regarding species that extend into a focal province only a short distance from its edges. We conclude that within-province geographic range can generally be used to rank species by total geographic range and thus is an adequate proxy in most comparative studies of the paleobiologic consequences of range magnitudes.
2400915|A large body of paleontological literature concerns the importance of ontogeny as a source of morphological variation for evolution; morphologies that appear during one stage of an organism's development are made available for use in another simply by modifying the developmental program. Paleontologists need to know why this occurs, so they can study the process of evolution in extinct animals and so they can discuss the fossil record in terms that are applicable to modern forms. If most cases of heterochrony can be attributed to life-history evolution then the fossil record provides evidence of the nature of selection (in particular the age-specific mortality) that extinct animals experienced. The hypothesis of interest here is that species in which maturity is accelerated will also show generalized morphology and small size, while those with delayed maturity will have more specialized morphology and large size. Four species of the ostracode genus Cyprideis were studied to determine whether differences in age at maturity are correlated with heterochrony in the expected manner. For each species the changes in size and shape through geological time were evaluated in the statistical context of modern geographic and seasonal variation. Living populations were sampled regularly to detect differences in seasonality and to estimate the duration of development. Evolution of ontogeny is apparent at the level of species in this group, but it is not simply related to differences in life-history. In comparisons among species, we find evidence of heterochrony where there is no difference in the age at maturity, and a difference in age at maturity where there is no heterochrony. Similarly, three of the four species show the expected positive correlation between size and age at maturity, yet the fourth species is relatively large and matures rapidly. Cyprideis does not support the generalization that life-history evolution causes heterochrony, and casts doubt on the inference of life-history evolution from heterochrony where the data are drawn exclusively from extinct forms.
2666081|Clypeasteroid echinoids are a familiar and easily defined clade with a cryptic origin. They first appear in the late Paleocene and are believed to have arisen from cassiduloid ancestry, but identifying sister-group relationships more precisely has proved difficult. Two factors are responsible for this problem, the extreme morphological conservatism of cassiduloids, which has given rise to high levels of character exhaustion, and the origin of crown-group clypeasteroids through paedomorphosis. Previous analyses, based on extant representatives alone or including all Mesozoic to Recent genera, have proved unsatisfactory. Here a parsimony analysis is undertaken using a restricted set of all stem-group clypeasteroids and cassiduloid taxa that existed immediately prior to the appearance of crown-group clypeasteroids. Inclusion of Togocyamus, the fossil taxon lying closest to the origin of crown-group clypeasteroids, is phylogenetically uninformative because that taxon is highly paedomorphic and has only generalized juvenile characteristics. However, earlier stem-group plesions provide critical data that identify Apatopygidae as extant sister group to the Clypeasteroida. Stratigraphically restricted analyses cannot eradicate the problems that arise from character exhaustion, but can minimize these with respect to specific phylogenetic questions.
2401022|Paleoecologists have long sought to obtain estimates of the sizes of extinct populations. However, even in ideal cases, accurate counts of individuals have been hampered by the fact that many organisms disarticulate after death and leave their remains in the form of multiple, separated parts. We here analyze the problem of estimating numbers of individuals from collections of parts by developing a general counting theory that elucidates the major contributing variables. We discover that the number of unique individuals of a particular species that are represented in a fossil collection can be described by an intricate set of relationships among (1) the number of body parts that were recovered, (2) the number of body parts that were possessed by organisms belonging to that species, and (3) the number of individuals of that species that served as the source of the parts from which the paleontological sample was obtained (the size of the "sampling domain"). The "minimum number of individuals" and "maximum number of individuals" methods currently used by paleontologists to count individuals emerge as end members in our more general counting theory. The theory shows that the numbers of individuals of a species that are represented in a sample of body parts is fully tractable, at least in a theoretical sense, in terms of the variables just mentioned. The bad news is that the size of the "sampling domain" for a species can never be known exactly, thus placing a very real limit on our ability to count individuals rigorously. The good news is that one can often make a reasonable guess regarding the size of the sampling domain, and can therefore make a more thoroughly informed choice regarding how to estimate numbers of individuals. By isolating the variables involved in determining the numbers of individuals in paleontological samples, we are led to a better appreciation of the limits, and the possibilities, that are inherent in the fossil record.
2400183|A major aim of the analysis of faunal remains from archaeological sites is the reconstruction of the palaeoecology of early man. Since taphonomic work must precede palaeoecological work, theories concerning the palaeoecology of early man would benefit from firmly based taphonomic studies of the archaeological deposits. One of the numerous taphonomic factors to be considered is the bone fragmentation produced by early man. The degree of bone fragmentation in a deposit uninfluenced by human factors is an expression of the resistance of the various bones to mechanical and chemical decomposition before and during burial. Thus, the degree of fragmentation where human factors are predominant should provide an illustration of man as a taphonomic factor. In both cases the degree of fragmentation may be used as an indicator of the degree of taphonomic overprint. Examination of bone material from four West European Mesolithic sites (all bog deposits), Star Carr 7200  120 B.C., Kongemosen 6600  100 B.C., Praestelyngen 3200  100 B.C., and Muldbjerg I 2900  80 B.C., reveals differences in marrow fracturing techniques. Furthermore, the different techniques result in different numbers of fragments for the same type of bone. Comparison of faunas from different sites based on the number of bone fragments must therefore be preceded by analysis of the marrow fracturing techniques used at the various sites. The number of fragments per estimated minimum number of individuals should indicate the degree of taphonomic loss. The various types of marrow fracturing found seem to belong to cultures at different levels of technical development. Thus, it may be possible within a limited area such as northern Europe to establish a chronology using marrow fracturing type as one of the ecostratigraphic tools.
2400179|The fossil record of echinoids is poor because soon after death they break apart into isolated plates. In the present seas regular echinoid species outnumber irregular species; whereas, in the Tertiary only 20% of the known echinoid species are regular. This suggests that regular echinoids are less likely to be preserved than irregular echinoids. The tests of regular echinoids are exposed to scavengers and currents upon their death, but irregular echinoids generally live buried in the sediment and are protected from these destructive forces. Furthermore, the tests of the regular echinoids lack the calcareous supports found in some irregular echinoids. The gut is not filled with sediment and its apical system is generally larger and more fragile. Finally, many regular echinoids live in environments less likely to be preserved in the sedimentary record. Although the irregular echinoid is more likely to be fossilized, its record is poor during some periods in the past. Although 1,014 irregular echinoid species are known from the Eocene, only 83 species are known from the Paleocene and only 343 are known from the Oligocene. Is this reduction because fewer species lived then or because they have not been preserved?
2400354|The number of diatom valves and fragments per gram of surface sediment in the Atlantic Ocean accurately reflects diatom abundance in the overlying waters, without any evidence of significant lateral drift during settling to the sea bottom. The distribution pattern of the number of resting spores per gram is similar to that for the whole and fragmented diatom valves. Fresh water diatoms and opal phytoliths are abundant in the sediments off the west coast of Africa where they have been deposited by the Trade Winds. Despite the relatively small number of core tops analyzed, the abundance and distribution patterns of diatoms in the sediments exhibit striking similarities to the patterns of primary productivity, phosphates, and annual production of silica in suspension in surface waters. Areas with high phosphate values and primary productivity and, therefore, areas of upwelling can be inferred from the quantitative distribution of diatoms in the sediments. Q-mode factor analysis, based on the abundance of forty-two species in thirty-seven core tops, produced six diatom species assemblages whose distributions provide additional information on the positions of certain water masses and major currents. Since the data on the quantitative distribution of diatom valves as well as on the diatom assemblages in the sediments of the Atlantic Ocean today allow prediction of certain water mass characteristics and circulation patterns of the overlying waters, they therefore, permit the reconstruction of paleoceanographic circulation patterns in ancient Atlantic Oceans, using the diatom distribution in sediments from dated horizons.
2400996|Although much natural historical evidence has been adduced in support of the occurrence of several mass extinctions during the Phanerozoic, unambiguous statistical confirmation of the mass extinction phenomenon has remained elusive. Using bootstrapping techniques that have not previously been applied to the study of mass extinction, we have amassed strong or very strong statistical evidence for mass extinctions (see text for definitions) during the Late Ordovician, Late Permian, and Late Cretaceous. Bootstrapping therefore verifies three of the mass extinction events that were proposed by Raup and Sepkoski (1982). A small amount of bootstrapping evidence is also presented for mass extinctions in the Induan (Triassic) and Coniacean (Cretaceous) Stages, but high overall turnover rates (including high origination) in the Induan and uncertain estimates of the temporal duration of the Coniacean force us to conclude that the evidence is not compelling. We also present the results of more liberal 
20445618|The evolution of powered flight has traditionally been associated with the origin of birds, the most successful clade of modern tetrapods, as exemplified by the nearly 10,000 species alive today. Flight requires a suite of morphological changes to skeletal anatomy to create a light yet resistant framework for an airfoil and advanced nervous motor control. Given the level of morphological integration necessary to create a suitable aerofoil, the origin of flight may be intuitively assumed to be coupled with high evolutionary rates of wing-related morphologies. Here we show that the origin of birds is associated with little or no evolutionary change to the skeletal anatomy of the forelimb, and thus Archaeopteryx is unlikely to be the "Rosetta Stone" for the origin of flight it was once believed to be. Using comparative statistics and time-series analyses on a data set constructed from all known forelimb skeletal anatomy of non-avian theropod dinosaurs and a diverse assemblage of early birds, we demonstrate three focused peaks of rapid forelimb evolution at Tetanurae, Eumaniraptora, and Ornithothoraces. The peaks are not associated with missing data and remain stable under multiple perturbations to the phylogenetic arrangements. Different regions of the forelimbs are demonstrated to have undergone asynchronous periods of evolutionary peaks and stasis. Our results evince a more complicated stepwise mode of forelimb evolution before and after the origin of Aves than previously supposed.
2401003|Molecular data are becoming an indispensable tool for the reconstruction of phylogenies. Fossil molecular data remain scarce, but have the potential to resolve patterns of deep branching and provide empirical tests of tree reconstruction techniques. A total evidence approach, combining and comparing complementary morphological, molecular and stratigraphical data from both recent and fossil taxa, is advocated as the most promising way forward because there are several well-established problems that can afflict the analysis of molecular sequence data sometimes resulting in spurious tree topologies. The integration of evidence allows us to: (1) choose suitable taxa for molecular phylogenetic analysis for the question at hand; (2) discriminate between conflicting hypotheses of taxonomic relationship and phylogeny; (3) evaluate procedures and assumptions underlying methods of building trees; and (4) estimate rates of molecular evolution in the geological past. Paleontology offers a set of independent data for comparison and corroboration of analyses and provides the only direct means of calibrating molecular trees, thus giving insight into rates of molecular evolution in the geological past.
23014733|Incremental stages of major evolutionary transitions within a single animal lineage are rarely observed in the fossil record. However, the extraordinarily complete sequence of well preserved material spanning the 27-Myr existence of the marine squamate subfamily Mosasaurinae provides a unique exception. By comparison with extant and extinct analogs, the tail morphology of four mosasaurine genera is examined, revealing a pattern of evolution that begins with the generalized varanoid anatomy and culminates in a high-aspect-ratio fin, similar to that of sharks. However, unlike the epicercal caudal fluke of selachians in which the tail bends dorsocaudally, derived mosasaurs develop a hypocercal tail with a ventrocaudal bend. Progressive caudal regionalization, reduced intervertebral mobility, increased tail depth due to a marked downturn of the posterior caudal segment, and the development of finlike paired appendages reveal a pattern of adaptation toward an optimized marine existence. This change in morphology reflects a transition from anguilliform or sub-carangiform locomotion to carangiform locomotion, and indicates a progressive shift from nearshore dwellers to pelagic cruisersa change in foraging habitat independently corroborated by paleobiogeographic, stable isotope, osteohistological, and paleopathological data. Evolutionary patterns similar to those observed in mosasaurine mosasaurs are seen in other secondarily aquatically adapted amniotes, notably metriorhynchid crocodyliforms, cetaceans, and ichthyosaurs, and may be explained by developmental modularity governing the observed phenotypic expression.
2401004|The mid-Mesozoic time was characterized by massive reorganization of the ecological structure of benthic marine communities. Although the general pattern of this "Mesozoic Marine Revolution" has been extensively documented, little is known about how it affected the taxonomic and morphologic diversities of individual lineages of organisms. Here I document group-level dynamics of the Mesozoic change using the fossil record of aporrhaid gastropods, a diverse and widespread family during that time. Using data gathered through field and museum work and extensive literature search, I compare and contrast patterns of taxonomic and morphologic change during the Jurassic and Cretaceous within a geographic framework. I also examine how the changes were manifested at different ecological and geographic scales. The Mesozoic history of the Aporrhaidae includes two major radiations separated by a period of overall stability. While both radiations increased the taxonomic diversity of the family, they had very different morphologic consequences, resulting in a striking discordance between morphologic and taxonomic diversity patterns. The initial radiation during Bajocian-Bathonian times established two large morphologic groups within the aporrhaids based mainly on differences in the shape of the apertural margin. The second, post-Albian, radiation saw higher origination rates and increased taxonomic and morphologic diversity among genera having simpler apertural margins, while genera with elaborate multidigitate apertures declined in taxonomic diversity but not in morphologic diversity. During post-Albian times the group with simpler apertural margins also tended to be more widespread compared to the group with multidigitate apertures. Comparison of regional and global taxonomic diversities reveals a discordance between regional and global taxonomic patterns: while diversities within certain geographic areas increased in concert with the global radiation, those for other areas decreased substantially, resulting in a remarkably constant average taxonomic diversity within geographic areas.
20445599|The problem of gradual versus punctuated change within phyletic lineages can be understood in terms of the homogeneity of evolutionary dynamics. Hypotheses of punctuated change imply that the rules governing evolutionary change shift over time such that the normal dynamics of stasis are temporarily suspended, permitting a period of net evolutionary change. Such explanations are members of a larger class of models in which evolutionary dynamics are in some way heterogeneous over time. In this paper, I develop a likelihood-based statistical framework to evaluate the support for this kind of evolutionary model. This approach divides evolutionary sequences into nonoverlapping segments, each of which is fit to a separate evolutionary model. Models with heterogeneous dynamics are generally more complex--they require more parameters to specify--than uniform evolutionary models such as random walks and stasis. The Akaike Information Criterion can be used to judge whether the greater complexity of punctuational models is offset by a sufficient gain in log-likelihood for these models to be preferred. I use this approach to analyze three case studies for which punctuational explanations have been proposed. In the first, a model of punctuated evolution best accounted for changes in pygidial morphology within a lineage of the trilobite Flexicalymene, but the uniform model of an unbiased random walk remains a plausible alternative. Body size evolution in the radiolarian Pseudocubus vema was neither purely gradual nor completely pulsed. Instead, the best-supported explanation posited a single, pulsed increase, followed later by a shift to an unbiased random walk. Finally, for the much-analyzed claim of "punctuated gradualism" in the foraminifera Globorotalia, the best-supported model implied two periods of stasis separated by a period of elevated but not inherently directional evolution. Although the conclusions supported by these analyses generally refined rather than overturned previous views, the present approach differs from those prior in that all competing interpretations were formalized into explicit statistical models, allowing their relative support to be unambiguously compared.
2400150|Three genera of the echinoderm class Edrioasteroidea comprise the suborder Cyathocystina; each is small, has five short straight ambulacra, few thecal plates, and commonly has a modified peripheral rim with tightly sutured or fused plates. The cyathocystids appear to have evolved by paedomorphosis; they have become sexually mature "adults" while retaining a morphology similar to juveniles of isorophid edrioasteroids. This mode of evolution may have been beneficial in colonizing shallow water, nearshore, current-swept environments.
23014902|Dental morphology changes dramatically across the artiodactyl-cetacean transition, and it is generally assumed that this reflects the evolutionary change from herbivory and omnivory to carnivory. To test hypotheses regarding tooth function and diet, we studied size and position of wear facets on the lower molars and the stable isotopes of enamel samples. We found that nearly all investigated Eocene cetaceans had dental wear different from typical wear in ungulates and isotope values indicating that they hunted similar prey and processed it similarly. The only exception is the protocetid Babiacetus, which probably ate larger prey with harder skeletons. The closest relative of cetaceans, the raoellid artiodactyl Indohyus, had wear facets that resemble those of Eocene cetaceans more than they do facets of basal artiodactyls. This is in spite of Indohyus's tooth crown morphology, which is unlike that of cetaceans, and its herbivorous diet, as indicated by stable isotopes. This implies that the evolution of masticatory function preceded that of crown morphology and diet at the origin of cetaceans.
2400437|Under conditions of normal calcium metabolism, strontium/calcium ratios (Sr/Ca) have been shown to reflect the trophic level of contemporary and recent terrestrial fauna. These ratios therefore offer a potential means of studying fossil ecosystems and the diet of prehistoric humans. In cases in which suitable controls have demonstrated the preservation of biogenic Sr/Ca, it has been possible to investigate the proportionate importance of meat vs. vegetable foods in the diets of prehistoric humans. However, diagenetic change after interment has made it impossible to discern biogenic Sr/Ca in faunal and human skeletons over 15,000 y B.P. A procedure is investigated for the analysis of biogenic and diagenetic apatite in vertebrate fossils, on the basis of solubility differences among carbonate, hydroxy-, and fluorapatites. When applied to the 2 ma B.P. fauna of the Omo Basin (Ethiopia), distinct characterization of the herbivore, omnivore, and carnivore fauna in conformity with trophism was discerned, in spite of anomalous Sr/Ca of one highly specialized carnivore, Homotherium. Possible metabolic and/or taphonomic explanations of this anomaly are discussed, and future basic research into the solubility profile procedure is outlined.
4096913|The phylogenetic relationships of fossil and extant members of the primate superfamily Hominoidea are reassessed by using both conventional (morphological) cladistic and stratocladistic (incorporating morphological and temporal data) techniques. The cladistic analysis recovers four most parsimonious cladograms that distinguish postcranially primitive ("archaic") and derived ("modern") hominoid clades in the earliest Miocene of East Africa and supports distinct hominine and pongine clades. However, the relationships among the pongines and hominine clades and other Eurasian hominoids remain ambiguous and there is weak support (Bremer decay indices, reduced consensus, and bootstrap proportions) for several other parts of the proposed phylogeny. An examination of the partitioning of homoplasy across the two major hominoid clades recovered in the cladistic analysis indicates that the majority of the observed homoplasy resides in the postcranially derived clade. An examination of the partitioning of homoplasy across anatomical regions indicates that dental characters display a significantly higher level of homoplasy than postcranial characters. A rarefaction analysis demonstrates that the higher homoplasy associated with the dental characters is not the result of sampling biases, indicating that postcranial skeletal characters are likely the more reliable phylogenetic indicators in the hominoids. The branching order of the most parsimonious cladograms shows better than average congruence with the observed ordering of first appearances in the fossil record, implying that the hominoid fossil record is surprisingly good. As with morphologic parsimony debt, most of the stratigraphic parsimony debt in these cladograms is associated with the "modern" hominoid clade. A stratocladistic analysis of the data recovers a single most parsimonious phylogenetic tree with a different cladistic topology from the morphological cladogram. The most striking difference is the elimination of the postcranially primitive clade of hominoids in the early Miocene in favor of a pectinate succession of taxa. The relative position of the late-appearing taxon Oreopithecus is also altered in the stratocladistic hypothesis. Topological differences between the cladistic and stratocladistic hypotheses highlight two intervals of significant discord between the morphological and temporal data-the early Miocene of eastern Africa and the late Miocene of Eurasia. The first discrepancy is likely the result of poor preservation and morphological homoplasy in Morotopithecus, as the fossil record in the early Miocene of eastern Africa for the ingroup is rather good. The second discrepancy is likely the result of the unusual preservation conditions associated with the late Miocene hominoid Oreopithecus.
2400818|Faunal similarity among regions is often used as a means of identifying regions of endemism in fossil faunas. At least two large-scale taphonomic effects can affect apparent faunal similarity: stratigraphic and facies mismatching. In stratigraphic mismatching, an unconformity represents removal of most or all of a complete assemblage zone in one region, and the constituent taxa are mistakenly interpreted as having never inhabited that region. In facies mismatching, environmental differences between two regions (possibly unrecognized) cause the inference of a barrier that never existed. The two types of mismatching can work in concert if a facies was originally represented in a single stratigraphic interval that has been completely removed from one region. Analysis of faunal similarity via multivariate analysis of individual localities, coupled with comparison of the regions as single samples, may indicate mismatching if the results differ significantly. We view these two problems as part of a suite of taphonomic effects that are not evident in paleobiological analyses of smaller geographic scope. First, there is ambiguity in the notion of "barrier," even when a candidate is obvious. Second, barriers in paleobiogeography are often hidden and must be inferred from their effects rather than observed. Third, stratigraphic and facies mismatching produce effects on regional faunas similar to those produced by barriers. Anyone using barriers to explain faunal disruptions should address these three points. Upper Eocene faunas of central Florida seem taxonomically distinct from those of the remainder of the Gulf Coastal Plain. This has historically been attributed to a known paleogeographic feature, the Suwannee Strait, which acts as a barrier. The amount of dissimilarity of the echinoid faunas is greater than the amount predicted as a result of sampling problems. Comparison of the results of multivariate and whole-region analyses suggests that mismatching of the two faunas, rather than a true barrier, causes the distinction. Principally facies, but also strata are mismatched. Early Late Eocene faunas inhabited terrigenous sands to the north of the strait and carbonate sands to the south and show the highest distinctiveness. Middle Late Eocene faunas inhabited primarily carbonate sands to the south and both carbonate sands and muds to the north. Overall similarity is higher for both local and regional analyses, and the faunas of northern sands are more similar to those of the southern region than to the northern mud faunas. Overall similarity across the strait is highest in the late Late Eocene strata when both regions had carbonate mud and sand facies. The faunas exhibit greater similarity within facies than they do within regions. Upper Late Eocene strata are poorly preserved north of the strait because of post-Eocene erosion.
2400670|The internal structures of the third metacarpals of Merychippus and Mesohippus are assessed from thin sections and from radiographs, and systems of trabeculae differing in orientation and density are described. The principal forces transmitted to the articular surfaces of these bones are reconstructed and are used to estimate the pressure of contact on each surface. The major correlations made between the structure and the function of the third metacarpal of Equus (Thomason, 1985a) are also observed in this bone in Merychippus and Mesohippus. More important, the differences in trabecular structure among the recent and fossil bones may be interpreted in terms of the differences in inferred function. Thus the functional interpretation of the internal structure of fossil bones may reasonably be attempted.
4096828|With a sample of 94 Pleistocene cranial capacities between the time period of 1.8 Ma and 50 Ka now known, we consider the evolution of cranial capacity in Homo, with the null hypothesis that the changes over time are a result of one process. We employ a new method that uses a resampling approach to address the limitations imposed on the methods of previous studies. To test the null hypothesis, we examine the distribution of changes in adjacent temporal samples and ask whether there are differences between earlier and later samples. Our analyses do not reject the hypothesis of a single process of brain size change, but they are incompatible with an interpretation of punctuated equilibrium during this period. The results of this paper are difficult to reconcile with the case for cladogenesis in the Homo lineage during the Pleistocene.
3595494|Previous studies have established a close relationship between the evolutionary origin of new clades of planktonic foraminifera and heterochrony. Studies of the Paleogene radiation of the genus Morozovella revealed, for example, a temporal pattern of variation consistent with paedomorphosis. Our study focused on the late Paleocene species of Acarinina, sister group of Morozovella. Shape variations related to evolution and ontogeny are appraised through a morphometric method based on outline analysis using the elliptic Fourier transform. Patterns of developmental and evolutionary changes are studied and compared within each species (Acarinina nitida, A. subsphaerica, and A. mckannai). As no congruence is found, we suggest that the evolutionary change observed within these species is not related to a heterochronic process. We also test for similarity of both evolutionary and ontogenetic changes among species. Although we observe no significant correlation between temporal patterns of shape change among species, the tight congruence of ontogenetic trajectories suggests that the developmental constraints affecting these trajectories have been preserved in spite of the evolutionary diversification of acarininids. Heterochrony is not clearly involved in the early Paleogene diversification of acarininids and therefore may not be as common as previously claimed. The role of developmental constraints in monitoring morphological evolution therefore needs to be reassessed.
4500149|We use two approaches to test hypotheses regarding function in a group of extinct mammals (Family Mesotheriidae, Order Notoungulata) that lack any close extant relatives: a principle-derived paradigm method and empirically derived analog method. Metric and discrete morphological traits of mesotheriid postcranial elements are found to be consistent with the morphology predicted by a modified version of Hildebrand's paradigm for scratch diggers. Ratios of in-force to out-force lever arms based on skeletal elements indicate that the mesotheriids examined had limbs modified for high out-forces (i.e., they were "low geared"), consistent with the digging hypothesis. Other mesotheriid characters, such as cleft ungual phalanges, a curved olecranon, and a highly modified pelvis (with extra vertebrae incorporated into the sacrum and fusion between the ischium and the axial skeleton) are regarded as being functionally significant for digging and also occur in a variety of extant diggers. Analog methods indicate that mesotheriids share numerous traits common to a variety of extant diggers. Principal component analyses of postcranial elements indicate that mesotheriids consistently share morphometric space with larger extant fossorial mammals: aardvark, anteaters, wombats, and badger. Likewise, discriminant function analyses categorized mesotheriids as fossorial, though imperfectly analogous to the extant diggers analyzed. Thus, both theory-driven and empirically derived methods of estimating function in these extinct taxa support a digging hypothesis for the mesotheriids examined. Adaptations for digging in both the forelimb and sacropelvic functional complexes of mesotheriids provide independent support for the fossorial hypothesis.
2401016|It is now widely recognized that a large number of Cretaceous planktic foraminiferal species are commonly found associated with fully Danian faunas in many K/T boundary sections and deep-sea cores. This "Cretaceous" fauna has traditionally been regarded as representing the reworking of older Cretaceous sediments into younger strata, though recent isotopic data from some species indicates that, at least in these instances, the reworking hypothesis is false. To further test this reworking hypothesis the biogeography of this "Cretaceous" fauna is compared to the underlying uppermost Maastrichtian biogeography and to the biogeography of lowermost Danian planktic foraminiferal faunas. Results show that there is no regular decline in species richness, extinction, or faunal co-occurrence values for this "Cretaceous" fauna at progressively higher (=younger) Danian stratigraphic horizons. Moreover, there is no compelling association between the stratigraphic persistence of this "Cretaceous" fauna and shallow depositional settings. Instead, this fauna is characterized by: (1) a close (and predictive) association between "Cretaceous" and indigenous Danian species richness values throughout the lower Danian, (2) a close numerical and geographic correspondence between Danian speciation and the disappearance of "Cretaceous" species from the Danian fossil record, and (3) a pronounced similarity between changes in the general biogeographic structures of the "Cretaceous" and associated Danian faunas throughout the study interval. These data suggest that the K/T planktic foraminiferal extinction event exhibited a marked geographic structure with low and middle latitude faunas experiencing differentially high extinction rates in the lowermost Danian zones P0 and P1a and high latitude survivor faunas persisting more or less unchanged into the overlying zone, P1b and P1c. Taken together, these results challenge the traditional concept of an instantaneous uppermost Cretaceous planktic foraminiferal mass extinction and its proposed causal connection to bolide impact.
23014717|Extinctions are caused by environmental and ecological change but are recognized and measured in the fossil record by the disappearance of clades or lineages. If the ecological preferences of lineages or taxa are weakly congruent with their phylogenetic relationships, even large ecological perturbations are unlikely to drive major clades extinct because the factors that eliminate some species are unlikely to affect close relatives with different ecological preferences. In contrast, if phylogenetic relatedness and ecological preferences are congruent, then ecological perturbations can more easily cause extinctions of large clades. In order to quantify this effect, we used a computer model to simulate the diversification and extinction of clades based on ecological criteria. By varying the parameters of the model, we explored (1) the relationship between the extinction probability for a clade of a given size (number of terminals) and the overall intensity of extinction (the proportion of the terminals that go extinct), and (2) the congruence between ecological traits of the terminals and their phylogenetic relationships. Data from two extinctions (planktonic foraminifera at the Eocene/ Oligocene boundary and vascular land plants at the Middle/Late Pennsylvanian boundary) show phylogenetic clustering of both ecological traits and extinction probability and demonstrate the interaction of these factors. The disappearance of large clades is observed in the fossil record, but our model suggests that it is very improbable without both high overall extinction intensities and high congruence between ecology and phylogeny.
2400333|As Van Valen has demonstrated, the taxonomic survivorship curve is a valuable means of investigating extinction rates in the fossil record. He suggested that within an adaptive zone, related taxa display stochastically constant and equal extinction rates. Such a condition is evidenced by straight survivorship curves for species and higher taxa. Van Valen's methods of survivorship analysis can be improved upon and several suggestions are presented. With proper manipulation of data, it is possible to pool the information from extinct and living taxa to produce a single survivorship curve and therefore a single estimate of extinction rate. If extinction rate is constant at the species level (producing a straight survivorship curve), higher taxa in the same group should be expected to have convex survivorship curves. The constancy of extinction rates (here termed Van Valen's Law) can and should be tested rigorously. Several methods are available, of which the Total Life method of Epstein is particularly effective.
2400514|Tiering is the vertical distribution of organisms within the benthic boundary layer. Primary tierers are suspension-feeding organisms with a body or burrow that intersects the seafloor. Secondary tierers are suspension-feeders that maintain positions above or below the sediment-water interface as either epizoans on primary tierers and plants or by living in the burrows of primary tierers. Different primary tierers from soft substrata, nonreef, shallow subtidal shelf and epicontinental sea settings have had different tiering histories, resulting largely from contrasting constructional and phylogenetic constraints. Primary colonial tierers generally occupied lower epifaunal tiers during the Paleozoic and Mesozoic, but since the Cretaceous they have been dominant in the highest tier (+20 to +50 cm). Primary echinoderm tierers have been almost exclusively epifaunal, and from the Paleozoic through the Jurassic they were present throughout the epifaunal tiered structure. Although primary bivalve tierers have been both epifaunal and infaunal, they have occupied only lower epifaunal tiers, whereas they have adapted to all levels of the infaunal tiering structure, particularly from the late Paleozoic through the Recent. Brachiopods have lived primarily in tiers directly above or below the water-sediment interface and have not contributed significantly to tiering complexity. Of the numerous physical and biotic processes and constraints that affect shallow marine benthos, a few have contributed more significantly to changes in tiering patterns. Trends for increasing body size could have accounted for most of the development of tiering complexity up to +50 cm and down to -12 cm. Development of tiering above +50 cm could have been due to processes which would have yielded greater feeding capability, such as competitive interactions for a place from which to feed or adaptations to velocity gradients in the hydrodynamic boundary layer. The most significant process for development of infauanl tiering below -12 cm appears to have been as an adaptive response for predator avoidance. Unlike infaunal tiering, which never declined after it developed, epifaunal tiering has undergone a general reduction twice. Reduction in epifaunal tiering at the end of the Paleozoic appears to have been the result of the mass extinction at this time, whereas long-term biotic processes seem to have been more important for the tiering decline at the end of the Mesozoic. Tiering structure through the Phanerozoic was thus produced through interactions of a number of physical and biotic factors, tempered by constructional and phylogenetic constraints of each primary tierer group.
3595519|We still have much to learn about the evolution of taxonomic diversity gradients through geologic time. For example, have latitudinal gradients always been as steep as they are now, or is this a phenomenon linked to some form of Cenozoic global climatic differentiation? The fossil record offers potential to address this sort of problem, and this study reconstructs latitudinal diversity gradients for the last (Tithonian) stage of the Jurassic period using marine bivalves. At this time of relative global warmth, bivalves were cosmopolitan in their distribution and the commonest element within macrobenthic assemblages. Analysis of 31 regional bivalve faunas demonstrates that Tithonian latitudinal gradients were present in both hemispheres, though on a much smaller magnitude than today. The record of the Northern Hemisphere gradient is more complete and shows a steep fall in values at the tropical/temperate boundary; the Southern Hemisphere gradient exhibits a more regular decline in diversity with increasing latitude. Tithonian latitudinal gradients were underpinned by a tropical bivalve fauna that comprises almost equal numbers of epifaunal and infaunal taxa. The epifaunal component was dominated by three pteriomorph families, the Pectinidae, Limidae and Ostreidae, that may be regarded as a long-term component of tropical bivalve diversity. Of the mixture of older and newer "heteroconch" families that formed the bulk of the infaunal component, the latter radiated spectacularly through the Late Cretaceous and Cenozoic to dominate tropical bivalve faunas at the present day. This pulse of heteroconch diversification, which was a major cause of the steepening of the bivalve latitudinal gradient, provides important evidence that rates of speciation may be negatively correlated with latitude. Nevertheless, we cannot exclude the possibility that elevated extinction rates in the highest latitudes also contributed to the marked steepening of bivalve latitudinal gradients over the last 150 Myr. Rates of extinction within epifaunal bivalve taxa appear to have been higher in these regions through the Cretaceous period, but this was largely before any significant global climatic deterioration. Infaunal bivalve clades have had differential success over this time period in the polar regions. Whereas, in comparison with the Tropics, heteroconchs are very much reduced in numbers today, the anomalodesmatans are much better represented, and the protobranchs have positively thrived. We are beginning to appreciate that low temperature per se may not be a primary cause of elevated rates of extinction. Food supply may be an equally important control on both rates of speciation and extinction; those bivalves that have been able to adapt to the extreme seasonality of food supply have flourished in the polar regions.
2665994|A mathematical-computational method for determining the volume, mass, and center of mass of any bilaterally symmetric organism is presented. Cavities within the body of an organism such as lungs are easily accommodated by this method. Sagittal and frontal profiles, obtained from tracings of "fleshed-out" skeletal reconstructions, are used to provide limits for defining transverse slices of the body. Any internal cavities are defined by their own sagittal and frontal profiles. The computations consist of mathematically slicing the body and any cavities into independent sets of transverse laminae and computing their masses, centroids, and moments with respect to the three coordinate axes. Further calculations produce the masses and the (x,y,z) coordinates for the centers of mass of the body, any cavities, and the body + cavities. Predicted body masses of large, extant mammals (elephant, giraffe, hippopotamus, and rhinoceros) are in close agreement with actual body masses. New, lower estimates for body masses of selected large dinosaurs, based on modern skeletal reconstructions, are also presented, along with numerical estimates of their centers of mass. This method is an improvement over earlier ones that relied on measuring displaced volumes of water or sand by scale models to estimate the masses, and suspending models by threads to estimate their centers of mass.
2400498|Two rival models of evolution in multispecies systems are tested against empirical species-level data. The two models are the Red Queen model of Van Valen as reformulated by Stenseth and Maynard Smith, which assumes that evolution is driven principally by biotic interactions, and the Stationary model of Stenseth and Maynard Smith, which assumes that evolution is propelled primarily by abiotic factors and will cease in the absence of changes in abiotic parameters. Testing refers to the models' predictions regarding the behavior of extinction and origination rates, and assumptions regarding equilibrium diversity and a constant effective environment. The data set includes the dates of origination and extinction for all coccolith, planktic foraminifer, and radiolarian species recorded in the Oligocene through Holocene, and all planktic diatom and silicoflagellate and ebridian species recorded in the Middle Miocene through Holocene in 111 DSDP sites of the low- to mid-latitude Pacific Ocean. The condition of stable specific age distribution over geologic time is met, which allows one to perform survivorship analysis on extinction rates. The best fit survivorship curve is a decreasing function of age for both coccolith and foraminifer species, and an increasing function of age for radiolarian species. Neither model predicts age dependence of the probability of extinction. The small disparity between these curves and age-independent curves for each group indicates, however, that an age-independent interpretation of extinction probability is a reasonable first approximation. Rates of origination are analyzed in terms of species accretion, introduced to represent the cumulative origination of species within a higher taxon as a function of the age or duration of the community. Accretion analysis indicates that the probability of accretion is both diversity-dependent and absolute time-dependent. The assumption of a constant effective environment is tested by polycohort analysis and nonparametric logistic regression analysis of true species cohorts. Both techniques indicate considerable variation in extinction probability over geologic time. When the predictions of the two evolutionary models are adjusted to take this variation into account, the results of both survivorship and accretion analysis seem to conform more closely to the predictions of the Red Queen than to the Stationary model. However, as the speed with which the effective environment changes is increased relative to speciation-extinction rates, it becomes increasingly difficult to differentiate patterns predicted by the two models. The assumption of equilibrium diversity can be neither corroborated nor rejected, since the species-level data are compatible with both an equilibrium and a nonequilibrium view of diversity behavior. Reservations concerning the basic assumptions of both models indicate an ultimate test requires that both models be reformulated to make precise and distinctive predictions under a varying effective environment.
2400657|Many cheilostome bryozoans of diverse phylogenetic origin grow as erect, arborescent colonies with branches of modified planar form composed of two layers of zooids back to back. Regular branching enables a growing colony to expand in surface area, and hence in the number of zooids that feed, reproduce, and perform other vital functions, at an accelerating rate. During growth, branches first all diverge, then increasingly converge, and in late stages of growth begin to interfere with each other's growth and function. Interference can set limits to the width and thickness of branches and hence to the number and size of zooids. Simulation of growth using a 3-dimensional mathematical model shows that a narrow range of possible values of branching angles minimizes branch interference in late growth stages. These values are prevalent in fossil and modern species. Branch spacing at later growth stages is correlated with the distance between branches at first crossing, providing room for feeding organs of the two facing layers of zooids to protrude and function. Interbranch distances dwindle as branches increasingly converge, so emphasis on minimizing interference at a late stage sets a practical limit to growth beyond that stage. To gain this long-term benefit requires adhering to a regular pattern throughout growth. The considerable variation in branching properties in fossil and modern species, and a variability in spacing inherent in the growth pattern itself, limit the amount of usable interbranch space. Despite a higher intraspecific variability, branching properties are as distinctive interspecifically as zooidal properties, and variability is randomly distributed through the colony. A small reduction in variability between fossil and modern species suggests that increasing regularity may provide a selective advantage in the utilization of interbranch space.
41684614|We investigate whether musculoskeletal anatomy and three-dimensional (3-D) body proportions were modified during the evolution of large (>6000 kg) body size in Allosauroidea (Dinosauria: Theropoda). Three adaptations for maintaining locomotor performance at large body size, related to muscle leverage, mass, and body proportions, are tested and all are unsupported in this analysis. Predictions form 3-D musculoskeletal models of medium-sized (Allosaurus) and large-bodied (Acrocanthosaurus) allosauroids suggest that muscle leverage scaled close to isometry, well below the positive allometry required to compensate for declining muscle cross-sectional area with increasing body size. Regression analyses on a larger allosauroid data set finds slight positive allometry in the moment arms of major hip extensors, but isometry is included within confidence limits. Contrary to other recent studies of large-bodied theropod clades, we found no compelling evidence for significant positive allometry in muscle mass between exemplar medium- and large-bodied allosauroids. Indeed, despite the uncertainty in quantitative soft tissue reconstruction, we find strong evidence for negative allometry in the caudofemoralis longus muscle, the single largest his extensor in non-avian theropods. Finally, we found significant inter-study variability in center-of-mass predictions for allosauroids, but overall observe that consistently proportioned soft tissue reconstructions produced similar predictions across the gorup, providing no support for a caudal shift in the center of mass in larger taxa that might otherwise reduce demands on hip extensor muscles during stance. Our data set provides further quantitative support to studies that argue for a significant decline in locomotor performance with increasing body size in non-avian theropods. However, although key pelvic limb synapomorphies of derived allosauroids (e.g., dorsomedially inclined femoral head)evolved at intermediate body sizes, they may nonetheless have improved mass support.
2666011|Temporal diversity patterns have traditionally been analyzed by counting the number of families or genera present over a series of time periods. This approach has been criticized on the grounds that paraphyletic taxa might introduce artifacts. Sepkoski and Kendrick (1993) simulated phylogenetic trees and different classifications of those trees and concluded that paraphyletic taxa need not be rejected. We have reimplemented their model, extended it, and carried out statistical analyses under a variety of experimental conditions. Our results show that the focus on monophyly vs. paraphyly is misplaced. Instead, it appears that the number of groups in the classification and the distribution of the sizes of those groups have dramatic effects on the recovery of diversity information. Furthermore, the influence of these factors depends on whether the fossil record represents a low- or high-frequency sampling of lineages. When sampling is good, the best results are achieved by classifications with large numbers of small taxa. When sampling is poor, however, the best results are achieved by classifications that include some large and medium-sized groups as well as many smaller groups. This suggests that the best estimates of underlying diversity will be achieved by counting (in the same study) taxa assigned to different ranks, so as to best match the inferred quality of the paleontological sample. In practice this will mean abandoning the commitment to counting taxa at a single rank.
2400660|Capture-mark-recapture of Nautilus belauensis in Palau shows that (a) immature animals added an average of 0.1 mm of shell per day at the ventral circumference (projected mean annual increment of 37 mm), but this rate decreases rapidly as maturity is approached; (b) rate of growth line secretion is irregular, ranging from 4 to 8 days per growth line in immature animals; (c) overall weight is an imprecise measure of size and growth in Nautilus due to fluctuations in crop content and chamber liquid; (d) this species is shown to live for at least 4 yr beyond maturity. Age estimates based on the highest growth rate obtained (0.12 mm/day = 43.8 mm/yr) range from 14.5 to 17 yr for seven animals recaptured 45-355 days after release. Combined, these data indicate that the life span of Nautilus may exceed 20 yr.
20445590|Long bones (femora, humeri) are the most abundant remains of sauropod dinosaurs. Their length is a good proxy for body length and body mass, and their histology is informative about ontogenetic age. Here we provide a comparative assessment of histologic changes in growth series of several sauropod taxa, including diplodocids (Apatosaurus, Diplodocus, indeterminate Diplodocinae from the Tendaguru Beds and from the Morrison Formation), basal macronarians (Camarasaurus, Brachiosaurus, Europasaurus), and titanosaurs (Phuwiangosaurus, Ampelosaurus). A total of 167 long bones, mainly humeri and femora, and 18 limb girdle bones were sampled. Sampling was performed by core drilling at prescribed locations at midshaft, and 13 histologic ontogenetic stages (HOS stages) were recognized. Because growth of all sauropod long bones is quite uniform, with laminar fibrolamellar bone being the dominant tissue, HOS stages could be recognized across taxa, although with minor differences. Histologic ontogenetic stages generally correlate closely with body size and thus provide a means to resolve important issue like the ontogenetic status of questionable specimens. We hypothesize that sexual maturity was attained at HOS-8, well before maximum size was attained, but we did not find sexually differentiated growth trajectories subsequent to HOS-8. On the basis of HOS stages, we detected two morphotypes in the Camarasaurus sample, a small one (type 1) and a larger one (type 2), presumably representing different species or sexual dimorphism.
2400789|The enigmatic fossil Wiwaxia corrugata is organically preserved in the Burgess Shale (Middle Cambrian, British Columbia) and is therefore extractable by careful acid maceration of the mineralic matrix. High magnification transmitted light microscopy and SEM of macerated Wiwaxia sclerites reveal a substantial amount of previously undescribed structural and microstructural detail. Anatomical and histological comparison with modern organisms indicates that Wiwaxia sclerites are polychaete paleae (flattened setae) and that Wiwaxia was a jawed annelid broadly related to the extant polychaete families Chrysopetalidae and/or Aprhoditidae (Palmyra). Canadia spinosa, an uncontested fossil polychaete from the same beds, shows a paleal microstructure identical to that of Wiwaxia, as well as a closely comparable gross anatomy and taphonomic grade. The unique combination of taxonomically significant characters shared by Wiwaxia and Canadia suggest that they are more closely related to each other than either is to any other fossil or extant polychaete. Thus they constitute a separate superfamily, Canadiacea superfam. nov., in the order Phyllodocida.
2401019|Biostratigraphic applications of Devonian plant macrofossils are unusual because of the rarity of these fossil plants. Moreover, the taxonomic determination of these plants is too often either arguable or impossible. Here is proposed a biostratigraphic method based on a quantification of individual plant characters and not on determination of whole fossils. The method is the following: (1) each biocharacter found at a given locality receives a score according to whether it is primitive or derived, so that the biocharacter score increases with increasing derivation; (2) the biostratigraphic coefficients of well-dated localities are calculated, the biostratigraphic coefficient of a given plant locality being the mean of all the biocharacter scores of this locality; (3) the scores of these well-dated localities are used to build a reference scale to which localities under investigation will be compared. A detailed example is developed for Early Devonian times. Various plant biocharacters of seven fossiliferous outcrops have been quantified and the subsequent scores of these localities are presented. This example shows that biostratigraphic results obtained by using the quantification method are comparable in precision with dating based on palynological assemblage zones. Evolutionary aspects of the method are also discussed.
4096945|Quantitative analysis of growth rings in pre-Quaternary fossil woods is commonly used as a paleoclimatic indicator. In this paper, a global analysis of the relationship between climate and growth ring parameters in modern trees is presented that, in part, invalidates the use of fossil woods in this way. Data reprocessed from the International Tree-Ring Data Bank are used to analyze three parameters, mean ring width, mean sensitivity, and percentage latewood, from 727 sites across a global climatic range. Results allow the complex relationship between climate and growth ring parameters to be quantified at the global scale for the first time. They reveal the enormous variability in tree response to climate-forcing, which is influenced by disparate factors such as taxonomy, ontogeny, ecology, and environment. Quantitative analysis of fossil growth ring data in light of the modern results indicates that even the largest and most detailed fossil studies conducted to date are probably inadequate in distinguishing a paleoclimate signal from the background noise of variability. The validity of using quantitative growth ring parameters as indicators of Pre-Quaternary climates is therefore questionable. Only in well-constrained studies where paleoclimatic, ontogenetic, and taxonomic sources of variability can be controlled, and data sets are very large, may fossil growth ring analysis provide useful paleoecological data. The findings of this paper do not invalidate in any way the use of growth rings in fossil woods as qualitative paleoclimatic indicators.
1558085|The processes of fossilization have usually been perceived by paleontologists as destructive ones, leading to consecutive (and in most cases irretrievable) losses of paleobiological information. However, recent developments of conceptual issues and methodological approaches have revealed that the decrease in paleobiological information runs parallel to the gain of taphonomic information. This taphonomic imprinting often makes it possible to decode the fraction of paleo-biological information that was lost during fossilization, and may also contribute new data for deciphering paleobiological information that was not originally preserved in the assemblage, such as paleoethology. A good example is the study of the macrovertebrate assemblage from the lower Pleistocene site at Venta Micena (Orce, southeastern Spain). Taphonomic analysis showed that the giant, short-faced hyenas (Pachycrocuta brevirostris) selectively transported ungulate carcasses and body parts to their maternity dens as a function of the mass of the ungulates scavenged. The fracturing of major limb bones in the dens was also highly selective, correlating with marrow content and mineral density. Important differences in bone-cracking intensity were related to which species the bones came from, which in turn biased the composition of the bone assemblage. The analysis of mortality patterns deduced for ungulate species from juvenile/adult proportions revealed that most skeletal remains were scavenged by the hyenas from carcasses of animals hunted by hyper-carnivores, such as saber-tooths and wild dogs. Analytical study of the Venta Micena assemblage has unlocked paleobiological information that was lost during its taphonomic history, and has even provided paleobiological information that was not preserved in the original bone assemblage, such as the paleoethology of P. brevirostris, which differed substantially from modern hyenas in being a strict scavenger of the prey hunted by other carnivores.
2400955|The morphology of the tarsi, hindlimbs, and pelves of the earliest crocodilians and their nearest relatives, Hallopus and the "sphenosuchians," indicates that these animals had adaptations for erect posture. The widespread distribution of apparently homologous adaptations for erect gait among the archosaurs with crocodile-normal tarsi suggests that those structures are plesiomorphic for this group, which comprises the Aetosauria, "rauisuchians," "sphenosuchians," Hallopus, and the Crocodylia. Adaptations for erect posture are seen most clearly in the structure of the proximal tarsus (astragalus and calcaneum). An important implication of this argument is that the most primitive crocodylomorphs, comprising the "protosuchian" crocodiles, the "sphenosuchians," and Hallopus, had an erect stance and gait. The sprawling stance and associated gait used by modern crocodilians during swimming and upon entering the water can be viewed as secondary adaptations to an aquatic existence. The environments of deposition and faunal associations of "sphenosuchians" and "protosuchian" crocodiles are consistent with primarily terrestrial habits. Living crocodilians have two types of step cycles, sprawling and erect; the sprawling pattern is overprinted onto the inferred ancestral "high-walk," and onto the gallop sometimes used by juvenile crocodilians.
2666016|Movements of the pelvic girdle have recently been found to contribute to inspiratory airflow in both crocodilians and birds. Although the mechanisms are quite different in birds and crocodilians, participation of the pelvic girdle in the production of inspiration is rare among vertebrates. This raises the possibility that the pelvic musculoskeletal system may have played a role in the ventilation of basal archosaurs. Judging from the mechanism of pelvic aspiration in crocodilians and the structure of gastralia in basal archosaurs, we suggest that an ischiotruncus muscle pulled the medial aspect of the gastralia caudally, and thereby helped to produce inspiration by increasing the volume of the abdominal cavity. From this basal mechanism, several archosaur lineages appear to have evolved specialized gastralia, pelvic kinesis, and/or pelvic mobility. Kinetic pubes appear to have evolved independently in at least two clades of Crocodylomorpha. This convergence suggests that a diaphragmatic muscle may be basal for Crocodylomorpha. The pelvis of pterosaurs was long, open ventrally, and had prepubic elements that resembled the pubic bones of Recent crocodilians. These characters suggest convergence on the pelvic aspiratory systems of both birds and crocodilians. The derived configuration of the pubis, ischium and gastralia of non-avian theropods appears to have enhanced the basal gastral breathing mechanism. Changes in structure of the pelvic musculoskeletal system that were present in both dromaeosaurs and basal birds may have set the stage for a gradual reduction in the importance of gastral breathing and for the evolution of the pelvic aspiration system of Recent birds. Lastly, the structure of the pelvis of some ornithischians appears to have been permissive of pubic and ischial kinesis. Large platelike prepubic processes evolved three times in Ornithischia. These plates are suggested to have been instrumental in an active expansion of the lateral abdominal wall to produce inspiratory flow. Thus, many of the unique features found in the pelvic girdles of various archosaur groups may be related to the function of lung ventilation rather than to locomotion.
2401030|Cave bears, an extinct subgenus (Spelearctos) of Ursus, were versatile enough to inhabit large areas of the northern hemisphere during the middle and late Pleistocene, yet they had evolved a specialized dentition that emphasized grinding functions, implying a heavy dietary reliance on tough, fibrous foods (i.e., plants). Isotope studies have yielded conflicting results on cave bear diet, however, often without consideration of the provenance of the samples or the possible contradictions that taphonomic and morphologic evidence might pose to dietary interpretations. It is likely that cave bear habits varied somewhat in response to environmental circumstance, and the limits on their abilities to do so remain unknown. If the larger goal of paleontological inquiry is to reconstruct the adaptations of cave bear species, then variation and commonalities among populations must be tracked closely, and the disparate lines of evidence currently available examined together on a case by case basis. Clearly, no single analytical technique can achieve this. By way of example we present the results of a cross-disciplinary collaboration that combines osteometric, isotopic, and taphonomic approaches to studying the paleoecology of a bear assemblage from Yarimburgaz Cave in northwest Turkey. Reference information on the linkages between diet, hibernation, and population structure in modern bears provides test implications for the investigation. Osteometric techniques demonstrate the presence of two coextant middle Pleistocene bear species in the sample-Ursus (Spelearctos) deningeri, a form of cave bear, and U arctos or brown bear-the former abundant in the sample, the latter rare. An attritional mortality pattern for the bears and the condition of their bones show that most or all of the animals died in the cave from nonviolent causes in the context of hibernation. The study also elucidates several characteristics of the cave bear population in this region. Osteometric techniques show that the adult sex ratio of the cave bears is only slightly skewed toward females. This pattern lies near one extreme of the full range of possible outcomes in modern bear species and can only reflect a strong dietary dependence on seasonally available plants and invertebrates, showing that hibernation was a crucial overwintering strategy for both sexes; the results specifically contradict the possibility of regular, heavy emphasis on large game (hunted or scavenged) as a winter food source. The nature of wear and breakage to the adult cave bear teeth indicates that food frequently was obtained from cryptic sources, requiring digging and prying, and that extensive mastication was necessary, leading to complete obliteration of some cheek tooth crowns in old individuals. The patterns of tooth damage during life corroborate the dietary implications of the adult sex ratio and also argue for a diet rich in tough, abrasive materials such as nuts, tubers, and associated grit. The carbon and oxygen isotopic compositions of cave and brown bear tooth enamel from the site are virtually identical, and there is no evidence of a strong marine signal in either species, despite the cave's proximity to a modern estuary of the Sea of Marmara; nitrogen isotope ratios could not be examined because of poor protein preservation. The isotope results suggest that both bear species were highly omnivorous in the region during the middle Pleistocene and obtained nearly all of their food from terrestrial and fresh-water habitats. Bone pathologies, usually originating from trauma, occur in some of the adult bears, testifying to long lifespans of some individuals in this fossil population. The Yarimburgaz cave bears also exhibit great size dimorphism between the sexes, based on weight-bearing carpal bone dimensions, with adult males attaining roughly twice the body mass of adult females.
2400473|The classic biometrical study of phyletic evolution in Kosmoceras (Brinkmann 1929) is evaluated using unpublished raw data provided by Professor Brinkmann. Most morphological characters show statistically significant changes over time yet it is difficult to provide an unequivocal biological interpretation for these changes. In a few cases, runs tests indicate that evolution was nonrandom in the sense that fewer reversals in the direction of evolution occurred than would be predicted from a null hypothesis based on a random walk. These cases suggest persistence of natural selection regimes for fairly long periods of time. In other cases, and with other kinds of testing, the random walk model cannot be rejected although failure to reject the hypothesis does not justify its acceptance! Thus, the contribution of random factors (either genetic drift or selection in a randomly changing environment) cannot be assessed with confidence. It is problematical also whether the Kosmoceras series represent significant evolution by phyletic gradualism or just the natural temporal variation that characterizes stasis (sensu Eldredge and Gould 1972).
2400234|In a hyperbaric chamber, a living mature specimen of Nautilus pompilius withstood a hydrostatic pressure of 8.05 MPa (80.5 kg/cm<sup>2</sup>) equivalent to 785 m deep in the sea. Thereafter it was killed instantly by implosion of the shell. Before implosion, the animal reacted physiologically to increasing pressure. Therefore, the depth of 785 m can be assigned the depth limit of N. pompilius. The result bears on critical interpretations on the paleoecology and paleobiology of extinct nautiloids and ammonoids with similar shells.
2665991|Previous studies have suggested that unbiased random walks may serve as appropriate null hypotheses for the detection of pattern in stratophenetic series. While numerous processes that influence the perceived temporal morphological evolution of a species may yield stratophenetic patterns that conform to the model of a random walk, use of the model as a null hypothesis raises several concerns. First, unbiased random walks are only a subset of a much larger set of random motions, including biased and fractional random walks. Some of these motions could also serve as appropriate null models for stratophenetic patterns. Second, due in part to the fractal nature of random walks, many types of time series begin to resemble random walks statistically as sampling resolution decreases. Therefore, indiscriminate support for unbiased random walks as null hypotheses of stratophenetic pattern leads inevitably to the commitment of Type II errors (incorrect failure to reject a null hypothesis). In this paper we simulate different hypothetical patterns of microevolution using various random walk models and apply the test of the null hypothesis. The frequency of Type II errors increases as stratigraphic completeness decreases, but at a currently unknown rate. Moreover, the test is insensitive to nongradual patterns of anagenesis. We also demonstrate that a previously published approach is closely related to a standard method of fractal time series analysis and represents a good qualitative test of evolutionary pattern. The statistical variation underlying this method, however, is currently unknown, and further work is required to make it a robust quantitative test.
2401149|Specimens of Nautilus species in the wild show a marked increase in oxygen isotopic composition between embryonic and post embryonic sepia. The significance of this increase in terms of the early life history of Nautilus has been unclear. To help explain this pattern, we analyzed the isotopic composition of the septa of three specimens of Nautilus belauenis raised in aquariums under controlled temperature conditions. Our results indicate that both embryonic and postembryonic septa are secreted with the same temperature-dependent fractionation of aragonite relative to water as that of other aragonite-secreting molluscs (Grossman and Ku 1986). The <sup>18</sup>O values of the septa thus provided a reliable means of determining the water temperature in which the septa form. Calculated temperatures based on oxygen isotopic data from specimens caught in the wild reveal that embryonic development occurs at 22<sup>18</sup>O in postembryonic septa reflects a migration into colder, deeper water after hatching. In Cretaceous nautilids, a systematic shift in <sup>18</sup>}O is not present, indicating that these animals probably did not change their habitat after hatching. This is consistent with the likelihood that they lived in shallower environments than that of modern Nautilus.
4500152|The process of evolution hinders our ability to make large-scale ecological comparisons-such as those encompassing marine biotas spanning the Phanerozoic-because the compared entities are taxonomically and morphologically dissimilar. One solution is to focus instead on life habits, which are repeatedly discovered by taxa because of convergence. Such an approach is applied to a comparison of the ecological diversity of Paleozoic (Cambrian-Devonian) and modern marine biotas from deep-subtidal, soft-substrate habitats. Ecological diversity (richness and disparity) is operationalized by using a standardized ecospace framework that can be applied equally to extant and extinct organisms and is logically independent of taxonomy. Because individual states in the framework are chosen a priori and not customized for particular taxa, the framework fulfills the requirements of a universal theoretical ecospace. Unique ecological life habits can be recognized as each discrete, n-dimensional combination of character states in the framework. Although the basic unit of analysis remains the organism, the framework can be applied to other entities-species, clades, or multispecies assemblages-for the study of comparative paleoecology and ecology. Because the framework is quantifiable, it is amenable to analytical techniques used for morphological disparity. Using these methods, I demonstrate that the composite Paleozoic biota is approximately as rich in life habits as the sampled modern biota, but that the life habits in the modern biota are significantly more disparate than those in the Paleozoic; these results are robust to taphonomic standardization. Despite broadly similar distributions of life habits revealed by multivariate ordination, the modern biota is composed of life habits that are significantly enriched, among others, in mobility, infaunality, carnivory, and exploitation of other organisms (or structures) for occupation of microhabitats.
2400754|Three major arguments have been raised against the crucial claim, documented by Whittington and colleagues for the Burgess Shale fauna, and so contrary to traditional views, that disparity of anatomical design reached an early maximum in the history of multicellular life: (1) the presence of many early taxa with low membership and high rank is an artifact of naming; (2) cladistic analysis of Burgess arthropods negates the claim for greater early disparity; and (3) Whittington's argument is a retrospective fallacy based on assigning high rank to differentia only by virtue of their later capacity to define major branches. I show that all these arguments are either false or illogical, and that the claim for increased early disparity is justified: (1) Taxonomic rank is an artifact, but no one has ever based a claim for greater disparity on this false criterion. (2) Cladistics can only deal with branching order, whereas disparity is a phenetic issue. These two legitimate aspects of evolutionary "relationship" are logically distinct. The rooting of a cladogram only illustrates monophyletic ancestry (which no one doubts, as we are not creationists), and cannot measure disparity. (3) The active stabilization of the differentia of Bauplane (for genetic and developmental reasons only dimly understood) provides a powerful rationale for weighting these characters in considerations of disparity; nothing had so stabilized in the Burgess fauna. If these differentia were steadily changing contingencies, rather than actively stabilized features with "deep" architectural status, then the retrospective argument would be justified. Although the three arguments are wrong, the claim for greater early disparity cannot be confidently established until we develop quantitative techniques for the characterization of morphospace and its differential filling through time. This is a dauntingly difficult problem, much harder than cladistic ordering, but not intractable.
2400566|Species diversity is a product of both biological interactions and physical-geographic factors. A model which eliminates biological interactions as a determinant of diversity can be used to assess the potential impact of physical and geographic factors operating alone on temporal trends in diversity (succession) and on spatial differences along latitudinal or environmental gradients. If a biologically neutral model can generate diversity patterns similar to those we observe, it can be argued that traditional hypotheses which depend on biological interactions are not the most parsimonious explanations for diversity patterns. If the neutral model approach supports a spectrum of possible hypotheses, perhaps the entire concept of species diversity can be discarded as a useful measure of community structure. An earlier analysis of this type supported the notion that diversity patterns can be adequately explained by physical disturbance, global geography gradients, and stochastic immigration and extinction events. Our neutral model analysis does not affirm this view. We argue that the coarse level at which simple colonization models operate does not permit strong conclusions regarding the underlying mechanisms. Detailed community analyses may provide the best evidence for the nature of structuring processes. Based on the evidence available in the literature, species diversity is likely to be generated by a small number of biological processes interacting with physical-geographic gradients.
2400528|The locomotory stresses acting at the midshaft of the third metacarpal of Equus are estimated from a geometrical model of the manus during peak loading, which is derived from in vivo data. The stress results compare favorably with those from in vivo strain gage experiments. The model is then modified to account for the anatomical and inferred functional differences in the feet of the two extinct, tridactyl equids Merychippus and Mesohippus, incorporating assumptions from earlier functional studies. Estimates of the stresses in the fossil metacarpals are derived, and fall within the range of values obtained in vivo for limb bones of a wide size range of mammals. The results indicate that the third metacarpal of Merychippus was the most highly stressed and that of Mesohippus the least, with stresses for Equus falling between. Thus the anatomical and functional changes in the manus between Mesohippus and Equus are not simply a result of the difference in body size.
40792300|To understand how well fossil assemblages represent original communities, paleoecologists seek comparisons between death assemblages and their source communities. These comparisons have traditionally used nearshore, marine invertebrate assemblages for their logistical ease, high abundance, and comparable census data from living communities. For large marine vertebrates, like cetaceans, measuring their diversity in ocean ecosystems is difficult and expensive. Cetaceans, however, often beach or strand themselves along the coast, and archived data on stranded cetaceans have been recorded, in some areas, over several decades. If the stranding record is interpreted as a death assemblage, then the stranding record may represent a viable alternative for measuring diversity in living communities on directly adjacent coastlines. This study assessed the fidelity of the cetacean stranding record in the eastern North Pacific Ocean. The living community in this region has been studied for over 100 years and, recently, extensive and systematic live transect surveys using ship-based observing platforms have produced a valuable source of live diversity data. Over this same period, the U. S. Marine Mammal Stranding Program has collected and archived a record of cetacean strandings along the U. S. Pacific coastline, providing an ideal death assemblage for comparison. Using fidelity metrics commonly used in marine invertebrate taphonomy, I determined that the stranding record samples the living cetacean community with high fidelity, across fine and coarse taxonomie ranks, and at large geographic scales (> 1000 km of coastline). The stranding record is also richer than the live surveys, with live-dead ratios between 1.1 and 1.3. The stranding record recovers similar rank-order relative abundances as live surveys, with statistical significance. Also, I applied sample-based rarefaction methods to generate collector's curves for strandings along the U.S. Pacific Coast to better evaluate the spatiotemporal characteristics of the stranding record. Results indicate that saturation (i.e., sampling > 95% assemblage) at species, genus, and family levels occurs in less than five years of sampling, with families accumulating faster than species, and larger geographic regions (i.e., longer coastlines) accumulating taxa the most rapidly. The high fidelity of the stranding record, measured both in richness and by ranked relative abundance, implies that ecological structure from living cetacean communities is recorded in the death assemblage, a finding that parallels marine invertebrate assemblages, though at far larger spatial scales. These results have implications for studying cetacean ecology in both modern and ancient environments: first, these results imply that the stranding record, over sufficiently long time intervals, yields a richer assemblage than using linetransect methods, and faithfully records aspects of community structure; and second, these results imply that geochronologically well-constrained fossil cetacean assemblages might preserve ecologically relevant features of community structure, depending on depositional and taphonomic conditions.
3595484|Accurate estimates of predation intensity, the frequency of mortality from predation, are critical to studies of the evolution of species in response to predation, and to studies of predator-prey systems in general. Most commonly used indirect proxies for predation intensity in the fossil record have logistical or theoretical problems. Direct proxies, using actual traces of predatory activity, such as drilling and repair scars, may hold more promise. However, these direct proxies often have been used in conjunction with optimal foraging models, and in this context, the underlying assumptions and predictions of optimal foraging are examined. Results from theoretical models using optimal foraging suggest that (1) the ratio of internal shell volume to shell thickness of prey (benefit/cost ratio) may be a questionable measurement of prey "value" to the predator, as it fails to account adequately for energetic cost to the predator during pursuit and grappling; (2) drilling and repair frequency are invalid measures of prey preference, because optimal foraging predicts that specific prey types are either always taken or always ignored; (3) pooled drilling frequency will not be a useful metric of predation intensity in systems in which the predator need not always drill; and (4) an increase in repair frequency can be a consequence of either an increase or a decrease in predation intensity. Although drilling frequency may not indicate prey preference, it is a valid proxy for selection due to predation. An approach using size classes, in which the minimum size at which a predation refuge is achieved, is suggested for use with repair frequency.
2400970|Entelodonts are medium to large (perhaps 150-750 kg) Oligocene-Miocene bunodont artiodactyls with unique crania but typical artiodactyl postcrania. Functional and ecological interpretations are difficult because there is no clear modern analog to an entelodont in size, dentition, and cranial morphology. Entelodont crania combine primitive and derived features, including laterally expanded zygomatic arch/large temporal fossa (suggesting a large temporalis muscle), unreduced dental formula, long premolar row, fused mandibular symphysis, isognathy, and subcylindrical dentary condyles. Furthermore, the cranium has unique architectural and ontogenetic aspects unparalleled in extant mammals. Canines show heavy, carnivoran-like, apical wear in old individuals, suggesting regular contact with food. Conical premolars and associated diastemata dominate the tooth row. Premolars are often apically worn, in a fashion somewhat like those of carnivorans (e.g., Crocuta, Borophagus). Molars are low-cusped crushing teeth. Wide gape, indicated by the form of the coronoid process and temporal fossa, facilitated canine and premolar use, probably both in feeding and in social behavior. Jaw mechanics, tooth morphology, and tooth wear are compatible with omnivory and probable scavenging, an intriguing proposition for the huge Dinohyus hollandi.
4096967|A drawback to most existing methods of calculating confidence limits on fossil ranges is their assumption that the probability of collecting a taxon through a stratigraphic section is constant. Marshall (1997) described an approach that would circumvent this problem, but it requires knowing the probability of collection as a function of stratigraphic position. Multivariate paleoecological methods, such as detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), offer a means of estimating these probabilities. DCA axis 1 sample scores can be used to quantify facies change through a stratigraphic section, and to calculate the probability of collection of a taxon relative to DCA axis 1. From these two, the probability of collection of each taxon can be estimated for each horizon in the measured section. This approach is applied here to the Upper Ordovician Kope Formation of the Cincinnati, Ohio, area to distinguish between disappearances of taxa that are driven by facies change and taxon rarity and those that represent true regional extinction. This new approach to confidence limits could also be applied to test the synchroneity of extinction or origination at large-scale turnover events, such as mass extinctions and the turnover pulses that bound episodes of faunal stasis.
2400847|Differences in the larval ecology of Ordovician trilobites directly influenced the outcome of the Ashgill extinction (latest Ordovician) and indirectly governed the pattern of evolution in post-Ordovician trilobites. Larval ecology also affected survivorship patterns within the Ordovician, particularly between the Llandeilo and the Caradoc stages. All taxa with pelagic adults became extinct by the end of the Ordovician. Similarly, trilobites with entirely planktonic larvae had all but disappeared by the end of the Ordovician. Although suffering a significant loss in diversity, taxa with benthic larvae provided the ancestral stock for the majority of post-Ordovician lineages. Trilobites with a two-stage protaspid period (single planktonic followed by benthic larvae) suffered least during the Ashgill extinction, giving rise to approximately 23% of the new genera appearing in the early Silurian. Patterns of extinction/survivorship among trilobite taxa with different developmental strategies indicate that the so-called Ashgill extinction was most likely the result of a composite phenomenon, including environmental perturbations, ecosystem breakdown and biogeographic restriction, and was not the consequence of a single catastrophic event (e.g., bolide collision). Indeed, our results are consistent with extinction models which invoke periodic global cooling and sea level regression associated with glaciation. Taxa with planktonic larvae first suffered a marked decline in diversity between the Llandeilo and the Caradoc (end of Middle Ordovician), coincident with the onset of the Ordovician-Silurian glaciation. During this time interval, the paleogeographic ranges of most surviving genera with solely planktonic larvae were severely constricted to lower latitude paleobiogeographic provinces. During the Ashgill (Rawtheyan to Hirnantian), climatic and sea level fluctuations were most extreme because of continued and more extensive glaciation. At this time, when extinctions were particularly severe, there was also a significant effect upon the survivorship of taxa with benthic larvae. Our results indicate that the proportion of the life cycle spent in the water column, dependent upon a planktonic food source, was a critical factor in the survivorship of trilobite taxa during Middle to Late Ordovician time. Consequently, differences in life history patterns predisposed individual taxa to survival or extinction.
2400778|A method is provided to calculate the expected distribution of species' ranges for use as a basis of comparison for paleontological interpretation of species' range charts. If the method is used for such studies, the possibility of suggesting an environmental or biological cause for observed patterns, when in fact no such cause exists, will be diminished. The method is applied to a large, well-studied fossil data set to illustrate some possible species' range patterns which result only from sample size inequities. As examples, stepwise extinction and species richness patterns are predicted for situations where, in reality, none exist.
40792298|Key morphological traits reveal changes in functional morphospace occupation of reef fish assemblages over time. We used measurements of key functional attributes (i.e., lower jaw length and orbit diameter) of 208 fossil fish species from five geological periods to create bivariate plots of functional morphological traits through time. These plots were used to examine possible function and ecological characteristics of fossil reef fish assemblages throughout the Mesozoic and Cenozoic. A previously unknown trend of increasing orbit diameter over time became apparent. The Teleostei are the principal drivers of this change. The Eocene appears to mark a dramatic increase in two previously rare feeding modes in fishes: nocturnal feeding and high-precision benthic feeding. Interestingly, members of the Pycnodontiformes had relatively large eyes since the Triassic and appear to be the ecological precursors of their later teleost counterparts and may have been among the earliest nocturnal feeding fishes. Our results highlight potential changes in the roles of fishes on coral reefs through time.
4500153|Biotic invasions are a common feature of the fossil record, yet remarkably little is known about them, given their enormous potential to reveal the processes that regulate local and regional diversity over long time scales. We used additive diversity partitioning to examine how diversity structure changed as a result of a marine biotic invasion in tropical, shallow and deep subtidal environments spanning approximately 4 Myr in the Late Ordovician. The biotic invasion increased richness in the regional ecosystem by nearly 40%. Within-habitat turnover diversity accounts for most of the increase in richness, with between-habitat turnover diversity contributing a lesser amount. Increases in these components of diversity were accommodated by increased packing of species along a depth gradient and increased habitat heterogeneity. Diversity metrics that incorporate taxon abundance (Shannon information, Simpson's D) show similar patterns and reveal that many invading taxa were locally abundant and widespread in their occurrence. Extinction of incumbent taxa did not foster the invasion; rather the invasion appears to be linked to a regional or global warming event. Taken together, these observations indicate that these Late Ordovician marine communities were open to invasion and not saturated with species. Moreover, the increase in species diversity caused by the invasion was not ephemeral; instead it lasted for at least 1 Myr. Similar studies of other biotic invasions in the fossil record are necessary to determine (1) the factors, such as extinction of incumbents or resource limitation, that may facilitate or inhibit invasion in ancient ecosystems; (2) how local and regional ecosystems respond to invasion; and (3) the extent to which biotic invasions play a substantial role in ecosystem change through geologic time.
20445597|Extinction risk is inversely related to genus age (time since first appearance) in most intervals of the Phanerozoic marine fossil record, in apparent contradiction to the macroevolutionary Red Queen's Hypothesis, which posits that extinction risk is independent of taxon age. Age-dependent increases in the mean species richness and geographic range of genera have been invoked to reconcile this genus-level observation with the presumed prevalence of Red Queen dynamics at the species level. Here we test these explanations with data from the Paleobiology Database. Multiple logistic regression demonstrates that the association of extinction risk with genus age is not adequately explained by species richness or geographic range: there is a residual association between age and extinction risk even when range and richness effects are accounted for. Throughout most of the Phanerozoic the age selectivity gradient is highest among the youngest age cohorts, whereas there is no association between age and extinction risk among older age cohorts. Some of the apparent age selectivity of extinction in the global fauna is attributable to differences in extinction rate among taxonomic groups, but extinction risk declines with genus age even within most taxonomic orders. Notable exceptions to this pattern include the Cambrian-Ordovician, latest Permian, Triassic, and Paleocene intervals. The association of age with extinction risk could reflect sampling heterogeneity or taxonomic practice more than biological reality, but at present it is difficult to evaluate or correct for such biases. Alternatively, the pattern may reflect consistent extinction selectivity on some as-yet unidentified covariate of genus age. Although this latter explanation is not compatible with a Red Queen model if most genus extinctions have resulted from biological interactions, it may be applicable if most genus extinctions have instead been caused by recurrent physical disturbances that repeatedly impose similar selective pressures.
4096806| Clymeniid ammonoids appeared during the Late Devonian (Mid-Famennian) and quickly radiated before becoming extinct at the Devonian/Carboniferous boundary. Outwardly indistinguishable from other ammonoids, clymeniids are distinguished internally by their dorsal siphuncle, contrasted to a ventral siphuncle in almost all other ammonoids. Comparisons of a sample of Clymeniida (n = 22 genera), Goniatitida (n = 33), Prolecanitida (n = 12), and Anarcestida (n = 13) indicate that clymeniids fall within the range of other ammonoids in terms of shell geometry and suture complexity, but their siphuncles average two to three times larger and clymeniid shells are approximately 33% thicker than those of other ammonoids. Although a dorsal siphuncle would be about 50% smaller in surface area and volume than if located in a ventral position, the enlarged clymeniid siphuncle partially and, in some cases, fully compensated for this loss. Hydrostatic simulations of 15 clymeniid genera indicate that their thicker (therefore heavier) shells would have resulted in relatively short body chambers (280) and high aperture orientations (90). In static life-position, these orientations would have placed the dorsal clymeniid siphuncle at or near the bottom of the most recently formed chambers, seemingly an ideal location for draining liquid from the chamber. Migration of the siphuncle to the dorsal side of the shell occurs suddenly during early ontogeny (within the first two or three chambers), and mutation of homeotic gene expression is offered as a possible explanation for the sudden shift. A dorsal siphuncle may have resulted in selection for enlarged siphuncles, but this may have incurred loss of strength against hydrostatic pressure (thereby reducing depth limits) and thus rendered the clade more susceptible to the multiple eustatic and anoxic events that marked the end of the Devonian. 
2666106|Fossil floras are an important source of quantitative terrestrial paleoclimate data. Many paleoclimate estimates are based on relationships observed in modern vegetation between leaf morphology and climate, such as the increase in the percentage of entire-margined species with increasing temperature and the increase in leaf size with increasing precipitation. An important question is whether these observed relationships are universal or regional; for example, recent studies suggest that significant differences exist between floras from three domains: the Northern Hemisphere, New Zealand/Australia, and subalpine zones. Also, debate exists over which statistical models of modern data sets, univariate or multivariate, provide the most accurate estimates of paleoclimate. In this study, 12 foliage samples from living Bolivian forests are compared with data sets from different regions. Models based on data sets from North America and Japan, namely the Climate-Leaf Analysis Multivariate Program (CLAMP) data set of J. A. Wolfe, and from east Asia produce reasonably accurate estimates of temperature and precipitation, suggesting that the climate-leaf morphology relationships for Bolivian vegetation do not differ significantly from those for Northern Hemisphere vegetation. The mean leaf size for a given mean annual precipitation is smaller than for a data set from the Western Hemisphere and Africa, but this difference is most likely due to different sampling methods. As for estimating climate from fossil floras, these results, along with the analysis of four other regional data sets, imply that the most accurate climate estimates will be produced by the predictor data set with the most similar climate-leaf morphology relationships. Unfortunately, our present lack of understanding of why climate-morphology relationships vary between the North America/Japan, New Zealand/Australia, and subalpine domains makes it difficult to identify data sets similar to paleofloras. Until we learn more, it is probably best to compare fossil floras to predictor data sets from the same domain. The performance of the various statistical methods depends on the nature of the predictor data set. Multiple regression analysis tends to produce the most accurate estimates for small data sets with a narrow range of environmental variation that have similar relationships to the flora, and linear regression or canonical correspondence analysis for the larger and more varied CLAMP data set. If a similar predictor data set is not available, then nearest-neighbor analysis can still produce accurate paleoclimate estimates.
2401043|We compare the preservation (taphonomic grade) and age of Chione (bivalve) and foraminifera from modern siliciclastic tidal flat sediments of Bahia la Choya, Sonora, Mexico (northern Gulf of California). Disarticulated shells of Chione collected from the sediment-water interface of Choya Bay exhibit a substantial range in taphonomic grade and age, several hundred years to 80-125 ka based on Accelerator Mass Spectrometer <sup>14</sup>C dates and D-Alloisoleucine/L-Isoleucine values. There is not, however, a one-to-one correspondence between age and taphonomic alteration of Chione: old (or young) valves may be highly altered or they may be relatively pristine. In contrast to Chione, most foraminiferal tests at Choya Bay are quite pristine, which suggests a quite young age, but tests are surprisingly old (up to 2,000 calendar years based on Accelerator Mass Spectrometer <sup>14</sup>C dates). We suggest that following seasonal pulses in reproduction, some foraminiferal tests are rapidly incorporated into a subsurface shell layer by "Conveyor Belt" deposit feeders and preserved there, while the rest of the reproductive pulse rapidly dissolves. Ultimately, some of these buried tests, along with Chione, are transported back to the surface by biological activity and storms. The much greater range of taphonomic grades and ages among Chione shells suggests that they, unlike foraminifera, are sufficiently large and preservable (low surface/volume ratio and chemical reactivity) to undergo many cycles of degradation, burial, and exhumation before complete destruction. The age of foraminiferal tests indicates that time-averaging of microfossil assemblages at Choya Bay is much more insidious than would be expected considering the relatively pristine state of the tests alone. Based on our studies, the lower limit of temporal resolution of shallow shelf microfossil assemblages appears to be 1000 years. We caution, however, that each depositional setting (taphofacies) should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis before gross generalizations are made. Indeed, the discrepancy between age and taphonomic grade of fossil assemblages at Choya Bay suggests that neither hardpart size or taphonomic grade are infallible indicators of test preservability or likely temporal resolution of the host assemblage, and that the dynamics of hardpart input and loss must also be evaluated.
25609433|Radiocarbon-calibrated amino acid racemization ages of 428 individually dated shells representing four molluscan taxa are used to quantify time-averaging and shell half-lives with increasing burial depth in the shallow-water carbonate lagoon of Rib Reef, central Great Barrier Reef, Australia. The top 20 cm of sediment contains a distinct, essentially modern assemblage. Shells recovered at depths from 25 to 125 cm are age-homogeneous and significantly older than the surface layer. Taxon age distributions within sedimentary layers indicate that the top 125 cm of lagoonal sediment is thoroughly mixed on a sub-century scale. The age distributions and shell half-lives of four taxa (Ethalia, Natica, Tellina, and Turbo) are found to be largely distinct. Shell half-lives do not coincide with any single morphological characteristic thought to infer greater durability, but they are strongly related to a combined durability score based on shell density, thickness, and shape. These results illustrate the importance of bioturbation in tropical sedimentary environments, indicate that age estimates in this depositional setting are sensitive to taxon choice, and quantify a taxon-dependent bias in shell longevity and death assemblage formation.
2400358|Bryozoans are colonial animals and this permits the partitioning of their morphologic variability into components of within colony (i.e. within a single genotype) and between colony (i.e. between genotype) variance. These data have been obtained for four species of the endemic deep-sea genus Euginoma for a series of characters. In 8 comparisons, one component of the total variance dominated at the 5% level. Population (between colony) variance contributed significantly to the total variance in 63% of the comparisons (5 of 8); individual (within colony) variance contributed significantly to the total variance in 37% of the comparisons (3 of 8). Compared to shallow water species, the surprising feature of the deep-sea data is that the between colony component of variance is as high as it is. Possibly in the more stable, deep-sea environment, the genotypic contribution to the variance of each individual colony is expressed to a greater degree than in the more variable, shallow water regime. If so, then analyses of variability in colonial animals may be an independent means of ascertaining stability gradients in the fossil record.
2400285|The megafauna and associated behavioral traces of two deep-sea benthic environments, the central Arctic and Antarctic, with a surface primary productivity differential of 10
40792285|In a seminal paper in 1975, Gould proposed that postcanine occlusal area (PCOA) should scale metabolically (0.75) with body mass across mammals. By regressing PCOA against skull length in a small sample of large-bodied herbivorous mammals, Gould provided some marginal support for this hypothesis, which he then extrapolated as a universal scaling law for Mammalia. Since then, many studies have sought to confirm this scaling relationship within a single order and have found equivocal support for Gould's assertion. In part, this may be related to the use of proxies for both PCOA and body mass, small sample sizes, or the influence of a "taxon-level effect." rendering Gould's scaling "universal" problematic. Our goal was to test the universality of Gould's prediction and the impact of the taxon-level effect on regressions of tooth size on body mass in a large extant mammalian sample (683 species spanning 14 orders). We tested for the presence of two types of taxon-level effect that may influence the acceptance or rejection of hypothesized scaling coefficients. The hypotheses of both metabolic and isometric scaling can be rejected in Mammalia, but not in all sub-groups therein. The level of data aggregation also influences the interpretation of the scaling relationship. Because the scaling relationship of tooth size to body mass is highly dependent on both the taxonomie level of analysis and the mathematical methods used to organize the data, paleontologists attempting to retrodict body mass from fossilized dental remains must be aware of the effect that sample composition may have on their results.
2400794|Vertebrates and cephalochordates generate significant quantities of lactic acid during intense exercise. This is associated with heavy reliance on anaerobic metabolism for intramuscular ATP formation. We report here exercise-related generation of lactate in the appendicularian Oikopleura longicauda (Tunicata: Appendicularia) and in the brittle star Ophioderma panamensis (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea). The chordate-wide distribution of this pattern of activity metabolism suggests its presence in Early Paleozoic prochordates. The presence of the chordate pattern of activity physiology in Ophioderma suggests that very early (Ediacarian?) deuterostomes may also have generated lactate during intense exercise. Further investigation of activity physiology in other echinoderms is warranted.
2401242|The origin of mammals has been characterized as a gradual process, a claim based primarily on a well-preserved series of extinct nonmammalian synapsids ("mammal-like reptiles") that span some 200 million years. In contrast to the origin of many other higher taxa, the origin of mammals from within cynodont-grade therapsids is not considered to coincide with a major morphological change, but rather to be simply the culmination of a series of more and more mammallike transitional forms. To test these assertions, an asymmetrical cladogram extending from primitive "pelycosaurs" to morganucodontid mammaliaforms was created. Three different methodologies were then used to compare the amount of morphological change between nodes on this cladogram with the minimum missing time interval between each node, as inferred from sister taxon-based ghost lineages. In general, a statistically significant positive relationship was found, indicating that greater numbers of derived features tend to be correlated with longer ghost lineages. A significant correlation between the number of accumulated apomorphies and branching events was also found. Although the rate of character change was variable, in no case was a long ghost lineage associated with few apomorphies. These correlations are consistent with the hypothesis that rapid accumulation of derived features occurred relatively infrequently within the synapsid lineage leading toward mammals and that gradual character evolution predominated.
2400219|Fossil data suggest that the great majority of metazoan classes that existed in the Early Cambrian arose after about 700 my ago. The rectangular model of evolution, which views most evolutionary change as being concentrated in speciation events, can easily accommodate the implied rate of divergence. If, as some authors believe, the eukaryotic cell arose long before the start of the Cambrian, an explanation is required for the delay of large-scale metazoan divergence. The advent of sexuality may have triggered diversification, not by accelerating phyletic evolution, as traditionally believed, but by making possible speciation and, hence, adaptive radiation. Another important delaying factor may have been the near-saturation of Precambrian algal systems in the absence of cropping by herbivores. Uncropped Precambrian systems should have been self-limiting in terms of diversification. When advanced heterotrophy finally arose, self-propagating feedback systems of diversification should have been set in motion. Even if the eukaryotic cell arose later than commonly envisioned and triggered the radiation of the Metazoa about 700 my ago, the earlier absence of sexuality and cropping may have delayed the transition from the prokaryotic condition to the eukaryotic condition.
2401115|One of the most intriguing questions in community ecology remains unanswered: Are ecological communities open assemblages with each species reacting individually to environmental change, or are they integrated units consisting of multispecies assemblages acting in concert? I address this question for marine organisms by examining the taxonomic composition and diversity of Indo-Pacific reef coral communities that have undergone repeated global change between 125 and 30 Ka (thousand years before present). Investigation of community constancy through time relies on two critical questions: (1) Are there significant differences in taxonomic composition among communities from different times? and if not, (2) Are the observed patterns in temporal similarity significantly different from expected patterns resulting from a random sampling of the available within-habitat species pool? Constancy in taxonomic composition and species richness of Pleistocene reef coral assemblages is maintained through a 95-k.y. interval in the raised reef terraces of the Huon Peninsula, Papua New Guinea. Fossil reef coral assemblages show limited membership in species composition despite repeated exposure to marked fluctuations in sea level (up to 120 m) and sea-surface temperatures (up to 6<sup></sup>C). During the 95-k.y. interval, the reefs experienced nine cycles of perturbation and subsequent reassembly with similar species composition. Spatial differences in reef coral species composition were greater among the three study sites than among reefs of different ages. Thus local environmental parameters associated with riverine and terrestrial sources had a greater influence on reef coral composition than global climate and sea level changes. The ecological dynamics of reef communities from Papua New Guinea are in marked contrast to those of Quaternary terrestrial and level bottom marine communities which appear to show unlimited community membership on both larger and smaller time scales. Differences in community assembly among ecosystems mean either that coral reefs are fundamentally different or that different ecological patterns and processes are occurring at different temporal scales.
2400216|The typical pelecypod form, long thought to be primitively adaptive to burrowing, is likely to have been originally adaptive to a suspension feeding, epifaunal, possibly crawling mode of life. At small body size (< 1 cm), pelecypods possessing typical burrowing features can function as epifaunal crawlers. Pelecypods arose at small body sizes and are part of a molluscan evolutionary sequence in which relative size of the mantle cavity increased to accommodate a few large gills specialized for suspension feeding. Acquisition of a bivalved shell by ancestral epifaunal suspension feeders may have offered protection from sediment clogging on soft bottoms, additional control over the direction, volume, and rate of water flow through the mantle cavity, more effective protection from predators, and better short-term control of the internal environment. Consideration of invertebrate groups analogous to the pelecypods (Branchiopoda, Cladocera, Ostracoda, Phyllocarida) support the view that the bivalve condition is primarily an adaptation for suspension feeding and predator avoidance in benthic environments. The earliest known pelecypod, Fordilla troyensis Barrande, was not necessarily infaunal just because it had features similar to much larger, Recent burrowers. The size, shell morphology and environment of preservation of F. troyensis all suggest that it is reasonable to envision Cambrian pelecypods as epifaunal suspension feeders, possibly crawling on sedimentary bottoms. Moreover, the sudden Ordovician expansion of pelecypods and increase in individual size may be explained as a result of invasion of the infaunal adaptive zone.
41684612|The potential of the ichnofossil record for exploring the evolution of behavior has never been fully realized. Some of this is due to the nature of the trace fossil record itself. Equally responsible is the separation of ichnology from the relevant areas of modern behavioral biology. The two disciplines have virtually no concepts, methods, or literature in common. The study of animal behavior and its evolution is thus bereft of the rich data and insights of ichnologists. One potential pathway forward is for ichnologists to adopt and adapt the movement ecology paradigm proposed several years ago by Ran Nathan and colleagues. This approach views movement as resulting from interactions of the organism's internal state, its movement abilities, and its sensory capabilities with each other and with the external environment. These interactions produce a movement path. The adoption of this paradigm would place trace fossil studies in a far wider common context for the study of movement, while providing the dimension of the evolution of movement behavior in deep time to neontological studies. A second component of this integration would be for paleontologists to develop a taphonomy of behavior that places in a phylogenetic context the range of possible behaviors that organisms can carry out and assesses the potential of each of these behaviors in leaving a diagnostic trace. Parallel to other taphonomic concepts, this approach assesses the preservation potential of particular behaviors; behavioral fidelity is the extent to which trace fossils preserve these original behavioral signals.
4500165|Most evolutionary innovations-power-enhancing phenotypes previously absent in a lineage-have arisen multiple times within major clades. This repetition permits a comparative approach to ask how, where, when, in which clades, and under which circumstances adaptive innovations are acquired and secondarily lost. I use new and literature-based data on the phylogeny, functional morphology, and fossil record of gastropods to explore the acquisition and loss of the siphonal canal and its variations in gastropods. The siphonal indentation, canal, notch, or tube at the front end of the shell is associated in living gastropods with organs that detect chemical signals directionally and at a distance in an anteriorly restricted inhalant stream of water. Conservative estimates indicate that the siphonate condition arose 23 times and was secondarily lost 17 times. Four siphonate clades have undergone prodigious diversification. All siphonate gastropods have a shell whose axis of coiling lies at a low angle above the plane of the aperture (retroaxial condition). In early gastropods, the siphonal canal was short and more or less confined to the apertural plane. Later (mainly Cretaceous and Cenozoic) variations include a dorsally deflected canal, a long canal, and a closed canal. The closed siphonal canal, in which the edges join to form a tube, arose 15 times, all in the adult stages of caenogastropods with determinate growth. Gastropods in which the siphonate condition arose were mobile, bottom-dwelling, microphagous animals. Active predaceous habits became associated with the siphonate condition in the Mesozoic and Cenozoic Purpurinidae-Latrogastropoda clade. Loss of the siphonate condition is associated with nonmarine habits, miniaturization, and especially with a sedentary or slow-moving mode of life. The siphonate condition arose seven times each during the early to middle Paleozoic, the late Paleozoic, and the early to middle Mesozoic, and only once each during the Late Cretaceous and Cenozoic. Well-adapted incumbents prevented most post-Jurassic clades from evolving a siphonal indentation and its associated organs. Dorsally deflected, long, and closed canals are known only from Cretaceous and Cenozoic marine gastropods, and represent improvements in sensation and passive armor. In a discussion of contrasting ecologies of clades that gained and lost the siphonate condition, I argue that macroevolutionary trends in the comings and goings of innovations and clades must incorporate ecological and functional data. Acquisitions of energy-intensive, complex innovations that yield greater power have a greater effect on ecosystems, communities, and their resident clades than do reversals, which generally reflect energy savings.
20445596|For decades, theoretical morphological studies of different groups of organisms have been successfully pursued in biological, paleontological, and computational contexts, often with distinct modeling approaches and research questions. A regular influx of new perspectives and varied expertise has contributed to the emergence of a veritable multidisciplinary outlook for theoretical morphology. The broadening of this discipline is reflected in a substantial increase in the number of models, leading to a bewildering diversity that has yet to be scrutinized. In this work, we tackle this issue in a synthetic fashion, with a quantitative meta-analysis that allows an objective comparison of theoretical morphological models treated as entities. By analogy with empirical morphospace analyses of actual organisms, we performed a multivariate ordination of a representative sample of models, producing a metaspace of models in which patterns of similarity and difference are visualized. A phenetic tree was used to characterize the relationships between models. Four major groups have been identified, and their disparity analyzed. We suggest this typology as a useful starting point to identify a core set of fundamental principles and protocols for better interpretation of the plethora of current models and for more efficient construction of models in the future. This in turn can help in diversifying the scope of macroevolutionary, developmental, and bioenvironmental questions in theoretical morphology.
4500179|According to when they attained high diversity, major taxa of marine animals have been clustered into three groups, the Cambrian, Paleozoic, and Modern Faunas. Because the Cambrian Fauna was a relatively minor component of the total fauna after mid-Ordovician time, the Phanerozoic history of marine animal diversity is largely a matter of the fates of the Paleozoic and Modern Faunas. The fact that most late Cenozoic genera belong to taxa that have been radiating for tens of millions of years indicates that the post-Paleozoic increase in diversity indicated by fossil data is real, rather than an artifact of improvement of the fossil record toward the present. Assuming that ecological crowding produced the so-called Paleozoic plateau for family diversity, various workers have used the logistic equation of ecology to model marine animal diversification as damped exponential increase. Several lines of evidence indicate that this procedure is inappropriate. A plot of the diversity of marine animal genera through time provides better resolution than the plot for families and has a more jagged appearance. Generic diversity generally increased rapidly during the Paleozoic, except when set back by pulses of mass extinction. In fact, an analysis of the history of the Paleozoic Fauna during the Paleozoic Era reveals no general correlation between rate of increase for this fauna and total marine animal diversity. Furthermore, realistically scaled logistic simulations do not mimic the empirical pattern. In addition, it is difficult to imagine how some fixed limit for diversity could have persisted throughout the Paleozoic Era, when the ecological structure of the marine ecosystem was constantly changing. More fundamentally, the basic idea that competition can set a limit for marine animal diversity is incompatible with basic tenets of marine ecology: predation, disturbance, and vagaries of recruitment determine local population sizes for most marine species. Sparseness of predators probably played a larger role than weak competition in elevating rates of diversification during the initial (Ordovician) radiation of marine animals and during recoveries from mass extinctions. A plot of diversification against total diversity for these intervals yields a band of points above the one representing background intervals, and yet this band also displays no significant trend (if the two earliest intervals of the initial Ordovician are excluded as times of exceptional evolutionary innovation). Thus, a distinctive structure characterized the marine ecosystem during intervals of evolutionary radiation-one in which rates of diversification were exceptionally high and yet increases in diversity did not depress rates of diversification. Particular marine taxa exhibit background rates of origination and extinction that rank similarly when compared with those of other taxa. Rates are correlated in this way because certain heritable traits influence probability of speciation and probability of extinction in similar ways. Background rates of origination and extinction were depressed during the late Paleozoic ice age for all major marine invertebrate taxa, but remained correlated. Also, taxa with relatively high background rates of extinction experienced exceptionally heavy losses during biotic crises because background rates of extinction were intensified in a multiplicative manner; decimation of a large group of taxa of this kind in the two Permian mass extinctions established their collective identity as the Paleozoic Fauna. Characteristic rates of origination and extinction for major taxa persisted from Paleozoic into post-Paleozoic time. Because of the causal linkage between rates of origination and extinction, pulses of extinction tended to drag down overall rates of origination as well as overall rates of extinction by preferentially eliminating higher taxa having relatively high background rates of extinction. This extinction/origination ratchet depressed turnover rates for the residual Paleozoic Fauna during the Mesozoic Era. A decline of this fauna's extinction rate to approximately that of the Modern Fauna accounts for the nearly equal fractional losses experienced by the two faunas in the terminal Cretaceous mass extinction. Viewed arithmetically, the fossil record indicates slow diversification for the Modern Fauna during Paleozoic time, followed by much more rapid expansion during Mesozoic and Cenozoic time. When viewed more appropriately as depicting geometric-or exponential-increase, however, the empirical pattern exhibits no fundamental secular change: the background rate of increase for the Modern Fauna-the fauna that dominated post-Paleozoic marine diversity-simply persisted, reflecting the intrinsic origination and extinction rates of constituent taxa. Persistence of this overall background rate supports other evidence that the empirical record of diversification for marine animal life since Paleozoic time represents actual exponential increase. This enduring rate makes it unnecessary to invoke environmental change to explain the post-Paleozoic increase of marine diversity. Because of the resilience of intrinsic rates, an empirically based simulation that entails intervals of exponential increase for the Paleozoic and Modern Faunas, punctuated by mass extinctions, yields a pattern that is remarkably similar to the empirical pattern. It follows that marine animal genera and species will continue to diversify exponentially long into the future, barring disruption of the marine ecosystem by human-induced or natural environmental changes.
2400779|Actualistic experiments have quantified rate of anaerobic decay and associated mineralization around proteinaceous macro-organisms. Carcasses of the polychaete worm Nereis and the eumalacostracans Nephrops and Palaemon were buried in airtight glass jars filled with sediment and water from marine, brackish, and lacustrine environments. Over a period of 25 weeks the contents were examined to determine the state of decay and were chemically analyzed to monitor early diagenetic mineralization (two methods for such analysis are reviewed). Decay processes were active in the experimental conditions despite anoxia and had virtually destroyed the carcasses within 25 weeks. However, decay-rate in the sulfate-reducing marine system was greater than in the methanogenic freshwater environments. Petrological and geochemical analyses of the organic remains identified discrete layers of authigenic iron monosulfide (a pyrite precursor) on the surface of the decaying Nephrops cuticle within weeks of initiating the experiment. Chemical analysis of decomposing flesh showed a marked increase in pore-water calcium content with time. The results clearly show that anoxia is ineffective as a long-term conservation medium in the preservation of soft-bodied fossils. However, decay-induced mineralization can be very rapid so that even a slight reduction in decay rate can lead to improved levels of fossil preservation. Traditionally, stagnation and rapid burial are considered to be the main prerequisites for the preservation of soft-bodied fossils and the formation of Konservat-Lagerstatten. Clearly these factors are only important in that they promote early diagenetic mineralization. This is the only way to halt information loss through decay.
2400269|In this paper, we present detailed quantitative studies of evolutionary changes over all or part of the stratigraphic ranges of five fossil radiolarian species from Pacific deep-sea sediment cores. Each of these species shows some variation of a distinctive evolutionary pattern: increase in size of measured morphologic characters, preceded and/or followed by an interval during which little or no significant change occurred. One of the species studied (Eucyrtidium matuyamai) was allopatrically differentiated from another (Eucyrtidium calvertense). The others (Calocycletta caepa, Pterocanium prismatium and Pseudocubus vema) underwent phyletic change within a single lineage. Those species undergoing phyletic change towards larger size maintained almost constant variability of shell size over long periods of time, including periods of both rapid and extremely slow evolution. This constancy of variability suggests that diminution of selection against larger size may have acted as a stimulus to size increase. In contrast, E. calvertense decreased in variability during evolution towards smaller shell size. We believe this decrease may be interpreted as the result of two factors: (1) strong selection against larger size apparently exerted on this species by its direct descendant, E. matuyamai, during the neosympatric phase of speciation and (2) continuation of previous selection against very much smaller size.
2400730|A new method of data analysis offers a potentially powerful tool for statistically evaluating hypotheses of rate in temporally-ordered evolutionary phenomena. We present a method for bootstrapping time-ordered data sets to test hypotheses of the equality of rate. This method is applicable to both nonrandom and random generative processes. The method is applied to the data of Malmgren et al. (1983) for the Globorotalia plesiotumida-G. tumida planktonic foraminiferan lineage and the data of Reyment (1982) for the benthonic foraminiferan Afrobolivina afar. G. plesiotumida is recognizable on the basis of independent data as a species distinct from G. tumida, its descendant. Evolutionary change rate during the evolution of G. tumida from G. plesiotumida is shown to be faster than rates within either species. The pattern of variation exhibited by A. afar includes a time interval of more rapid change; this more rapid change is observed post hoc. A bootstrapping model based on post hoc observations reveals the rate in this time interval to be not significantly faster than expected in such post hoc intervals.
1571653|The emergence of Phanerozoic global diversity as a central theme of investigation has resulted from a confluence of factors, including the assembly by several researchers of global taxonomic databases; the advent of computers, which permitted construction and analysis of global Phanerozoic diversity trajectories; and the recognition that Phanerozoic diversity trends are important bellwethers of the evolutionary processes that cause biotic transitions. Despite the enormous progress in the measurement and interpretation of Phanerozoic diversity over the past quarter century, much of which has been reported in Paleobiology, these studies have collectively generated at least as many new questions as they have answered-arguably the mark of an area of inquiry that continues to be vital. In this essay, I discuss several outstanding issues in the investigation of Phanerozoic diversity, ranging from the viability of literature-derived databases for investigating global diversity trends, to the biological significance of the myriad biotic transitions that have taken place throughout the Phanerozoic.
1558081|The incorporation of the random walk model into stratophenetic analysis marked a turning point by presenting a potential null model for microevolutionary patterns. Random walks are derived from a family of statistical fractals, and their statistics can be reconstructed using appropriate techniques. This paper lays the foundation for the explicit and uniform description of evolutionary mode in stratophenetic series using random walk null models and the information contained within incompletely preserved time series. The method relies upon the iterative analysis of subseries of an original stratophenetic series by measuring the presence of deviations from statistical randomness as the lineage evolves. This measure, and its probability of significance (evaluated using a randomization test), forms the dimensions of a descriptive space for microevolutionary modes. Each stratophenetic series can then be viewed as a journey through this space. Computer simulation of various evolutionary modes demonstrates that different modes, for example stasis and gradualism, have differing trajectories and occupy different regions of the microevolutionary space. The method is applied to two published foraminiferal stratophenetic series, the Mio-Pliocene Globorotalia plesiotumida-tumida punctuated transition and an anagenetic trend in the Late Cretaceous Contusotruncana fornicata-contusa lineage. An anagenetic trend is strongly supported in the latter example, whereas transformation of the Globorotalia species seems to result from the fluctuating effectiveness of constraining processes.
2401041|Ptychopariid trilobites from the Marjumiid biomere of Laurentia underwent a statistically significant morphological diversification that is concordant with proposed adaptive radiations of trilobites in each of the Cambrian biomeres. An analysis of a subset consisting of the biomere's most characteristic taxa, the Asaphiscacea, Raymondinacea, and Marjumiacea, also illustrates this morphological diversification. In detail, the total data set and subset show a limited range of morphologies near the base of the biomere and a large increase in range in the upper portion of the biomere. Regional assemblages from the Appalachians, Great Basin, and Texas were also studied to determine if they too show the larger-scale macroevolutionary patterns of trilobites from Laurentia as a whole. The regional assemblages illustrate similar, but not identical, morphological diversifications, which are also similar to the overall Laurentian pattern. Subsets of the characteristic taxa also show this diversification. These results suggest that regional assemblages can be used to investigate these larger-scale macroevolutionary patterns. Causal mechanisms for the diversification patterns are not clear. Potential mechanisms include: (1) endemic evolution of new morphologies in Laurentia; (2) migration of new morphologies, including intra- and inter-continental migrations; and (3) environmental controls over the distribution of morphologies. Likely causes for the morphological diversification and its similarity among regions probably include aspects of all three mechanisms.
2401206|Study of the assemblage of encrusting organisms on co-occurring disarticulated valves of the bivalves Crassostrea virginica and Mercenaria mercenaria in Bogue Sound, North Carolina, indicates that there is little or no substrate specificity among the encrusting organisms but that the shape of the shells has an important influence on how extensively members of each higher taxon collectively inhabit the shells. Encrusting bryozoans, a dense low mat composed of many species from diverse phyla, and a unicellular film cover most of the area of both exterior and interior surfaces. The encrusting bryozoans most extensively cover both surfaces of C. virginica but are in second place behind the multispecies mat on exterior surfaces of M. mercenaria and behind the unicellular film on its interior surfaces. These differences are inferred to result from different physical stability of valves of the two bivalve species, which exhibit different frequencies of circumrotatory growth. Degradation of the assemblage by sodium hypochlorite, to simulate loss of organic matter during fossilization, results in the complete loss of encrusting sponges, erect hydrozoans, erect bryozoans, and ascidians. Loss of these taxa results in overexposure and more apparently uniform distribution of skeletal taxa with respect to their surface representation in living assemblages and also in complete loss of the higher tiers present in the living assemblage. However, indications of the original structural organization of the living assemblage is indicated by preservation of the most abundant taxa in the lower tiers and by the retention in the reduced treated assemblage of the patterns of distribution that characterized the living assemblage.
23014759|Quantifying the effects of taphonomic processes on species abundances in time-averaged death assemblages (DAs) is pivotal for paleoecological inference. However, fidelity estimates based on conventional ``live-dead'' comparisons are fundamentally ambiguous: (1) data on living assemblages (LAs) are based on a very short period of sampling and thus do not account for biological variability in the LA, (2) LAs are sampled at the same time as the DA and thus do not necessarily reflect past LAs that contributed to the DA, (3) compositions of LAs and DAs can be autocorrelated owing to shared cohorts, and (4) fidelity estimates are cross-scale estimates because DAs are time-averaged and LAs are not. Some portion of raw (total) live-dead (LD) variation in species composition thus arises from incomplete sampling of LAs and from biological temporal variation among LAs (together = premortem component of LD variation), as contrasted with new variation created by interspecific variation in population turnover and preservation rates and by the time-averaging of skeletal input (together = postmortem component of LD variation). To tackle these problems, we introduce a modified test for homogeneity of multivariate dispersions (HMD) in order to (1) account for temporal autocorrelation in composition between LAs and DAs and (2) decompose total LD compositional variation into premortem and postmortem components, and we use simulations to evaluate the contribution of within-habitat timeaveraging on the postmortem component. Applying this approach to 31 marine molluscan data sets, each consisting of spatial replicates of LAs and DAs in a single habitat, we find that total LD variation is driven largely by variation among LAs. However, genuinely postmortem processes have significant effects on composition in 2565% of data sets (depending on the metric) when the effects of temporal autocorrelation are taken into account using HMD. Had we ignored the effects of autocorrelation, the effects of postmortem processes would have been negligible, inflating the similarity between LAs and DAs. Simulations show that within-habitat time-averaging does not increase total LD variation to a large degreeit increases total LD variation mainly via increasing species richness, and decreases total LD variation by reducing dispersion among DAs. The postmortem component of LD variation thus arises from differential turnover and preservation and multi-habitat time-averaging. Moreover, postmortem processes have less effect on the compositions of DAs in habitats characterized by high variability among LAs than they have on DAs in temporally stable habitats, a previously unrecognized first-order factor in estimating postmortem sources of compositional variation in DAs.
2401095|Analysis of the evolution of the Globorotalia (Fohsella) lineage of planktic foraminifera suggests that reproductive ecology and shell shape have evolved independently in this group. The silhouette of fohsellid shells displays a nearly unbroken anagenetic trend, yet isotopic data show that the fohsellids changed their depth of reproduction during the anagenetic evolution of their skeletons. Remarkably, there are no correlations between anagenesis in skeletal shape and the establishment of reproductive isolation. Apparently, anagenesis masks at least one speciation event that is apparent only in the isotopic evidence for a change in reproductive ecology. Although anagenetic trends have been widely cited as evidence for gradual speciation in planktic foraminifera and other microfossil groups, our data suggest that they should not always be considered to record either the tempo or mode of speciation. Speciation was apparently uncoupled from morphological evolution in fohsellids because these evolutionary phenomena occurred in different phases of ontogeny. Gradual morphological changes were associated with the main phase of shell growth of both the ancestor and descendant species in the near-surface ocean. Reproductive isolation occurred when ancestral and descendant populations became established at different depths near the end of the life cycle. Morphological evolution may also be uncoupled from reproductive isolation in other organisms that experience very different selection pressures over the duration of their ontogenies, such as parasites with many hosts, species with multiple phases of metamorphosis, and organisms that broadcast their gametes.
2400280|Evolutionary "dwarfism" or "nanism" is the phenomenon in which a significant decrease in mean body size of a lineage (an ancestral-descendant sequence of populations) occurs through time. A detailed analysis of several Late Quaternary dwarfed marsupial lineages from Australia is given. Based on linear tooth dimensions of the dwarfed lineages, four points are considered: 1) percent dwarfing; 2) evolutionary rates of change of tooth dimensions; 3) variation within lineages before and after dwarfing; and 4) several aspects of multivariate dental allometry. \lbrackThe lineages include Macropus titan (fossil)-M. giganteus (Recent) and Osphranter cooperi (fossil)-O. robustus (Recent) in the family Macropodidae (kangaroos), and Sarcophilus laniarius (fossil)-S. harrisii (Recent) in the family Dasyuridae (Tasmaniandevil).\rbrack Dental measurements led to these conclusions: 1) Species with the largest body size show the greatest size reduction, and the species with the smallest body size change the least. 2) Evolutionary rates for this reduction in Australian lineages are similar to comparable Post-Pleistocene dwarfed lineages in Europe. 3) Tooth width, especially posterior width, changes more rapidly than length. The first molar changes relatively slowly, especially in length. 4) Variability is higher in the dwarfed forms than in the larger ancestors. 5) Multivariate allometric rates of dwarfing are consistent with results for rates of change calculated in darwins for the relation between change in length and maximum width (and less so for the relation between M1 and M4 reduction). This pattern of dwarfing allometry is broadly similar to within-species allometry, and is quite dissimilar to synchronous interspecific allometry. Brief consideration is also given to taxonomy of dwarfing lineages and to problems of concurrent megafaunal extinctions. It is concluded that dwarfism is an adaptive process which is probably the result of a density-dependent factor(s) (i.e. a resource limited system).
40926784|Patterns preserved in the fossil record are of the highest importance in addressing questions about long-term evolutionary processes, yet both the description of pattern and its translation into process can be difficult. With respect to gradual phyletic change, we know that randomly generated sequences may exhibit characteristics of a "trend"; apparent patterns, therefore, must be interpreted with caution. Furthermore, even when the claim of a gradual trend can be statistically justified, interpretation of the underlying mechanisms may be challenging. Given that we can observe populations changing rapidly over tens or hundreds of years, it is now more difficult to explain instances of geologically gradual (as opposed to punctuated) change. Here we describe morphologic change in two bivalve lineages from the late Miocene Lake Pannon. We evaluate change according to the model-based methods of Hunt. Both lineages exhibit size increases and shape changes over an interval of nearly 4 million years. Size and two shape variables in the conjungens lineage are best fit by a model of directional evolution; remaining shape variables mostly conform to unbiased random walks. Body-size evolution in the diprosopum lineage is also significantly directional but all shape variables are best fit by the unbiased random walk model; the small number of sampling intervals available for this lineage (n = 6) makes determination of the actual pattern more difficult. Model-fitting results indicate that the parallel trajectories of increasing log shell height over time in the two lineages can be accounted for by an underlying trend shared by both lineages, suggesting that the size increases may be a shared response to the same cause. The pace of phenotypic change, measured as Lynch's , is slower than the neutral expectation for all size and shape traits. Our examples illustrate well the paradox of gradualism; the sequences exhibit significant directional morphological evolution, but rates of change as measured over the long-term are apparently too slow for directional selection or even drift to be the cause. Viewing long-term phenotypic evolution in terms of populations tracking peaks on adaptive landscapes is useful in this context. Such a view allows for intervals of directional selection (during times of peak movementresulting in the overall trends we can detect) interspersed with intervals of stasis (during times of peak stabilityresulting in overall changes that appear to proceed more slowly than the neutral expectation). The paradox of gradualism thus reduces to (1) peak movements and their drivers, which are not restricted in rate as are population-genetic drivers, and (2) the maintenance of stasis, on which no consensus exists. We can identify no environmental parameter in the central European Neogene that exhibits consistent change across the interval of gradual morphologic change. It may be that in Lake Pannon the long-term persistence of generally ameliorating conditions (plentiful resources and habitat space, few predators or competitors) resulted in geologically slow but consistent peak shifts, which in turn facilitated size increase and shape change in these lineages.
4096935|Among polygynous mammals, a heightened risk of mortality is linked to the intensity of intragender competition and life-history stages, such as sexual maturity, where inexperienced individuals are vulnerable to the aggressive behaviors of dominant individuals. In this respect, the age- and sex-specific mortality patterns found in fossil assemblages could be informative of sociality in extinct species. This possibility was explored by comparing the age- and sex-specific demography of attritional rhinoceros assemblages, Teleoceras proterum (n = 2) and Aphelops malacorhinus (n = 1), from pond and fluvial sedimentary facies of the late Miocene of Florida, with modern skeletal assemblages of extant rhinos and other large mammals. Subadult and young adult males (between 15-40% of potential life span) numerically dominate the Teleoceras assemblages, indicating a disproportionately high frequency of localized young male mortality. The estimated age-specific mortality rates indicate elevated mortality risks among males at an age equivalent to the years encompassing male physiological and social maturity in modern rhinos, a pattern that suggests a high frequency of socially mediated mortality. Age-specific mortality rate curves of modern black rhino populations are essentially identical. A high frequency of intraspecific fight-related mortality characterizes modern rhinos and strongly suggests that elevated Teleoceras mortality was influenced by intragender competition. Although Teleoceras is widely believed to have been the analog of extant Hippopotamus, mortality rates of young males are not elevated in a modern Hippopotamus population. The Aphelops assemblage is not significantly male-biased and does not indicate elevated mortality rates of young males, suggesting that aspects of Aphelops sociality differed from modern rhinos. Although the nature of Aphelops sociality is not clear, aggression toward young males may have been less extreme or less frequent in Aphelops populations.
2400750|Studies of the fates of clades during mass extinctions at the end of the Cretaceous and near the Cambrian-Ordovician boundary have indicated that geographically widespread groups have a much higher probability of survival than narrowly distributed groups. If biogeographic distribution does play a significant role in influencing the outcome of extinction events, then geographic variability in extinction intensity should be mirrored by patterns of endemism. A comparison of data for the terminal Cambrian extinction indicates that survival of trilobite families in Kazakhstan was significantly greater than in North America. As predicted, the Kazakh sequence was characterized by a significantly larger number of pandemic families. The Baltic Province, which includes Scandinavia, England, and Wales, was composed entirely of pandemic groups and did not suffer any trilobite extinction at the family level. The results are consistent with the suggestion that latitudinal variation in extinction magnitude may be the result of differences in biogeographic structure.
2666108|This paper documents a series of methodological innovations that are relevant to macroevolutionary studies. The new methods are applied to updated faunal and body mass data sets for North American fossil mammals, documenting several key trends across the late Cretaceous and Cenozoic. The methods are (1) A maximum likelihood formulation of appearance event ordination. The reformulated criterion involves generating a maximally likely hypothesized relative ordering of first and last appearances (i.e., an age range chart). The criterion takes faunal occurrences, stratigraphic relationships, and the sampling probability of individual genera and species into account. (2) A nonparametric temporal interpolation method called "shrink-wrapping" that makes it possible to employ the greatest possible number of tie points without violating monotonicity or allowing abrupt changes in slopes. The new calibration method is used in computing provisional definitions of boundaries among North American land mammal ages. (3) Additional methods for randomized subsampling of faunal lists, one weighting the number of lists that have been drawn by the sum of the square of the number of occurrences in each list, and one further modifying this approach to account for long-term changes in average local species richness. (4) Foote's new equations for instantaneous speciation and extinction rates. The equations are rederived and used to generate time series, confirm that logistic dynamics result from the diversity dependence of speciation but not extinction, and define the median duration of species (i.e., 2.6 m.y. for Eocene-Pleistocene mammals). (5) A method employing the G likelihood ratio statistic that is used to quantify the volatility of changes in the relative proportion of species falling in each of several major taxonomic groups. (6) Univariate measures of body mass distributions based on ordinary moment statistics (mean, standard deviation, skewness, kurtosis). These measures are favored over the method of cenogram analysis. Data are presented showing that even diverse individual fossil collections merely yield a noisy version of the same pattern seen in the overall continental data set. Peaks in speciation rates, extinction rates, proportional volatility, and shifts in body mass distributions occur at different times, suggesting that environmental perturbations do not have simple effects on the biota.
2400147|Much new empirical evidence on the levels of Phanerozoic paleoprovinciality and of species diversity within paleocommunities now permits a reevaluation of marine diversity patterns. Data on paleoprovincial patterns are assembled from the literature and evaluated by means of a stochastic computer simulation model. The simulation is based on the statistics of modern patterns of diversity and endemism extrapolated conservatively to the paleoprovincial patterns and on estimates of species duration from the fossil record. The species diversities associated with the paleoprovincial patterns are then corrected for temporal changes in species packing in communities as determined by Bambach (1977) from studies of paleocommunities. The model thus has an empirical basis throughout. Furthermore it is free of biases that can arise due to the differential preservation of taxa in space and time. The Paleozoic and Mesozoic were characterized by low provinciality and low average species diversity, on the order of 38,000 to 40,000 species, although there were significant fluctuations in standing diversities. In the Cenozoic, provinciality rose markedly, primarily through the appearance of latitudinal provincial chains, and average species diversity rose to about 240,000. Today it stands over 350,000; this is an order of magnitude greater than the Paleozoic average.
4096940|Consideration of the ways in which ontogenetic development may be modified to give morphological novelty provides a conceptual framework that can greatly assist in formulating and testing hypotheses of patterns and constraints in evolution. Previous attempts to identify distinct modes of ontogenetic modification have been inconsistent or ambiguous in definition, and incomprehensive in description of interspecific morphological differences. This has resulted in a situation whereby almost all morphological evolution is attributed to heterochrony, and the remainder is commonly either assigned to vague or potentially overly inclusive alternative classes, or overlooked altogether. The present paper recognizes six distinct modes of ontogenetic change, each a unique modification to morphological development: (1) rate modification, (2) timing modification, (3) heterotopy, (4) heterotypy, (5) heterometry, and (6) allometric repatterning. Heterochrony, modeled in terms of shape/time/size ontogenetic parameters, relates to parallelism between ontogenetic and phylogenetic shape change and results from a rate or timing modification to the ancestral trajectory of ontogenetic shape change. Loss of a particular morphological feature may be described in terms of timing modification (extreme postdisplacement) or heterometry, depending on the temporal development of the feature in the ancestor. Testing hypotheses of the operation of each mode entails examining the morphological development of the ancestor and descendant by using trajectory-based studies of ontogenetically dynamic features and non-trajectory-based studies of ontogenetically static features. The modes identified here unite cases based on commonalities of observed modification to the process of morphological development at the structural scale. They may be heterogeneous or partially overlapping with regard to changes to genetic and cellular processes guiding development, which therefore require separate treatment and terminology. Consideration of the modes outlined here will provide a balanced framework within which questions of evolutionary change and constraint within phylogenetic lineages can be addressed more meaningfully.
2400565|Field and laboratory data indicate that all four species of Thais (Gastropoda, Muricacea) from rocky shores of the northeastern Pacific selectively attack barnacles at the margins of parietal (lateral) and opercular plates. Attacks are also more likely to be successful at plate margins. Such preferential attack and differential attack success may account for the evolutionary reduction in the number of parietal plates exhibited within seven of the eight families of balanomorph barnacles. Additional evidence suggests that predation by drilling gastropods may have also favored the evolution of strong external ribbing on these plates within some balanomorph lineages. Radiation and plate reduction in the Balanomorpha occurred in concert with extensive radiation in muricacean gastropods, starting in the Late Cretaceous. Of the three skeletal conformations exhibited by open-surface dwelling barnacles (8, 6 and 4 parietal plates), only genera of the four-plated form have become proportionally more common in the Recent. Further, in a rather striking evolutionary experiment, a lineage of barnacles evolving free from gastropod predation retained primitive skeletal features. This supports the interpretation that predation by drilling gastropods has been an important selective force behind the widespread, parallel evolutionary tendency towards plate reduction in the Balanomorpha; a trend recognized by Darwin (1854), but for which he offered no explanation.
2400693|A diffusion model of the distribution of a phenotypic character in a group of species is developed and analyzed. The model incorporates the combined effects of phyletic evolution, speciation and extinction. Directed speciation is modeled by assuming there is some bias to phenotypic changes during speciation. Species selection is modeled by assuming there is some dependence of either speciation or extinction rates on the phenotypic character. Three examples are analyzed to illustrate the use of the model. A model of completely random changes due to both phyletic evolution and speciation shows how between-species differences are established. A model of directed speciation due to multiplicative changes during speciation shows how a simple assumption about the speciation process can produce macroevolutionary trends. A model of species selection due to differences in extinction rates shows how the efficacy of species selection depends on the between-species variance produced both by speciation and by phyletic evolution.
2400918|Living crocodilians and limbed lepidosaurs have a large caudofemoralis longus muscle passing from tail to femur. Anatomical and electromyographic data support the conclusion that the caudofemoralis is the principal femoral retractor and thus serves as the primary propulsive muscle of the hind limb. Osteological evidence of both origin and insertion indicates that a substantial caudofemoralis longus was present in archosaurs primitively and was retained in the clades Dinosauria and Theropoda. Derived theropods (e.g., ornithomimids, deinonychosaurs, Archaeopteryx and birds) exhibit features that indicate a reduction in caudofemoral musculature, including fewer caudal vertebrae, diminished caudal transverse processes, distal specialization of the tail, and loss of the fourth trochanter. This trend culminates in ornithurine birds, which have greatly reduced tails and either have a minute caudofemoralis longus or lack the muscle entirely. As derived theropod dinosaurs, birds represent the best living model for reconstructing extinct nonavian theropods. Bipedal, digitigrade locomotion on fully erect limbs is an avian feature inherited from theropod ancestors. However, the primitive saurian mechanisms of balancing the body (with a large tail) and retracting the limb (with the caudofemoralis longus) were abandoned in the course of avian evolution. This strongly suggests that details of the orientation (subhorizontal femur) and movement (primarily knee flexion) of the hind limb in extant birds are more properly viewed as derived, uniquely avian conditions, rather than as retentions of an ancestral dinosaurian pattern. Although many characters often associated with extant birds appeared much earlier in theropod evolution, reconstructing the locomotion of all theropods as completely birdlike ignores a wealth of differences that characterize birds.
2666103|Following the end-Ordovician extinction, global clade diversity of Silurian trilobites dropped to about half of Ordovician levels. Although clade diversity failed to recover, this extinction had surprisingly little long-term impact on the number of trilobite species that occupied local habitats (alpha diversity). A new compilation of data from Laurentia and other continents indicates that Silurian trilobite alpha diversities in all major environments were comparable to those of the Late Cambrian and Ordovician; shallow subtidal diversity reached an all-time high during the Late Ordovician. The profound differences in patterns at local and global levels demonstrate the necessity for a hierarchical approach to analyses of diversity. Factors governing global clade diversity are lodged at hierarchical levels beyond those controlling local species richness and must be sought in studies of between-habitat (beta) or geographic (gamma) diversity.
4096876|The living species Ginkgo biloba is phylogenetically isolated, has a relictual distribution, and is morphologically very similar to Mesozoic and Cenozoic congenerics. To investigate what adaptations may have allowed this lineage to persist with little or no morphological change for over 100 Myr, we analyzed both sedimentological and floral data from 51 latest Cretaceous to middle Miocene Ginkgo-bearing fossil plant sites in North America and northern Europe. The resulting data indicate that throughout the late Cretaceous and Cenozoic Ginkgo was largely confined to disturbed streamside and levee environments, where it occurred with a consistent set of other plants. These inferred habitats are surprising because the life-history traits of Ginkgo (e.g., slow growth rate, late reproductive maturity, extended reproductive cycle, large and complex seeds, large and slowly developing embryos) are counter to those considered advantageous in modern disturbed habitats. Many flowering plant lineages first appeared or became common in disturbed riparian habitats, and are inferred to have had reproductive and growth traits (e.g., rapid reproduction, small easily dispersed seeds, rapid growth) suited to such habitats. Paleoecological inferences based on both morphology and sedimentary environments thus support the idea that Ginkgo was displaced in riparian habitats by angiosperms with better adaptations to frequent disturbance.
2400825|Dickinsonia is reconstructed as a benthic polypoid of generally cnidarian design. The oral surface was without tentacles but contained a median oral slit that probably led through a pharynx into an enteron, which was divided into digestive diverticulae by radiating mesenteries; feeding may have been via ciliary tracts. The mesenteries and body wall contained a stiff form of mesogloea. There seems to be no need to postulate a novel constructional grade for this organism, bringing the concept of the Vendozoa into question.
4096915|The study of ancient biodiversity trends is confounded by biases of the paleontologic record, but standardizing sampling intensity among time intervals can ameliorate sample-size biases. We show that several existing standardization methods are intimately linked to the spatial components of diversity (alpha, the within-assemblage diversity; and beta, the between-assemblage diversity). The subsampling curves generated by these methods can also be generated by various manipulations of alpha and beta, so that one can predict the responses of the methods to specific changes in alpha or beta diversity. The responses of the subsampling methods to changes in total diversity depend on whether measured alpha or measured beta diversity changed. Like biodiversity, sampling consists of a within-sample component (the number of specimens collected per locality) and a between-sample component (the number of localities). Several subsampling methods (rarefaction, OW,
2666002|A physical, model-based approach to body temperatures in dinosaurs allows us to predict what ranges of body temperatures and what thermoregulatory strategies were available to those dinosaurs. We argue that 1. The huge range of body sizes in the dinosaurs likely resulted in very different thermal problems and strategies for animals at either end of this size continuum. 2. Body temperatures of the smallest adult dinosaurs and of hatchlings and small juveniles would have been largely insensitive to metabolic rates in the absence of insulation. The smallest animals in which metabolic heating resulted in predicted body temperatures $\geq 2^\circ$C above operative temperatures (T$_e$) weigh 10 kg. Body temperature would respond rapidly enough to changes in T$_e$ to make behavioral thermoregulation possible. 3. Body temperatures of large dinosaurs (<1000 kg) likely were sensitive to both metabolic rate and the delivery of heat to the body surface by blood flow. Our model suggests that they could adjust body temperature by adjusting metabolic rate and blood flow. Behavioral thermoregulation by changing microhabitat selection would likely have been of limited utility because body temperatures would have responded only slowly to changes in T$_e$. 4. Endothermic metabolic rates may have put large dinosaurs at risk for overheating unless they had adaptations to shed the heat as necessary. This would have been particularly true for dinosaurs with masses >10,000 kg, but simulations suggest that for animals as small as 1000 kg in the Tropics and in temperate latitudes during the summer, steady-state body temperatures would have exceeded 40$^\circ$C. Slow response of body temperatures to changes in T$_e$ suggests that use of day-night thermal differences would have buffered dinosaurs from diel warming but would not have lowered body temperatures sufficiently for animals experiencing high mean daily T$_e$. 5. Endothermic metabolism and metabolic heating might have been useful for intermediate and large-sized (100-3000 kg) dinosaurs but often in situations that demanded marked seasonal adjustment of metabolic rates and/or precise control of metabolism (and heat-loss mechanisms) as typically seen in endotherms.
4096808|A global database of gastropod sizes from the Permian through the Middle Triassic documents trends in gastropod shell size and permits tests of the suggestion that Early Triassic gastropods were everywhere unusually small. Analysis of the database shows that no specimens of unambiguous Early Triassic age larger than 2.6 cm have been reported, in contrast to common 5-10-cm specimens of both Permian and Middle Triassic age. The loss of large gastropods is abrupt even at a fine scale of stratigraphic resolution, whereas the return of larger individuals in the Middle Triassic appears gradual when finely resolved. Taphonomic and sampling biases do not adequately explain the absence of large Early Triassic gastropods. Examination of size trends by genus demonstrates that the size decrease across the Permian/Triassic boundary is compatible with both size-selective extinction at the species level and anagenetic size change within lineages. Size increase in the Middle Triassic resulted from the origination of large species within genera that have Early Triassic fossil records and the occurrence of new genera containing large species during the Middle Triassic. Genera recorded from the Permian and Middle Triassic but not the Early Triassic ("Lazarus taxa") do not contribute to observed size increase in the Middle Triassic. Moreover, Lazarus taxa lack large species and exhibit low species richness during both the Permian and the Middle Triassic, suggesting that they survived as small, rare forms rather than existing at large sizes in Early Triassic refugia. The ecological opportunities and selective pressures that produced large gastropods during most intervals of the Phanerozoic evidently did not operate in Early Triassic oceans. Whether this reflects low predation or competitive pressure, r-selection facilitated by high primary production, or physical barriers to large size remains poorly understood.
2401160|Morphologic diversification among rostroconch molluscs is explored using multiple phylogenies derived from different methods. In addition to strict parsimony, phylogenetic estimates were derived using four different methods that employ stratigraphic data. The resultant phylogenies are generally very similar to one another and to the phylogeny proposed by Pojeta and Runnegar (1976). All estimates (including the Pojeta and Runnegar estimate) imply much lower morphologic separations among post-Ordovician rostroconchs (measured here as the frequency of character state change per branch) than among Cambro-Ordovician rostroconchs. However, the data do not suggest that morphologic evolution became more constrained among rostroconchs as a whole, but instead suggest a reduced characteristic rate of morphologic change in the clade that happened to survive the end-Ordovician extinction. Likelihood ratio tests provide strongest support for the hypothesis that morphologic evolution was more constrained within a derived subclade (corresponding to previous definitions of the Conocardioidea, minus the Eopteriidae) than it was in a broad paraphylum (corresponding to the Ribeirioidea + Eopteriidae). Estimates from each of the phylogenetic methods lead to the same conclusions. Various metrics indicate that the pattern is not due to poor sampling of Cambro-Ordovician species and thus merits a biological explanation. Nonphylogenetic analyses of morphologic disparity suggest a similar history of morphologic evolution, including the apparent difference in characteristic rates of morphologic evolution between paraclade and subclade.
2666001|The Cretaceous radiation of angiosperms initiated a major reorganization of terrestrial plant communities as dominance by pteridophytic and gymnospermic groups eventually gave way to dominance by angiosperms. Previously, patterns of biotic replacement have been assessed using measures based on taxonomic diversity data. However, using measures of both abundance and diversity to investigate replacement patterns provides more information about macroecological change in the fossil record than either can provide alone. Analyses of an updated and expanded database of North American palynological samples from Cretaceous sediments document a rapid increase in angiosperm diversity and abundance within individual fossil palynofloras (representing local/subregional vegetation). New analyses of floristic diversity patterns support previous results and indicate that the decline of free-sporing plants is more pronounced than the decline of gymnosperms. In contrast, analyses of abundance data appear to show that the decline of gymnosperms is far more pronounced than the decline of free-sporing plants. Detailed examination of both data sets segregated by paleolatitude shows that this apparent contradiction reflects biogeographical differences in the patterns of vegetational change (e.g., free-sporing plants declined in abundance at lower latitudes) as well as sampling bias (e.g., greater sampling in the northern region in the Late Cretaceous). Analyses accounting for these biases support the conclusion that as angiosperms radiated, free-sporing plants rather than gymnosperms (in this case, mainly conifers) experienced the most pronounced decline. A thorough understanding of the Cretaceous radiation of angiosperms will require both abundance and diversity data. It also will require expanding the analyses presented here into other geographic regions as well as sampling more completely at all spatial scales.
1558094|Evidence for species range shifts in response to climatic change is common in the Pleistocene and earlier fossil record. However, little work has been done to model how such shifts in species range limits would change compositions of species assemblages over different spatial scales. Here I present a simple model that explores the role of biogeography in constraining changes in the compositions of species assemblages under the null hypothesis of random range shifts. The model predicts that localities where most species are far away from the edges of their ranges (e.g., localities at the center of a biogeographic province) would show relatively stable diversity patterns even during episodes of climatic change. Only localities with many range endpoints (such as those near the edges of biogeographic provinces) would show large fluctuations in species composition (and richness) in response to changes in the ambient climatic conditions. I test the predictions of the model using (1) simulations and (2) the Pleistocene bivalve fauna of California. The simulations as well as the empirical data from the Pleistocene terraces are consistent with the model predictions. These results show that attempts to quantify temporal trends in local and regional diversity and assemblage compositions need to take biogeographic structure into account.
2666105|Data from a comprehensive literature survey for the first time provide stage-level resolution of Early Cretaceous through Pleistocene species diversity for nongeniculate coralline algae. Distributions of a total of 655 species in 23 genera were compiled from 222 publications. These represent three family-subfamily groupings each with distinctive present-day distributions: (1) Sporolithaceae, low latitude, mainly deep water; (2) Melobesioid corallinaceans, high latitude, shallow water, to low latitude, deep water; (3) Lithophylloid/mastophoroid corallinaceans, mid- to low latitude, shallow water. Raw data show overall Early Cretaceous-early Miocene increase to 245 species in the Aquitanian, followed by collapse to only 43 species in the late Pliocene. Rarefaction analysis confirms the pattern of increase but suggests that scarcity of publications exaggerates Neogene decline, which was actually relatively slight. Throughout the history of coralline species, species richness broadly correlates with published global paleotemperatures based on benthic foraminifer $\delta^{18}$O values. The warm-water Sporolithaceae were most species-abundant during the Cretaceous, but they declined and were rapidly overtaken by the Corallinaceae as Cenozoic temperatures declined. Trends within the Corallinaceae during the Cenozoic appear to reflect environmental change and disturbance. Cool- and deep-water melobesioids rapidly expanded during the latest Cretaceous and Paleocene. Warmer-water lithophylloid/mastophoroid species increased slowly during the same period but more quickly in the early Oligocene, possibly reflecting habitat partitioning as climatic belts differentiated and scleractinian reef development expanded near the Eocene/Oligocene boundary. Melobesioids abruptly declined in the late Pliocene-Pleistocene, while lithophylloid/mastophoroids increased again. Possibly, onset of glaciation in the Northern Hemisphere ($\sim$2.4 Ma) sustained or accentuated latitudinal differentiation and global climatic deterioration, disrupting high-latitude melobesioid habitats. Simultaneously, this could have caused moderate environmental disturbance in mid- to low-latitude ecosystems, promoting diversification of lithophylloids/mastophoroids through the "fission effect." Extinction events that eliminated >20% of coralline species were most severe (58-67% of species) during the Late Cretaceous and late Miocene-Pliocene. Each extinction was followed by substantial episodes of origination, particularly in the Danian and Pleistocene.
2400640|Almost every living and fossil group of gymnosperms has been proposed as a possible ancestor of angiosperms. A common problem with many of these proposals is their reliance on hypothetical intermediate forms. Another common problem is finding correctly-oriented organs homologous to all the important reproductive structures of angiosperms. These problems are least troublesome for a glossopterid origin of angiosperms. Recently discovered ovule-bearing organs of these plants may represent evolutionary intermediates, or analogous plants, between glossopterids and angiosperms. According to recent reinterpretations of glossopterid ovule-bearing organs, they have structures in an orientation which may be homologous with both the outer ovular integument and the carpel of angiosperms. Considering the reproductive and vegetative features of glossopterids, the hypothesis that they may be part of a stock ancestral to angiosperms should be seriously considered.
2400249|Cameral water in the shell of the cephalopod Nautilus physically supports each septum while it is being formed; it also provides a reservoir of liquid ballast which is extracted to balance the increase in weight in seawater due to shell and tissue growth. It is not used as an aid to vertical movement. In adults, the sole function of cameral water is ballast in order to maintain Nautilus' slight weight in seawater.
25609422|Numerous methods have been developed to estimate the position of a mass extinction boundary while accounting for the incompleteness of the fossil record. Here we describe the point estimator and confidence interval for the extinction that are optimal under the assumption of uniform preservation and recovery potential, and independence among taxa. First, one should pool the data from all taxa into one combined "supersample." Next, one can then apply methods proposed by Strauss and Sadler (1989) for a single taxon. This gives the optimal point estimator in the sense that it has the smallest variance among all possible unbiased estimators. The corresponding confidence interval is optimal in the sense that it has the shortest average width among all possible intervals that are invariant to measurement scale. These optimality properties hold even among methods that have not yet been discovered. Using simulations, we show that the optimal estimators substantially improve upon the performance of other existing methods. Because the assumptions of uniform recovery and independence among taxa are strong ones, it is important to assess to what extent they are satisfied by the data. We demonstrate the use of probability plots for this purpose. Finally, we use simulations to explore the sensitivity of the optimal point estimator and confidence interval to nonuniformity and lack of independence, and we compare their performance under these conditions with existing methods. We find that nonuniformity strongly biases the point estimators for all methods studied, inflates their standard errors, and degrades the coverage probabilities of confidence intervals. Lack of independence has less effect on the accuracy of point estimates as long as recovery potential is uniform, but it, too, inflates the standard errors and degrades confidence interval coverage probabilities.
4500148|An extreme, dorsally hyperextended posture of the spine (opisthotonus), characterized by the skull and neck recurved over the back, and with strong extension of the tail, is observed in many well-preserved, articulated amniote skeletons (birds and other dinosaurs, pterosaurs, and at least placental mammals). Postmortem water transport may explain some cases of spinal curvature in fossil tetrapods, but we show how these can be distinguished from causes of the opisthotonic posture, which is a biotic syndrome. Traditional biotic explanations nearly all involve postmortem causes, and have included rigor mortis, desiccation, and contraction of tendons and ligaments. However, examination of the process of rigor mortis and experimental observations of drying and salinity in carcasses of extant animals show that these explanations of the "dead bird" (opisthotonic) posture account for few or no cases. Differential contraction of cervical ligaments after death also does not produce the opisthotonic posture. It is not postmortem contraction but perimortem muscle spasms resulting from various afflictions of the central nervous system that cause these extreme postures. That is, the opisthotonic posture is the result of "death throes" not postmortem processes, and individuals so afflicted assumed the posture before death, not afterward. The clinical literature has long recognized that such afflicted individuals perish from asphyxiation, lack of nourishment or essential nutrients, environmental toxins, or viral infections, among other causes. Accepting the actual causes of the opisthotonic posture as perimortem and not postmortem provides insights into the causes of death of fossilized specimens, and also revises interpretations of paleoenvironmental conditions of many fossil deposits. The opisthotonic posture tells us more about the circumstances surrounding death than about what happened after death. Finally, the opisthotonic posture appears to have a phylogenetic signal: it is so far reported entirely in ornithodiran archosaurs (dinosaurs and pterosaurs) and in crown-group placentals, though the distribution in mammals may expand with further study. It seems important that the opisthotonic posture has been observed extensively only in clades of animals that are known or thought to have high basal metabolic rates: hypoxia and related diseases would be most likely to affect animals with high oxygen use rates.
2400783|Application of computed tomography to the most recently recognized specimen of Archaeopteryx demonstrates the potential of this technique for paleontological issues. Contrary to earlier interpretations of these specimens, the results of computed tomography appear to show the presence of an avian-like doubled-headed quadrate bone in this earliest true bird.
2400619|A survey of the primary xylem anatomy and dimensions of axes (="stems") of Upper Devonian plant petrifaction/compression fossils reveals the following: among genera, the primary xylem strand (1) increasingly deviates from a cylindrical geometry (=haplostele) as both the axis diameter and the nonxylem ("ground") tissue volume increase and (2) increases in geologically younger specimens. (3) The perimeter length to area ratio of the primary xylem strand (or the primary xylem surface area to volume ratio) is dependent upon axis diameter or the area of the ground tissue. This ratio (4) decreases in evolutionary lineages that involve the appearance of larger plants that maintain a haplostelar anatomy (e.g., the evolution of trimerophytes from a rhyniophyte ancestor) or increases in evolutionary lineages involving the appearance of nonhaplostele anatomy (e.g., the evolution of progymnosperms and pteridophytes from trimerophyte ancestors) and (5) the relative amount of primary xylem to ground tissue increases in stratigraphically younger specimens. These trends are interpreted within the context of (1) correlations between the diameter of axes and the complexity of the primary xylem anatomy reported for some extant pteridophytes and (2) changes associated with the evolution of new primary xylem configurations and organographic relationships. Based on the appearance of new ontogenetic patterns and concomitant changes in the anatomy of the primary xylem strand associated with the evolution of derived plant groups, a strict extrapolation of a size to complexity correlation based on ontogenetic studies to the phyletic level is considered suspect.
3595487|Major C<sub>4</sub> grass expansions during the late Miocene in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres had a major impact on biological communities. We report that the diverse terrestrial fauna of Langebaanweg, South Africa, existed in a local environment that remained <tex-math>$C_3-dominated$</tex-math> during the late Neogene (<tex-math>$\sim 5 Ma$</tex-math>). In contrast, other Southern Hemisphere sites at similar latitudes show a clear shift to C<sub>4</sub> grasslands well before 5 Ma. Our results are based on stable isotope analyses of enamel carbonate from four artiodactyl and two perissodactyl families from this locality. We also provide insight into the evolution of the current Mediterranean climate system in this part of South Africa.
2400428|Many questions have emerged recently regarding the importance and methodology of analysis of adaptation. Divergent views reflect both problems of definition and more substantive issues of interpretation. Defining the state of adaptation in terms of its contribution to current fitness, rather than origin by natural selection, is essential if natural selection is to be considered an explanation of adaptation. The context dependency and relativity of fitness apply also to adaptation. Design criteria are essential components of adaptation, but only to the extent that they are subsumed as elements of the causal interactions determining relative reproductive potential. The local, relational, contingent character of adaptation supports only limited reference to improvement. Most long-term patterns of change can be better described as diffusion within a structured design-space than as progressive improvement of design. The analysis of adaptation is part of a broader inquiry into the processes and constraints that control form and the history of changing form. It offers one perspective on how organisms operate on ecological time scales and how their configurations might be maintained or transformed over evolutionary time. Hypotheses concerning adaptation are sometimes tested by reference to predictions concerning the central tendency or trend of some aspect of an anatomical-behavioral system. These can be interpreted with minimal reference to assumptions of optimality if the analysis is viewed in terms of Bayesian inference. However, an alternative and frequently preferable approach to testing relies on limit-oriented predictions. Analysis of adaptation can be visualized as inferring the pattern and nature of interactions comprising the causal plexus that determines fitness. A comprehensive understanding of form and form-change requires that this be integrated with the perspective offered by studies of development, genetics, phylogenetic history, and external perturbations acting on the system.
2400432|The evolutionary bootstrap is a new approach to the analysis of patterns of taxonomic diversity. In general, the evolutionary bootstrap works by surveying the diversity history of a taxon, learning its dynamic properties, and then generating randomly large numbers of artificial diversity histories based upon what was learned. The distribution of artificial-or bootstrapped-diversity histories approximates the distribution of diversity histories that were possible for taxa with the dynamic properties of the real taxon, and serves as a paleontological null hypothesis for studying statistically the diversity history of the real taxon. Two null hypotheses were established, the additive and the multiplicative. The additive null hypothesis assumes that the amount of diversity change that occurs in a higher taxon during an interval of time is independent of the number of member subtaxa present at the beginning of the interval. The multiplicative null hypothesis, in contrast, assumes that the amount of diversity change that occurs is dependent upon the number of member subtaxa present at the start. Thus the two null hypotheses represent end members of a diversity-independent/diversity-dependent continuum of possibilities. Detailed analyses using the evolutionary bootstrap, in conjunction with the clade statistics of Gould et al. (1977), show that several of the 17 higher taxa studied have diversity histories that are statistically significantly different from the random expectation under one or both null hypotheses. Analyses of multiple taxa in aggregate also reveal several properties of diversity histories that are statistically significantly different from random. Real taxa tend to have higher uniformities and lower maximum diversities than expected under the multiplicative null hypothesis. They have lower uniformities, higher maximum diversities, and longer durations than expected under the additive null hypothesis. And, they have lower centers of gravity than expected under either null hypothesis. Overall, the results provide a possible statistical verification of the process of taxonomic (traditionally, adaptive) radiation and suggest the need to consider deterministic explanations for observed diversity patterns.
1558092|Many features of global diversity compilations have proven robust to continued sampling and taxonomic revision. Inherent biases in the stratigraphic record may nevertheless substantially affect estimates of global taxonomic diversity. Here we focus on short-term (epoch-level) changes in apparent diversity. We use a simple estimate of the amount of marine sedimentary rock available for sampling: the number of formations in the stratigraphic Lexicon of the United States Geological Survey. We find this to be positively correlated with two independent estimates of rock availability: global outcrop area derived from the Paleogeographic Atlas Project (University of Chicago) database, and percent continental flooding. Epoch-to-epoch changes in the number of formations are positively correlated with changes in sampled Phanerozoic marine diversity at the genus level. We agree with previous workers in finding evidence of a diversity-area effect that is substantially weaker than the effect of the amount of preserved sedimentary rock. Once the mutual correlation among change in formation numbers, in diversity, and in area flooded is taken into consideration, there is relatively little residual correlation between change in diversity and in the extent of continental flooding. These results suggest that much of the observed short-term variation in marine diversity may be an artifact of variation in the amount of rock available for study. Preliminary results suggest the same possibility for terrestrial data. Like the comparison between change in number of formations and change in sampled diversity, which addresses short-term variation in apparent diversity, the comparison between absolute values of these quantities, which relates to longer-term patterns, also shows a positive correlation. Moreover, there is no clear temporal trend in the residuals of the regression of sampled diversity on number of formations. This raises the possibility that taxonomic diversity may not have increased substantially since the early Paleozoic. Because of limitations in our data, however, this question must remain open.
2400330|Muscular articulations on the brachials and pinnules of Paleozoic crinoids have traditionally been inferred by the presence of a transverse ridge. We here provide evidence that the microstructure of the stereom, fine meshed where muscles once inserted and coarse meshed where ligaments were emplaced, provides a reliable microstructural criterion for muscular articulation on well-preserved arm ossicles. Partially pyritized ossicles of Aesiocrinus magnificus Miller & Gurley from the Lane Shale of Pennsylvanian age at Kansas City, Missouri exhibit well-preserved stereom in three dimensions under the scanning electron microscope. These brachial and pinnular plates show clearly the distinctiveness of stereom at sites of muscule and ligament attachment. This criterion should be useful in tracing the evolutionary development of flexible arm articulations in several lineages of Paleozoic crinoids.
23014734|Cases of convergent evolution, particularly within ecomorphological contexts, are instructive in identifying universally adaptive morphological features across clades. Tracing of evolutionary pathways by which ecomorphological convergence takes place can further reveal mechanisms of adaptation, which may be strongly influenced by phylogeny. Ecomorphologies of carnivorous mammals represent some of the most outstanding cases of convergent evolution in the Cenozoic radiation of mammals. This study examined patterns of cranial shape change in the dog (Canidae) and hyena (Hyaenidae) families, in order to compare the evolutionary pathways that led to the independent specialization of bone-cracking hypercarnivores within each clade. Geometric morphometrics analyses of cranial shape in fossil hyaenids and borophagine canids provided evidence for deep-time convergence in morphological pathways toward the independent evolution of derived bone-crackers. Both clades contained stem members with plesiomorphic generalist/omnivore cranial shapes, which evolved into doglike species along parallel pathways of shape change. The evolution of specialized bone-crackers from these doglike forms, however, continued under the constraint of a full cheek dentition and restriction on rostrum length reduction in canids, but not hyaenids. Functionally, phylogenetic constraint may have limited borophagine canids to crack bones principally with their carnassial instead of the third premolar as in hyaenids, but other cranial shape changes associated with durophagy nevertheless evolved in parallel in the two lineages. Size allometry was not a major factor in cranial shape evolution in either lineage, supporting the interpretation of functional demands as drivers for the observed convergence. The comparison between borophagines and hyaenids showed that differential effects of alternative functional "solutions" that arise during morphological evolution may be multiplied with processes of the "macroevolutionary ratchet" already in place to further limit the evolutionary pathways available to specialized lineages.
2400524|Diving investigations of Recent comatulid crinoids at Lizard Island, Great Barrier Reef, indicate that, contrary to long-held notions, crinoids are subject to predation, principally by fishes of several families. Predation usually occurs as sublethal damage to the visceral mass and arms, from which the crinoids usually recover by regeneration. Aspects of the life habits, morphology, biochemistry, and physiology of comatulids are postulated to be adaptations that enable comatulid crinoids to resist predation. Comatulid versatility in coping with predation may account in large measure for their evolutionary success in the face of the late Mesozoic teleost radiation. Frequency of damage and repair in fossil crinoids can be used as a measure of predation pressure in order to assess the impact of predation during the Phanerozoic evolution of crinoids. Paleozoic stalked crinoids made a heavy investment in skeletal armor, while in contrast, comatulids reduced the calyx and became mobile. The relationship between these phyletic trends and predation pressure can now be critically examined.
2666028|Histologic studies of embryonic and perinatal longbones of living birds, non-avian dinosaurs, and other reptiles show a strong phylogenetic signal in the distribution of tissues and patterns of vascularization in both the shafts and the bone ends. The embryonic bones of basal archosaurs and other reptiles have thin-walled cortices and large marrow cavities that are sometimes subdivided by erosion rooms in early stages of growth. The cortices of basal reptiles are poorly vascularized, and osteocyte lacunae are common but randomly organized. Additionally, there is no evidence of fibrolamellar tissue organization around the vascular spaces. Compared with turtles, basal archosaurs show an increase in vascularization, better organized osteocytes, and some fibrolamellar tissue organization. In dinosaurs, including birds, vascularization is greater than in basal archosaurs, as is cortical thickness, and the osteocyte lacunae are more abundant and less randomly organized. Fibrolamellar tissues are evident around vascular canals and form organized primary osteons in older perinates and juveniles. Metaphyseal ("epiphyseal") morphology varies with the acquisition of new features in derived groups. The cartilage cone, persistent through the Reptilia (crown-group reptiles, including birds), is completely calcified in ornithischian dinosaurs before it is eroded by marrow processes; cartilage canals, absent in basal archosaurs, are present in Dinosauria; a thickened calcified hypertrophy zone in Dinosauria indicates an acceleration of longitudinal bone growth. Variations in this set of histological synapomorphies overlap between birds and non-avian dinosaurs. In birds, these variations are strongly correlated with life-history strategies. This overlap, plus independent evidence from nesting sites, reinforces the hypothesis that variations in bone growth strategies in Mesozoic dinosaurs reflect different life-history strategies, including nesting behavior of neonates and parental care.
4096874|Avian skeletal remains occur in many fossil assemblages, and in spite of small sample sizes and incomplete preservation, they may be a source of valuable paleoecological information. In this paper, we examine the taphonomy of a modern avian bone assemblage and test the relationship between ecological data based on avifaunal skeletal remains and known ecological attributes of a living bird community. A total of 54 modern skeletal occurrences and a sample of 126 identifiable bones from Amboseli Park, Kenya, were analyzed for weathering features and skeletal part preservation in order to characterize preservation features and taphonomic biases. Avian remains, with the exception of ostrich, decay more rapidly than adult mammal bones and rarely reach advanced stages of weathering. Breakage and the percentage of anterior limb elements serve as indicators of taphonomic overprinting that may affect paleoecological signals. Using ecomorphic categories including body weight, diet, and habitat, we compared species in the bone assemblage with the living Amboseli avifauna. The documented bone sample is biased toward large body size, representation of open grassland habitats, and grazing or scavenging diets. In spite of this, multidimensional scaling analysis shows that the small faunal sample (16 out of 364 species) in the pre-fossil bone assemblage accurately represents general features of avian ecospace in Amboseli. This provides a measure of the potential fidelity of paleoecological reconstructions based on small samples of avian remains. In the Cenozoic, the utility of avian fossils is enhanced because bird ecomorphology is relatively well known and conservative through time, allowing back-extrapolations of habitat preferences, diet, etc. based on modern taxa.
20445608|Studies of extinction in the fossil record commonly involve comparisons of taxonomic extinction rates, often expressed as the percentage of taxa (e.g., families or genera) going extinct in a time interval. Such extinction rates may be influenced by factors that do not reflect the intrinsic severity of an extinction trigger. Two identical triggering events (e.g., bolide impacts, sea level changes, volcanic eruptions) could lead to different taxonomic extinction rates depending on factors specific to the time interval in which they occur, such as the susceptibility of the fauna or flora to extinction, the stability of food webs, the positions of the continents, and so on. Thus, it is possible for an extinction event with a higher taxonomic extinction rate to be caused by an intrinsically less severe trigger, compared to an event with a lower taxonomic extinction rate. Here, we isolate the effects of taxonomic susceptibility on extinction rates. Specifically, we quantify the extent to which the taxonomic extinction rate in a substage is elevated or depressed by the vulnerability to extinction of classes extant in that substage. Using a logistic regression model, we estimate that the taxonomic susceptibility of marine fauna to extinction has generally declined through the Phanerozoic, and we adjust the observed extinction rate in each substage to estimate the intrinsic extinction severity more accurately. We find that mass extinctions do not generally occur during intervals of unusually high susceptibility, although susceptibility sometimes increases in post-extinction recovery intervals. Furthermore, the susceptibility of specific animal classes to extinction is generally similar in times of background and mass extinction, providing no evidence for differing regimes of extinction selectivity. Finally, we find an inverse correlation between extinction rate within substages and the evenness of diversity of major taxonomic groups, but further analyses indicate that low evenness itself does not cause high rates of extinction.
2400349|The bivalves Spisula solidissima, the Atlantic surf clam, and Arctica islandica, the ocean quahog, from the continental shelf off New Jersey, contain repeating structures in their shells. By analyzing the growing shell margins in living specimens at bi-weekly (or sometimes monthly) intervals throughout two consecutive years, it was possible to define an annual cycle of shell growth increment formation in both species. The shell increments in each species are microstructurally distinct units that form over a period of several months at select seasons of the year. Each species has two alternating shell growth increments, GI I and GI II. GI I (the annual growth line of previous studies) is formed annually in the late summer-fall in S. solidissima and in the fall-early winter in A. islandica. These periods correspond to the spawning phase of the reproductive cycle in both species. No winter rings were found. The annual increments were used to determine age and growth rate in both Recent and Pleistocene specimens. They may also be useful in determining season of death. Because shell growth increments are formed in synchrony among living populations in these species, mass mortalities may be distinguished in the fossil record. Accurate age and growth rate determinations in fossils are important in many paleobiologic contexts, such as deciding between increased longevity or growth rate in cases of phyletic size increase.
2400195|A new account of the mechanical action of the heterocercal tail in fishes is given, developed from study of the swimming of sharks. The heterocercal tail is capable of delivering a thrust that can be oriented in a wide range of angles in the vertical plane. The orientation results from a balance of forces acting in the tail. Normally the heterocercal tail delivers neither an epibatic nor a hypobatic thrust, but rather one directly through the center of gravity of the fish. On the basis of the new account, predictions concerning the shape and proportions of the heterocercal tail are made and tested.
4096987|Global information on Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and extant non-angiosperm leaf morphologies has been gathered to investigate morphological diversity in leaves consistent with marginal growth and to identify likely departures from such development. Two patterns emerge from the principal coordinates analysis of this data set: (1) the loss of morphological diversity associated with marginal leaf growth among seed plants after sharing the complete Paleozoic range of such morphologies with ferns and (2) the repeated evolution of more complex, angiosperm-like leaf traits among both ferns and seed plants. With regard to the first pattern, morphological divergence of fern and seed plant leaf morphologies, indirectly recognized as part of the Paleophytic-Mesophytic transition, likely reflects reproductive and ecological divergence. The leaf-borne reproductive structures that are common to the ferns and Paleozoic seed plants may promote leaf morphological diversity, whereas the separation of vegetative and reproductive roles into distinct organs in later seed plant groups may have allowed greater functional specialization-and thereby morphological simplification-as the seed plants came to be dominated by groups originating in more arid environments. With regard to the second pattern, the environmental and ecological distribution of angiosperm-like leaf traits among fossil and extant plants suggests that these traits preferentially evolve in herbaceous to understory plants of warm, humid environments, thus supporting inferences concerning angiosperm origins based upon the ecophysiology of basal extant taxa.
2401005|Modern marine plankton communities include a broad diversity of metazoans that are suspension-feeding or micropredatory as adults. Many benthic marine species have larval stages that reside, and often feed, in the plankton for brief to very long periods of time, and most marine benthic communities include large numbers of suspension-feeders. This has not always been the case. Cambrian benthic communities included relatively few suspension-feeders. Similarly, there were few metazoan clades represented in the plankton, either as adult suspension-feeders or as larvae. Review of the fossil record suggests that the diversification of the plankton and suspension-feeding marine animals began in the Late Cambrian and continued into the Ordovician. These changes were accompanied by, and probably influenced, concurrent major changes in the marine realm, including an increase in tiering within benthic communities, the replacement of the Cambrian fauna by the Paleozoic fauna, and a general taxonomic diversification. The ultimate cause of these changes is uncertain, but it appears likely that the plankton was and is a refuge from predation and bioturbation for adults and larvae alike. The expansion in plankton biomass thus provided increased ecological opportunities for suspension-feeders in the plankton and benthos.
2401221|Small terrestrial vertebrates are not capable of maintaining a constant body temperature ( 2<sup></sup>C) without a relatively high metabolism. The amount of temperature variability during bone growth can be determined using oxygen isotopes from bone phosphate because fractionation of oxygen isotopes between body fluid and bone phosphate is dependent upon temperature. Fluctuation of body temperature during the early phase of growth in juvenile ectotherms should result in high intra- and interbone isotopic variability, whereas juvenile endotherms should have low isotopic variability resulting from the maintenance of homeothermy. Analyses of juvenile Hypacrosaurus individuals indicate a pattern of low isotopic heterogeneity suggestive of endothermy.
2401094|Investigation of the evolution of calcareous nannoplankton is hindered by the extremely small size (5-10 m) of their fossils. We introduce new technology, a scanning electron microscope connected to an image analysis system (SEM-IAS), which allows this field to be explored as never before. This system enables a host of morphocharacters to be measured and included in studies of phylogeny and evolutionary dynamics. We have applied the SEM-IAS to study the evolution of Paleocene coccolith genera Cruciplacolithus, Chiasmolithus, and Sullivania. A variety of detailed measurements have been made on over 4000 coccoliths from Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 384 in the temperate North Atlantic and Ocean Drilling Program Site 690 in the Weddell Sea off Antarctica. Our results indicate no simple relationships between morphocharacters, the shapes of all three genera are both complex and highly variable. Although most morphocharacters possess little phylogenetic significance, the areas of different shield cycles show gradual divergence between Chiasmolithus and Sullivania through the Paleocene. Change of most other morphocharacters occurs at variable rates and reversals in trends are common. Minimal correlation exists between the trends and oscillatory shape changes observed at the two sites. We conclude that these trends and oscillations represent local, transitory ecophenotypic variation of the complex form. There is little stasis in the ten-million-year record studied.
2400583|The biogeography of differences in average shape of the modern planktonic foraminifer Globorotalia truncatulinoides (d'Orbigny) exhibits systematic relationships to changes in the ocean's surface environment. Comparison of these shape changes, as they exist today in the Southern Hemisphere, with fossil shapes preserved in a Late Pleistocene record from the South Atlantic Ocean, shows that the biogeography of G. truncatulinoides ecophenotypes has changed markedly through time. Beginning at least 700,000 yr ago and continuing up to the present, there has been a gradual but clear migration of certain morphotypes of G. truncatulinoides toward lower latitudes. The history of this migration bears no simple relationship to the cyclic climatic changes that characterize the Late Pleistocene. We conclude that either (1) phenotypic variants of Gr. truncatulinoides reflect some previously unmeasured, gradually changing aspect of Late Pleistocene oceans, or (2) we are witnessing a gradual evolution of the environment preferences of G. truncatulinoides.
2401107|Disturbances have drastically altered Caribbean coral reefs over the past two decades. Acropora cervicornis (staghorn coral), which predominated at intermediate depths (5-25 m) from the 1950s through the 1970s, has virtually disappeared from most reef environments. Other coral species have declined as well, and the cover of macroalgae has increased. In apparent contrast, fossil reef sequences suggest that the species composition and zonation of coral assemblages did not change during the Pleistocene and Holocene. One interpretation of these observations is that coral species persisted on Caribbean reefs for hundreds of thousands of years as components of tightly integrated communities, and that a rare or unique combination of disturbances led to the synchronous decline of A. cervicornis and other corals throughout the region. The hypotheses of (1) community integration and (2) a unique, recent community transition, were tested by ecological and paleoecological observations in the shelf lagoon of the Belizean Barrier Reef. The reef growing along the flanks of Channel Cay, a lagoonal shoal, was monitored by point counts along transects over a ten-year period (1986-95). This reef was covered primarily by A. cervicornis at 3-15 m depth until the late 1980s. After 1986, A. cervicornis experienced a mass mortality from White Band Disease, an epizootic of presumed bacterial origin. The cover of A. cervicornis dropped from 70% in 1986 to nearly 0% in 1993. Agaricia spp. (lettuce corals) responded opportunistically to the availability of free space in the form of A. cervicornis skeletal rubble. Agaricia, which had been a minor constituent of the sessile biota (10% cover in 1986), replaced A. cervicornis as the most common occupant of space on the reef (56% cover in 1995). The percent cover of other coral species and macroalgae remained low throughout the ten-year period. Similar changes were observed on other reefs over an area of at least 250 km<sup>2</sup>. The Acropora-to-Agaricia transition left a clear signature in the sedimentary record. Trenches dug into the reef at Channel Cay revealed the accretion of a layer of Agaricia rubble with a mean thickness of 22 cm in the decade after 1986. Due to the unconsolidated, uncompacted nature of the reef sediments, evidence of previous Acropora-to-Agaricia transitions should have been visible in the fossil record as vertical accumulations of A. cervicornis branches interrupted by layers of imbricated Agaricia rubble. Coring studies at Channel Cay revealed that no other Agaricia layers were deposited during at least the past 3800 years; the recent transition was unique on a time scale of millennia. This result supports the contention that excursions from the Acropora-dominated situation are unusual in the history of Channel Cay and nearby reefs. However, the dynamics of the transition do not support the community integration hypothesis for the Channel Cay reef, indicating instead that different coral taxa in this assemblage responded differently, or not at all, to a large-scale biotic disturbance. The community transition also underscores the potential for biological factors in general, and disease in particular, to alter the composition of ecological communities and their sedimentary remains.
4096919|Marshall (1995) used the distribution of the endpoints of 50% range extensions added to the stratigraphic ranges of individual taxa to bracket the position of an extinction boundary. Here we describe two improvements to Marshall's method. First, we show that more precise estimates of the position of such a boundary may be obtained using range extensions with confidence levels of less than 50% (e.g., 20%). Second, we introduce a new method of calculating confidence intervals that explicitly takes into account the position of the highest fossil find. Incorporating these improvements leads to confidence intervals for simulated data sets that are approximately four times more precise than those obtained by using Marshall's (1995) original method and approximately twice as precise as those using other published methods. We provide a look-up table that shows for different numbers of taxa the confidence level that should be used to maximize the precision of the estimated position of the extinction boundary, while ensuring that the boundary still lies within the stratigraphic interval bounded by at least one range extension. Unlike some other methods, our method is nonparametric and does not make the restrictive assumption of uniform preservation and recovery potential. We apply the method to Macellari's (1986) ammonite data from the late Cretaceous of Seymour Island, Antarctica.
25482674|The fossil record displays remarkable stasis in many species over long time periods, yet studies of extant populations often reveal rapid phenotypic evolution and genetic differentiation among populations. Recent advances in our understanding of the fossil record and in population genetics and evolutionary ecology point to the complex geographic structure of species being fundamental to resolution of how taxa can commonly exhibit both short-term evolutionary dynamics and long-term stasis.
2400978|Complex nasal turbinal bones are associated with reduction of respiratory water loss in desert mammals and have previously been described as an adaptation to xeric conditions. However, complex turbinates are found in virtually all mammals. Experimental data presented here indicate that turbinates also substantially reduce respiratory water loss in five species of small mammals from relatively mesic environments. The data support the conclusion that turbinates did not evolve primarily as an adaptation to particular environmental conditions, but in relation to high ventilation rates, typical of all mammals. Complex turbinates appear to be an ancient attribute of mammals and may have originated among the therapsid ancestors of mammals, in relation to elevated ventilation rates and the evolution of endothermy.
2401099|The macroevolutionary processes underlying large-scale biotic replacements are still poorly understood. Opinion remains divided regarding the roles of mass extinction, biotic interaction, and environmental perturbations in these replacement events. Previous attempts to test replacement hypotheses have largely focused on taxonomic diversity patterns. Taxonomic data alone, however, provide little insight about ecological interactions and hence other approaches are needed to understand mechanics of biotic replacements. Here I propose a conceptual model of replacement based on predation-mediated biotic interactions, and attempt a test using analysis of the Cenozoic replacement of the gastropod family Aporrhaidae by a closely related group, the Strombidae. Taxonomic, morphologic, and geographic data analyzed in this study all suggest a replacement of aporrhaids by strombids following the end-Cretaceous mass extinction. While most of the taxonomic replacement was associated with a mass extinction, some replacement also occurred during background times and was mediated by higher origination rates in strombids rather than by higher extinction rates in aporrhaids. Morphologically, the replacement was largely confined to the portion of the morphospace unaffected by the end-Cretaceous extinction. At a global scale, the geographic overlap between the two groups declined through the Cenozoic, reflecting increasing restriction of aporrhaids to colder, temperate waters while strombids flourished in the tropics. However, at a finer geographic scale a more mosaic pattern of replacement is evident and coincides with Eocene and Oligocene climatic fluctuations. The results of this study suggest that mass extinction, long-term biotic interaction, and environmental change can all play significant roles in biotic replacements. Since the relative importance of each factor would vary from one event to another, an understanding of the general nature of large-scale biotic replacements requires a knowledge of the relative intensities of each of these processes.
2400880|Analysis of molluscan collections from a 3+ m.y. interval around the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K-T) interval in east Texas suggests that molluscs suffered an extinction at or near the K-T boundary, followed by a prolonged period of stress which lasted through the P0 and P1a planktic foraminiferal zones. The stressed period was characterized by low species richness, low abundances of individuals, high species turnover and a dominance of deposit feeders. Species richness and the relative abundance of deposit feeders generally track the
4096969|We examine patterns of intra-otolith variation in 
4500138|Cheek teeth of some mammalian herbivores exhibit pronounced changes in occlusal size and shape through wear, purportedly caused by strong curvature. Such changes are extreme in the upper cheek teeth of extinct, dentally archaic lagomorphs. Morphologic and taxonomic turnover in lagomorphs suggests that these dentally archaic forms may have been unable to develop hypselodont (ever-growing) cheek teeth. This study investigates how the interaction of tooth shape and wear can cause occlusal size and shape changes, and potentially impose structural constraints on crown height. These constraints may help explain extinction of mammals with teeth like archaic lagomorphs, evolution and diversification of other mammalian herbivores during the late Miocene, and the relative paucity of hypsodont cheek tooth shapes in extant mammals. I first quantify two-dimensional curvature accounting for shape differences observed in hypsodont teeth, P4s of the archaic lagomorphs Russellagus and Hesperolagomys, which exhibit pronounced change with wear, and Ondatra lower incisors, which show minimal change with wear. Using this quantification, I generate theoretical curvature morphologies and describe a geometric model of tooth wear that generates values for qualitative and quantitative aspects of the occlusal surface at different wear stages. Modeled results of wear surface topography and dimensions closely correspond to observed patterns in Russellagus, Hesperolagomys, and Ondatra. Model results on wear in theoretical tooth morphologies identify two major shape factors influencing wear: orientation of the wear surface (incisor-like or cheek-tooth-like), and tooth curvature ("concentric" or "nonconcentric"). Modeled wear also suggests two geometric constraints on crown height. Teeth with nonconcentric curvatures can have crown height limited by potential tooth area. "Incomplete wear" in any tooth can present severe constraints on increasing crown height, causing structurally untenable morphologies in very tall-crowned to hypselodont teeth.
2400868|The Late Neogene vertebrate fossil record from Yushe Basin presents multiple, superposed assemblages from a single area, spanning roughly the interval of 6-2 Ma. Both large and small mammals show peak species richness in the middle Pliocene but indicate relative faunal stability throughout the Pliocene. Large mammals show turnover, especially extinction, around 5 and 2.5 Ma. Small mammals indicate change (over half of the species and several genera), as well as turnover at the species level, between 4 and 3.4 Ma. The loosely controlled dating of these events does not disprove hypothetical correlation with events in North America and with global climatic shifts. Elements that lack Yushe antecedents, some being long-distance dispersers, appear throughout the section, but with little effect on the resident assemblage. First records of well-documented immigrants (from North America, Europe, Africa, southern Asia, or high latitudes) generally do not coincide with ecomorph extinctions. Early Pliocene exchange between Asia and North America appears to have been balanced in both directions and involved a small proportion of the fauna. Immigration probably was opportunistic and contributed to faunal enrichment. We interpret the Yushe Pliocene mammalian assemblages as representing a fauna that was stable from ca. 5 to 2.5 Ma and changed mainly by additions and congeneric species substitutions.
41432160|Mesozoic tooth marks on bone surfaces directly link consumers to fossil assemblage formation. Striated tooth marks are believed to form by theropod denticle contact, and attempts have been made to identify theropod consumers by comparing these striations with denticle widths of contemporaneous taxa. The purpose of this study is to test whether ziphodont theropod consumer characteristics can be accurately identified from striated tooth marks on fossil surfaces. We had three major objectives (1) to experimentally produce striated tooth marks and explain how they form; (2) to determine whether body size characteristics are reflected in denticle widths; and (3) to determine whether denticle characters are accurately transcribed onto bone surfaces in the form of striated tooth marks. We conducted controlled feeding trials with the dental analogue Varanus komodoensis (the Komodo monitor). Goat (Capra hircus) carcasses were introduced to captive, isolated individuals. Striated tooth marks were then identified, and striation width, number, and degree of convergence were recorded for each. Denticle widths and tooth/body size characters were taken from photographs and published accounts of both theropod and V. komodoensis skeletal material, and regressions were compared among and between the two groups. Striated marks tend to be regularly striated with a variable degree of branching, and may co-occur with scores. Striation morphology directly reflects contact between the mesial carina and bone surfaces during the rostral reorientation when defleshing. Denticle width is influenced primarily by tooth size, and correlates well with body size, displaying negative allometry in both groups regardless of taxon or position. When compared, striation widths fall within or below the range of denticle widths extrapolated for similar-sized V. komodoensis individuals. Striation width is directly influenced by the orientation of the carina during feeding, and may underestimate but cannot overestimate denticle width. Although body size can theoretically be estimated solely by a striated tooth mark under ideal circumstances, many caveats should be considered. These include the influence of negative allometry across taxa and throughout ontogeny, the existence of theropods with extreme denticle widths, and the potential for striations to underestimate denticle widths. This method may be useful under specific circumstances, especially for establishing a lower limit body size for potential consumers.
2665993|The identification of randomness and nonrandomness is a perennial problem in evolutionary research. Stochastic thinking in evolutionary biology and paleobiology has solidified the use of a statistical notion of chance, but the idea of chance in evolutionary studies goes beyond statistics. A duality arises from the use of a statistical meaning on the one hand, and a more strictly evolutionary meaning on the other. The former implies a combination of indiscriminate sampling and unpredictability due to multiple causes; the latter codifies independence from adaptation and the directionality imposed by natural selection. Often these meanings are kept separate in evolutionary research, used in isolation according to the empirical situation or the goal of the investigator (recognition of pattern versus process). I argue that evolutionary studies in general and paleobiological studies in particular can benefit from the simultaneous application of statistical and evolutionary notions of chance. Following some background on the notion of chance and its use, I discuss a series of examples in which insight can be gained by explicit consideration of both meanings. Thus, typologies of extinction become clearer when phenomena like wanton extinction are made explicit; exaptive radiations are exposed as an alternative to adaptive radiations; the possible non-adaptive nature of deterministic chaos becomes sensible; the nonrandomness of community-assembly is put into question; parallel taxonomies of sorting rooted in different notions of nonrandomness are suggested as a means of facilitating understanding of relationships across the hierarchy; developmental constraints and self-organization are more easily distinguished from selective constraints; and a new term, "incidentals," is suggested to refer to both exaptations and nonaptations. Finally, I point to ways in which the dichotomy between chance and necessity can be approached in evolutionary theory, by showing that the dual nature of chance in evolution entails a distinction between functional and structural necessity, and that chance ultimately becomes a unifying concept for a number of criticisms to neo-Darwinism.
2401018|The fundamental goal of biochronology is ordering taxonomic first and last appearance events. The most useful biochronologic data are of the form "the first appearance event of one taxon predates the last appearance event of a second taxon" (FAE < LAE). FAE < LAE data sets are unusually reliable because they converge on a unique solution with greater sampling. The fact that the FAE of one taxon i < the LAE of another taxon j always can be inferred either if i is found lower than j in a stratigraphic section, or if i and j co-occur in at least one taxonomic list. Thus, FAE < LAE data accurately synthesize two disparate sources of information: routine biostratigraphic observations and taxonomic lists that may have no stratigraphic context. Appearance event ordination, the new method introduced here, is intended to summarize FAE < LAE data. The algorithm is founded on the following parsimony criterion: arrangements of FAEs and LAEs should always imply FAEi < LAEj when this is known, and otherwise imply LAEj < FAEi whenever possible. The technique differs from others related to correspondence analysis in its use of FAE < LAE data and explicit definition as a parsimony method. The algorithm is even more unique in that it uses different subsets of FAEi < LAEj statements at each iterative step, converging on separate sets of scores for the FAEs and LAEs. After arranging either the FAEs or the LAEs on the basis of their scores, the other set of scores can be discarded and the best arrangement of the remaining events can be inferred directly. An analysis of the Plio-Pleistocene mammalian record in the Lake Turkana region is used to illustrate the method. Biochronologic resolution on the order of 0.2-1.5 m.y. is achieved. The Turkana species lists by themselves demonstrate enough FAEi < LAEj relationships to resolve the basic biochronologic pattern, but stratigraphic information is still of great use.
23014899|Macrofossils from woodrat (Neotoma) middens serve as an important proxy for reconstructing past vegetation in arid and semiarid regions of North America. The presence/absence of plant macrofossils in middens can provide valuable information on temporal and spatial patterns of plant migration and range boundaries. The primary aim of this study was to determine how local plant abundance, distance of plant populations from midden sites, and species population density on the landscape affect the probability of occurrence of macrofossils in middens. The study was designed with the primary intent of determining the reliability of middens in detecting scattered populations of Pinus ponderosa. We analyzed macrofossil assemblages from 42 modern woodrat middens from West Carrizo Canyon in southeastern Colorado, near the current eastern range margin of Pinus ponderosa. We compared midden contents with composition of the surrounding vegetation, measuring distance from the midden to the nearest individual of selected plant species, and the percent cover of each species within 30 m of the midden. We used this information to model the probability of species presence in a midden across a range of population densities on the landscape. Macrofossils of Juniperus spp., Quercus gambelii, and Opuntia spp. were consistently found in middens regardless of their local abundance in vegetation, although populations occurred within 30 m of all middens. Pinus edulis and P. ponderosa occurred in nearly all middens within 2030 m of individual trees. P. ponderosa was rare in middens >2030 m away from individual trees. Results of a simple simulation model suggest that middens become absolutely reliable indicators of P. ponderosa presence on the landscape only when average tree density exceeds 50 stems ha1. Woodrats reliably collected macrofossils of Pinus edulis, P. ponderosa, Juniperus spp., Quercus gambelii, and Opuntia spp. when populations of these taxa occur within 2030 m of a midden site. Woodrats did not collect P. ponderosa when the nearest individuals were more than 30 m away. Low-density populations of these and other species may be difficult to detect in fossil woodrat-midden series owing to reduced probability that individuals grow within foraging distance of the middens. Data from this and similar studies can be used to construct and parameterize a forward model of macrofossil representation in woodrat middens.
41432802|Identifying biological traits that promote evolutionary success is fundamental for understanding biodiversity dynamics and for assessing the evolutionary response of organisms to global change. We tested the hypothesis that image-forming eyes have contributed to the diversification of taxa in the geological past. Using fossil occurrences in the Paleobiology Database, we analyzed the diversity and evolutionary rates of more than 17,000 Phanerozoic genera of marine invertebrates living on or above the shallow-water seafloor according to their visual capabilities. Analysis of the complete data set shows a peak in the proportional diversity of sighted genera early in the Phanerozoic, and their continuance at a relatively low and stable level after the Ordovician. As an explanation of this pattern we suggest that selection pressure to develop eyes rose in the Cambrian, and that behavioral constraints had a balancing effect thereafter. In contrast to the pooled data, a clade-level study of those subgroups that contain both sighted and blind genera revealed thatin trilobites, all epifaunal bivalves, pectinoid bivalves, gastropods, and chinodermssighted genera diversified more strongly than blind genera. This difference is controlled by significantly raised extinction rates of blind genera. These more finely resolved patterns support the hypothesis that good vision is a key trait that promoted preferential diversification.
2400961|The mean taxon duration, D, and the 50 percent point of the Lyellian curve, T
2400399|A three-phase kinetic model with time-specific perturbations is used to describe large-scale patterns in the diversification of Phanerozoic marine families. The basic model assumes that the Cambrian, Paleozoic, and Modern evolutionary faunas each diversified logistically as a consequence of early exponential growth and of later slowing of growth as the ecosystems became filled; it also assumes interaction among the evolutionary faunas such that expansion of the combined diversities of all three faunas above any single fauna's equilibrium caused that fauna's diversity to begin to decline. This basic model adequately describes the diversification of the evolutionary faunas through the Paleozoic Era as well as the asymmetrical rise and fall of background extinction rates through the entire Phanerozoic. Declines in diversity and changes in faunal dominance associated with mass extinctions can be accommodated in the model with short-term accelerations in extinction rates or declines in equilibria. Such accelerations, or perturbations, cause diversity to decline exponentially and then to rebound sigmoidally following release. The amount of decline is dependent on the magnitude and duration of the perturbation, the timing of the perturbation with respect to the diversification of the system, and the system's initial per-taxon rates of diversification and turnover. When applied to the three-phase model, such perturbations describe the changes in diversity and faunal dominance during and after major mass extinctions, the long-term rise in total diversity following the Late Permian and Norian mass extinctions, and the peculiar diversification and then decline of the remnants of the Paleozoic fauna during the Mesozoic and Cenozoic Eras. The good fit of this model to data on Phanerozoic familial diversity suggests that many of the large-scale patterns of diversification seen in the marine fossil record of animal families are simple consequences of nonlinear interrelationships among a small number of parameters that are intrinsic to the evolutionary faunas and are largely (but not completely) invariant through time.
40792291|Recent studies have provided detailed insight into life cycles of early amphibians. These ontogenies were diverse and their evolution involved numerous kinds of change, which can now be addressed by comparison of ontogenetic trajectories. The plesiomorphic trajectory included (1) an early period in which a larval, aquatic predator was established, (2) an intermediate period in which the axial skeleton was strengthened, and (3) a final period during which the jaw joint, braincase, and limbs were ossified, producing an adult capable of terrestrial locomotion if completed. Heterochrony, among other factors, enabled the fine-tuning of the ontogenetic formation of ecologically important features (feeding, respiration, locomotion). Most common was a simple truncation of the trajectory that produced aquatic taxa of various kinds, while changes in the ontogenetic sequence often had a deeper impact on morphology. The most fundamental changes were accompanied by multiple heterochronies, resulting in the condensation or unpacking (stretch-out) of developmental events: metamorphosis evolved by an ever closer packing, whereas a novel larval feeding mechanism was established by a pull-apart of numerous critical events.
2400772|In this paper we analyze the laws of growth that control planktic foraminiferal shell morphology. We assume that isometry is the key toward the understanding of their ontogeny. Hence, our null hypothesis is that these organisms construct isometric shells. To test this hypothesis, geometric models of their shells have been generated with a personal computer. It is demonstrated that early chambers in log-spirally coiled structures cannot follow a strict isometric arrangement. In the real world, the centers of juvenile chambers deviate from the logarithmic growth curve. Juvenile stages are generally more planispiral and contain more chambers per whorl than adult stages. These traits are shown to be essential in order to keep volumes of consecutive chambers in geometric progression. We are convinced that the neanic stage marks the constructional bridge from a juvenile set of growth parameters to an adult one. The adult stage can be strictly isometric, that is, the effective shape is constant and the increase in volume after a chamber addition is proportional to the preexisting volume of the shell. The shell volume is related to the biomass, the ratio of outer shell surface area to shell volume is related to the respiration rate and the ratio of the total shell surface area to shell volume is related to the total calcification effort. The influence of the parameters of the model on these relationships is investigated. Only the initial radius and the rate of radius increase affect the relationships between shell volume and surface area. The other shape parameters merely provide a fine tune-up of these relationships. Size itself plays a major role during foraminiferal development.
20445598|Major shifts in ecological dominance are one of the most conspicuous but poorly understood features of the fossil record. Here we examine one of the most prominent such shifts, the Ordovician shift from trilobite to brachiopod dominance of benthic ecosystems. Using an integrated database of high-resolution paleoecological samples and body size data, we show that while the average local richness and relative abundance of trilobites declined significantly through the Ordovician, the estimated standing biomass of trilobites, and by implication the amount of energy that they used, remained relatively invariant. This is attributable to an increase in the average body size of trilobite species in our data set, and especially to the widespread occurrence of the exceptionally large Middle-Late Ordovician trilobite genus Isotelus. Brachiopods increase in both mean body size and relative abundance throughout the Ordovician, so that estimates of brachiopod biomass and energetic use increase substantially between the Early and Late Ordovician. Although the data set includes a range of depositional environments, similar trends are observed in both shallow subtidal and deep subtidal settings. These results suggest that diversification of the Paleozoic Fauna did not come at the energetic expense of the Cambrian Fauna. The declining relative abundance of trilobites may reflect a combination of numerical dilution and the necessary energetic trade-offs between body size and abundance.
2401139|We analyze a new compilation of Neogene to Recent (22-0 Ma) Caribbean coral occurrences to determine how ecological and life history traits at the population level affect long-term evolutionary patterns. The compilation consists of occurrences of 175 species and 49 genera in one continuous (> 5 m.y.) sequence and 22 scattered sites across the Caribbean region. Previous study of evolutionary rates using these data has shown that both extinction and origination were accelerated between 4 and 1 Ma, resulting in large-scale faunal turnover. Categories for three morphological and two reproductive variables (colony size, colony shape, and corallite size; and sex, and mode of embryonic development; respectively) are assigned to each species in the compilation. Comparisons of the ecological variables with evolutionary rates using randomization procedures and modified analysis of variance show that only colony size was strongly related to rates of extinction and origination during either normal background times or times of accelerated extinction. Extinction rates were lower in species with large colonies, because species with small massive colonies tend to live in small, short-lived populations with highly fluctuating recruitment rates. During turnover, extinction rates increased disproportionately in species with small colonies. Orig-ination rates are found to be less related to ecological variables, although species with small massive colonies originated at higher rates prior to turnover. Accelerated turnover may have therefore involved an increase in local population extinction rates that caused increased rates of both species extinction and origination across the entire fauna. Since extinction rates accelerated disproportionately with respect to colony size, the overall result was a relative increase in species with large colonies. After severe disturbance, one might expect that populations of species with large colonies and high rates of fragmentation would be more likely to escape extinction, because of larger population sizes, longer generation times, and more constant rates of population increase. The modern Caribbean reef-coral fauna is therefore structured by large, long-lived colonies that are robust to regional environmental change. Many of the very taxa that allowed reef communities to escape collapse in the past are declining today in response to anthropogenic disturbances, suggesting that Caribbean reef communities may be less resilient in the future in response to ongoing environmental perturbations.
20445579|The Caune de l'Arago Cave (southern France) has yielded one of the best preserved and best documented sedimentary successions of the European Middle Pleistocene (Oxygen Isotopic Stages 14 to 12). Herbivorous ungulates (horse, reindeer, red deer, fallow deer, bison, musk ox, argali, and tahr) are well represented in the three major stratigraphic units CM1, CM2, and CM3. CM1 and CM3 correspond to cold and dry climate and CM2 represents temperate and humid environmental conditions. Dental microwear and mesowear analyses were performed for the ungulates from CM1-3 to test whether these methods of dental wear evaluation were suitable for detecting climate-driven changes in the dietary resources of the Arago ungulate community. We found that both dental mesowear and microwear indicate dietary traits and their relationship to climatic conditions as reflected by vegetation cover and community structure. In all units, even if some species seem to share habitats or resources, it appears that the overlap in their feeding ecology is very low. The CM1 and CM3 units, where pollen analysis indicates that the climate was cold and dry, show the lowest diversity in dietary traits. The CM2, where climate is known to be more temperate and humid, the spectrum of dietary traits is large-grazers, browsers, and mixed feeders are present.
25609428|A global database of middleupper Permian foraminiferal genera has been compiled from the literature for 75 Guadalupian and 62 Lopingian localities, grouped into 32 and 19 operational geographical units respectively. Cluster analysis reveals that five distinct Guadalupian provinces were reduced to four in the Lopingian, following the disappearance of the Eastern Panthalassa Province. Extinction magnitudes across the Guadalupian/Lopingian (G/L) boundary reveal that, in the remaining provinces, there is a strong regional variation to the losses at low paleolatitudes. The Central and Western Tethys Province experienced a markedly lower extinction magnitude, at both provincial and global levels, than the Eastern and Northern Tethys Province. Panthalassa experienced a high extinction magnitude of endemics, but a global extinction magnitude similar to that recorded in Central and Western Tethys. This regional bias is seen in both the fusulinacean and non-fusulinacean foraminifera, although fusulinaceans suffered much higher magnitudes of extinction. The regional selectivity also persisted during the subsequent Lopingian radiations, with the Central and Western Tethys Province recording the greatest magnitudes. Thus, of 35 new genera recorded globally from the Lopingian, 27 of these are recorded in Central and Western Tethys, compared to five and 12 genera respectively in Panthalassa and in Eastern and Northern Tethys. The Emeishan large igneous province erupted within the Eastern and Northern Tethys Province and may have been a factor in the high extinctionlow radiation regime of this region. Regression (and consequent shallow-marine habitat loss) also appears to have been a significant factor. A major, but brief, late Guadalupian regression is best seen in those areas that suffered the greatest extinction losses.
25482669|Although Darwin was not the first to conceive directional selection as a mechanism of phenotypic change, it is his ideas that were received, and that have shaped population biology to this day. A significant change in his theoretical orientation occurred in the mid-1850s. About then he abandoned environmental selection in favor of competitive selection, and adopted relative adaptation with all its consequences as an alternative. These ideas changed his thinking fundamentally and shaped his argument throughout the writing of his great book. It is still these ideas that predominate today. Here I examine Darwin's ideas in relation to his principle of divergence, sexual selection, and the nature and origin of species. Finally I suggest that had he not misunderstood the function of sexual communication he might well have understood the nature of species and provided a more penetrating resolution to Herschell's "mystery of mysteries," with which he opened his book.
2400424|Systematics, ostensibly the "old" paleontology, actually plays a central and crucial role in modern paleobiology. We argue that a revised ontology has recently clarified the nature of species and has expressly added monophyletic groups to the roster of spatiotemporally bounded entities-"individuals"-that are now seen as participants in the evolutionary process. Systematics is the study of species and monophyletic taxa, and fossils alone provide the data on the temporal boundedness of such taxa. Cladistics (phylogenetic systematics) is explicitly geared to the recognition of monophyletic taxa. We review aspects of the core problem of character analysis in systematics, particularly addressing the still contended issue of the seemingly competitive claims of three methodologies: out-group comparison, comparative ontogeny, and the "paleontological method." We find that these methods overlap in their basic assumptions to a significant extent, yet each retains a characteristic and distinctive flavor. They are not all "the same," not are they always "complementary"-and no one method is superior to the others in all circumstances. Far from being the Victorian symbol of a moribund science, systematics lies at the very heart of modern paleobiological research, providing the central data for paleobiology's truly unique contribution, both real and potential, to evolutionary biology in general.
2400592|Symbiotic relationships involving physical contact between worms and solitary rugosan polyps are recorded by the following structures in North American Late Ordovician corals: (1) Trypanites borings enclosed within septal swellings in two specimens, (2) vermiform grooves and openings along the external wall of one corallum, and (3) a chamber containing a unique brown tube within one individual. These features are indicative, respectively, of commensal boring polychaete annelids that penetrated through coralla, commensal epizoic worms of unknown taxonomic affinity that attached to the side of a polyp, and a tubicolous worm (possibly a polychaete) that was likely a parasitic endozoan. Symbionts comparable to the latter two types are also known from two specimens of Devonian solitary rugose corals. Indirect evidence suggests that symbioses between solitary rugosans and the worms that produced Trypanites borings as dwelling structures in the sides of coralla were relatively common. However, direct evidence that the hosts were alive has been found in only two corals. In both cases, worms bored through septa within the calices and came into contact with basal surfaces of the polyps, which secreted skeletal material that sealed off the intruders. The rarity of such structures suggests that the encounters were inadvertent. If boring worms favored upcurrent portions of objects in order to maximize feeding benefits and avoid sedimentation, their locations indicate that the concave sides of curved coralla faced toward prevailing currents when in life positions. "Opportunistic" worms are known to have attached to the sides of polyps only in rare instances when the hosts became temporarily exposed as a result of accidents or abnormalities. This indicates that coralla normally served to shield polyps from colonization by nonboring epizoans. Worms that apparently extended up through openings in basal surfaces of polyps likely obtained sustenance parasitically within the central cavities. They could have entered the hosts through their mouths, or via the calices when parts of the polyps detached from their coralla and contracted radially. The rarity of this type of relationship in solitary Rugosa suggests that the worms entered inadvertently. Symbioses involving physical contact between worms and polyps seem to have been rare throughout the history of solitary rugose corals. Both groups apparently tolerated such associations when they did occur, although the rugosans secreted structures in their coralla that served to isolate the symbionts. In doing so, they recorded the presence of worms not likely to be preserved as body fossils. The interpretation of such features provides information on the physiology and ethology of both organisms, on the history of symbiotic relationships, and on the diversity of soft-bodied organisms in ancient environments.
2400232|The longevity of genera living at the edge of the early Ordovician North American plate is related to their position on the former shelf, that is preserved in richly fossiliferous sections of Spitsbergen. Genera which endure for a long period (50 Myr or more) tend to be confined to shallow-water sites associated with algal mounds at the edge of the carbonate platform (illaenid-cheirurid community type) or deep-water sites with low oxygen concentration, and probably beneath the thermocline (olenid community type). The latter includes "conservative" forms that have survived from the Cambrian. The long ranges of the olenid community type are attributed to the adaptation of only a few genera to a highly specific, stressed environment. The endurance of the illaenid-cheirurid genera is due to the persistence of the tropical shelf-edge habitat, with high predictability of resources, to which the Ordovician forms became adapted early on. The nileid community type, which occurred between the platform edge and olenid-bearing environment, was the site of rapid generic turnover and may have been the source for subsequent recruitment into other environments. The inner shelf also had rapid generic replacement, dominated by a single family, the Bathyuridae. Rapidity of evolution in this site may be due to the spatial heterogeneity of the epeiric environment, as in the Devonian phacopids studied by Eldredge (1974).
2400372|Lysorophus, a serpentiform, nearly limbless, aquatic Paleozoic amphibian was described in detail by Sollas in 1920. Although Sollas did not discuss cranial kinesis, his original reconstructions suggest that Lysorophus had an unusually kinetic skull for an amphibian. We have reexamined the skull of Lysorophus and find that kinesis, if present, was slight. The maxillae, premaxillae, and vomers might have moved in limited protraction and retraction, with the premaxillae rotating about their contacts with the nasals. There is a possibility of small medio-lateral movements of the lacrimal and maxilla as a unit at the lacrimal-prefrontal joint. The skull of Lysorophus shows many features convergent with the skulls of burrowing reptiles, such as amphisbaenians. Modifications in the skull of Lysorophus from a more primitive tetrapod condition seem associated with burrowng in a soft substratum rather than with kinesis per se.
2400933|The miniaturization of shells, often observed in Mesozoic brachiopods, is analyzed in two species of the well-known genus Homoeorhynchia. We investigated shell development in the context of recent works that consider growth as a function of size, shape, and age. The miniaturization results from heterochronic disturbances during development. Although these shells exhibit a large morphological plasticity, architectural constraints limit their morphogenesis, so that small adult specimens are not exactly reduced replicas of large ones. Adult morphology depends largely on the pattern of rib formation, with miniaturization arising by two different processes affecting this pattern: predisplacement of the appearance of ribs in H. meridionalis and acceleration in H. cynocephala. The first case seems to be a reversible process without evolutionary consequences, but the second occurs within an evolutionary trend. In both cases, the miniaturization seems to be related to environmental influences. Study of the growth pathway of these species allows recognition of basic characters in the morphological variation of populations.
2400865|Evolutionary progress is a trend that relaxes trade-off rules. It begins with the evolution of a key adaptation. It continues with the spread of the key adaptation as the clade that contains it replaces some older clade that lacks it. Key adaptations are those that allow for improvement in at least one organismal function at a reduced fitness cost in other functions. Replacement almost certainly involves more than pure chance. It may not often involve competitive extinction. Instead, species from the new clade produce new species to replace already extinct species from the old clade. The key adaptation gives them a higher competitive speciation rate than old-clade sources of replacement. The process, termed incumbent replacement, proceeds at a rate limited by extinction rate. Thus, replacement often seems linked to mass extinction events. The incumbent-replacement hypothesis explains what we know about the replacement of straight-neck turtles (Amphichelydia) by those that can flex their necks and protect their heads in their shells. This replacement occurred four or five times in different biotic provinces. It happened as long ago as the Cretaceous in Eurasia, and as recently as the Pleistocene in mainland Australia. It was accomplished in Gondwanaland by turtles flexing their necks sideways (Pleurodira), and in the north by those flexing their necks into an S-curve (Cryptodira). As is typical of replacements, amphichelydian replacement took millions of years to accomplish wherever it occurred, and much of it in North America took place in a burst associated with and immediately subsequent to a mass extinction.
2401166|The evolution of higher taxa among early Paleozoic gastropods is similar to that among early metazoans as a whole, as higher taxa diversified rapidly and early. There are two issues pertinent to this pattern. First, were greater morphologic changes concentrated in the early phases of evolution? Second, does the pattern better fit models of increasing phylogenetic constraints or increasing ecologic restrictions? This paper presents a phylogeny-based method designed to test whether amounts of morphologic evolution decreased over time. It also explores whether the data better fits models of increasing phylogenetic (i.e., developmental or genetic) constraint or increasing ecologic restriction. Two metrics of morphologic separation (i.e., the morphologic difference between sister-species) are used: (1) Euclidean distance in morphospace and (2) transition magnitude. The latter metric is calculated by a multivariate analysis of sister-species contrasts, which determines both types and magnitudes of morphologic transitions. The advantage of using transition magnitudes is that it balances the effects of transitions that either affect more morphometric characters or occur more frequently. Both metrics indicate that larger morphologic separations between sister-species were concentrated early in gastropod evolution. Among gastropods, gross shell morphology often reflects basic trophic strategy and function whereas basic internal anatomy does not. Transition magnitudes can be broken down into transitions associated with differences in basic trophic strategies and shell functional biology ("external"), and those associated with differences in basic internal anatomy ("internal"). Internal transition magnitudes show a highly significant decrease over time (<latex>$p < 10^{-04}$</latex>) whereas external transition magnitudes show a much less significant decrease over time (p < 0.10) and no significant decrease after the earliest Ordovician (p ~ 0.50). The results therefore suggest that increasing phylogenetic constraints played a greater role in the early evolution of gastropods than did increasing ecologic ones.
4096931| Previous studies of overall arthropod disparity have compared Cambrian and Recent biotas, without considering taxa of intermediate age. This study explored morphological diversity among Carboniferous arthropods, primarily from the well-known Westphalian Mazon Creek Lagersttte. Over 100 arthropod species, belonging to 48 orders, were examined. The data set is composed of nearly equal numbers of crustacean, arachnid, and insect species, with lower numbers of merostomes. Trilobites have not been found at Mazon Creek. However, some Late Carboniferous trilobite species were included in order to obtain a more representative picture of global Carboniferous arthropod disparity. The absence, presence, or state of 66 shared characters was recorded for each species, as well as individual autapomorphies. Overall disparity was determined from the Euclidean distance analysis between taxa or variance along principal coordinates analyses (PCO) axes. Results indicate that arthropod disparity has not been greatly reduced throughout the Phanerozoic as was previously suggested. However, the regions of occupied morphospace have rotated over time. 
4096959|This study examines the morphology and function of hindlimb plumage in Archaeopteryx lithographica. Feathers cover the legs of the Berlin specimen, extending from the cranial surface of the tibia and the caudal margins of both tibia and femur. These feathers exhibit features of flight feathers rather than contour feathers, including vane asymmetry, curved shafts, and a self-stabilizing overlap pattern. Many of these features facilitate lift generation in the wings and tail of birds, suggesting that the hindlimbs acted as airfoils. A new reconstruction of Archaeopteryx is presented, in which the hindlimbs form approximately 12% of total airfoil area. Depending upon their orientation, the hindlimbs could have reduced stall speed by up to 6% and turning radius by up to 12%. Presence of the "four-winged" planform in both Archaeopteryx and basal Dromaeosauridae indicates that their common ancestor used fore- and hindlimbs to generate lift. This finding suggests that arboreal parachuting and gliding preceded the evolution of avian flight.
2400701|Physical models of six species of the Mesozoic bivalve genera Gryphaea, Exogyra, and Ilymatogyra and hollow hemispheres of comparable size were manufactured, the former from molds of fossil specimens. The survival (maintenance of a position within 1 cm of the sediment-water interface) of populations of these models on 3 sediment types in the lower intertidal of the Gulf of Mexico was monitored over an 18 mo period. Bulk sediment density had no detectable influence on the mean mass density (g cm
2400511|The evolution of body size in fossil horses is frequently depicted as a gradual, progressive trend toward increased body size (Cope's Law). Body size (actually body mass) was estimated for 40 species of fossil horses using dental and skeletal characters and regression equations derived from the same characters in extant species of Equus with known body mass. After body sizes were estimated, rates of morphological evolution, in darwins (d), were calculated between known ancestral and descendant fossil horse species. For the first half of horse evolution (from ca. 57 to 25 ma) body mass remained relatively static between about 25 and 50 kg with very slow evolutionary rates of 0.003-0.04 d. During the early-middle Miocene (from ca. 25 to 10 ma) there was a major diversification of body mass to about 75-400 kg and consistently higher evolutionary rates between 0.04 and 0.24 d. Since the late Miocene, body mass has generally increased with a maximum seen (in natural populations) in Equus scotti (ca. 500 kg) during the middle Pleistocene. Therefore, for horses, the traditional interpretation of gradual increase in body size through time is oversimplified because: (1) although the exception to the rule, 5 of 24 species lineages studied are characterized by dwarfism; and (2) the general trend seems to have been a long period (32 ma) of relative stasis followed by 25 ma of diversification and progressive (although not necessarily gradual) change in body size.
20445612|Taxon discovery underlies many studies in evolutionary biology, including biodiversity and conservation biology. Synonymy has been recognized as an issue, and as many as 30-60% of named species later turn out to be invalid as a result of synonymy or other errors in taxonomic practice. This error level cannot be ignored, because users of taxon lists do not know whether their data sets are clean or riddled with erroneous taxa. A year-by-year study of a large clade, Dinosauria, comprising over 1000 taxa, reveals how systematists have worked. The group has been subject to heavy review and revision over the decades, and the error rate is about 40% at generic level and 50% at species level. The naming of new species and genera of dinosaurs is proportional to the number of people at work in the field. But the number of valid new dinosaurian taxa depends mainly on the discovery of new territory, particularly new sedimentary basins, as well as the number of paleontologists. Error rates are highest (&gt;50%) for dinosaurs from Europe; less well studied continents show lower totals of taxa, exponential discovery curves, and lower synonymy rates. The most prolific author of new dinosaur names was Othniel Marsh, who named 80 species, closely followed by Friedrich von Huene (71) and Edward Cope (64), but the "success rate" (proportion of dinosaurs named that are still regarded as valid) was low (0.14-0.29) for these earlier authors, and it appears to improve through time, partly a reflection of reduction in revision time, but mainly because modern workers base their new taxa on more complete specimens. If only 50% of species are valid, evolutionary biologists and conservationists must exercise care in their use of unrevised taxon lists.
2665990|The Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary event exerted a deep influence on the life of the benthic invertebrates in the Danish Basin. The density and taxonomic diversity of most groups fell abruptly and the lowermost Danian strata are almost barren of invertebrates. The echinoderms, and among them in particular crinoids of the family Bourgueticrinidae, are the only group that deviates form this general pattern and show an increase in the strata immediately above the boundary. This exceptional development is accompanied by a heterochronic change in which the largest element of the bourgueticrinid theca, the proximale, is lost by paedomorphosis (neoteny). In the Late Cretaceous bourgueticrinids the proximale is formed during early ontogeny by the incorporation of a columnal element into the theca, and the addition of new columnals stops once the proximale is formed. The paedomorphic change and the elimination of the proximale allow, in principle, columnals to be added throughout life. This new development is probably the result of a selection for longer stems. It is successful from the very beginning and Democrinus maximus, the earliest bourgueticrinid species in the Danish Basin without a proximale, makes up about 90% of the crinoid fauna in the lowermost Danian deposits.
2666075|Hypotheses about constraints, selection, and other evolutionary processes often predict different rates of change among different characters. For example, it is thought that gross soft anatomical characters change less frequently than do general shell characters. However, some shell characters on primitive gastropods, such as the sinus and selenizone, are thought to be linked to soft anatomy. If both premises are true, then selenizone/sinus characters should change less frequently than other characters. Workers also have documented active trends among gastropod shell characters. One explanation is a driven trend, where the rate of change in one direction (i.e., gain or loss, increase or decrease) is greater than the rate of change in the opposite direction. Hypotheses about relative rates and biased change are tested here for lophospiroid gastropods. Likelihood analyses test whether hypotheses positing many different rates predict data significantly better than do hypotheses positing few rates. One tree-based approach assumes that a phylogeny is known and thus treats a tree as a model. A second tree-based approach treats phylogeny as an additional hypothesis. This multiparameter approach allows competing rate hypotheses to "assume" a phylogeny that maximizes their likelihoods. Likelihood tests reject hypotheses of low rate heterogeneity among lophospiroid characters. The most likely hypothesis (which treats phylogeny as an unknown) posits seven rates, with biased changes among three characters (preferential reduction of both sinus depth and sinus width and preferential addition of ornament). The distribution of rates among different character classes is consistent with the prediction that characters associated with internal anatomy should show generally lower rates of change than those associated with gross shell morphology. Evaluating significance when contrasting hypotheses posit different phylogenies is problematic, but the difference in support (log-likelihood) is overwhelming. Even if a model phylogeny is used, we still reject all hypotheses using fewer than six rates and not invoking trends in sinus characters. Thus, it is difficult to avoid rejecting the hypothesis that shell characters are uniformly plastic.
2400526|Two speciation events occurred in the Eocene lineage beginning with Echinocythereis isabenana Oertli (Aragon, Spain). After a long period of stasis in ornament and shape/size, this species underwent a relatively rapid decrease in size, accompanied by ornamental changes. The transition required about 30,000 yr. The new species E. aragonensis Oertli is significantly smaller (20% decrease in size). The lateral papillation is denser and less regular, the papillae being significantly smaller than in the ancestral form. This ornament gradually yields to increasing frequencies of individuals with reduced papillae superimposed on a progressively better developed network of filaments. This change, which is regionally valid, is ultimately replaced by fully expressed reticulations, on which minute pustules may occur; this development typifies the third species, E. posterior Oertli. Some ornamental characteristics of E. aragonensis are anticipated in rare individuals of E. isabenana. Ornamental features of E. posterior appear in late larvae of E. isabenana. Generally, E. aragonensis and E. posterior do not differ significantly in size. A trend toward smaller carapaces in the upper samples of E. posterior could be related to ecophenotypic effects. All species are highly polymorphic for both shape and ornament; the morphs are not sharply bounded and are mostly of uncertain evolutionary status. The transition from isabenana to aragonensis is heralded by a sharp rise in the coefficient of variation for length measures of the carapace. There is a pronounced multivariate morphometric discontinuity between isabenana and the descendant forms, which are largely multivariately homogeneous. The isabenana-aragonensis transition could have occurred by selection or by random genetic drift. Both models can be accommodated by the data; however, the weight of evidence favors the former hypothesis. Evolution in the Echinocythereis lineage seems to have occurred by two different mechanisms. The first transition was rather rapid, with many disjunct features. The second was slow, the changes being more of degree than of kind.
2400632|The hypothesis that there is a characteristic rate of exponential radiation for the Insecta is tested for forty-nine of the most diverse family-level taxa in the Coleoptera, Diptera, and Hymenoptera. Data used are estimates of Recent species diversity and age of first appearance in the fossil record, as in the original statement of the hypothesis by Stanley (1979). There is no evidence of a characteristic radiation rate for the insects. A more exact method is proposed for identifying clades that are radiating exponentially When applied to Stanley's data for the mammalian family Bovidae, it indicates that the Bovidae are not radiating exponentially at a characteristic rate. Future research might emphasize the reliable identification of clades that are radiating exponentially, prior to drawing conclusions about rates that might characterize higher taxa.
3595520|Iterative evolutionary changes are of special interest because they imply that the recurring morphological changes had a cause that also repeated itself and might therefore be possible to uncover. We describe a set of iterative morphological changes in melanopsid gastropods from the ancient, long-lived Lake Pannon. First in the Pannonian Age, and again in the Pontian Age approximately three million years later, a smooth-shelled ancestor gave rise to a shouldered descendant. In both cases, the morphological change was probably coincident with a shift from habitats just outside the lake (e.g., rivers and streams) to habitats within the lake itself. Many other convergent examples exist in which a smooth-shelled river dweller is closely related to a shouldered and/or ribbed lacustrine snail. The frequency of this type of morphological change suggests that it has an adaptive basis; response to differing predators or hydrodynamic conditions seem the most plausible explanations, but the functional nature of these morphological changes remains unknown.
2401180|Estimates of phylogenetic relationships among fossil taxa implicitly provide hypotheses about the quality of the fossil record. Phylogenetic inferences also provide hypotheses about character evolution. The likelihood of any hypothesis that makes predictions about two data sets is simply the likelihood of the hypothesis given the first data set times the likelihood of the same hypothesis given the second data set. In this case, data set 1 represents stratigraphy and data set 2 represents morphology. Statistical methods exist for determining the likelihood of hypothesized levels of sampling. The likelihood of a hypothesized amount of character change yielding a particular most-parsimonious solution (i.e., L[hypothesized length| parsimony length] can be evaluated with simulations. A reanalysis of hyaenid phylogeny based on published character and stratigraphic data is presented here, using the maximum likelihood method. Two trees are found, depending on assumptions about ambiguous species, which are 11 and 10 steps longer than the most parsimonious tree (61 or 60 vs. 50 steps). However, the trees invoke far less stratigraphic debt (9 or 12 units vs. 47 units as measured in Mammal Zones). An important feature of the results is that the most likely tree length given hyaenid character data is estimated to be 56 to 62 steps (depending on the model of character evolution) rather than 50 steps. The likelihood tree suggests stronger trends toward bone-crushing specializations than does the parsimony tree and further suggests that high levels of homoplasy caused parsimony to underestimate the true extent of those trends. Simulations based on the character data and fossil record of hyaenids suggest that the maximum likelihood method is better able to estimate correct trees than is parsimony and somewhat better able to do so than previously proposed phylogenetic methods incorporating stratigraphy.
4096943|Fossil vertebrate distributions are typically based on body fossils, which are often poorly sampled at the margins of their true temporal and spatial ranges. Because vertebrate ichnofossils can be preserved in great abundance and in different environments than vertebrate body fossils, inclusion of ichnofossil data may improve sampled ranges. However, if ichnofossils are to serve as an independent source of distributional data, then their attribution to a body fossil group (i.e., trackmaker identification) cannot rely on temporal and spatial coincidence. Ichnofossils identified by synapomorphies can act as an independent source of distributional data that can modify spatial, temporal, and character distributions, which in turn may influence hypotheses of locomotor evolution. In this paper I evaluate the spatial, temporal, and character distributions of early sauropod dinosaurs by using a combined ichnofossil and body fossil data set. Sauropod ichnofossils supplement the spatiotemporal distributions of early sauropods and provide important information on early sauropod foot posture that is rarely preserved or can only be inferred from body fossils. The presence of derived features in early-appearing ichnofossils challenges previous hypotheses of character transformation, implying either parallelism, reversal, or ghost lineages. Stratocladistics can be used to resolve conflicting character and temporal distributions from body fossils and ichnofossils. Stratocladistic analysis of a combined ichnofossil and body fossil data set suggests a richer, more widely distributed diversity of early sauropods than currently recognized in body fossils and suggests that several locomotor characters originated much earlier than implied by body fossils.
4096946|Previous studies have shown that secular variation in the Mg/Ca ratio of seawater throughout the Phanerozoic would have subjected the aragonite-producing codiacean algae to at least three transitions between the low-Mg calcite (molar Mg/Ca <2) and aragonite + high-Mg calcite (molar Mg/Ca >2) nucleation fields in the oceans, since their origin in the Ordovician. These studies have asserted that major sediment production by codiacean algae in Recent tropical seas is permitted by the Mg/Ca ratio of modern seawater (molar Mg/Ca ~5.2) remaining within the aragonitic/high-Mg calcite nucleation field (molar Mg/Ca >2). Here I present the results of experiments conducted to determine the effects of ambient Mg/Ca on the mineralogy, growth rate, primary productivity, calcification rate, and biomechanics of the codiacean alga Penicillus capitatus. P. capitatus specimens were grown in three artificial seawater treatments that mimic ancient seawater of differing Mg/Ca ratios, corresponding to the low-Mg calcite nucleation field (molar Mg/Ca ~1.0), a "boundary field" (molar Mg/Ca ~2.5), and the aragonite + high-Mg calcite nucleation field (molar Mg/Ca ~5.2). Significantly, P. capitatus specimens maintained a mostly aragonitic mineralogy in all three seawater treatments. However, linear growth rates, primary productivity, calcification, and thallus stiffness decreased with reductions in ambient Mg/Ca. That P. capitatus precipitates approximately three-quarters of its CaCO
2400156|The most common methods of estimating the relative abundance of species in a fossil assemblage are all maximum likelihood estimates. They differ from one another in their inherent assumptions made about the effects of fragmentation and differential preservation in the assemblage. For many fossil assemblages, relative abundance is best estimated by the relative frequency of specimens or relative frequency of elements. Monte Carlo simulations suggest, however, that in most other circumstances estimates based on frequency of elements divided by the number of elements in a complete individual provide greater accuracy than estimates based on minimum number of individuals. This relation results from an interaction between random sampling error and a variety of biases inherent in the two estimates.
3595512|Exceptional examples of planispiral ammonites that were infested by epizoans during life display alterations of their normal coiling. Most commonly, the epizoan(s) settled on the venter of the ammonite and constituted an obstacle for the whorl tube grown one whorl later; this caused lateral deviation of the whorl tube and tilting of the ammonoid because of changes in the hydrostatic condition; from here on, the whorl tube periodically crossed the venter of the preceding whorl, thereby producing a zigzag coiling pattern. Some epizoans, which were particularly centered on the midventer, provoked detachment between whorls. In a few cases, lateral placement of the epizoan did not directly obstruct the normal growth path of the ammonite but induced a trochospiral coiling pattern. Both the zigzag and the trochospiral pattern were created when the ammonite tried to maintain the growth direction within the vertical plane at the same time as whorls remained in contact along a differentiated dorsal epithelium. The aperture reacted to changes in growth direction, to maintain also a permanent angle with the vertical direction. Growth direction, then, was a major morphogenetic parameter in ammonites, because it contained the necessary instructions for correct shell coiling. The model based on the observation of fabricational defects has been tested by a theoretical model by which the different situations so far observed are simulated and in which the parameters are the morphogenetic instructions inferred to have been present in the biological system.
2401183|A hierarchical birth-death process is often used as a model for the diversification of species and higher taxa. We evaluate the validity of this null hypothesis by introducing a new measure: the distribution of species within higher taxa. The proportion of monotypic taxa and the number of species in the largest taxon generated by 1000 simulations are compared with extant mammalian data. The initial model is amended to include two sampling patterns, polyphyletic origins as well as ecological and genetic constraints on higher taxon origination rates. Simulated results are extremely variable. For genera, they are found to predict the true distribution of species quite well. For families, however, the null hypothesis is rejected in all its forms. Simulated distributions have both too many monotypic taxa and too large a dominant taxon. The latter finding stands in contrast to previous claims. Interestingly, although polyphyly and constraints slightly improve the fit of the simulations to the data, sampling does not. Finally, Smith and Patterson's dismissal of monotypic taxa is reviewed in light of this model. We argue that while some apparently monotypic taxa are sampling artifacts, this observation has no bearing on the true proportion of monotypic taxa.
2400155|Modern biological principles and mathematical techniques applied to fossil data may contribute to a rigorous theoretical framework for the analysis of macroevolutionary trends. Such crossfertilization may also serve to correct interpretative biases common in paleontological literature.
2400940|The species richness of extant metazoan phyla displays a strong association with the ontogenetic timing of germ-line determination. Taxa with early ontogenetic determination of the germ-line are characterized by low species number relative to taxa with late or variable determination. A test for a similar association in fossil taxa is compromised by the fact that all phyla displaying early determination of the germ-line are small, soft-bodied groups which lack a reliable fossil record. To the extent that this correlation reflects causality, patterns of evolutionary diversification have been decidedly non-random. The fact that ontogenetic timing of germ-line determination defines the extent to which genetic variation arising during the course of ontogeny may be inherited suggests a possible causal foundation for the pattern.
2400500|Faunal stasis among Indo-Pacific reef-building corals is explained as the result of chronic environmental disruptions preventing evolutionary processes from approaching completion since the Late Pliocene. The model assumes shallow reefal habitats (<20 m) on the continental shelves are major sites of scleractinian evolution and explores ecological and evolutionary consequences of high-frequency sea-level fluctuations and their associated transgression-regression cycles. Because single generations, dominated by a few large clonal genotypes, may persist indefinitely, local populations may not have experienced enough generations to approach evolutionary equilibrium with their environments during the estimated average duration (3200 yr) of existence of shallow habitats. Persistent consequences of chronic evolutionary disturbance may be the extensive intraspecific variation so characteristic of the dominant genera of shallow Indo-Pacific corals and the apparent paucity of recently evolved endemic species. The same disturbances may have accelerated speciation rates among reefal organisms with much shorter generation times.
2400262|We present a quantitative method for describing how heterochronic changes in ontogeny relate to phyletic trends. This is a step towards creating a unified view of developmental biology and evolutionary ecology in the study of morphological evolution. Using this representation, we obtain a greatly simplified and logical scheme of classification. We believe that this scheme will be particularly useful in studying the data of paleontology and comparative morphology and in the analysis of processes leading to adaptive radiation. We illustrate this scheme by examples drawn from the literature and our own work.
2401053|We used radiocarbon ages on dead Holocene shells of the venerid bivalve Chione spp. to investigate how time-averaging and taphonomy in shallow marine benthic assemblages vary with sedimentary and tectonic setting. We compared shells collected from the sediment surface in five depositional environments from two regions of the Gulf of California, Mexico: Bahia Concepcion, a young faulted rift basin with high rates of terrigenous and carbonate sedimentation; and Bahia la Choya, an intertidal system along a sediment-starved shelf. Frequency distributions of shell ages in all environments form a hollow curve, with a mode at young ages and a long tail toward older ages. This pattern suggests that shells are added to the taphonomically active zone (TAZ) at roughly constant rates (via continuous shell deaths), and removed from the TAZ at random, either through destruction or by achieving final burial. Shell half-lives (the amount of time to remove half the shells from the TAZ) provide a comparative measure of time-averaging. Time-averaging varies with sedimentary and tectonic setting. The lowest amounts of time-averaging (shell half-lives of 90 to 165 years) occur in Bahia Concepcion, where rapid rates of terrigenous sedimentation (on fan-deltas) and carbonate sedimentation (in pocket bays) bury shells rapidly. Time-averaging is higher in the sediment-starved environments of Bahia la Choya (shell half-lives of 285 to 550 years). The highest amounts of time-averaging occur the inner tidal flats of Bahia la Choya (shell half-life of 550 years). Here the conjunction of low sedimentation rates with low rates of shell destruction (due to periodic tidal emergence) permits shells to persist in the TAZ for very long time spans. There is no systematic relationship between a shell's age and its taphonomic condition (taphonomic grade) in any environment, probably because of the complex and random nature of burial-exhumation in the TAZ. Age variance tends to increase with increasing taphonomic alteration: highly altered shells range in age from young to several thousand years old, while less altered shells are mostly young. The correspondence between time-averaging and the taphonomic condition of entire shell assemblages is also weak, but might be resolved with further study. These results provide quantitative data on time-averaging in benthic assemblages as a function of sedimentary and tectonic setting, and suggest some guidelines for facies appropriate for particular studies. Shallow marine rift basins like Bahia Concepcion can potentially contain within-horizon fossil assemblages representing time spans of only a few hundred years-time resolution often beyond reach in paleontology. In contrast, sediment-starved shelf habitats like Bahia la Choya are unlikely to yield assemblages with time resolution finer than several thousands of years.
2401157|Computer-generated searches through hypothetical fitness landscapes for progressively more fit variants were used to assess the effects of developmental barriers (mimicked by barring specific types of morphological transformations) and abruptly shifting environmental conditions (mimicked by sudden shifts in how fitness was defined) on the number and accessibility of optimal phenotypes. Relative fitness was defined in terms of maximizing light interception, mechanical stability, or reproductive success, or minimizing surface area, or optimizing the performance of various combinations of these tasks. Developmentally obstructed and unobstructed walks located, on average, equivalent numbers of phenotypic optima. The number of optima identified by both kinds of walks increased in proportion to the number of simultaneously performed tasks used to measure fitness. Walks passing from more complex to less complex fitness landscapes located more optima than walks passing through unchanging, stable landscapes. The model thus suggests that there are no a priori reasons to assume that (1) the morphological options available to adaptive evolution become more restrictive as biological complexity increases, (2) "developmental barriers" necessarily restrain a lineage from evolving well-adapted morphologies, and (3) generalist organisms are less successful than specialists. Also, because the number and accessibility of fitness peaks were proportional to the complexity of fitness landscapes, the model predicts that the probability of cladogenesis will increase as landscape complexity increases, while anagenesis will be encouraged when fitness is defined in terms of performing one or a few tasks simultaneously.
4500170|Occurrence data from the Paleobiology Database are used to analyze the waxing and waning of genera over time. Irrespective of whether we tabulate species richness, frequency of occurrence, geographic range, or other measures, the average rise and fall of genera is remarkably symmetrical. Genera tend already to be in a state of decline when they become extinct. Genera that last appear in the major mass extinction stages, however, are more frequently truncated while they are holding steady or even increasing. This need not imply that mass extinctions are qualitatively different from other events; it is consistent with the expected effects of simply increasing the magnitude of extinction. For reasons that are not completely clear, post-Paleozoic genera show less of a rise and fall on average and tend to be less symmetrical than do Paleozoic genera.
20445621|Recent research has corroborated the long-held view that the diversity of genera within benthic marine communities has increased from the Paleozoic to the Cenozoic as much as three-to fourfold, after mitigating for such biasing influences as secular variation in time-averaging and environmental coverage. However, these efforts have not accounted for the considerable increase in the availability of unlithified fossiliferous sediments in strata of late Mesozoic and Cenozoic age. Analyses presented here on the Cenozoic fossil record of New Zealand demonstrate that unlithified sediments not only increase the amount of fossil material and hence the observed diversity therein, but they also preserve a pool of taxa that is compositionally distinct from lithified sediments. The implication is that a large component of the difference in estimates of within-community diversity between Paleozoic and Cenozoic assemblages may relate to the increased availability of unlithified sediments in the Cenozoic.
2401040|In this study I take advantage of an unusual system of fossil lakes in eastern North America to estimate the time for speciation of endemic semionotid fishes. Twenty-one species are all found in sedimentary cycle P4, the deposits of a single Early Jurassic lake, in the Towaco Formation of the Newark Basin in New Jersey. To determine the degree of endemism in the fauna from this fossil lake and estimate time for speciation, I surveyed more than 2000 museum specimens from 45 named localities in the Newark Basin and related basins of the Late Triassic to Early Jurassic Newark Supergroup. Six species not found in deposits equal in age to P4 or older are considered to be endemics, eight species occurring in older deposits presumably colonized Lake P4, and evidence for whether the remaining seven species were endemics or colonists is equivocal. The time for the formation, decline, and evaporation of Lake P4, in which P4 sediments were deposited, has been estimated at 21,000-24,000 years. Because all endemic Semionotus first occur in the first third of lake history, the estimated time for speciation of endemics is six species in 5000-8000 years. This rate is remarkably similar to that estimated for the five cichlids in Lake Nabugabo that diverged from Lake Victoria cichlids in about 4000 years.
2666074|A phylogeny of 54 Recent and fossil species of Soritacea (Foraminifera) was used to test the hypothesis that endosymbiosis has driven the evolution of the clade. Endosymbiosis with photosynthetic eukaryotes is the plesiomorphic condition for the entire clade Soritacea. Living species dwell in tropical-subtropical, shallow-water habitats and are characterized by the possession of rhodophyte, chlorophyte, or dinophyte photosymbionts. Two distinct changes in endosymbiont type are recognized when endosymbiont type is mapped in the cladogram of Soritacea: (1) a change from rhodophyte to chlorophyte endosymbionts occurred in the stem lineage of the least inclusive clade containing New clade B, Orbiculinida, and Soritida; and (2) a change from chlorophyte to dinophyte endosymbionts occurred in the stem lineage of the least inclusive clade containing New clade G, New clade H, New clade I, Sorites, Amphisorus, and Orbitolites. When habitat and ontogeny are optimized on the cladogram of Soritida, the acquisition of dinophyte endosymbionts appears as a key innovation that facilitated a switch in habitat from free-living to attached living on non-phytal and phytal substrata. A subsequent change in the attached habitat from nonphytal to predominantly phytal (seagrasses and macroalgae) substrata is accompanied by a peramorphic trend in the megalospheric tests. The diversification (adaptive radiation) of the crown Soritida subclade resulted from the interplay between the acquisition of a key innovation (dinophyte endosymbionts) and the subsequent change in the ecology of the group (radiation to phytal substrates).
25609417|A combination of historical, functional, and biomechanical constraints has shaped the masticatory apparatus of fossil and extant xenarthrans. Among the more notable features are the teeth: hypselodont; commonly reduced in size, complexity, and number; separated by short diastema; and composed of osteodentine. Enamel is absent, as are the cuspal patterns of other mammals. A comprehensive revision of teeth and other features of the masticatory apparatus of xenarthrans reveals that previous generalizations underestimate the morphological diversity and adaptive possibilities developed within the clade. The great diversity of forms suggests several such possibilities ranging from specialized myrmecophagous species to carrion feeders or predators among animalivores; selective browsers to bulk grazers among herbivores; and omnivores. In some cases xenarthrans represent less extreme versions of patterns developed in other major clades of mammals (marsupials, afrotheres, euarchontoglires, and laurasiatheres) clearly predetermined by a tribosphenic dental morphology, whereas in others they represent unique novelties indicative of particular biological roles. The combination of tooth features that characterize xenarthrans might be seen as the key innovation for the ecologic diversity developed at least since the Oligocene, breaking the mold of the tribosphenic condition that constrained the evolution of the other major clades of mammals.
2401065|Pterobranchs are the closest living relatives of graptolites. Their skeleton is constructed from the same material, and in a homologous manner. Growth rates of the pterobranch Cephalodiscus gracilis are described for the first time and, along with rhabdopleuran growth rates, they are used to estimate the amount of time invested by a graptolite colony in growing its rhabdosome. This is a measure of minimum age. The significance of age calculations is shown for individuals and large communities of graptoloids. Large individuals can be shown to be much older than the time it would have taken them to settle through seawater and so it is shown that graptoloids moved up, as well as down, through the water column. Life tables constructed for biserial graptoloids from the Utica shale in Quebec, Canada, suggest that these graptoloids died from constant environmental stress. Graptoloid length can thus be a function of environment and should only cautiously be considered to be of taxonomic significance.
41432810|We studied the morphological diversity of gastropod shell forms from the viewpoint of theoretical morphology, emphasizing the relationships of shell form to postural stability and the available space for soft body, which we assessed in terms of the moment of force and soft-tissue ratio calculations, respectively. The results of computer simulations suggest a functional trade-off between postural stability and available space for soft body: a compact shell possessing a low spire and small umbilicus exhibits high postural stability, whereas a less overlapped shell form with a high spire and large umbilicus makes available space for soft body. A functional morphospace analysis using theoretical models reveals that outward and downward inclination of the aperture moderates the functional trade-off between these parameter values and permits compatibility between stable posture and efficient shell construction. The hypothetical optimum that realizes this compatibility is consistent with the observed range of forms estimated from 359 extant gastropod species. The biomtrie results also suggest that land snails are more highly constrained than marine species in achieving a balance between postural stability and available space for soft body.
2400596|The extinction of a species represents reduction of both geographic range and population size to zero. Most workers have focused on geographic range as a variable strongly affecting the vulnerability of established species to extinction, but Lyellian percentages for Neogene bivalve faunas of California and Japan suggest that population size is a more important variable along continental shelves. The data employed to reach this conclusion are Lyellian percentages for latest Pliocene (2 ma old) bivalve faunas of California and Japan (N = 245 species). These regions did not suffer heavy extinction during the recent Ice Age, and for each region the Lyellian percentage is 70%-71%. Discrepancies in population size appear to explain the following differences in survivorship to the Recent (Lyellian percentage) for three pairs of subgroups: (1) burrowing nonsiphonate species (42%) versus burrowing siphonate species (84%), which suffer less heavy predation; (2) burrowing nonsiphonate species of small size (73%) versus burrowing nonsiphonate species of large body size (96%); (3) Pectinacea (30%) versus other epifauna (71%), which suffer less heavy predation. During the Mesozoic Era, when predation was less effective in benthic settings, mean species duration for the Pectinacea was much greater (20 ma). Along the west coast of North and Central America, mean geographic range is greater for siphonate species of large body size than for siphonate species of small body size and greater still for pectinacean species. These ranges are inversely related to mean species longevity for the three groups, which indicates that geographic range is not of first-order importance in influencing species longevity. Species with nonplanktotrophic development neither exhibit narrow geographic ranges along the west coast of North and Central America nor have experienced high rates of extinction in California and Japan. Rates of extinction are so high for Neogene pectinaceans and nonsiphonate burrowers that without enjoying high rates of speciation these groups could not exist at the diversities they have maintained during the Neogene Period. They are apparently speciating rapidly because of the fission effect: the relatively frequent generation of new species from populations that are fragmented by heavy predation. Thus, ironically, there may be a tendency for high rates of speciation to be approximately offset by high rates of extinction. Only if mean population size for species in a particular group becomes extremely small is it likely to result in a high rate of extinction and a low rate of speciation-and hence a dramatic decline of the group. The fission effect may contribute to the general correlation in the animal world between rate of speciation and rate of extinction.
2400774|A series of experiments was carried out to investigate the nature and controls (oxygen, microbial populations, agitation) on the degradation of soft tissues. Decay was monitored in terms of morphological change, weight loss, and change in chemical composition in the polychaete Nereis virens. Polychaetes include a range of tissue types of differing chemical composition and preservation potential: muscle, cuticle, setae, and jaws. Regardless of conditions, all the muscle had broken down and fluid loss through the ruptured cuticle had reduced the carcass to two dimensions within 8 days at 20
23014714|Taxonomic diversity and morphological disparity are different measures of biodiversity that together can describe large-scale evolutionary patterns. Diversity measures are often corrected by extending lineages back in time or adding additional taxa necessitated by a phylogeny, but disparity analyses focus on observed taxa only. This is problematic because some morphologies required by phylogeny are not included, some of which may help fill poorly sampled time bins. Moreover the taxic nature of disparity analyses makes it difficult to compare disparity measures with phylogenetically corrected diversity or morphological evolutionary rate curves. We present a general method for using phylogeny to correct measures of disparity, by including reconstructed ancestors in the disparity analysis. We apply this method to discrete character data sets focusing on Triassic archosaurs, Cenozoic carnivoramorph mammals, and CretaceousCenozoic euarchontogliran mammals. Phylogenetic corrections do not simply mirror the taxic disparity patterns, but affect the three analyses in heterogeneous ways. Adding reconstructed ancestors can inflate morphospace, and the amount and direction of expansion differs depending on the taxonomic group in question. In some cases phylogenetic corrections give a temporal disparity curve indistinguishable from the taxic trend, but in other cases disparity is elevated in earlier time intervals relative to later bins, due to the extension of unsampled morphologies further back in time. The phylogenetic disparity curve for archosaurs differs little from the taxic curve, supporting a previously documented pattern of decoupled disparity and rates of morphological change in dinosaurs and their early contemporaries. Although phylogenetic corrections should not be used blindly, they are helpful when studying clades with major unsampled gaps in their fossil records.
2400602|Formulae are developed for the fraction of the population that must be eliminated by selection in each generation in order to account for a given rate of evolution in a metrical trait. A combination of directional and stabilizing selection is assumed. The effects of competition based on phenotypic value are also considered. The formulae are applied to data on evolutionary rates and their variances. It is concluded that most selective elimination is due to stabilizing selection, and that even very rapid evolutionary change in a single character usually involves low levels of additional elimination. It is suggested that long-sustained evolutionary trends are unlikely to be caused either by gradual change of the optimum under stabilizing selection or by the effects of competitive selection in favor of extreme individuals. It is possible that genetic correlations between traits under selection may limit the response of a single trait to directional selection and hence produce very gradual change.
4096920| Tracking the geometry of all 597 ammonoid genera from the Lower Devonian into the Lower Triassic, a 145-Myr period that spans three mass extinctions, shows that Paleozoic ammonoid shell geometries were strongly biased for a few combinations of whorl expansion (W), whorl overlap (D), and whorl shape (S). Just three modal combinations accommodated approximately 432 genera (72% of total) and just one combination accommodated 239 genera (40%). All three primary modal forms have similar low expansion rates (W  1.75) and differ only in coiling tightness (D). These geometries resulted in long body chambers (400) with Nautilus-like static in-life aperture orientations (30) for the great majority (>80%) of Paleozoic ammonoids. The ancestral clade Agoniatitida included a unique spectrum of openly coiled geometries that went extinct at the Frasnian/Famennian boundary (and were not seen again until the Triassic). The Devonian/Mississippian extinction terminated the brief, explosive radiation of the Clymeniida (64 genera). The dominant Paleozoic clade, the Goniatitida (ca. 130 Myr, 374 genera [64% of total]), survived both the F/F and D/M extinctions, but began declining well before the Permian/Triassic crisis. The long-lived Prolecanitida (40 genera [7%]) appeared shortly after the D/M extinction, persisted as a low-diversity clade through the Carboniferous, and gave rise to the Ceratitida in the mid-Permian, from which were derived all Mesozoic ammonoids. After each major extinction event the phylogenetic composition of ammonoid stocks was fundamentally reordered and geometries were recanalized. Without external disturbances, as the relatively uninterrupted Mississippian through Permian record shows, the history of ammonoid shell geometry would probably have been a record of much greater constancy, perhaps tied much more closely to the Lower Devonian geometric landscape. 
1558095|Using museum and literature data, we characterize faunal turnover in bivalves and brachiopods of the North American Midcontinent over approximately 12.5 Myr spanning the Pennsylvanian/Permian boundary. The two groups experienced indistinguishable rates of background faunal turnover but differed in the type and timing of elevated turnover episodes. Bivalves underwent an episode of elevated first appearance in the Missourian Series whereas brachiopods underwent an episode of elevated disappearance in the Wolfcampian Series. In neither group does turnover history strongly correlate to long-term changes in basinal lithofacies, which reflect evolution of regional climate. Comparison with other time intervals and basins suggests that magnitude and frequency of turnover episodes during the late Paleozoic was intermediate between the more episodic early Paleozoic and less episodic Mesozoic.
2400770|A comparison is made between compilations of times of origination and extinction of fossil marine animal families published in 1982 and 1992. As a result of ten years of library research, half of the information in the compendia has changed: families have been added and deleted, low-resolution stratigraphic data have been improved, and intervals of origination and extinction have been altered. Despite these changes, apparent macroevolutionary patterns for the entire marine fauna have remained constant. Diversity curves compiled from the two data bases are very similar, with a goodness-of-fit of 99%; the principal difference is that the 1992 curve averages 13% higher than the older curve. Both numbers and percentages of origination and extinction also match well, with fits ranging from 83% to 95%. All major events of radiation and extinction are identical. Therefore, errors in large paleontological data bases and arbitrariness of included taxa are not necessarily impediments to the analysis of pattern in the fossil record, so long as the data are sufficiently numerous.
25482678|Mass extinctions are important to macroevolution not only because they involve a sharp increase in extinction intensity over "background" levels, but also because they bring a change in extinction selectivity, and these quantitative and qualitative shifts set the stage for evolutionary recoveries. The set of extinction intensities for all stratigraphic stages appears to fall into a single right-skewed distribution, but this apparent continuity may derive from failure to factor out the well-known secular trend in background extinction: high early Paleozoic rates fill in the gap between later background extinction and the major mass extinctions. In any case, the failure of many organism-, species-, and clade-level traits to predict survivorship during mass extinctions is a more important challenge to the extrapolationist premise that all macroevolutionary processes are simply smooth extensions of microevolution. Although a variety of factors have been found to correlate with taxon survivorship for particular extinction events, the most pervasive effect involves geographic range at the clade level, an emergent property independent of the range sizes of constituent species. Such differential extinction would impose "nonconstructive selectivity," in which survivorship is unrelated to many organismic traits but is not strictly random. It also implies that correlations among taxon attributes may obscure causation, and even the focal level of selection, in the survival of a trait or clade, for example when widespread taxa within a major group tend to have particular body sizes, trophic habits, or metabolic rates. Survivorship patterns will also be sensitive to the inexact correlations of taxonomic, morphological, and functional diversity, to phylogenetically nonrandom extinction, and to the topology of evolutionary trees. Evolutionary recoveries may be as important as the extinction events themselves in shaping the long-term trajectories of individual clades and permitting once-marginal groups to diversify, but we know little about sorting processes during recovery intervals. However, both empirical extrapolationism (where outcomes can be predicted from observation of pre- or post-extinction patterns) and theoretical extrapolationism (where mechanisms reside exclusively at the level of organisms within populations) evidently fail during mass extinctions and their evolutionary aftermath. This does not mean that conventional natural selection was inoperative during mass extinctions, but that many features that promoted survivorship during background times were superseded as predictive factors by higher-level attributes. Many intriguing issues remain, including the generality of survivorship rules across extinction events; the potential for gradational changes in selectivity patterns with extinction intensity or the volatility of target clades; the heritability of clade-level traits; the macroevolutionary consequences of the inexact correlations between taxonomic, morphological, and functional diversity; the factors governing the dynamics and outcome of recoveries; and the spatial fabric of extinctions and recoveries. The detection of general survivorship rules-including the disappearance of many patterns evident during background times-demonstrates that studies of mass extinctions and recovery can contribute substantially to evolutionary theory.
2400489|Morphometric examination of cladogenesis and phyletic evolution in two late Neogene sister lineages of marine microfossils (Pterocanium prismatium and P. charybdeum, Radiolaria) from two equatorial Pacific sediment cores was undertaken to better understand the rate of cladogenesis and its relation to subsequent phyletic change. The origin of P. prismatium from P. charybdeum 4 ma ago has been estimated to take place over an interval of 500,000 yr. Results show that the speciation event consists of two distinct phases. The first phase, cladogenesis, occurred relatively rapidly (on the order of 50,000 yr). A second phase of relatively rapid divergent phyletic evolution away from the common ancestral state followed in both descendant branches and continued for at least 500,000 yr after completion of the cladogenetic event. Net evolutionary rates over the next 2 ma appear to be much lower. Individual characters change by as much as 2 population standard deviations during cladogenesis, and by a total of approximately 3 standard deviations over 2.5 ma of phyletic evolution. Up to 5 population standard deviations of change during 50,000 yr of cladogenesis, and 7 additional standard deviations of phyletic change over 500,000 yr are observed in multivariate (discriminant function) indices of morphologic difference. The measured pattern does not appear to be either strictly "punctuated" or strictly "gradual," but instead shows features of both hypotheses.
2400876|Morphological and taxonomic diversity each provide insight into the expansion and contraction of major biological groups, while the nature of the relationship between these two aspects of diversity also has important implications for evolutionary mechanisms. In this paper, I compare morphological and taxonomic diversity within the classes Blastoidea and Trilobita, and within the trilobite clades Libristoma, Asaphina, Proetida, Phacopida, and Scutelluina. Blastoid morphology is quantified with homologous landmarks on the theca, and trilobite form is measured with a Fourier description of the cranidium. Morphological diversity is measured as the total variance among forms in morphological space (proportional to the mean squared distance among forms). Blastoid taxonomic diversity is based on published compilation of stratigraphic ranges of genera. The Zoological Record was used to determine the number of new species of trilobites described since the publication of the Treatise; temporal patterns in species richness are similar to those for generic richness based on the Treatise, suggesting a common underlying signal. Morphological variety and taxonomic richness often increase together during the initial diversification of a clade. This pattern is consistent with diffusion through morphospace, although some form of adaptive radiation cannot be ruled out. Morphological diversity varies little throughout much of the history of Proetida, a pattern that may suggest major constraints on the magnitude and direction of evolution, and that agrees with the perception of Proetida as a morphologically conservative group. Two major patterns are seen during the decline of clades. In Blastoidea, Trilobita, Libristoma, and Asaphina, morphological diversity is maintained at substantial levels, and in fact continues to increase, even in the face of striking reductions in taxonomic richness. This pattern suggests continued diffusion through morphospace and taxonomic attrition that is effectively non-selective with respect to morphology. In Phacopida, Scutelluina, and to some extent in Proetida, morphological diversity decreases along with taxonomic diversity. This pattern suggests heterogeneities such as elevated extinction and/or reduced origination in certain regions of morphospace. As found previously for the echinoderm subphylum Blastozoa, all studied clades of trilobites except Proetida show maximal morphological diversity in the Mid-Late Ordovician and maximal taxonomic diversity sometime during the Ordovician, suggesting some degree of common control on diversification patterns in these groups.
2400459|The commonly observed fact that the principal biologic groups appear early in an adaptive radiation is shown to be an artifact of the geometry of the evolutionary tree. For marine invertebrates of the Phanerozoic, total diversity and species turnover rates combine to make early origins of major groups inevitable. This is demonstrated through an analysis of the theoretical probability distribution of divergence time (time to most recent common ancestor) in comparison with observed distributions. Whereas the fact of early origins does not require ecological explanations, the interpretation of the morphologic distinctness of major groups when they first appear remains an ecological problem.
4096999|Evaluating the relative importance of biotic versus abiotic factors in governing macro-evolutionary patterns is a central question of paleobiology. Here, we analyzed patterns of changes in global relative abundances and diversity of ecological groups to infer the role of biological interactions as driving evolutionary forces in mid-Mesozoic macrobenthic marine ecosystems. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis of escalation, which states that macroevolutionary patterns were controlled by an increasing pressure exerted by enemies on their victims. Associated with evidence of increasing levels of predation and biogenic sediment reworking (bulldozing) is an increasing representation of predation- and disturbance-resistant groups in the fossil record. In particular, we observe increasing proportions of mobile organisms; a decline of vulnerable epifauna living freely on the substrate; and a trend toward infaunalization of the benthos. These trends were most pronounced in the paleotropics, i.e., the region where biological activity is thought to have been highest. The observation that these changes affected several biotic traits and occurred within independent clades argues against the overriding role of a single key adaptive innovation in causing shifts in ecological abundance. Also, changes in the abiotic environment cannot explain these faunal patterns because of lacking cross-correlations with physico-chemical parameters such as global sea level, climate, and seawater chemistry. We conclude that in marine benthic ecosystems of the mid Mesozoic, enemy-driven evolution, or escalation, was a plausible and important factor.
2400828|A phylogeny of Cretaceous Montastraea-like corals was constructed and used to evaluate the importance of differential speciation, selective extinction, and developmental constraints in the evolutionary history of the clade. Colonies assembled from localities across the central and western Tethyan region were subdivided into four stratigraphic levels: (1) Neocomian to lower Albian, (2) upper Albian to Cenomanian, (3) Turonian to Campanian, and (4) Maastrichtian. Ten corallite characters were measured on transverse thin sections of each colony, and analyzed following a three-step procedure: (1) species were recognized using all-inclusive average linkage cluster analyses (UPGMA) and a series of iterative canonical discriminant analyses; (2) species were separated by stratigraphic level and linked between levels by comparative analysis of the resulting discriminant scores; and (3) ancestor-descendant relationships were interpreted within and among adjacent levels using phenetic and cladistic approaches. A composite tree was then examined with respect to biogeography. The results suggest that a total of 16 species existed during the Cretaceous, only 2 of which extended between stratigraphic levels. Speciation events between levels 1 and 2 were associated with the radiation of "small-corallite" forms from a "large-corallite" form, as its distribution expanded southward into the Tethyan realm. Limited speciation and stasis predominated among species within the clade between levels 2 and 3. Speciation events between levels 3 and 4 were associated with the radiation of predominantly "large-corallite" forms from a "small-corallite" form, as the clade became restricted to the Caribbean. Extinction initially focussed on "small-corallite" forms, but later shifted to "large-corallite" forms. Morphologic change was constrained between two extremes, the lower limit of which involved a minimum corallite diameter possibly set by developmental or ecological constraints, and the upper by limitations to increases in number of septa. The overall net result was that of nonprogressive evolution within the clade.
2400742|In this paper we model the process of taxonomic evolution as a Galton-Watson branching process in discrete time and, using maximum likelihood, develop methods to estimate the probabilities of origination, persistence, and extinction of fossil taxa. We use the methods to estimate the probabilities of origination, persistence, and extinction of families (1) within 135 orders of marine invertebrate organisms, (2) within 12 phyla, and (3) within all marine invertebrate life (independently of the suprafamilial classification). Most orders, including the arcoid bivalves, the dentaloid scaphopods, the orders of chitins, and many others, have relatively low probabilities of familial origination and extinction. The various ammonoid and trilobite orders, and some others, have high probabilities of origination and extinction. Among the phyla, the Archaeocyatha have the highest probabilities of familial origination and extinction, and the Annelida the lowest, with the more typical phyla of shelly organisms clustering near the high end of the probability scale. The Porifera and Protozoa also have low probabilities but not as low as the Annelida. The estimated origination and extinction probabilities for families within all marine invertebrate life are 0.470 and 0.452 per stage, respectively, values that are at the high end of the probability scale. We have also estimated the probabilities of ultimate extinction (extinction of all families) of the supertaxa. By analyzing the changes of the diversity during each stratigraphic stage separately, we have also determined the trajectories of the estimated origination and extinction probabilities for families within all marine invertebrate life. The estimated origination probability is relatively high in association with the expansion of the Cambrian and Paleozoic evolutionary faunas and declines to more normal levels for the remainder of the Phanerozoic. The trajectory of the estimated extinction probability is from nearly zero early in the Phanerozoic to more normal levels later, showing clearly defined peaks in association with the five Phanerozoic mass-extinction events. The terminal Cretaceous mass extinction is the only one of the five that was not preceded by a monotonic decline of origination probability or by a series of stages with low origination probability. It appears to have been a unique, singular event. Because the mathematical theory we employ as a model corresponds so closely to the processes of taxonomic evolution as we understand them, we believe that the theory provides a reasonable model of biological reality.
25609416|Studies of ecological structure and diversity over time in extinct groups have always been challenged by the inability to observe the behavior of fossil taxa directly. The only available evidence for function, behavior, and interactions between taxa is the morphological characteristics of the preserved fossils. Recent studies on modern groups have shown that morphological analyses may give misleading results in terms of ecological pattern and diversity. An alternative approach is to focus on functionally relevant aspects of morphology through a paleobiomechanical paradigm. The purpose of this research is to examine variation in the lower jaw morphology in Late Devonian arthrodire placoderms and develop biomechanical metrics that can be used to quantify functional diversity among this fossil group. Nine functionally relevant morphological characters were collected for 94 isolated arthrodire inferognathals from the Gogo Formation in Western Australia and the Cleveland Shale in Ohio. These data were used to address aspects of functional morphology, biomechanical disparity, and ecological structure in arthrodire placoderms from the Late Devonian. Results were compared with results from previous morphometric work on the same set of jaws. Statistical tests show a significant difference in functional characters between the two faunas. The differences may be related to phylogenetic differences between faunas, as the two major clades of arthrodire taxa included in this study are almost completely segregated between faunas. Average pairwise disparity analyses of the mechanical characters indicate that there is no significant difference in overall functional diversity between the Cleveland Shale and Gogo Reef arthrodire faunas. This result is at odds with previous results that show overall morphological disparity to be much higher in the Cleveland Shale. Clustering patterns within a multivariate function-space show tightly constrained functional groups of taxa independent of phylogenetic or shape-based morphological similarity. These functional groups illustrate a level of ecological diversity in Late Devonian arthrodires that is comparable to that in certain modern faunas. Further statistical analysis of the morphological and functional disparity of these Late Devonian taxa shows a disjoint between the two measures. Model I regression analysis of and Spearman rank-correlation analysis of average pairwise morphological and functional disparity measures indicate no significant relationship between morphological and functional disparity among the jaws used in this study. Although function is obviously derived from morphology, these results show that morphological shape analysis is not necessarily a good proxy for eco-functional diversity.
2666031|Many Tertiary species of Crassostrea appear to have inhabited shallow-marine environments where they produced extremely large and thick shells. In contrast, living Crassostrea species are restricted primarily by marine predation to brackish, hypersaline, and intertidal environments where they produce comparatively smaller and thinner shells. If Crassostrea populations have used estuarine environments as a refuge from predation since the Cretaceous, then their presence in fully marine environments after the Cretaceous is puzzling. In order to interpret differences in environment and shell size, I examined the paleoecology and sclerochronology of two marine and two estuarine populations. Results are consistent with the hypothesis that thicker shells in Tertiary Crassostrea titan deterred increased exposure to fully marine predation. Life spans and growth rates estimated from annually formed growth increments show that C. titan grew significantly faster in shell thickness, as well as lived two to three times longer, than Quaternary Crassostrea virginica. Similar or lower valve-height growth rates in C. titan, as well as thinner shell walls in the attachment area, are consistent with exposure to marine predation, but not with alternative factors, such as higher salinity or alkalinity. Thicker valves in C. titan resulted from the successive addition of chalky deposit layers, in contrast to C. virginica valves, which contain significantly less of this unusual shell structure. A high incidence of incomplete drill holes in juvenile C. titan shells demonstrates that their thick valves were successful in deterring muricid predation. The association of C. titan with other large suspension feeders (barnacles and pectenids), as well as with phosphatic-pellet sediments, suggests that elevated planktic productivity may have supported this reefal community and enabled C. titan to grow thicker shells. The occurrence of both shallow-marine and estuarine Crassostrea since the Cretaceous raises the possibility that estuaries have served as refugia from which populations have dispersed into fully marine environments multiple times through the Cenozoic.
2400527|Delayed maturation and growth to large sizes are only advantageous under stable environmental conditions where food resources are limited. Specialization to algal symbiosis is also highly advantageous under those conditions if sunlight is available. The coevolution of these two characteristics has occurred many times in many foraminiferal lineages. These traits are sometimes associated with increased embryon size and suppression of sexual reproduction, which are also characteristics most advantageous under stable environmental conditions. Specialization for these traits, ensuring success in warm, shallow, stable, oligotrophic environments, often dooms the species or lineage to extinction when conditions change.
2666061|Temporal asymmetries in clade histories have often been studied in lower Paleozoic radiations. Post-Paleozoic patterns, however, are less well understood. In this paper, disparity and diversity changes in Mesozoic heart urchins were analyzed at the ordinal level, with contrasts among the sister groups Holasteroida and Spatangoida, their paraphyletic stem group Disasteroida, and the more inclusive clade, the superorder Atelostomata. A 38-dimensional landmark-based morphospace representing test architecture was used to describe morphological evolution in terms of total variance and total range. Discordances between disparity and diversity were evident and were expressed both as deceleration in morphological diversification in all groups and as disproportionately higher disparity early in the histories of the Atelostomata, Holasteroida, and Spatangoida. The finding that the early atelostomate disparity peak coincides with the origin of the orders Holasteroida and Spatangoida lends support to the perception of orders as semi-independent entities in the biological hierarchy and as meaningful proxies for morphological distinctness. A comparison of holasteroid and spatangoid responses to the end-Cretaceous mass extinction revealed morphological selectivity. Paleocene spatangoid survivors showed no change in disparity relative to the Campanian-Maastrichtian sample, suggesting nonselectivity. Holasteroids suffered a pronounced loss in disparity (despite a rather high Late Cretaceous level of disparity), indicating morphological selectivity of extinction. Partitioning of disparity into plastral and nonplastral components, reflecting different degrees of developmental entrenchment and functionality, suggests that the origin of holasteroids and spatangoids is more consistent with an exploration of the developmental flexibility of nonplastral constructions than with uniform ecospace occupation. Within groups, several patterns were also most consistent with intrinsic controls. For plastral landmarks, there is an apparent increase in developmental modularity and decrease in developmental constraint from disasteroids to holasteroids and spatangoids. For nonplastral landmarks, no substantial change in disparity was observed from disasteroids to holasteroids and spatangoids, suggesting the maintenance of a developmental constraint despite the passage of time and ecological differentiation. More generally, this study suggests that certain topologies of disparity and evolutionary mechanisms potentially characteristic of the lower Paleozoic radiations of higher taxa (e.g., developmental flexibility) need not be confined to any given time period or hierarchical level.
2400568|Substrata for numerous epizoans in the Silurian Waldron Shale were provided by the toppled and overturned calyces of camerate crinoids. These were inhabited by a skeletonized fauna consisting of at least 25 species; including several bryozoans, tabulates, inarticulate brachiopods, worms, and echinoderms. Many of the encrusting bryozoans exhibit skeletal overgrowths which appear to reflect competitive interactions for space. Coexistence of certain of the bryozoans involved in such interactions is suggested by skeletal features such as inflated growth forms and upturned margins at junctions between colonies (both representing attempts to avoid being overgrown). In addition, the occurrence of overgrowth reversals within individual encounters indicates contemporaneity of that pair. Species may be ranked according to their relative overgrowth success; however, this ranking is far from rigid as lower ranked species may on occasion overgrow more highly ranked species. Such nontransitive patterns appear similar to those described from Recent cryptic bryozoan faunas.
4096948|Relative abundance data are of primary importance in paleoecology, but it is not always obvious how they should be interpreted. Because relative abundance is expressed as a proportion of the total sample, change in the abundance of one group necessarily changes the relative abundance of all groups in the sample. There are two possible interpretations for a trend in the relative abundance of a taxon: an "active" scenario in which the trend reflects change in the population density of the group itself, or a "passive" scenario in which the change is driven by population changes in other taxa. To discriminate between these scenarios it is necessary to collect absolute abundance data (abundance expressed as a function of sample area or volume). We examine both absolute and relative abundance trends through a major paleoecological transition: the shift from trilobite-dominated to brachiopod-dominated paleocommunities in shallow marine carbonates spanning the Lower/Middle Ordovician boundary in western Utah and eastern Nevada. We sampled 61 carbonate mudstone and wackestone beds from the upper Ibex Series (Lower Ordovician) and lower Whiterock Series (Middle Ordovician) at three sections that span the boundary. All samples come from the shallow subtidal Bathyurid trilobite biofacies. Samples were broken into small pieces, and all skeletal fragments <2 mm were identified to the finest possible taxonomic level. Consistent with previous work on this interval, the relative abundance of trilobites declines sharply across the boundary, while the relative abundance of brachiopods increases. Absolute abundance data indicate that the decline in trilobite abundance is genuine and not an artifact of normalization. The trend is not easily explained by sampling bias, facies distribution, taphonomic regime, or sedimentation style. The dramatic shift in abundance contrasts with relatively minor changes in relative genus richness across the boundary. This is partly ascribable to differences in the relative abundance structure of trilobite faunas. Though comparable numbers of trilobite and brachiopod genera occur above and below the boundary, the trilobite fauna from the upper Ibex Series has lower evenness then the lower Whiterock Series fauna. Hence sampled trilobite richness is high in the lower Whiterock despite the small number of specimens. This highlights the importance of collecting abundance data. Although these data suggest that in at least some cases richness and abundance patterns are not closely coupled, more robust richness data are necessary to confirm this conclusion.
3595499|Theropod dinosaurs were, and mammalian carnivores are, the top predators within their respective communities. Beyond that, they seem distinct, differing markedly in body form and ancestry. Nevertheless, some of the same processes that shape mammalian predators and their communities likely were important to dinosaurian predators as well. To explore this, we compared the predatory adaptations of theropod dinosaurs and mammalian carnivores, focusing primarily on aspects of their feeding morphology (skulls, jaws, and teeth). We also examined suites of sympatric species (i.e., ecological guilds) of predatory theropods and mammals, emphasizing species richness and the distribution of body sizes within guilds. The morphological comparisons indicate reduced trophic diversity among theropods relative to carnivorans, as most or all theropods with teeth appear to have been hypercarnivorous. There are no clear analogs of felids, canids, and hyaenids among theropods. Interestingly, theropods parallel canids more so than felids in cranial proportions, and all theropods appear to have had weaker jaws than carnivorans. Given the apparent trophic similarity of theropods and their large body sizes, it was surprising to find that species richness of theropod guilds was as great as or exceeded that observed among mammalian carnivore guilds. Separation by body size appears to be slightly greater among sympatric theropods than carnivorans, but the magnitude of size difference between species is not constant in either group. We suggest that, as in modern carnivoran guilds, smaller theropod species might have adapted to the threats posed by much larger species (e.g., tyrannosaurs) by hunting in groups, feeding rapidly, and avoiding encounters whenever possible. This would have favored improved hunting skills and associated adaptations such as agility, speed, intelligence, and increased sensory awareness.
2401052|Morphological analysis of four higher taxa of fossil marine invertebrates shows that, over the history of paleontology, there is no general tendency for morphologically extreme or modal species and genera to be described preferentially early or late. Reconstructing the expected evolutionary sequences of morphological disparity that would have been estimated at various times during the past century and a half reveals features that are sensitive to sampling (for example, peak trilobite disparity in the Ordovician, peak of post-Paleozoic crinoid disparity in the Triassic, and peak blastoid disparity in the Permian), as well as more robust features (for example, increase in trilobite disparity from the Cambrian to the Ordovician, continued increase in trilobite disparity despite a drop in taxonomic diversity after the Early Ordovician, decrease in blastoid disparity from the Devonian to the Carboniferous, and increase in crinoid disparity from the Jurassic to the Cretaceous followed by decline during the Cretaceous). Although we still have much to learn about the evolution of form, in many respects our view of the history of biological diversity is mature.
2400487|Experiments were conducted to test the hypothesis that biomechanical constraints determine the morphology of regular echinoids. Hard-bottom-dwelling Tripneustes gratilla elatensis were transferred to an artifical sandy habitat to evaluate whether the change in substrate affects their height to diameter ratio (H/D). Within 1-2 months their H/D ratio increased significantly. This change was shown to be reversible to some extent. Surgical damage to the ambulacral system of one ray caused inactivation of tubefeet and atrophy of injured ambulacra. Test shape was also affected: the damaged ray was lower, and the nondamaged ambulacra deflected toward the treated one, producing bilateral symmetry as in recorded cases of teratology. Study of T. g. elatensis tetramers showed that while "perfect" tetramery was apparently associated with genetic aberration, "imperfect" tetramery results from mechanical injury at an early ontogenetic stage. Micromorphological study shows that in the longitudinal sutures, normally under tension, long and slender trabeculae develop, associated with long and well-aligned collagenous sutural fibers, while the latitudinal trabeculae and fibers are short and less organized. A mechanical effect is suggested by the oval cross-section of the fiber-anchoring trabeculae. Further, echinoid plates interact like soap bubbles, whereas the entire test behaves like a balloon, fastened to the substrate by the ambulacral tubefeet. All these observations support earlier hypotheses on the biomechanical control of echinoid test growth. A model is proposed in which the expansion of the inner mass, counteracted by the mechanical activity of the ambulacral tubefeet, mesenterial threads, and lantern muscles, affects sutural growth, thus controlling echinoid morphogenesis. A morphometric survey among regular echinoids reveals an inverse relationship between ambulacral width and relative ambital height. Although both increase of ambulacral width and lowering of ambitusline are evolutionary trends, it is suggested that they are a response to a mechanical effect. H/D ratio was not related to ambulacral width on the phylogenetic level. It is therefore suggested that the latter correlation is ontogenetically controlled. Aspects of irregular echonoid evolution, such as bilateral symmetry, flattening, and formation of the ambulacral petaloid, also are explained by this model.
4096810|Finite element modeling (FEM) has been used to evaluate microstructure-controlled stability of selected eggshells of Indian dinosaurs. Our study suggests that under static load the eggshell microstructure of Megaloolithus cylindricus displays a low magnitude of tensile stress over most of the spherolith. The magnitude of this tensile stress is lower than that displayed in M. jabalpurensis, M. baghensis, and Subtiliolithus kachchhensis. In M. cylindricus, a shell thickness matching the length of the spheroliths prevents the failure of eggshells, whereas in M. jabalpurensis and M. baghensis, which have thinner shells, the development of additional subspheroliths compensates for the relatively higher magnitude of tensile stresses. Extremely thin eggshell in S. kachchhensis shows a still higher magnitude of tensile stresses, thereby making it prone to cracking, but the propagation of cracks is apparently checked and stability reinforced by wider spacing of pore canals.
2400189|The shape of bryozoan taxonomic survivorship curves is strongly influenced both by grade of morphologic complexity and by mass extinction. Paleozoic bryozoan genera that are morphologically simple have linear taxonomic survivorship; morphologically intermediate taxa have slightly concave survivorship, and complex forms have very concave survivorship. Increasing morphologic complexity, and by inference, increasing specialization of adaptation appear to accompany a systematic departure from a stochastically constant extinction rate. However, the extinctions of the complex taxa are entirely concentrated during three mass extinction events, whereas the extinctions of the simple taxa are more uniformly distributed throughout the Paleozoic; the extinction pattern of the morphologically intermediate taxa is intermediate to those of the simple and complex groups. Exclusion of the genera affected by mass extinction increases the convexity of the survivorship curves, and reverses the apparent correlation of extinction rate with morphologic complexity. The macroevolutionary pattern of the complex genera resembles an r-strategy, whereas that of the simple taxa resembles a K-strategy.
2400159|A model for the paleobiogeographic history of South American cricetine rodents is proposed based on new and/or recently published fossil, geological, paleobotanical and radioisotope data. Cricetine rodents of the tribe Sigmodontini evolved in North America before 7.0 Myr BP. They got to South America by waif dispersal across the Bolivar Trough marine barrier from Central America during a world wide drop in sea level (the "Messinian Low") between 7.0 and 5.0 Myr BP. The basal stock was probably a sylvan (forest) form, from which evolved pastoral (grazing) forms in the savanna-grassland area of Venezuela, Colombia and the Guianas. The pastoral forms in the northern savanna-grassland area were restricted there until about 3.5 Myr BP. At that time there occurred the first glaciation in South America and consonant with glacial advance was a retraction of forest habitats and an expansion of savanna-grassland habitats. At that time the pastoral forms were able to disperse southward through a savanna-grassland corridor along the eastern foothills of the Andes and spread throughout the previously disjunct savanna-grasslands of Bolivia and Argentina. Cricetines are first recorded as fossil in the Monte Hermoso Fm. of Argentina which is about 3.5 Myr BP in age. The Panamanian land bridge came into existence about 3.0 Myr BP as indicated by the beginning of a major interchange of terrestrial faunas between the Americas, which was well underway by 2.7 Myr BP.
2400629|Evolutionary changes in herbivore abundance, diversity, and ability to excavate calcareous substrata occurred independently in three major herbivore groups: mollusks, urchins, and fish. These changes in herbivory have escalated dramatically since the mid-Mesozoic Era to the extent that herbivory today is more intense than at any time in the past. Today, calcareous red algal crusts (i.e., corallines) are a conspicuous and frequently dominant element of shallow marine communities. Corallines and their (assumed) parent taxon, solenopores, probably always required grazing to remain free of epiphytes. The large scale evolutionary trend toward increased grazing intensity may have given the corallines a distinct advantage over the more herbivore-susceptible solenopores. Four anatomical characters unique to corallines may have facilitated their rapid expansion into shallow reef environments and subsequently (more than 100 million years later) allowed them to withstand the more intense levels of grazing that evolved in those environments. Today corallines are the only algal form to thrive under, and often even require, intensive herbivory. The extinction of solenopores and the adaptive radiation of corallines parallel a gradient of escalating herbivory over time. Herbivores capable of excavating calcareous substrate are also frequently capable of denuding, and preventing the establishment of, stands of large leathery (kelp-like) macrophytes. It is possible that large-scale increases in herbivory have caused large-scale reduction of algal biomass in benthic communities. The presence of algal forests especially in the Paleozoic and early Mesozoic Eras may be a new variable to consider in reconstructing paleoenvironments.
4096942|Flying birds flap their wings to generate aerodynamic forces large enough to overcome weight and drag. During this behavior, the forelimbs are displaced and deformed in a complex, coordinated sequence of movements collectively known as the "flight stroke" Despite an influx of relevant fossil material and new functional insights from extant birds, the historical origin of the avian flight stroke remains poorly resolved. Potential behavioral precursors have been identified primarily on the basis of kinematic resemblance-similarity of movement irrespective of underlying mechanisms. We discuss fundamental issues of motion analysis that are frequently overlooked by paleontologists, and conclude that a purely kinematic approach is insufficient. Consideration of kinetics, the forces responsible for motion, offers a more complete picture of flight stroke evolution. We introduce six kinetic components that interact to determine a limb's trajectory. Phylogenetic mapping reveals that forelimb loading patterns have undergone at least two major transitions on the line from basal archosaur to modern bird. Using this kinematic and kinetic perspective, we offer four specific criteria to help constrain and evaluate competing scenarios for the origin of the avian flight stroke.
2401054|The degradation-resistant organic-walled cell envelopes of acritarchs are the most abundant microfossils in Proterozoic and Cambrian rocks. These microfossils reveal diversity fluctuations that illuminate the nature of the record of primary producers near the Proterozoic/Phanerozoic boundary. Neoproterozoic radiations, some 1000-542 m.y. ago, reached levels comparable to those observed in the Cambrian Period. The microbiotas from rock successions from 13 Cambrian biochrons display significant fluctuations in the total number of microfossil taxa belonging to discrete microfossil assemblages. The assemblages reveal that Cambrian protist assemblages evolved over relatively short time spans, apparently out of low-diversity remnant populations after gradual declines in diversity. The characteristic microbiotas of the terminal Neoproterozoic and the Early, Middle, and Late Cambrian blossomed over relatively narrow time ranges, subsequently collapsing to nearly the initial levels. By virtue of the decreasing time spans involved in the late Vendian, Early, Middle, and Late Cambrian respectively, the tempo of specific turnover appears to have varied considerably. Speciation levels gradually decreased during Early and Middle Cambrian times and during Early Cambrian times were accompanied by rising levels of extinction. This latter feature seems to have reversed during Middle Cambrian times, lasting well into Late Cambrian times. Acritarchs were at the base of the marine trophic chain together with bacteria and other protists that are largely unrepresented in the fossil record. For this reason, the rise of diverse Cambrian protistan plankton must have been essential for early marine metazoan differentiation. Indeed, patterns of total diversity, speciation, and extinction of Cambrian acritarchs clearly mirror those of contemporaneous marine invertebrate faunas at the generic level.
4096832|The vertebrae of sauropod dinosaurs are characterized by complex architecture involving laminae, fossae, and internal chambers of various shapes and sizes. These structures are interpreted as osteological correlates of a system of air sacs and pneumatic diverticula similar to that of birds. In extant birds, diverticula of the cervical air sacs pneumatize the cervical and anterior thoracic vertebrae. Diverticula of the abdominal air sacs pneumatize the posterior thoracic vertebrae and synsacrum later in ontogeny. This ontogenetic sequence in birds parallels the evolution of vertebral pneumaticity in sauropods. In basal sauropods, only the presacral vertebrae were pneumatized, presumably by diverticula of cervical air sacs similar to those of birds. The sacrum was also pneumatized in most neosauropods, and pneumatization of the proximal caudal vertebrae was achieved independently in Diplodocidae and Titanosauria. Pneumatization of the sacral and caudal vertebrae in neosauropods may indicate the presence of abdominal air sacs. Air sacs and skeletal pneumaticity probably facilitated the evolution of extremely long necks in some sauropod lineages by overcoming respiratory dead space and reducing mass. In addition, pulmonary air sacs may have conveyed to sauropods some of the respiratory and thermoregulatory advantages enjoyed by birds, a possibility that is consistent with the observed rapid growth rates of sauropods.
23014898|Exploring patterns in the evolution of seed plant reproductive morphology within a functional context offers a framework in which to identify and evaluate factors that potentially drive reproductive evolution. Conifers are a particularly useful group for studies of this kind because they have a long geologic history and their reproductive organs are borne on separate structures with discrete functions. Multivariate analysis of morphological data collected from pollen-producing and seed-producing cones of Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and extant conifer species shows that seed cones underwent a significant expansion of morphological diversity that began during the EarlyMiddle Jurassic and has continued into the present day. In contrast, pollen cones show significantly lower levels of morphological diversity and exhibit similar basic morphologies throughout conifer evolutionary history. The increase in seed cone diversity through time is primarily the result of two novel structural and organizational features that evolved independently in different conifer families during the Mesozoic: robust, tightly packed cones in members of Araucariaceae, Cupressaceae sensu lato, and Pinaceae, and highly reduced, fleshy cones or solitary seeds in Podocarpaceae, Taxaceae, and some members of Cupressaceae sensu stricto. In extant conifers, these cone morphologies are associated with species that have strong interactions with vertebrate seed predators, seed dispersers, or a combination of both. This suggests that increases in the strength and complexity of biotic interactions in the Jurassic and Cretaceous were a primary driver of conifer reproductive evolution, and that patterns of character evolution relate to the increasing importance of cone tissue in seed protection and seed dispersal through time.
2400809|Deciduousness in mesic, broad-leaved plants occurred in disturbed, middle-latitude environments during the Late Cretaceous. Only in polar environments in the Late Cretaceous was the deciduous element dominant, although of low diversity. The terminal Cretaceous event resulted in wide-spread selection for plants of deciduous habit and diversification of deciduous taxa, thus leaving a lasting imprint on Northern Hemisphere vegetation. Various environmental factors have played important roles in subsequent diversification of mesic, broad-leaved deciduous taxa and in origination and decline of broad-leaved deciduous forests. Low diversity and rarity of mesic deciduous plants in the post-Cretaceous of the Southern Hemisphere indicate that the inferred "impact winter" of the terminal Cretaceous event had little effect on Southern Hemisphere vegetation and climate.
2400874|Approaches to patterns of diversification based on counting taxa at a given rank can be misleading, even when all taxa are monophyletic. Such "rank-based" approaches are unable to reflect a hierarchy of evolutionary events because taxa of the same rank cannot be nested within one another. Phylogenetic trees specify an order of origination of characters and clades and can therefore be used in some cases to test hypotheses on causal relationships between characters and changes in diversity. "Tree-thinking" also clarifies discussions of the age of groups, by distinguishing between splitting of the stem-lineage from its sister group and splitting of the crown-group into extant clades. Cladistic evidence that Pentoxylon, Bennettitales, and Gnetales are the sister group of angiosperms implies that the angiosperm line (angiophytes) existed by the Late Triassic. The presence of primitive members of five basic angiosperm clades indicates that the crown-group (angiosperms) had begun to diversify by the mid-Early Cretaceous (Barremian-Aptian), but not necessarily much earlier. The greatest unresolved issue raised by cladistic analyses concerns the fact that the angiosperm tree can be rooted in two almost equally parsimonious positions. Trees rooted near Magnoliales (among "woody magnoliids") suggest that the angiosperm radiation may have been triggered by the origin of intrinsic traits, e.g., a fast-growing, rhizomatous habit in the paleoherb and eudicot subgroup. However, trees rooted among paleoherbs, which are favored by rRNA data, imply that these traits are basic for angiosperms as a whole. This could mean that the crown-group originated not long before its radiation, or, if it did originate earlier, that its radiation was delayed due to extrinsic factors. Such factors could be a trend from environmental homogeneity and stability in the Jurassic to renewed tectonic activity and disturbance in the Early Cretaceous. Potentially relevant pre-Cretaceous fossils cannot be placed with confidence, but may be located along the stem-lineage (stem angiophytes); their generally paleoherb-like features favor the paleoherb rooting. The history of angiophytes may parallel that of Gnetales: some diversification of the stem-lineage in the Late Triassic, near disappearance in the Jurassic, and vigorous radiation of the crown-group in the Early Cretaceous.
2400986|Selected shell specimens of extant and fossil streamlined pectinids, which have or presumably had level-swimming ability, were examined experimentally to elucidate their hydrodynamic properties, in particular, airfoil efficiency estimated by lift-drag ratio. Using a stationary water tank for nautical engineering, lift and drag forces were measured at various attack angles. Of the examined species, Amusium japonicum, which is characterized by an unusually shiny surface, upward-cambered commissure and sharpened trailing edge, is the most efficient level swimmer and has the lowest drag coefficient and the highest value of lift-drag ratio at any attack angle. Amussiopecten praesignis from the Plio-Pleistocene may have swum horizontally because its airfoil efficiency is superior to that of a living level swimmer, Placopecten magellanicus. Although its shell shape is analogous to that of Placopecten, Camptonectes (Maclearnia) cinctus from the Lower Cretaceous shows a much inferior efficiency and a significant flow separation from the surface. Bernoulli's effect in convex-upward species may contribute to increase lift, but a certain attack angle is always required for level flight. The strategy of level swimming probably evolved independently in several pectinacean lineages in which swimming rather than shell robustness became the preferred defense against predators. One problem that must be solved is that some feedback mechanism is required to check pitching, rolling, and yawing of the shell to attain stability in level flight.
2400763|Sublethal injuries recorded in the shells of five Upper Mississippian ammonoid species from the Imo Formation of northwest Arkansas are manifested as repaired shell breaks, which can be categorized as minor, moderate, massive, deep-acute, or as perforations. Overall, 15% of the ammonoids exhibit some form of repaired break. The injuries are distributed as follows: Anthracoceras discus 9%; Fayettevillea bransoni 13%; Fayettevillea friscoense 21%; Rhadinites miseri 24%; Richardsonites mapesi 38%. These figures are substantially lower than in living Nautilus, in which more than one-half of adult specimens exhibit repaired shell breaks. The different frequencies of injuries may reflect species-selective predation, differential abilities to sustain and to repair shell damage, or they may be due to interspecific differences in physical parameters such as shell thickness and body chamber length. The most likely possible perpetrators of the injuries include sharks, other fishes, and cephalopods.
2401128|Although available paleobiological data indicate that the geographic ranges of marine species are maintained throughout their entire observable durations, other evidence suggests, by contrast, that the ranges of higher taxa expand as they age, perhaps in association with increased species richness. Here, I utilize a database of Ordovician genus occurrences collected from the literature for several paleocontinents to demonstrate that a significant aging of the global biota during the Ordovician Radiation was accompanied by a geographic and environmental expansion of genus ranges. The proportion of genera occurring in two or more paleocontinents in the database, and two or more environmental zones within a six-zone onshore-offshore framework, increased significantly in the Caradocian and Ashgillian. Moreover, widespread genera tended to be significantly older than their endemic counterparts, suggesting a direct link between their ages and their environmental and geographic extents. Expansion in association with aging was corroborated further by demonstrating this pattern directly among genera that ranged from the Tremadocian through the Ashgillian. Taken together, these results are significant not only for what they reveal about the kinetics of a major, global-scale diversification, but also for what they suggest about the interpretation of relationships between diversity trends at the  (within-community) and  (between-community) levels.
4500141|Paleobiological diversity is often expressed as  (within-sample),  (among-sample), and  (total) diversities. However, when studying the effects of extinction on diversity patterns, only variations in  and  diversities are typically addressed. A null model that examines changes in  diversity as a function of percent extinction is presented here. The model examines diversity in the context of a hierarchical sampling strategy that allows for the additive partitioning of  diversity into mean  and  diversities at varying scales. Here, the sampling hierarchy has four levels: samples, beds, facies, and region; thus, there are four levels of  diversity (
2400761|The borophagine canids were bone-cracking scavengers in the Miocene-Pleistocene of North America. In this they parallel the Recent hyenas. This paper analyzes the borophagine adaptation in relation to that of hyaenids, using Osteoborus cyonoides as an example. The emphasis during canid evolution on the posterior molars, which is a derived condition, created a constraint on the adaptation of borophagines. This constraint meant that the borophagines used P4/4 as bone-cracking teeth, whereas hyaenids use P3/3. The latter adaptation has the advantage of separating the bone-cracking teeth from the meat-cutting portion of the dentition, thereby allowing a dual purpose dentition in hyaenids. In borophagines, no such dual purpose was possible, and it is suggested that they were closer to obligate bone-cracking scavengers than Recent hyaenids. Other than the evolution of a specialized bone-cracking tooth, the borophagines adapted to bone cracking by evolving a vaulted and strengthened skull for the dissipation of the strong forces generated during bone cracking. In this they again parallel the hyaenids. Evolution within borophagines involved an elaboration of patterns already set at the group's inception, creating an evolutionary trend which was mediated by the constraint on the bone-cracking morphology. This trend may be due to selection or sorting, or may, under certain assumptions, be stochastic. Other evolutionary trends may also be epiphenomena of constraints that lock morphological evolution.
2400751|Colony growth form in some Silurian heliolitid corals is analyzed by the measurement of their shape in profile. Data are presented for seven species, Stelliporella parvistella, Heliolites interstinctus, H. megastoma, H. daintreei, H. spongodes, Propora tubulata, and Plasmopora scita from three localities in Gotland, Sweden, and three localities in England. Intraspecific growth-form variation is presented on triangle diagrams. These plots allow variation to be compared between species present at each locality and between localities for each species. Results indicate that the overall potential for growth-form variation is genetically controlled and that levels of response to environmental stimuli may differ markedly between species. Stelliporella parvistella is a very plastic species, the only one developing branching growth in addition to other growth forms. Heliolites interstinctus is much less variable, dominantly tabular, domal, and low bulbous in form, but demonstrates a similar response. Propora tubulata has a tightly constrained bulbous growth form that shows little variation between localities. The other species are represented by few specimens, most of which parallel H. interstinctus. The likely moderating influences of light levels, substrate type, sedimentation rate, energy levels, and other variables on growth-form variation and species range are considered. The main environmental factor including ecophenotypic response is concluded to be sedimentation rate. A close correlation between this factor and growth form in S. parvistella indicates that form in this species is a particularly sensitive indicator of sedimentation rate and substrate conditions. No simple equations can be made between specific environments and one particular growth form in these corals.
2400464|Large cats, canids, bears, and hyenas create distinctive types of damage when they gnaw bones. This paper describes the diagnostic characteristics of damage done by each taxon to femora and tibiae of herbivores whose body weights are 300 kg or more. Pleistocene and Recent fossil collections that include gnawed bones might provide data on the presence of carnivores whose own remains are not found in the collections. Information might also be gained about predator and scavenger utilization of prey carcasses, often a reflection of prey vulnerability or availability in past communities.
41684608|The silicoflagellates are a class of enigmatic chrysophytes characterized by netlike skeletons composed of opaline silica. Other major groups of siliceous planktonthe diatoms and radiolariansexhibit evidence of decreasing size or silicification over the Cenozoic. We investigated trends in the silicoflagellate fossil record by constructing a species-level database of diversity and morphological metrics. This new database reveals a proliferation of silicoflagellate species with spined skeletons along with an increase in the mean number of spines per species over the Cenozoic. Although there is little change in skeleton size or silicification among species with spines, those without spines are larger than species with spines and exhibit a decrease in size toward the present. Increased grazing pressure combined with declining surface silicate availability may have shifted the costs and benefits of silicification, causing divergent responses in skeletal morphology between these different morphological lineages of silicoflagellates over time. We postulate that diminishing Cenozoic surface silicic acid availability may have predisposed large spineless silicoflagellate species to extinction, whereas increased grazing pressure may have contributed to the extinction of all remaining spineless species within the edible size range of grazers.
2400944|The global diversification of the class Bivalvia has historically received two conflicting interpretations. One is that a major upturn in diversification was associated with, and a consequence of, the Late Permian mass extinction. The other is that mass extinctions have had little influence and that bivalves have experienced slow but nearly steady exponential diversification through most of their history, unaffected by interactions with other clades. We find that the most likely explanation lies between these two interpretations. Through most of the Phanerozoic, the diversity of bivalves did indeed exhibit slow growth, which was not substantially altered by mass extinctions. However, the presence of "hyperexponential bursts" in diversification during the initial Ordovician radiation and following the Late Permian and Late Cretaceous mass extinctions suggests a more complex history in which a higher characteristic diversification rate was dampened through most of the Phanerozoic. The observed pattern can be accounted for with a two-phase coupled (i.e., interactive) logistic model, where one phase is treated as the "bivalves" and the other phase is treated as a hypothetical group of clades with which the "bivalves" might have interacted. Results of this analysis suggest that interactions with other taxa have substantially affected bivalve global diversity through the Phanerozoic.
2400681|The pattern of arm branching and arm morphology in the camerate crinoid family Melocrinitidae became more complex during an evolutionary sequence which extended from Late Ordovician to Late Devonian. The fully evolved melocrinitid arm pattern bears an amazing resemblance to the theoretically ideal lay-out for harvesting roads on a banana plantation. This may not be coincidental since the problems faced by a banana plantation manager are much the same as those of a crinoid: the harvesting of an evenly distributed micro-particulate resource from an area and its delivery to a central point for processing. The analogy suggests a detailed explanation of the melocrinitid morphology and evolution. It also raises the question: why did the pattern not become dominant among crinoids if it was so efficient? It may have been unlikely to evolve; it may reflect an unusual food supply. I prefer an explanation in which the plantation pattern demands a rigidity of the crinoid crown which is characteristic of camerates but is uncommon among other crinoids: the latter have adopted a strategy of feeding which emphasizes flexibility in anatomy and behavior. The banana plantation pattern is equally rare among other organisms. Thus an "ideal" may not be common in a group of organisms for cost-benefit reasons. This does not mean that the adaptationist's approach is improper, or that random, historical, or constructional constraints routinely overwhelm adaptation. Rather, it means that cost-benefit analysis should take a larger part in functional studies, as it does in natural selection, and that theoretical ideals should be viewed with caution.
2400261|An understanding of the thermal strategies of extant animals is a prerequisite for any useful discussion on the possible thermal strategies of dinosaurs. Of cardinal importance is the identification of the selection pressures that have resulted in the evolution of high body temperatures. Although different selection pressures have probably been operational in different organisms, enhanced muscle power may have been a prime factor. Many dinosaurs, including the ornithomimids, carnosaurs and hadrosaurs possess cursorial features suggesting high activity levels, which in turn suggest the possession of high body temperatures. Even if it is denied that high body temperatures are a prerequisite for speed, it cannot be denied that muscular activity liberates large quantities of heat, and most dinosaurs, by virtue of their small area to volume ratio, must have maintained constant, and sometimes high, body temperatures. This thermal strategy, described as inertial homeothermy, does not require a high (mammalian/avian) rate of metabolism, and most dinosaurs were probably not endothermic. The smallest dinosaurs (e.g. Compsognathus) were probably too small to have been able to maintain constant body temperatures in the absence of external insulation. Perhaps they were feathered, like their close relative Archaeopteryx. Presence of feathers in Archaeopteryx is compelling evidence for endothermy. The largest dinosaurs, the sauropods, had an exceedingly small area to volume ratio, that probably imposed limitations on their rate of heat dissipation. This in turn may have restricted their rate of muscular activity; there are also sound mechanical reasons why they should have been relatively inactive. It is therefore concluded that sauropods probably maintained relatively low body temperatures.
2401196|The biomass of marine consumers increased during the Phanerozoic. This is indicated by the increase in both fleshiness and average size of individuals of dominant organisms, coupled with the conservative estimate that dominant organisms in the Cenozoic are at least as abundant as those in the Paleozoic. As faunal dominants replaced one another during the Phanerozoic the general level of metabolic activity increased due to both increase in basal metabolism and increase in more energetic modes of life. This demonstrates that the expenditure of energy by marine consumers has increased with time as well. There is a time lag in the expansion of more energetic life habits from environmental settings known to have high food supply into regions expected to have lower rates of food supply (e.g., bivalves into offshore carbonate environments or deep burrowing deposit feeders into the full range of shelf environments), and a time lag in diversification of energetic modes of life (e.g., predation or deep burrowing deposit feeding) for long intervals after they first appeared. This suggests that the supply of food increased across the whole spectrum of marine habitats during the Phanerozoic. The great diversification of specialized predators especially suggests that biomass increase took place all the way down the food chain to the level of primary production. The development of plant life on land and the impact of land vegetation on stimulating productivity in coastal marine settings, coupled with the transfer of organic material and nutrients from coastal regions to the open ocean, and the increase through time in diversity and abundance of oceanic phytoplankton all point to increased productivity in the oceans through the Phanerozoic.
2400748|Under favorable circumstances, biogeographic and biostratigraphic data can be combined to identify accurately the time and place of origin of a given taxon, and to reconstruct the pattern of its subsequent radiation. This study considers the dendrasterid sand dollars, which are abundant today along the Pacific Coast of North America. The Neogene sand dollar record in this region is particularly good; in fact, sand dollars have traditionally been used as provincial index fossils. The dendrasterids originated in central California at the end of the Miocene; the oldest forms are dated at about 6.0-6.5 Ma. They spread south to Baja California during the Pliocene, and then north to Alaska during the Quaternary. This historical pattern is not an artifact of the record; it is consistent with independent paleogeographic evidence. The dendrasterids supplanted an older Mio-Pliocene sand dollar fauna; they are now completely dominant in the temperate coastal waters of the northeastern Pacific. They have reached this position in less than 7 m.y. since their first local appearance. The rapid rise of dendrasterids could be related to their aberrant morphology and behavior; these adaptations allow dendrasterids to suspension-feed, in a manner unique among living echinoids. Dendrasterids are characterized by "eccentric" test morphologies. Even the oldest species are highly eccentric; transitional forms are unknown. The first dendrasterids appear suddenly in the provincial "Jacalitos Stage," above an unconformity which represents no more than about 1 m.y. They do not occur in the underlying units, although other fossil sand dollars are abundant. The dendrasterids may have arisen rapidly, through a heterochronic change in the development of older, noneccentric forms. Recent ontogenetic studies have documented the feasibility of this process.
20445580|Principal components analysis (PCA) of 21 shell parameters (geometry, sculpture, aperture shape, and suture complexity) in 597 L. Devonian to L. Triassic ammonoid genera (spanning 166 Myr) shows that eight basic morphotypes appeared within 20 Myr of the first appearance of ammonoids. With one exception, these morphotypes persisted throughout the Paleozoic, occurring in 75% of the 5-Myr time bins used in this study. Morphotypes were not exclusive to particular lineages. Their persistence was not just a product of phylogenetic constraints or longevity, and multiple iterations of the same morphotypes occurred at different times and in different groups. Although mass extinction events severely condensed the range of morphologic variation and taxonomic diversity, the effects were short lived and most extinct morphotypes were usually iterated within 5 Myr. The most important effect of mass extinctions on ammonoid evolutionary history seems to have been their role in large scale taxonomic turnovers; they effectively eliminated previously dominant orders at the Frasnian/Famennian (F/F) (Agoniatitida), the Devonian/Mississippian (D/M) (Clymeniida), and the Permian/Triassic (P/T) (Goniatitida and Prolecanitida) extinctions. Survivors varied from two (P/T) to four (D/M) and five genera (F/F). These events generated sharp reductions in morphologic disparity at the D/M (58%) and at the P/T (59%), but there was a net increase at the F/F (38%). There was no obvious survival bias for particular morphotypes, but 64% are interpreted to have been Nautilus-like nektobenthic. The recurrence of particular combinations of morphology and their strong independence of phylogeny are strong arguments for functional constraint. Intervals between mass extinctions seem to have been relatively static in terms of morphotype numbers, in contrast to numbers of genera. Significant decreases in genus diversity (54%) and morphologic disparity (33%) commenced in the mid-Permian (Wordian/Capitanian boundary), well before the final P/T event.
2400492|In a nonhierarchical world, where selection on organisms regulated all nonrandom evolutionary change, the traditional equation of selection (a cause of sorting) with sorting itself (differential birth and death among varying organisms within a population) would rarely lead to error, even though the phenomena are logically distinct (for sorting is a simple description of differential "success," and selection a causal process). But in a hierarchical world, with entities acting as evolutionary individuals (genes, organisms, and species among them) at several levels of ascending inclusion, sorting among entities at one level has a great range of potential causes. Direct selection upon entities themselves is but one possibility among many. This paper discusses why hierarchy demands that sorting and selection be disentangled. It then presents and illustrates an expanded taxonomy of sorting for a hierarchical world. For each of three levels (genes, organisms, and species), we show how sorting can arise from selection at the focal level itself, and as a consequence either of downward causation from processes acting on individuals at higher levels or upward causation from lower levels. We then discuss how hierarchy might illuminate a range of evolutionary questions based on both the logical structure of hierarchy and the historical pathways of its construction-for hierarchy is a property of nature, not only a conceptual scheme for organization.
2400780|Trophic diversity within guilds of terrestrial predators is explored in three modern and two ancient communities. The modern communities span a range of environments including savannah, rainforest, and temperate forest. The paleocommunities are North American, Orellan (31-29 Ma), and late Hemphillian (7-6 Ma), respectively. The predator guilds are compared in terms of: 1) species richness; 2) the array of feeding types; and 3) the extent of morphological divergence among sympatric species. Feeding type is determined from dental measurements that reflect the proportion of meat, bone, and non-vertebrate foods in the diet. Measurements include estimates of canine shape, tooth size, cutting blade length, and grinding molar area. Morphological divergence among sympatric predators is measured by calculating Euclidean distances among species in a sixdimensional morphospace. Results indicate that the number of predator and prey species are roughly correlated in both ancient and modern communities. Two of the predator guilds, the late Hemphillian and modern Yellowstone, contain relatively few species and appear to be the result of extinction without replacement. Despite differences in history, age, and environment, the extent of morphological divergence within guilds does not differ significantly for the sampled communities. It is clear that the basic pattern of adaptive diversity in dental morphology among coexisting carnivores was established at least 32 million years ago. It appears that interspecific competition for food has acted similarly to produce adaptive divergence among sympatric predators in communities that differ widely in time, space, and taxonomic composition.
2400898|Because the paleontologic concept of Coccolithophoridae species is restricted and far removed from the biologic concept, which itself is not yet satisfactorily established, calcareous nannofossil taxonomy remains in an unsatisfactory state. This situation is clearly reflected by various authors' widely different interpretations of the phylogenetic relationships among species in a given genus and among genera. Examples taken from the extant genus Helicosphaera suggest that because of parallel evolution, delineation of phylogenetic relationships among coccolith morphospecies using morphologic data alone are hazardous, as is delineation of phylogenetic relationships among closely related genera.
2400529|Gaps in the fossil record can be identified in compilations of stratigraphic ranges of lower taxa classified within higher taxa. Statistical properties of such gaps suggest the following conclusions. First, the random sampling model most commonly used to correct for incompleteness in the record is inconsistent with the data. Second, the decline in taxonomic extinction rate during the Phanerozoic is not just an artifact of an increase in the completeness of the record.
2666013|More than 1600 valves of Late Cretaceous and early Paleocene Northern Atlantic Coastal Plain gryphaeid oysters (Exogyrinae and Pycnodonteinae) were examined for breakage-induced shell repair and morphologic variability to evaluate the hypothesis of escalation. The Exogyrinae show disproportionately higher average repair frequency (0.41) relative to the ecologically and functionally similar unornamented pycnodonts (0.19). An increase in repair frequency (independent evidence of the action of a selective agent, e.g., predation) through the stratigraphic interval supports escalation. Variation in repair frequencies may reflect differences in oyster morphology and in the strength and diversity of shell crushers across an onshore-offshore gradient. Escalation of antipredatory adaptation characterized the evolutionary response of gryphaeid oysters to their durophagous predators. Adaptation generally occurred by the enhancement of existing traits in both oyster lineages. Characters that confer a selective advantage against predators are not all expressed or improved concurrently in both oyster lineages. Morphologic adaptations to minimize shell breakage include the development of expansive, broad commissural shelves, thickened valves, and surface ornamentation (Exogyrinae). Surface ornament in the Exogyrinae gradually increased with time. For some characters, such as thickness, conflicting functional demands (e.g., valve stabilization) may have limited adaptation to predators.
2400422|The evolutionary pattern of speciation and extinction in any biologic group may be described by a variety of mathematical models. These models provide a framework for describing the history of taxonomic diversity (clade shape) and other aspects of larger evolutionary patterns. The simplest model assumes time homogeneity: that is, speciation and extinction probabilities are constant through time and within taxonomic groups. In some cases the homogeneous model provides a good fit to real world paleontological data, but in other cases the model serves only as a null hypothesis that must be rejected before more complex models can be applied. In cases where the homogeneous model does not fit the data, time-inhomogeneous models can be formulated that specify change, regular or episodic, in speciation and extinction probabilities. An appendix provides a list of the most useful equations based on the homogeneous model.
25609431|Most functional interpretations of ziphodont dentition are based on limited morphometric, behavioral, and taphonomic studies, but few are based on controlled observations of a modern ziphodont consumer. The purpose of this study is to determine through controlled feeding observations if the behaviors indicative of a ziphodont consumer are reflected by tooth marks left on bone surfaces by Varanus komodoensis, the Komodo monitor. We document feeding behavior, expand upon dental function, and correlate these aspects with tooth mark production. We also discuss the significance and limits of applying these data to fossil assemblages. Goat carcasses were fed to 11 captive individuals. V. komodoensis modifies bone surfaces extensively. Individuals exhibit a "medial-caudal arc" when defleshing, followed by inertial swallowing. Bone crushing was not observed. The vast majority of tooth marks are scores, with pits being significantly less common. Tooth furrows and punctures are rare. "Edge marks" are produced on flat elements. Marks are elongate and narrow, with variable lengths and curvature. Over one-third of the marks occur within parallel clusters. Striations are evident on 5% of all marks. Both feeding behavior and tooth marks indicate that ziphodont crowns are ideal for defleshing by being drawn distally through a carcass. Crowns are poorly built for crushing, and within-bone nutrients are acquired through swallowing. Mark production is a by-product of the distal crown movement during the flesh removal process. Scores are the consequence of apical dragging. Edge marks and striated scores result respectively from distal and mesial carinae contact. Mark curvature is the consequence of arcing motions. Parallel clusters may result from repetitive defleshing strokes and/or from multiple crown contacts during a stroke. These observations can be used to draw functional, behavioral, and taphonomic interpretations from fossil assemblages. When they are provisionally applied to theropod tooth marks, similar crown function and defleshing behavior with little bone crushing is apparent. Differences occur concerning mark frequency and curvature, relating potentially to taphonomic biases and rostral motion, respectively.
2400268|Many species of scleractinian reef corals deposit aragonite skeletons with cyclic bands of higher and lower density whose periodicity is annual. As these growth bands are frequently preserved in fossil corals, attention has been focused on their possible use as environmental indicators in as much as density variations may reflect changes in water temperature and/or light intensity. Relationships between skeletal growth banding and environmental parameters have been investigated by X-radiographic examination of 1488 specimens of modern reef corals representing 31 reef localities widely distributed over the Indo-Pacific and Caribbean regions. Average monthly seawater temperature and solar radiation data are available for each locality, and the date of collection is known for each sample. Of the 47 genera and subgenera included in the study, density variations were most pronounced in skeletons of Astreopora, Coscinarea, Cyphastrea, Favia (especially species with small corallites such as F stelligera), Goniastrea, Hydnophora (massive forms only, e.g. M. microconos), Leptoria, Montastrea (especially M. annularis, with small corallites), Pavona, Polyastra, and Plesiastrea. Less useful are Diploastrea, Diploria, and Favites (which tend to have large corallite diameters), and Goniopora, Alveopora, Porites, Siderastrea, and Stephanaria (which frequently exhibit numerous secondary density variations within the annual cycle). Despite considerable variability among different individual corals from the same population, the average thickness of the skeletal growth bands is positively correlated with mean annual water temperature. By comparing characteristics of the outermost growth increment and the date of collection with monthly records of water temperature and solar radiation, it appears that maximum skeletal density is associated with those periods of the year when seawater temperature is above average.
2666078|A spatial approach was employed to test whether the conchological differentiation of the Recent land snail Albinaria terebra from southern central Crete (Greece) is decreased in areas that have been more recently colonized by the species. The eastern Mediterranean genus Albinaria has produced more than 120 species, probably in pre-Tortonian events of radiation. A. terebra occupies a compact range of 550 km$^2$ consisting partly of late Cenozoic deposits of different ages, partly of pre-Cenozoic formations. The morphological study was based on 300 samples distributed over the entire range of the species. Shell size, shape, whorls, and teleoconch rib densities exhibited no evident correlation with environment but were subjected to considerable spatial variations. The differentiation, determined as the difference of the mentioned shell parameters between one population and another population 2-4 km distant, was found to increase continuously with the time (1-12 Myr) the land has been exposed to air. The populations with the highest degrees of spatial variation came from two areas that have never been submerged in the late Cenozoic, possibly the oldest populations of the species. It is plausible that the other areas were colonized by range expansion after late Neogene periods of tectonic uplift. The results are consistent with previous conclusions derived from molecular studies setting the radiation of Albinaria prior to the Tortonian and imply that we might be in possession of a new tool to detect information on the phylogeographic history of land snail species.
4096970|The Desmostylia, an extinct order of mammals related to sirenians and proboscideans, are known from the late Oligocene to late Miocene of the North Pacific. Though often categorized as marine mammals on the basis of fossil occurrences in nearshore deposits, reconstructions of desmostylian habitat and dietary preferences have been somewhat speculative because morphological and sedimentological information is limited. We analyzed the carbon, oxygen, and strontium isotope compositions of enamel from Desmostylus and co-occurring terrestrial and marine taxa from middle Miocene sites in California to address the debate surrounding desmostylian ecology. The 
41432805|High-resolution palynological data sets from shallow marine Triassic-Jurassic (Tr/J) boundary beds of two principal sections in Europe (Hochalplgraben in Austria and St. Audrie's Bay in the United Kingdom) were analyzed to reconstruct changes in vegetation, biodiversity, and climate. In Hochalplgraben, a hardwood gymnosperm forest with conifers and seed ferns is replaced by vegetation with dominant ferns, club mosses and liverworts, which concurs with an increased diversification of spore types during the latest Rhaetian. Multivariate statistical analysis reveals a trend to warmer and wetter conditions across the Tr/J boundary in Hochalplgraben. The vegetation changes in St. Audrie's Bay are markedly different. Here, a mixed gymnosperm forest is replaced by monotonous vegetation consisting mainly of Cheirolepidiaceae (80100%). This change is caused by a transition to a warmer and more arid climate. The observed diversity decrease in St. Audrie's Bay affirms this interpretation. Although both sections show major vegetation changes, neither of them demonstrates a distinctive floral mass extinction. A compilation of Tr/J boundary sections across the world demonstrates the presence of Cheirolepidiaceae-dominated forests in the Pangaean interior and increases in abundance of spore-producing plants adjacent to the Tethys Ocean. We propose that the non-uniform vegetation changes reflected in the Tr/J palynological records are the result of environmental changes caused by Central Atlantic Magmatic Province volcanism. The increase in greenhouse gases caused a warmer climate and an enhanced thermal contrast between the continent and the seas. Consequently, the monsoon system got stronger and induced a drier continental interior and more intensive rainfall near the margins of the Tethys Ocean.
2400702|The threespot damselfish, Eupomacentrus planifrons, is an algal-gardener and a major cause of biological disturbance on modern Caribbean coral reefs. The hermatypic coral Acropora cervicornis produces characteristic gall-like growths called "chimneys," in response to damage by the threespot. Chimneys have been discovered on coral fragments excavated from the Jamaican Falmouth Formation, an Upper Pleistocene reef assemblage. This indicates that algal gardening, and thus biological disturbance, has been an integral aspect of Caribbean coral reefs since at least the last sea-level stand, some 125,000 yr BP.
2400760|Functional consequences of the variation in geometry and morphology of the articulate brachiopod hinge mechanism are poorly understood, despite the fact that hinge structures have considerable importance in brachiopod taxonomy. Jaanusson (1971) proposed that the ability to resorb shell material during growth, particularly in the hinge structures, can be used to distinguish two groups within the articulates, the deltidiodonts and the cyrtomatodonts. He considered the two groups to be morphologically distinct, "natural" phylogenetic groups, separated by a "functional discontinuity." In order to test the morphological, functional, and phylogenetic implications of shell resorption, comparisons of the hinge-system geometry and diductor muscle moment are made here between deltidiodont and cyrtomatodont brachiopods. A truss network composed of landmarks relevant to the valve opening mechanism is constructed to characterize hinge-system geometry. The function of the hinge mechanism is analyzed in the context of valve opening, and diductor muscle force, effort lever arm, and moment are compared between deltidiodonts and cyrtomatodonts. The distribution of resorption among brachiopods is investigated with respect to a phylogenetic hypothesis proposed by Williams and Rowell (1965a). Deltidiodont brachiopods are morphologically more variable than cyrtomatedonts, and a greater proportion of the variability is correlated with size. Deltidiodonts and cyrtomatodonts employ different strategies to open the valves; deltidiodont lever arms are relatively longer, whereas cyrtomatodont diductor muscles have relatively larger cross-sectional areas. The greatest muscle moment in deltidiodont hinge systems is realized in the maintenance of a gape angle; in the cyrtomatodont system, it is achieved at the initiation of a gape. Although they are morphologically and functionally distinct, it is doubtful that the two groups are separated by a "functional discontinuity." Because the phylogenetic relationships among brachiopod orders are not yet resolved, the status of shell resorption as a homologue is still unclear. Resorption is manifest in at least some members of each major group of articulates (except the pentameraceans); it is likely that resorption has evolved independently several times in brachiopod evolution, in part because of the increased morphological flexibility it confers.
4096922|Better understanding of the functional biology of early angiosperms may clarify ecological factors surrounding their origin and early radiation. Phylogenetic studies identify Amborella, Nymphaeales (water lilies), Austrobaileyales, and Chloranthaceae as extant lineages that branched before the radiation of core angiosperms. Among living plants, these lineages may represent the best models for the ecology and physiology of early angiosperms. Here we combine phylogenetic reconstruction with new data on the morphology and ecophysiology of these plants to infer early angiosperm function. With few exceptions, Amborella, Austrobaileyales, and Chloranthaceae share ecophysiological traits associated with shady, disturbed, and wet habitats. These features include low and easily light-saturated photosynthetic rates, leaf anatomy related to the capture of understory light, small seed size, and clonal reproduction. Some Chloranthaceae, however, possess higher photosynthetic capacities and seedlings that recruit in canopy gaps and other sunny, disturbed habitats, which may have allowed Cretaceous Chloranthaceae to expand into more diverse environments. In contrast, water lilies possess ecophysiological features linked to aquatic, sunny habitats, such as absence of a vascular cambium, ventilating stems and roots, and floating leaves tuned for high photosynthetic rates in full sun. Nymphaeales may represent an early radiation into such aquatic environments. We hypothesize that the earliest angiosperms were woody plants that grew in dimly lit, disturbed forest understory habitats and/or shady streamside settings. This ecology may have restricted the diversity of pre-Aptian angiosperms and living basal lineages. The vegetative flexibility that evolved in the understory, however, may have been a key factor in their diversification in other habitats. Our inferences based on living plants are consistent with many aspects of the Early Cretaceous fossil record and can be tested with further study of the anatomy, chemistry, and sedimentological context of Early Cretaceous angiosperm fossils.
2401142|The mode of locomotion of any swimming animal is constrained by its size, architecture, and phylogenetic history. Considering these factors and the range of locomotory systems used by extant zooplankton, the range of possible modes of locomotion for graptoloids can be effectively limited. Three assumptions have been made: (1) graptoloids did not use a mode of locomotion unknown among modern organisms; (2) all graptoloids employed essentially the same mode of locomotion except, possibly, in their early growth stages; and (3) graptoloids did not rely entirely on passive buoyancy-no extant zooplankton groups in the size range of the graptoloids do. Structures that increase buoyancy or drag are often found in actively swimming zooplankton. They enhance feeding efficiency and reduce sinking rates during nonswimming periods. The modes of locomotion utilized by extant zooplankton groups are ciliary propulsion, elongate body undulation, jet propulsion, rowing with skeletonized appendages, and rowing or undulation with muscular appendages. Of these, all but the last can be rejected for the graptoloids on the basis of scale or architecture. It is concluded that graptoloids probably used a rowing or undulatory motion with muscular appendages for swimming. Using a pterobranch model for the graptoloid zooids, the lophophore is considered an unlikely propulsive structure because the design requirements would conflict with those of a ciliarly suspension-feeding organ. Winglike, lateral extensions of the muscular cephalic shield, the same structure used for creeping locomotion in the benthic pterobranchs, is regarded as the most likely propulsive organ, analogous to the pteropod swimming wings.
4096899|Fossil samples almost always accumulate on timescales much longer than the life spans of individual organisms. This time-averaging has the potential to inflate the variability of fossil samples because phenotypic changes may occur during the interval of sample accumulation. Although many have realized that this effect may increase the variance of fossil samples, only qualitative predictions have been possible thus far. In this paper, I assume a simple but general Markovian model of evolution to derive expressions that predict the effects of time-averaging on trait variance and covariance. For lineages evolving as an unbiased random walk, phenotypic variance in samples increases linearly with the duration of time-averaging, at a slope that is proportional to the evolutionary rate. Although based on a very simple model of specimen input into time-averaged samples, the expressions relating variance, time-averaging, and evolutionary rate prove to be robust or adaptable to more realistic assumptions. The theoretical findings are applied to analyze variation in a set of samples of the deep-sea ostracode Poseidonamicus miocenicus that vary greatly in temporal acuity. The relationship between duration of time-averaging and morphological variance is used to estimate evolutionary rates of two morphological traits in these ostracodes. These rate estimates are similar to those calculated independently from differences between presumed ancestor-descendant pairs of populations. Consistent with other studies of variability and time-averaging, these data suggest that phenotypic variance tends to increase rather slowly with the duration of time-averaging, indicating that greatly inflated variance is expected only in samples that have accumulated over many tens of thousands of years.
2400989|Taxon-age distributions were compiled for families of marine animals surviving or becoming extinct in each stage of the Phanerozoic. I demonstrate, through the use of a modified bootstrap analysis, that there is no difference between the longevity of families becoming extinct during times of background extinction and times of mass extinction. In both mass and background extinction intervals the mean age of families that become extinct is 2 standard deviations below the geometric mean taxon age of families available for extinction. Young families are more susceptible to extinction, perhaps as the result of lower species richness or of occupying a smaller geographic range. There is no tendency during mass extinctions toward loss of families with different taxon ages other than those that become extinct during background times. Thus, in terms of family survival, mass extinction appears to be an exaggeration of processes of background extinction.
2401140|In phytogeographic data sets, the number of assemblages or floras from each interval may provide a test of the influence of sampling intensity on land-plant diversity. Using a data set of Silurian and Devonian compression-impression plant genera from Laurussia and the Acadian terrain, regression of five measures of land-plant diversity (total diversity, mean genus richness of floras, median assemblage diversity, most diverse assemblage, and standing diversity at interval boundaries) against the number assemblages or floras from thirteen intervals suggests that sampling bias influences all of the diversity measures to some extent, including within-habitat measures. The standing diversity of land plants at interval boundaries, the measure least influenced by sampling (r = 0.65, p = 0.05), increased steadily from the Middle Silurian to the late Givetian/early-middle Frasnian boundary, fell sharply in the early-middle Frasnian and remained low throughout the late Frasnian-middle Famennian. Standing diversity rose dramatically in the late Famennian and Strunian (latest Devonian): the Frasnian-Famennian extinction event may have affected land plants. The standing diversity of Silurian and Devonian microspore genera at interval boundaries mirrors that of compression-impression genera: neither record supports a land-plant diversity equilibrium during the Devonian.
20445577|The consensus view that the amount of rock available for sampling does not significantly and systematically bias Phanerozoic marine diversity patterns has broken down. How changes in rock availability and sampling intensity affect our estimates of past biodiversity has been investigated with a variety of new approaches. A number of proxies for the amount of rock available for sampling have been used, but most of these proxies do not rely directly on evidence from large-scale geological maps (maps that cover small areas) and accompanying memoirs. Most previous map-based studies focused on single regions or relied on small-scale synoptic maps. We collected data from published geological maps and memoirs from western Europe, Australia, and Chile, which we combined with COSUNA data from the United States to generate the first multiregional data set for investigating whether the global Phanerozoic marine diversity record is a true global record, or is instead biased toward North America and Western Europe as has long been suspected. Both short and long-term trends in variation in the amount of outcrop display limited correlation among the regions studied. A series of diversification models obtained better matches to observed fossil diversity from the European and U.S. records than for the Chilean and Australian records, further supporting suspicions that the global Phanerozoic diversity curve is disproportionately influenced by European and U.S. fossil data. These results indicate that future research into Phanerozoic marine diversity patterns should not continue to apply global eustatic curves as a proxy for rock at outcrop, but should use regional data on rock occurrence.
4096936|Skeletal remains of Eocene Archaeoceti provide the only direct and unequivocal evidence of the evolutionary transition of whales from land to sea. Archaeocete skeletons complete enough to be informative about locomotion are rare (principally Rodhocetus and Dorudon), and these deserve to be studied in comparison to the full spectrum of semiaquatic mammals. A principal components analysis of 14 trunk and limb measurements for 50 species of living semiaquatic mammals reduces the observed variation to three informative axes. The first principal axis (PC-I) represents overall size (water mice and shrews have the lowest scores on this axis and the hippopotamus has the highest); the second axis (PC-II) represents a spectrum of aquatic adaptation (seals have the lowest scores and tapirs have the highest); and the third principal axis (PC-III) represents a spectrum ranging from hindlimb- to forelimb-dominated locomotion (sea otters have the lowest scores and the platypus the highest). Dorudon fits poorly into a morphospace defined solely by living semiaquatic mammals; thus a second 53-species set was analyzed, adding an anthracothere to represent an artiodactyl ancestral morphology and two species of archaeocetes to represent successive stages of early whale evolution. This addition has little effect on the first two principal axes but changes the third substantially. PC-III now represents a contrast of lumbus- (and presumably tail-) dominated versus hindlimb-dominated locomotion (Dorudon has the lowest score and Rodhocetus the highest, whereas the otter shrew has the lowest score among living mammals and the desman the highest). Mammals that are more aquatic have a shorter ilium and femur combined with longer manual and pedal phalanges, whereas the reverse is true for more terrestrial taxa. Lumbus- and tail-dominated swimmers tend to have a longer lumbus combined with shorter pedal elements, whereas the reverse is true for hindlimb-dominated swimmers. Trunk and limb proportions of early middle Eocene Rodhocetus are most similar to those of the living, highly aquatic, foot-powered desmans. Trunk and limb proportions of late middle Eocene Dorudon indicate that it was a lumbus-and-tail-powered swimmer specialized in the direction of modern whales. Thus it appears that the land-to-sea transition in whale evolution involved at least two distinct phases of locomotor specialization: (1) hindlimb domination for drag-based pelvic paddling in protocetids (Rodhocetus), with tail elongation for stability, followed by (2) lumbus domination for lift-based caudal undulation and oscillation in basi-losaurids (Dorudon). Rates of evolution in both phases of this change of adaptive zone are about an order of magnitude higher than background rates for the timescale involved.
25609430|The concept of coordinated stasis, manifest as a pattern of long intervals of concurrent taxonomic and ecologic persistence separated by comparatively abrupt periods of biotic change, has been challenged in recent studies that claim a lack of prolonged persistence of taxa and associations. A key problem has been the difficulty of distinguishing faunal change owing to localized, short-term environmental fluctuation or patchiness from that indicating regionally pervasive, long-term evolutionary or ecological change. Here, we use an extensive database from the Middle Devonian Hamilton Group of the Appalachian Basin to test for taxonomic and ecologic persistence within this ecological-evolutionary subunit, a succession of purported relative stability. Replicate samples collected from many localities and stratigraphic horizons over a wide geographic area allow us to address the effects of small-scale environmental variation and localized faunal patchiness while exploring basin-scale variation in faunal composition within and between the formations of the Hamilton Group. Observed stratigraphic distributions of fossils are consistent with a scenario in which all taxa are present from bottom to top of the Hamilton Group, and absences result only from sampling failure. Although small-scale variation in faunal composition indeed does occur, there is no more variation among formations than occurs within them. Assemblages from different formations, whether they are defined by taxonomic or ecologic composition, are statistically indistinguishable according to several independent metrics, including ANOSIM and a maximum likelihood estimation that evaluates stratigraphic turnover using Bayesian "Information Criterion." Simulated data sets indicate that test results are most consistent with species-level extinction of 2.6% per Myr within the Hamilton Group, far lower than the Givetian rate of 11.5% per Myr generic extinction derived from a global database. Such faunal persistence over the 5.5 Myr encompassed by this unit is consistent with the pattern of coordinated stasis. Earlier studies showing greater amounts of temporal turnover in Hamilton Group faunas are likely influenced by their smaller geographic scale of analysis, suggesting that regional studies done elsewhere may yield similar results.
2400329| The prosogyrous shape and flattened lunule of a typical clam shell form a blunt anterior, the function of which is related to the forward-and-back rocking motion of the shell in burrowing. Analysis of movies has revealed that each rocking motion of a morphologically typical clam, Mercenaria mercenaria (Linn), involves purely rotational movement, with no translational component. The clam is able to burrow by "walking" its way downward only because the axis of backward rotation lies to the anterior of the axis of forward rotation. Experiments with burrowing robots show that the blunt anterior serves to shift the axis of backward rotation anteriorly, thus aiding in downward progress. The prosogyrous condition and the rotational mechanism of burrowing are fundamental adaptations of burrowing clams and were apparently present in the ancestral bivalves of the Cambrian. 
40792289|Despite increasing concerns about the effect of sampling biases on our reading of the fossil record, few studies have considered the completeness of the fossil remains themselves, and those that have tend to apply non-quantitative measures of preservation quality. Here we outline two new types of metric for quantifying the completeness of the fossil remains of taxa through time, using sauropodomorph dinosaurs as a case study. The "Skeletal Completeness Metric" divides the skeleton up into percentages based on the amount of bone for each region, whereas the "Character Completeness Metric" is based on the number of characters that can be scored for each skeletal element in phylogenetic analyses. For both metrics we calculated the completeness of the most complete individual and of the type specimen. We also calculated how well the taxon as a whole is known from its remains. We then plotted these results against both geological and historical time, and compared curves of the former with fluctuations in sauropodomorph diversity, sea level, and sedimentary rock outcrop area. Completeness through the Mesozoic shows a number of peaks and troughs; the Early Jurassic (Hettangian-Sinemurian) is the interval with highest completeness, whereas the mid-to-Late Cretaceous has completeness levels that are consistently lower than the rest of the Mesozoic. Completeness shows no relationship to rock outcrop area, but it is negatively correlated with sea level during the Jurassic-Early Cretaceous and correlated with diversity in the Cretaceous. Completeness of sauropodomorph type specimens has improved from 1830 to the present, supporting the conclusions of other recent studies. However, when this time interval is partitioned, we find no trend for an increase in completeness from the 1990s onward. Moreover, the 2000s represent one of the poorest decades in terms of average type specimen completeness. These results highlight the need for quantitative methods when assessing fossil record quality through geological time or when drawing conclusions about historical trends in the completeness of taxa. The new metrics may also prove useful as sampling proxies in diversity studies.
4096856|Ontogenetic stages of trilobites have traditionally been recognized on the basis of the development of exoskeletal segmentation. The established protaspid, meraspid, and holaspid phases relate specifically to the development of articulated joints between exoskeletal elements. Transitions between these phases were marked by the first and last appearances of new trunk segment articulations. Here we propose an additional and complementary ontogenetic scheme based on the generation of new trunk segments. It includes an anamorphic phase during which new trunk segments appeared, and an epimorphic phase during which the number of segments in the trunk remained constant. In some trilobites an ontogenetic boundary can also be recognized at the first appearance of morphologically distinct posterior trunk segments. Comparison of the phase boundaries of these different aspects of segment ontogeny highlights rich variation in the segmentation process among Trilobita. Cases in which the onset of the holaspid phase preceded onset of the epimorphic phase are here termed protarthrous, synchronous onset of both phases is termed synarthromeric, and onset of the epimorphic phase before onset of the holaspid phase is termed protomeric. Although these conditions varied among close relatives and perhaps even intraspecifically in some cases, particular conditions may have been prevalent within some clades. Trilobites displayed hemianamorphic development that was accomplished over an extended series of juvenile and mature free-living instars. Although developmental schedules varied markedly among species, morphological transitions during trilobite development were generally regular, limited in scope, and extended over a large number of instars when compared with those of many living arthropods. Hemianamorphic, direct development with modest change between instars is also seen among basal members of the Crustacea, basal myriapods, pycnogonids, and in some fossil chelicerates. This mode may represent the ancestral condition of euarthropod development.
2400212|The published fossil record has significant bias in favor of common and biostratigraphically important taxa when compared with data obtained from a thorough examination of several hundred collections from the Western Interior of North America. Overall species diversity is underestimated by a factor of 3 to 4, and bivalve and gastropod diversity by a factor of 5. The proportion of bivalves increased from 40 to 56% of the fauna, and the proportion of ammonites decreased from 28 to 18%. Thirteen published reports listed 65 species from 203 reported occurrences. Data from all sources showed 170 species for 1050 occurrences. By using abundance data and assuming a log-normal distribution, as many as 200 fossilizable mollusc species may have inhabited the Western Interior during the upper-most biozone of the Cenomanian. The importance of this study is that it quantifies the bias in the published fossil record relative to the potential fossil record for an unusually well studied interval of geologic time. The bias would be greater for less well studied strata.
23014732|Abstract.The geographic distribution of 293 Modern bivalve genera has been analyzed and found to be statistically correlated with distance. In particular, a least-squares regression analysis of the data indicates that the distance between faunal realms (D) in kilometers can be estimated using the equation D = (ln(d) + 0.4233)/0.00013, where d is the Dice coefficient of faunal similarity. Analysis of 59 genera of Late Ordovician bivalves indicates that the above equation also describes their biogeographic distribution. Using this formula, the distance between Laurentia and Scotland/Northwest Ireland was estimated to be 5500 kilometers. This is consistent with the reconstruction of a connection among these areas during the Late Ordovician based on brachiopod and graptolite biogeographic data. Paleomagnetic and paleoclimatic data also suggest that Avalonia, Baltica, and Laurentia were at tropical latitudes. Distances between these paleocontinents can therefore be used to estimate paleolongitudes. If the location of England on the eastern side of Avalonia is used as zero degrees paleolongitude for the Late Ordovician as it is today, the paleolongitude for South America, Laurentia, Scotland and northwest Ireland, and Baltica would be 125W, 45W, 10W, and 15E, respectively. Because of drifting of the Avalonia plate, these paleolongitudes probably do not coincide with the longitudinal grid used today. The paleolongitudes indicate only the relative spacing between continents in the past. The methodology in this study should be useful for improving the accuracy of paleogeographic reconstructions for the Late Ordovician throughout the Cenozoic, and especially the Paleozoic periods for which magnetic seafloor anomaly data are not available.
2400958|Before one can study evolutionary rates one must reject the null model of symmetric random walk. for which the requisite quantity does not exist. As random walks reliably simulate all the features we find so compelling in the fossil record-jumps, trends, and irregular cycles-rejection of this irritating hypothesis is much more difficult than one might hope. This paper reviews principal theorems from the mathematical literature of random walk and shows how they may be applied to empirical data by scaling net changes according to the square root of elapsed time. The notorious pair of "opposite" findings, equilibrium and anagenesis, may be construed as deviations from random walk in opposite directions. Malmgren's data on Globorotalia tumida, previously interpreted as an example of punctuated anagenesis, are consistent with a random walk showing neither punctuation nor anagenesis, but instead varying in speed over four subsequences.
4500147|The history of life is punctuated by a number of major transitions in hierarchy, defined here as the degree of nestedness of lower-level individuals within higher-level ones: the combination of single-celled prokaryotic cells to form the first eukaryotic cell, the aggregation of single eukaryotic cells to form complex multicellular organisms, and finally, the association of multicellular organisms to form complex colonial individuals. These transitions together constitute one of the most salient and certain trends in the history of life, in particular, a trend in maximum hierarchical structure, which can be understood as a trend in complexity. This trend could be produced by a biased mechanism, in which increases in hierarchy are more likely than decreases, or by an unbiased one, in which increases and decreases are about equally likely. At stake is whether or not natural selection or some other force acts powerfully over the history of life to drive complexity upward. Too few major transitions are known to permit rigorous statistical discrimination of trend mechanisms based on these transitions alone. However, the mechanism can be investigated by using "minor transitions" in hierarchy, or, in other words, changes in the degree of individuation of the upper level. This study tests the null hypothesis that the probability (or rate) of increase and decrease in individuation are equal in a phylogenetic context. We found published phylogenetic trees for clades spanning minor transitions across the tree of life and identified changes in character states associated with those minor transitions. We then used both parsimony- and maximum-likelihood-based methods to test for asymmetrical rates of character evolution. Most analyses failed to reject equal rates of hierarchical increase and decrease. In fact, a bias toward decreasing complexity was observed for several clades. These results suggest that no strong tendency exists for hierarchical complexity to increase.
2401150|The Plio-Pleistocene planktic foraminiferal sequence of the Globorotalia (Globoconella) puncticulata-inflata clade in Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 588, dated at 4.36 Ma to 0.05 Ma, records the branching history of the G. inflata lineage from the ancestral G. puncticulata lineage. The gradational nature of the divergence and the enormous morphological variability inherent in the G. inflata lineage have elicited different views on taxonomy and phylogeny of this clade. A pattern recognition technique, soft independent modeling of class analog (SIMCA), was used as an objective quantitative stratophenetic methodology to reconstruct the phylogenetic history. Typical specimens of two species, G. puncticulata and G. inflata, were identified from a stratigraphic level dated at 2.76 Ma. Principal component models were built to characterize the morphometric patterns of the two morphotypes using SIMCA. The Globoconella specimens of the next lower and higher adjacent stratigraphic levels were evaluated against the models and classified into one of the two morphotypes. The newly classified specimens were then used to build new models for further tracing of lineages in lower and upper sections, respectively. Progression of such training and classification procedures through stratigraphic intervals resulted in a reconstruction of the evolutionary patterns of the two lineages. Cladogenesis gave rise to the descendant lineage, G. inflata, at about 3.5 Ma. The two co-existing species, G. inflata and G. puncticulata, differ only in size and show similarity in most characters at the beginning of their divergence. Other characters began to diverge later, at various rates. The gradients between planktic and benthic foraminiferal <sup>18</sup>O values show a continuous increase during the late Pliocene. The succession from G. puncticulata to G. inflata during the same time correlates with the progressively increased vertical stratification in temperature of surface waters. Globorotalia puncticulata became extinct at 2.35 Ma when the temperature gradient further increased, corresponding to the onset of extensive glaciation in the Northern Hemisphere.
2400917|Attempts at understanding evolutionary relationships among Paleozoic Dipnoi (lungfish) using cladistic methodology have proved totally unsatisfactory (Miles 1977; Marshall 1987). We attempt to reconstruct the relationships between the better known genera using a method that involves the recognition of lineages based on evolving functional complexes, particularly those involved with food reduction and respiration. Within these broadly defined lineages, we have defined sub-lineages based on evolutionary patterns shown by structures that have been stratigraphically dated; such patterns are found inter alia in the roofing bones and the external dermal bones of the mandible. A number of new suborders and families are recognised; genera for which further morphological data are required before they can be assigned to a higher taxon are indicated; two generic synonyms are recognised. In appendices, short descriptions are given of two new genera-Pillararhynchus from the Gogo Formation (Upper Devonian) of Western Australia, and Sorbitorhynchus from the Emsian of Guangxi, China.
2400930|Prominent extinction "events" have been recognized from statistical analyses of marine invertebrate genera represented in Mesozoic and Cenozoic assemblages, contrasting with relatively low "background" extinction intensities measured in terms of a "percentage extinction" index. On a logarithmic scale, the slope of the relationship between time and extinction intensity for background extinctions is shown to be parallel to the slope obtained for most extinction events, characterized by intensities 10
2400205|How much of a living marine fauna would be reflected in the fossil record? In order to answer this, I investigated the probable fate of 169 megascopic genera of the intertidal fauna of the Friday Harbor, Washington region. Three methods were used and these give very similar results. (I) From morphologic examination, 30% of the mud fauna, 32% of the sand fauna, and 29% of the rock fauna are predicted to yield many identifiable fossils; 38% of the mud fauna, 42% of the sand fauna, and 41% of the rock fauna are predicted to yield few identifiable fossils; and the remainder are predicted to yield no fossils. (II) In actual fact, 44% of the mud fauna, 32% of the sand fauna, and 39% of the rock fauna have a fossil record (data from Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology). (III) The 16 sediment samples which were examined yielded 29% of the total fauna. I conclude (1) that the fossilization potential for the Friday Harbor intertidal fauna is largely independent of habitat, and (2) that 40% of the present megascopic fauna would be (and has been!) preserved in the fossil record. The fossil record would accurately (and preferentially) include the herbivore and filter feeding genera. The reason which I postulate for this is based on the suitability of heavily calcified exoskeletons to an essentially sessile mode of life, and the lack of suitability of such skeletons for readily mobile forms. 67% of the genera which essentially rest in one place are known as fossils. In contrast, only 16 to 27% of the burrowing detritus eaters (e.g., polychaetes) and roving carnivores (e.g., sea stars and crabs) are known as fossils. The percentage of herbivore and filter feeding genera in rocky environments is 39%, in sand 16% and in mud 34%. In the fossil record, deposits which were originally mud are likely to be most fossiliferous because (1) that environment has a high proportion of essentially sessile genera, (2) essentially sessile genera are far more likely to have a heavily calcified skeleton, and (3) few rock intertidal regions are buried.
1558098|An example of actual shell growth in the pentameride brachiopod Lycophoria nucella (Dalman) reveals that the axis-computing morphometric technique (Aldridge 1998; Van Osselaer and Grosjean 2000) produces hypothetical ideal logarithmic spirals that fail to morphometrically characterize the biological realities determined by the actual geometry of the shells to which the axis-computing technique is applied. In contrast, the actual-outline morphometric technique (McGhee 1980) links the measurement coordinate system directly to the ontogeny of the animal under analysis, and it yields morphometric parameterizations of geometric aspects of the shell of direct biological significance to the animal (the presence or absence of ontogenetic alterations in shell convexity, rates of change of shell convexity in the case of anisometric growth, and the nature of anisometric changes in shell convexity-i.e., whether the shell becomes increasingly more convex with growth, or whether the shell becomes increasingly flatter with growth).
41684299|Interpretations of morphologic radiations and macroevolutionary patterns are dependent on a priori choices of taxonomic and geographic scales of study. The results of disparity analysis at varying taxonomic (species and genus) and geographic (regional, biofacies, and community) scales are examined in a study of Ordovician though Early Silurian crinoids. Using discrete morphologic characters, we examined the disparity of 421 crinoids from 65 Laurentian biofacies. Crinoid disparity differs when analyzed at the regional and biofacies levels. Regardless of fluctuations in regional crinoid disparity, average within-biofacies disparity was static throughout the Ordovician, deviating only during the Silurian because of the proliferation of the morphologically aberrant myelodactylid crinoids. The choice of taxonomic level does not have an effect at the biofacies level. However, at the regional level, the two taxonomic scales (genus and species) can produce different results because of variation in the number of species per genus through time and the amount of morphologic variation within individual genera. Weighting disparity by abundance provides a metric combining morphology and community structure. Average weighted disparity at the community level showed patterns similar to that of the biofacies-level disparity curve, but this metric has a greater degree of variation between biofacies. Biofacies with a low ratio of weighted to unweighted disparity display the distinctive community structure (based on aerosol filtration theory) that is often reported in crinoid assemblages.
2401167|Several metrics, including average difference among species, range of occupied morphological space, and number of character-state combinations, are used to investigate morphological diversification in Paleozoic crinoids. Despite several phases of taxonomic diversification, the maximal level of disparity reached in the Ordovician remained essentially unsurpassed. Although new regions in morphological space were occupied after the Devonian, these were not as extensive as those that had been evacuated prior to the Carboniferous. This discordance between extensive total morphological change and limited net change further supports previous arguments for the importance of morphological constraints in crinoid evolution. Major changes in the occupation of morphological space correspond with changes in taxonomic diversity within certain higher taxa. The extent to which advanced cladids (Poteriocrinina) appear to expand into new morphological space is exaggerated by the large number of very similar species in this group. If fewer species are sampled, by considering only those forms that differ from each other by at least some prescribed amount, poteriocrines appear to be less extreme morphologically. In contrast, other groups that seem to occupy unique regions in morphological space continue to do so even if fewer of them are sampled. Major crinoid clades-Camerata and Cladida+Flexibilia-do not show the same evolutionary pattern as Crinoidea, but instead exhibit a more gradual diversification of morphology. This observation provides additional support for the existence of qualitative differences among taxa of different rank.
2666117|New morphometric data gathered from cross-sections of two Lower Devonian land plants (Rhynia gwynne-vaughanii and Asteroxylon mackiei) are interpreted in terms of the evolution of the function of vascular bundles in early land plants. The following conclusions can be drawn from these new data: (1) The ratio of the cross-sectional area of the xylem (representing the conducting volume supplying the axis with water) to the xylem perimeter (representing the "contact area" between xylem and parenchyma through which water leaves the xylem and enters the parenchyma) is not constant for Rhynia axes, almost constant for Asteroxylon axes, and different between Rhynia and Asteroxylon. Thus, Bowers hypothesis that the ratio of cross-sectional area of the xylem to xylem perimeter is constant during ontogenetic development is true for Asteroxylon. That this ratio is constant during phylogeny, however, is not supported by our data. (2) The ratio between cross-sectional area of xylem to parenchyma is higher in Asteroxylon than in Rhynia. (3) As predicted by previous computer simulations, the ratio of the xylem perimeter to the axis perimeter plays a major role in determining water transport performance of the transpiring axis. This ratio is constant within ontogeny but is different in Asteroxylon and Rhynia. In Asteroxylon axes, this ratio is about twice as large as in Rhynia axes. (4) Contrary to the expectations, the distance between the outermost layer of the xylem and the transpiring surface, which represents the low-conductivity pathway through the parenchyma, appears not to be a limiting factor for the water transport in axes of Rhynia and Asteroxylon. (5) From the analysis of the geometric parameters, it is evident that Rhynia and Asteroxylon with their distinct stelar geometries represent two different constructional types for which no transitional stages are known.
4096907|Evolutionary change during the interval in which a fossil sample accumulates will inflate the variance of that sample relative to the population-level standing variation. If this effect is widespread and severe, paleontological samples will not provide reliable estimates of population variation. Although the few published studies conducted to test this possibility have found similar levels of variation in samples differing greatly in temporal acuity, the paucity of case studies prevents assessing the generality of this pattern. In this paper, two independent, literature-based approaches are used to greatly expand the data available to address this issue. The first approach compares morphometric variability in Quaternary mammal samples with samples from related modern populations. The second approach artificially lumps separate samples from evolving lineages and calculates the variance effects of this analytical time-averaging. Both approaches yield consistent results indicating that variance observed in time-averaged samples is typically only slightly inflated (approximately 5%) relative to population-level values. This finding suggests that rates of evolution are typically slow when scaled to within-population variation, providing support for relative stasis as the dominant mode of within-lineage evolution. An important practical consequence of these findings is that time-averaged fossil samples generally show trait variances and covariances that are similar to population-level parameters, which has been an important but implicit assumption in many paleontological studies of phenotypic variation.
2401158|The exceedingly rich middle Pleistocene mammalian fauna from the classic Ensenadan Tarija basin in southern Bolivia contains a diversity of medium to large-bodied herbivores consisting of both endemic (\daggerToxodontia, \daggerLitopterna, Xenarthra) and immigrant (Rodentia, Proboscidea, Perissodactyla, and Artiodactyla) taxa. In order to characterize feeding ecology and niche differences, a suite of morphological characters was measured for each of 13 species of herbivorous mammals from the Pleistocene of Tarija; these were combined with carbon isotopic results from tooth enamel. (The Xenarthra were excluded from this study because they lack tooth enamel.) Several different bivariate and multivariate combinations of characters can be used to characterize the feeding adaptations, niches, and guild composition of the Tarija mammalian herbivores. During the Pleistocene the browsing guild in the Tarija basin is interpreted to include the tapir (Tapirus tarijensis), extinct llama (Palaeolama weddelli), peccary (Tayassu sp.), and deer (Hippocamelus sp.). The mixed-feeding guild included two horse species (Hippidion principale and Onohippidium devillei), litoptern (Macrauchenia patachonica), and capybara (Neochoerus tarijensis). The grazing guild included the numerically dominant horse (Equus insulatus), two lamine species (Lama angustimaxilla and cf. Vicugna, provicugna), notoungulate (Toxodon platensis), and gomphothere proboscidean (Cuvieronius hyodon). The grazing guild has the widest range of body sizes relative to the two other guilds. Closely related sympatric species within the Equidae and Camelidae differentiate their niches from one another using a combination of body size, feeding ecology, and probably local habitat. Most of the paleoecological reconstructions resulting from this combined morphological and isotopic analysis corroborate previous studies based primarily on morphology; there are, however, some notable surprises.
2400259|I present a statistical technique for determining the disarticulation sequence of vertebrate skeletons based on the relative numbers of different intact joints in an assemblage of bones. For remains of modern Topi (Damaliscus korrigum) on the margin of Lake Turkana, northern Kenya, the disarticulation pattern is very consistent. This sequence, on dry land, differs from that reported for bovids that have disarticulated in the presence of water. On land the bones first released as single bones are those moved least easily by currents of moving water. The last released are those moved most easily. I develop a model of random scattering that suggests that the rate of dispersion is great at high concentrations of bones and decreases rapidly as the distance between bones increases. This leads to a condition where scattering effectively stops. The area of more or less stabilised dispersion is dependent only upon the mean distance that each random event moves a bone. Tests show that it is unlikely that articulated units themselves are much involved in scattering, and scattering appears to take place throughout the course of disarticulation.
25609446|A large sample of the Pikermi and Samos ungulates was examined by microwear analysis using a light stereomicroscope (561 extinct and 809 extant comparative specimens). The results were used to infer the dietary adaptations of individual species and to evaluate the Pikermian Biome ungulate fauna. Many of the bovids have wear consistent with mixed feeding, although a few mesodont taxa apparently enjoyed an exclusive browsing and or grazing diet. The giraffids spanned the entire dietary spectrum of browsing, mixed feeding, and grazing, but most of the three-toed horses (Hippotherium) were hypsodont grazers. The colobine monkey Mesopithecus pentelici displays microwear consistent with a mixed fruit and leaf diet most likely including some hard objects. Similar results were obtained from prior scanning electron microscopy microwear studies at 500 times magnification and from the light microscope method at 35 times magnification for the same species. Results show that diet can differ between species that have very similar gross tooth morphology. Our results also suggest that the Pikermian Biome was most likely a woodland mosaic that provided a diversity of opportunities for species that depended on browsing as well as species that ate grass. The grasses were most likely C grasses that would grow in shaded areas of the woodland, glades, and margins of water. The ungulate component of the Pikermi and Samos fauna was more species-rich and more diverse in diet than the ungulates observed in modern African forests, woodlands, or savannas, yet dietarily most similar to the ungulates found in woodland elements of India and to some extent of Africa. It is unlikely that the Pikermi and Samos ungulates inhabited dense forests because we find no evidence for heavy fruit browsing. Conversely, a pure savanna is unlikely because many mixed feeders are present as well as browsers. Extant woodland African species are morphologically and trophically very similar to the African savanna species. Therefore the evolution of grazing and of hypsodont morphology for Africa may have evolved within the Plio-Pleistocene woodlands of Africa. Our results show that major dietary and morphologic ungulate evolution may take place within woodlands rather than as a consequence of species moving into savannas both during the late Miocene of Pikermi and Samos and during the PleistoceneRecent of Central Africa.
2401068|Climatic change has long been regarded as an important factor in evolutionary history. In particular, periods of enhanced extinction in marine taxa (especially those from warmer waters) have frequently been linked to decreases in seawater temperature. Studies of the physiology of marine invertebrates and fish alive today have revealed well-developed abilities to cope with temperature change, and there would thus appear to be a dichotomy between the rates of temperature change associated with extinction in geological history and the very much faster rates (by several orders of magnitude) with which many marine organisms can cope today. Nevertheless, evidence from ecology and biogeography indicates that temperature, or some temperature-associated factor, does play a significant role in determining the limits to performance, and hence distribution. The resolution of the dichotomy between the evidence from paleontology and physiology may come through a consideration of the role of the previous evolutionary history of the fauna, the influence of sudden temperature events, or the impact of climatic change on individual competitive ability, community structure, and ecosystem functioning. Studies of the energetics of marine invertebrates in relation to temperature and the evolutionary history of polar faunas indicate that we should beware of anthropocentric judgements in attempting to understand the role of climatic change in evolutionary history, and be critical in distinguishing the role of temperature per se from temperature-associated ecological factors. Present evidence suggests that climatic change in the sea, at least at the rates currently believed to be typical, is unlikely to cause extinction by direct physiological impact. It is more likely that extinction is caused by ecological factors; temperature change is thus only one of several factors that may promote those ecological changes that are currently the best candidates for the proximate cause of extinction in the sea.
20445611|The aim of this analysis was to establish the basic mechanical principles of simple archosaur cranial form. In particular we estimated the influence of two key archosaur innovations, the secondary palate and the antorbital fenestra, on the optimal resistance of biting-induced loads. Although such simplified models cannot substitute for more complex cranial geometries, they can act as a clearly derived benchmark that can serve as a reference point for future studies incorporating more complex geometry. We created finite element (FE) models comprising either a tall, domed (oreinirostral) snout or a broad, flat (platyrostral) archosaur snout. Peak von Mises stress was recorded in models with and without a secondary palate and/or antorbital fenestra after the application of bite loads to the tooth row. We examined bilateral bending and unilateral torsion-inducing bites for a series of bite positions along the jaw, and conducted a sensitivity analysis of material properties. Pairwise comparison between different FE morphotypes revealed that oreinirostral models are stronger than their platyrostral counterparts. Oreinirostral models are also stronger in bending than in torsion, whereas platyrostral models are equally susceptible to either load type. As expected, we found that models with a fenestra always have greatest peak stresses and by inference are "weaker," significantly so in oreinirostral forms and anterior biting platyrostral forms. Surprisingly, although adding a palate always lowers peak stress, this is rarely by large magnitudes and is not significant in bilateral bending bites. The palate is more important in unilateral torsion-inducing biting. Two basic principles of archosaur cranial construction can be derived from these simple models: (1) forms with a fenestra are suboptimally constructed with respect to biting, and (2) the presence or absence of a palate is significant to cranial integrity in unilaterally biting animals. Extrapolating these results to archosaur cranial evolution, it appears that if mechanical optimization were the only criterion on which skull form is based, then most archosaurs could in theory strengthen their skulls to increase resistance to biting forces. These strengthened morphotypes are generally not observed in the fossil record, however, and therefore archosaurs appear subject to various non-mechanical morphological constraints. Carnivorous theropod dinosaurs, for example, may retain large suboptimal fenestra despite generating large bite forces, owing to an interplay between craniofacial ossification and pneumatization. Furthermore, living crocodylians appear to strengthen their skull with a palate and filled fenestral opening in the most efficient way possible, despite being constrained perhaps by hydrodynamic factors to the weaker platyrostral morphotype. The future challenge is to ascertain whether these simple predictions are maintained when the biomechanics of complex cranial geometries are explored in more detail.
2400466|Stage-level range data for 983 Jurassic and Cretaceous ammonite genera, distributed within 83 families, were analyzed by assigning absolute ages to stages or substages. We found ammonite genera to have a mean generic range of 7.3 Myr/ammonite genus. Using a similar methodology, mean generic range per family was also computed. The distribution of long-ranging genera (arbitrarily chosen as those ammonite genera ranging for 12 Myr or more) among families was found to be nonrandom. Instead, long-ranging genera were found to be concentrated in a few families, resulting in significant heterogeneity in the distribution of generic longevities within families (taxotely sensu Raup and Marshall 1980). Although some of the long-ranging genera were found to be morphologically simpler than shorter-ranging genera, others were equally or even more complex, indicating that longevity among ammonite genera is not merely a taxonomic artifact, dependent on degree of differentiable conch morphology. Those Cretaceous families composed of a large number of long-ranging genera were also among the leaders in mean species longevity per family, based on species-level range data for Cretaceous ammonites of the Great Valley Sequence of California. Many of the long-ranging genera and species possess a similar morphologic attribute: siphuncular tubes (connecting rings) of small diameter but high wall thickness.
2400943|Substantial geographic coverage in paleontological study is essential in testing evolutionary models of phyletic gradualism and punctuated equilibrium. We present a multivariate morphometric study of the late Neogene planktonic foraminiferal clade Globoconella using specimens from four Deep Sea Drilling Project sites (DSDP 284, 207A, 208, and 588) along a latitudinal traverse in the southwest Pacific. During the Late Miocene (7 Ma to 5 Ma), populations of the ancestral species Globorotalia (Globoconella) conomiozea formed a geographic cline showing continuous morphological variation from the temperate sites (DSDP 284 and 207A) to the warm subtropical sites DSDP 208 and 588). Populations living to the south had higher conical angle and fewer chambers in the final whorl compared to the northern populations. Nevertheless, populations across the entire cline exhibited a coherent, directional trend towards having larger conical angle and fewer chambers through time. At the Miocene/Pliocene boundary, the intensification of the Tasman Front (Subtropical Divergence) possibly isolated the peripheral populations in the warm subtropics from the central stocks of the temperate water masses. The evolutionary trends became decoupled: the central populations gradually lost their keel and transformed into G. (G.) sphericomiozea, while the peripheral populations in the warm subtropical areas retained their keel and evolved into a flattened species, G. (G.) pliozea. The gradual transformation of G. (G.) conomiozea terminalis (a form retaining a keel) into G. (G.) sphericomiozea (a form lacking a keel) occurred during an interval of about 0.2 m.y., with all measured morphologic variables showing continuous and steady changes. The evolution of the central populations follows the model of phyletic gradualism. In peripheral populations, the origin of the descendant species G. (G.) pliozea from the ancestor G. (G.) conomiozea terminalis occurred very rapidly within an interval of less than 0.01 m.y. The population size of G. (G.) pliozea was small at the incipient stage at about 5.05 Ma, but increased rapidly to become dominant during the next 0.2 m.y. when the ancestral species G. (G.) conomiozea terminalis became locally extinct. Following speciation, G. (G.) pliozea exhibited morphological stasis for about 0.6 m.y., until the central stock form G. (G.) puncticulata migrated back to the warm subtropics; during the next 0.5 m.y. of their sympatry, there is no sign of hybridization between these two sister species. The evolution of G. (G.) pliozea follows the model of punctuated equilibrium. The evolution of the Globoconella clade shows both phyletic gradualism and punctuated equilibrium. These two "alternative" evolutionary models complement each other rather than being mutually exclusive. Both models are indispensable towards providing a complete picture of the evolution of Globoconella.
2401232|Cantius is an early Eocene adapid primate with an exceptionally well known fossil record. Measurements were recorded to describe the size and shape of upper and lower first molars collected from a measured stratigraphic section in the Clarks Fork Basin of Wyoming. Rates of change of size and shape are quantified by calculating evolutionary rates in standard deviation units per generation (haldanes). Temporal scaling of rates shows that change in size was generated by a significantly nonrandom directional process, while change in shape was generated by a significantly nonrandom stabilizing process. Size change in Cantius is interpreted to be the result of weak directional selection, and shape change is interpreted to be the result of strong stabilizing selection.
2400502|A computer model is presented which is capable of calculating both the photosynthetic efficiency (I) of any specified plant shape and the stress related to the total moment arm (M) imposed on vertical branching patterns. Computer simulations indicate that a flattened plant thallus and an erect branching growth habit are two plant shapes capable of optimizing photosynthetic efficiency during indeterminate growth. These two morphologies have geometric analogues in the dorsiventral thalli of some bryophytes and in the vertical axes of mosses and tracheophytes, respectively. Extension of the model to complex, three-dimensional branching patterns indicates that I and I/M are maximized when branching is overtopped (treelike, with lateral branches on a main axis) and when lateral branching systems are planated (frondlike). Geometric alterations of branching patterns that result in optimization of I and I/M can be simulated by computer and are shown to be similar to morphologic alterations attending the early evolution of vascular land plants. It is suggested that a number of major evolutionary trends seen in Upper Silurian to Upper Devonian times can be expressed in terms of optimizing the display of photosynthetic tissues (I) or the balance between photosynthetic efficiency and incurred moment arms (I/M).
2400741|The impact of the variations in the chemical composition of higher vascular plant cuticles on their fossil record is usually not considered in paleobotanical and, more particularly, taphonomic studies. Here we address the subject with reference to the chemical characterization of insoluble cuticular matrices of a large variety of recent and fossil cuticles. The cuticles were analyzed using Curie-point pyrolysis-gas chromatographic techniques. Cuticular matrices of extant higher plants consist either of the biopolyester cutin, the insoluble, non-hydrolyzable polymethylenic biopolymer cutan, or a mixture of both biopolymers. In fossil cuticles an additional cuticular matrix type consisting of cutan and cutin-derived material is recognized. On the basis of the variations in their chemical composition and the different behavior of the cuticular constituents (viz., cutin and cutan) during diagenesis, it is concluded that the paleobotanical record of cuticles will be biased toward taxa originally having a significant amount of cutan in their cuticular matrix.
1558103|During the Ordovician Radiation, domination of benthic marine communities shifted away from trilobites, toward articulate brachiopods, and, to a lesser degree, toward bivalves and gastropods. In this paper, we identify the patterns in origination and extinction probabilities that gave rise to these transitions. Using methods adapted from capture-mark-recapture (CMR) population studies, we estimate origination, extinction, and sampling probabilities jointly to avoid confounding patterns in turnover rates with temporal variation in the quality of the fossil record. Not surprisingly, higher extinction probabilities in trilobites relative to articulate brachiopods, bivalves, and gastropods were partly responsible for relative decreases in trilobite diversity. However, articulate brachiopods also had higher origination probabilities than trilobites, indicating that relative increases in articulate brachiopod diversity would have occurred even in the absence of between-class differences in extinction probabilities. This contrasts with inferences based on earlier Phanerozoic-scale, long-term averages of turnover probabilities, and it indicates that a major cause of this faunal transition has been overlooked.
2400801|We have calculated rates of evolution for 19 lineages of Neogene bivalves over time intervals ranging from 1 ma to 17 ma. Our morphometric comparisons are based on 24 variables, for which we have made more than 43,000 individual measurements normalized for shell size. We initially assessed evolutionary changes in shape for 19 early Pliocene (4 ma old) species of bivalves by comparing these forms to their closest living relatives, which in 12 cases have traditonally been assigned to the same species. To make our study unbiased and comprehensive, we included all species that met certain predetermined guidelines and that offered suitable fossil material for measurement. We compared early Pliocene and Recent populations using (1) all 24 variables treated separately, (2) multivariate distance (Mahalanobis' D), based on the full set of variables, and (3) eigenshapes for shell outlines. For these comparisons, we used as a yardstick the same measures of morphologic distance applied to pairs of geographically separated Recent populations that belong to eight of the living species to which the fossil populations were compared. As it turns out, with minor exceptions, the distribution of morphologic distances between 4 ma old and Recent populations resembled the distribution of distances between conspecific Recent populations. We calculated net rates of evolution separating pairs of populations that belong to single lineages. For all intervals of time, the distribution of differences between population means for individual variables is remarkably similar to a comparable distribution representing the comparison of pairs of conspecific Recent populations from separate geographic regions. Because morphologic differences between populations do not vary greatly with evolutionary time, measured "rates" of evolution, on the average, decrease with interval of measurement. Because these differences resemble intraspecific variability, however, the rates do not represent significant evolution. Evolution has followed a weak zigzag course, yielding only trivial net trends. The weak and reversible "trends" that we measured yield net rates averaging less than 10 millidarwins, which is much lower than most rates previously reported for marine invertebrates (average 200 millidarwins for a 1 ma interval and 60 millidarwins for a 10 ma interval). We attribute this disparity (1) to the fact that most previously published rates have been calculated when a significant amount of evolution was recognized in advance (often for a poorly documented lineage) and (2) to the fact that most measured variables have represented nothing more than some measure of body size. We conclude that shape, as opposed to size, has been highly stable in bivalve evolution over millions of years and 10
2400614|A rate of extinction must specify both the amount of taxonomic change and the duration of that change. A consistent means of temporal measurement must be used to establish the duration. Terms used to describe the extinction, like catastrophic and gradual, should be quantitatively defined in relation to this framework. Resolving rates of extinction in the stratigraphic record is limited by (1) the precision of chronostratigraphic correlations between individual sections and (2) the temporal completeness of litho- and biostratigraphic records in those sections. In this study, temporal completeness is estimated in eight of the best-known fluvial and pelagic sections spanning the K-T boundary. Temporal standardization is provided by correlations to the geomagnetic polarity time scale. A review of the literature documents lithologic criteria that might be used to infer the presence of a hiatus of some length at the biostratigraphically recognized K-T boundary. Rather than rejecting the presence of such gaps, this study argues that a hiatus of some length does exist and tries to estimate both a maximum limit for its duration and the probability that it represents a given duration below that limit. Pelagic sections are probably more complete than fluvial ones. The section at Caravaca, Spain, can be expected to be the most complete, probably preserving sediment during each 10,000-yr interval of Chron 29R. The section in the San Juan Basin, New Mexico, is expected to be the most complete fluvial section, probably preserving sediment during each 100,000-yr interval of 29R. Results indicate that our best-known marine and terrestrial sections spanning the K-T boundary should not be expected to document biologically catastrophic rates of extinction. A sufficiently precise means of global correlation that is independent of biostratigraphy and causal hypotheses is still unavailable, and it is very unlikely that the sections examined are complete at the 100-yr or biologically catastrophic level of precision. So, although catastrophic amounts of extinction might have occurred during the K-T transition, it seems unlikely that we can distinguish episodes of extinction lasting 100 yr or less from episodes lasting as long as 100,000 yr. Consequently, acceptance of catastrophic hypotheses based on these stratigraphic records seems improbably optimistic at this time.
3595508|The precise knowledge of the number and nature of the species belonging to a fossil assemblage as well as of the structure of each species (e.g., age, sex) is of great importance in paleontology. Mixture analysis based on the method of maximum likelihood is a modern statistical technique that concerns the problem of samples consisting of several components, the composition of which is not known. Nonparametric bootstrap and jackknife techniques are used to calculate a confidence interval for each estimated parameter (prior probability, mean, standard deviation) of each group. The bootstrap method is also used to evaluate mathematically how many groups are present in a sample. Experimental density smoothing using the kernel method appears to be a better solution than the use of histograms for the estimation of a distribution. This paper presents some basic concepts and procedures and discusses some preliminary results concerning sex ratios and mortality profile assessments using bones and tooth metric data of small (Ovis antiqua) and large (Bos primigenius) bovines from European Pleistocene sites.
2400490|Inadequacies in stratigraphic resolution or completeness can make true rates of morphologic change through geologic time impossible to estimate precisely. However, relative rates may be sufficient to test whether the tempo of change within species can account for morphologic differences across species boundaries, and hence to distinguish between gradual and punctuated patterns of evolution. The conditions under which these patterns can be distinguished statistically are explored by simulating varying degrees of within-species rate variability relative to across-species morphologic difference. The statistical methods are then applied to multiple-character morphologic data from closely spaced sequential populations of the Neogene bryozoan Metrarabdotos, using discriminant analysis to compare overall morphologies. In nine comparisons of ancestor-descendant species pairs, all show within-species rates of morphologic change that do not vary significantly from zero, hence accounting for none of the across-species difference. In all cases the ratio of within-species fluctuation to across-species difference is low enough to allow the punctuated pattern to be distinguished with virtual certainty. In at least seven of the cases, ancestor species persisted after giving rise to descendants, in conformity with the punctuated equilibrium mode of evolution.
2401156|Two living forms of Globigerinella siphonifera (d'Orbigny), presently identified as Type I and Type II, can easily be distinguished and collected by SCUBA divers because of differences in appearance, arrangement of the rhizopodial network, and the presence or absence of commensals. Additional biological differences are apparent from laboratory culture experiments; Type I individuals survive significantly longer than Type II under conditions of darkness and starvation and have significantly slower chamber formation rates. Stable isotopic analyses of Types I and II also reveal notable differences, with Type I consistently yielding more negative <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C values. Results of Mg/Ca ratio analyses indicate that Type II specimens precipitated their shells in slightly cooler (deeper) surface waters than Type I specimens. These observations and results from DNA sequencing unequivocally demonstrate that G. siphonifera Types I and II should be regarded as biological sister species. Contrarily, biometric analysis of the empty shells reveals few significant differences between G. siphonifera Types I and II. Of all the features measured from X-ray and SEM images of serially dissected specimens, only shell porosity yields readily discernible differences, with Type I adult chambers averaging 10-20% porosity and Type II adult chambers averaging 4-7% porosity. Statistically significant differences between Type I and II populations are revealed in maximum test diameter (Type I is typically larger) and coiling (Type I is typically more evolute), but these differences do not justify species level distinction of Types I and II using traditional paleontological species concepts. On the basis of the above evidence, and since all specimens were collected at the same location at 3-8 m water depth, we conclude that G. siphonifera Types I and II are living examples of cryptic speciation, whereby biological speciation has occurred in the absence of discernable change in shell morphology. However, it is not clear when or where this speciation took place. Preliminary study of deep-sea cores from the Caribbean and Pacific sides of the Isthmus of Panama reveals a predominance of specimens with Type II porosity values, with rare occurrence of specimens yielding Type I porosity values. Systematic downcore measurement of shell porosity and tightness of coiling needs to be extended back to the middle Miocene, when G. siphonifer a first appeared, to determine the timing of the Type I and II morphological divergence. Postulated mechanisms for reproductive isolation and speciation of Types I and II include alloparapatric, depth parapatric, and sympatric speciation. These models could be tested if further analysis of fossil G. siphonifera shells allows determination of the timing of speciation, the preferred depth distribution, and the history of geographic distribution of Types I and II.
2666014|The general allometric equations for the logarithmic helicospiral can fit many extraconical shapes, but the isometric conditions traditionally used limit study only to conical growth. We present evidence to show that in real gastropod shells, the logarithmic helicospiral equations fit the suture. Poor location of the coiling axis and/or an inappropriate pole for the logarithmic helicospiral has often led to the rejection of this model. The differences between the errors associated with measurement or previously available models are discussed. Two methods, based on suture trace measurements, are proposed to locate the coiling axis both in apical and lateral views. The first is a graphical method based on an elementary property of the logarithmic spiral. The second is a computational method based on iterative reprojections of the suture. It is shown that the protoconch and the teleoconch must be treated separately. The precision of the new methods (especially the computing method) enables deviations from logarithmic helicospiral trajectory to be identified and differentiated from irregularities of the shell and sequential growth phases. Application of these methods may be useful not only for other gastropod morphological features, but also for other taxa such as brachiopods and other mollusks.
4500156| Two simple plate parameters, P, the height of the plate measured normal to the plate base, and , the angle formed between the plate base and the adjacent edge of that plate, serve to model crinoid aboral cup morphology. With few exceptions, the resulting theoretical geometries replicate the range of calyx morphology observed in the natural world. A theoretical morphospace, derived from these parameters, encompasses both the realized and unrealized possibilities of crinoid calyx construction. The model and the associated morphospace demonstrate that the occupation of crinoid cup space varies non-uniformly in time and space and suggest that functional constraints and/or ecological habit are important components of the distribution of cup morphology in time. 
2400837|The origin of endothermic homeothermy and of high metabolic rate in mammals is currently believed to be the result of early (Mesozoic) selection in advanced cynodont therapsids and/or early mammals for either (1) enhanced thermoregulatory capacity or (2) increased powers of endurance and stamina. Selective factors underlying the origin of specialized respiration/ventilation-support systems in mammals are possible indices of the validity of these two hypotheses. One such support structure is the diaphragm, a specialized muscle that facilitates lung ventilation. We tested capacity for maintenance of resting metabolic rate, thermoregulation, and for extended, intense exercise in laboratory rats (Rattus rattus) in which diaphragm function had been completely ablated. The results were virtual elimination of aeroboic scope (active metabolic rate - resting metabolic rate) but resting metabolic rate was unaffected. Thermoregulatory capacity was unimpaired to at least 8
4096956| Studies of taxonomic diversity over time commonly count and compare first- and last-appearance data (FADs and LADs) over a succession of temporal intervals, and interpret them with respect to taxon origination and extinction. Singleton taxa, which first appear and last appear in the same temporal interval, are often removed from analyses because they might result from preservational biases rather than evolutionary processes, or they might represent non-independent FADs and LADs. Should singleton taxa always be excluded? We argue that in the case of Paleozoic terebratulide brachiopods, although they may be sensitive to biases in sampling intensity, singleton genera should be included in diversity studies because they do not appear to result from more typical biases, such as Lagersttten and temporal interval length, that arguably can result in artificially high numbers of singleton genera. Singleton genera can be critical and effective when used to test hypotheses regarding the existence and generation of latitudinal diversity gradients. Contrary to the anti-tropical diversity pattern of modern articulated brachiopods, Paleozoic terebratulides show a latitudinal diversity gradient that peaks in the Tropics. The hypothesis that the Tropics are either a diversity source or sink can be tested by comparing FAD and LAD latitudes. For singleton genera, FAD and LAD latitudes are taken from the same data points and must be removed for statistical comparisons to be valid. We suggest that taxon age distributions can accommodate singleton data, as the taxon age metric considers origination and extinction simultaneously. We generated taxon age distributions to test the hypothesis that the observed Paleozoic diversity gradient results from a latitudinal bias in generic turnover rate. We discovered that singletons are not randomly distributed over latitude, with proportionally more singleton genera occurring in the Tropics. In this case, singleton genera may reflect rapid evolutionary turnover of taxa, rather than simply preservational bias. Methods that can accommodate singleton taxa should be used to study the diversity of Paleozoic terebratulides and possibly other well-skeletonized marine metazoans. 
2400282|The accuracy of numerical summaries of data from the fossil record has been hotly contested in recent years. In this paper I present a computer simulation which mimics the process of preservation and the resultant loss of data in survivorship records. The simulation accepts as its input data a hypothetical "original" record and a time dependent model of preservational loss. These parameters are used to generate a "preserved" record, and the "original" and "preserved" data sets are then compared. Eleven hypothetical original records having different patterns of diversity and turnover were "preserved" in this manner. Indices of diversity, origination, extinction, turnover, and longevity were evaluated for each of five different models of preservational bias. All of the indices behaved in a single characteristic fashion. Taxonomic data that contained large fluctuations (of the order 100%) were preserved accurately. Similarly the large scale changes in preserved records matched original distributions. Records with small fluctuations (30%) were variably preserved and when such fluctuations were present in the preserved record they did not always correlate with events in the original record. Longevities were more accurately preserved than were other forms of taxonomic data. The results are believed to reflect the levels of accuracy obtainable from generic and familial data and suggest ways in which data sets warranting more detailed study may be singled out.
2400303|Colonies of Late Paleozoic lyre-shaped fenestrate bryozoans began growth on rigid substrates which were on the sea floor. After production of a basal disc, a fenestrate network developed in the shape of an erect bowed fan. The fenestrate fan was initially concave on the apertural side, but the curvature reversed a few millimeters above the base. Colonies were then separated along or just above the basal disc, and rested directly on the sea floor. The zooecial apertures were directed upward. The lateral margin of the fan grew to form the supporting struts of the soon-to-be lyre-shaped colony. An open vault formed below the upwardly bowed fan. Lyre-shaped colonies are interpreted to have lain on the sea floor so that each had the proximal end on the upcurrent side. Feeding zooids were on the upper surface and pulled water through their expanded tentacles. The filtered water passed through the fenestrules, into the vault, and out the open end of the vault, which was on the downcurrent side.
2401204|We report quantitative paleoecologic data on the large mammal assemblage preserved in lower Pleistocene deposits at Venta Micena (Orce, Granada, southeastern Spain). Taphonomic studies show that bones were collected mainly by hyaenids, which transported and deposited them near shallow dens. Differential fragmentation of major long bones was produced by hyaenas as a function of their density and marrow content. Strong selection of prey by carnivores-which preferentially killed juveniles, females, and individuals with diminished locomotor capabilities among ungulate prey species of larger body size-is indicated by (1) the abundance of remains of juvenile ungulates in relation to the average weight of adult individuals in each species, (2) attritional mortality profiles for ungulate species deduced from crown height measurements, (3) the presence of many metapodials with different osteopathologies in their epiphyses, such as arthrosis, and (4) a biased intersexual ratio of large bovids. Comparison of the frequencies with which modern African carnivores kill and scavenge ungulates from various size classes with the abundance of these size categories in the assemblage suggests that the Venta Micena hyaena (Pachycrocuta brevirostris) was a bone-cracking scavenger that fed largely on carcasses of ungulates preyed upon and partially consumed by fresh meat-eating carnivores such us saber-toothed felids (Homotherium latidens and Megantereon whitei) and wild dogs (Canis falconeri).
2400875|The problem of how accurately paraphyletic taxa versus monophyletic (i.e., holophyletic) groups (clades) capture underlying species patterns of diversity and extinction is explored with Monte Carlo simulations. Phylogenies are modeled as stochastic trees. Paraphyletic taxa are defined in an arbitrary manner by randomly choosing progenitors and clustering all descendants not belonging to other taxa. These taxa are then examined to determine which are clades, and the remaining paraphyletic groups are dissected to discover monophyletic subgroups. Comparisons of diversity patterns and extinction rates between modeled taxa and lineages indicate that paraphyletic groups can adequately capture lineage information under a variety of conditions of diversification and mass extinction. This suggests that these groups constitute more than mere "taxonomic noise" in this context. But, strictly monophyletic groups perform somewhat better, especially with regard to mass extinctions. However, when low levels of paleontologic sampling are simulated, the veracity of clades deteriorates, especially with respect to diversity, and modeled paraphyletic taxa often capture more information about underlying lineages. Thus, for studies of diversity and taxic evolution in the fossil record, traditional paleontologic genera and families need not be rejected in favor of cladistically-defined taxa.
2666090|A number of natural events can cause ozone depletion, including asteroid and comet impacts, large-scale volcanism involving the stratospheric injection of chlorine, and close cosmic events such as supernovae. These events have previously been postulated to have been sole or contributory causes of mass extinctions. Following such events, UV-B radiation would have been elevated at the surface of the earth. The possibilities for detecting elevated UV-B as a kill mechanism in the fossil record are discussed. In the case of impact events and large-scale volcanism, the taxa affected by increases in UV-B radiation are likely to be similar to those affected by cooling and by the initial drop in irradiance caused by stratospheric dust injection. Thus UV-B may synergistically exacerbate the effects of these other environmental changes and contribute to stress in the biosphere, although UV-B alone is unlikely to cause a mass extinction. By the same token, however, this similarity in affected taxa is likely to make delineating the involvement of UV-B radiation in the fossil record more difficult. Cosmic events such as supernovae may produce smaller extinction events, but ones that are "cleaner" UV catastrophes without the involvement of other environmental changes.
2400376|(1) Hydrodynamic principles and experiments with empty shells predict that pressure distributions around brachiopod shells generated by ambient currents should, depending on the orientation of the shell relative to the current, either augment or oppose the ciliary-driven flow of water through the lophophore. For living articulate brachiopods with plectolophes or spirolophes, orientations where the anterior-posterior axis of the shell is parallel to the current direction should result in pressure distributions which oppose active pumping. This effect should be strongest when the excurrent region of the shell faces into the current. Orientations where the anterior-posterior axis is perpendicular to the current direction should result in pressure distributions which act in concert with active pumping, most strongly when one of the incurrent regions is directed into the current. These effects are independent of specific shell shape. (2) Laqueus californianus and Terebratulina unguicula actively reorient to currents in the laboratory, preferring orientations where the anterior-posterior axis of the shell is perpendicular to the current and the right-left axis is parallel to the current. Both species may traverse an arc as great as 120
4096845|A morphologically diverse assemblage of organic-walled fossils from the middle Neoproterozoic Svanbergfjellet Formation, Spitsbergen, is identified as a monospecific assemblage representing the Gongrosira-phase of a vaucheriacean xanthophyte alga. As such, it provides a range of additional criteria with which to identify fossil vaucheriaceans and confirms the identification of Palaeovaucheria in the Mesoproterozoic Lakhanda Formation. Pronounced taxonomic inflation, through the practice of form-taxonomy, suggests that overall estimates of eukaryotic diversity in the Proterozoic need to be adjusted downward. Combined with positive evidence for low levels of speciation and extended stasis, pre-Cambrian eukaryotes are seen to evolve at a fundamentally lower rate than their Phanerozoic counterparts. This slower turnover accounts for the "delayed" appearance of animals without appeal to external triggers or constraints. The Cambrian acceleration of evolutionary rates was a direct consequence of newly introduced animals, whereas the much slower overall rates of the Proterozoic imply an absence of earlier metazoans.
2400753|Crinoid genera of the subclass Camerata generally dominated Late Silurian through Middle Mississippian pelmatozoan echinoderm assemblages. This dominance reached a peak during the early and middle Mississippian (Kinderhookian-Meramecian), but abruptly ended at the close of the Genevievian Stage (=lowermost Chesterian) in eastern North America. During the Genevievian Stage, crinoids of the subclass Inadunata became taxonomically more diverse but a few camerates, especially Platycrinites and Batocrinus, continued to be numerically dominant in many pelmatozoan assemblages. In eastern North America, platycrinids and batocrinids were reduced drastically near the Genevievian-Gasperian boundary. So obvious is this faunal change that, until recently, the Meramecian-Chesterian Series boundary was recognized as the last occurrence of Platycrinites penicillus. The sudden and drastic decline of numerically dominant platycrinids and batocrinids in eastern North America suggests a mass extinction, but is better interpreted as a range contraction and loss of dominance. Platycrinids, in particular, continued to be significant components of pelmatozoan assemblages in Europe and Asia long after the end of the Genevievian Stage. We infer that this reorganization of pelmatozoan assemblages in eastern North America was a product of predation, siliciclastic tolerance, and current-energy preference, with predation playing a major role. Reorganization resulted in post-Genevievian dominance by (1) cladid crinoids, (2) camerate crinoids that were cladid homeomorphs, and (3) the blastoid Pentremites. Foraminifera, conodonts, corals, brachiopods, bryozoans, and other echinoderm groups were affected little, if any, during this same time.
2400512|Body mass is estimated for extinct species of Sigmodon. These data are then used in appropriate equations derived among Recent mammals to estimate a suite of physiological and ecological variables which are followed through almost 4 ma of cotton rat history. A statistical trend towards large size is documented. Despite large swings in population size and other parameters, hypothetical values of population metabolism remain virtually constant, suggesting negligible population energetic benefit to size change in either direction. Studies of extant cotton rats and unrelated taxa sharing the same adaptive zone suggest that there is now, and has been in the past, negligible thermoregulatory advantage to modification of cotton rat body mass. Large size appears to be associated in Sigmodon with heightened aggression to the point that two species, particularly if of dichotomous size, cannot coexist in the same microhabitat. At least with regard to cotton rats, this conclusion represents a challenge to the comfortable hypotheses of coevolution and character displacement. The overall trend toward large size during Pleistocene time is considered then as the interplay of selection acting to favor large size in areas of sympatry and stochastic processes originating cotton rat populations of different body size. Because morphology and ecological strategies are stable within the cotton rat adaptive zone for millions of years, it is suggested that mammalian speciation events that result in exploitation of a new adaptive zone are uncommon and occasionally cross higher taxonomic categories. These events are defined as first-order speciation events, in contrast to second-order events that occur in clades within the same adaptive zone.
4096941|Mononykus olecranus, a theropod dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous of Mongolia, exhibits reduced forelimbs with a single functional digit. These bizarre forelimbs have aroused great curiosity as to the behavior of the animal, but until now no functional study on the forelimbs of Mononykus has been undertaken. Here I show that the orientation and range of motion in the forelimb elements of Mononykus are such that the humeri sprawl laterally, the antebrachia are held subvertically, the palms face ventrally, and intramanual movement is restricted to subparasagittal motion. This is a radical departure from the typical theropod condition, in which the palms face medially and intramanual movement is transverse. The results of this study confirm that the forelimbs of Mononykus could not have been used to grasp prey or dig burrows, but were well suited for scratch-digging or hook-and-pull movements such as are used by extant anteaters and pangolins to open tough insect nests. Mononykus likely occupied a niche equivalent to that of an anteater or pangolin, an unusual niche for a dinosaur.
2400666|Patterns of temporal variation of six characters in a Miocene stickleback (Gasterosteus doryssus) are presented. Most pairs of characters tend to be correlated, but these correlations account for only about 26% of the observed variation, and thus the characters are studied separately. All character state frequencies exhibit temporal heterogeneity, and their means have temporal trends. Regardless of these overall trends, reversals of the trends cause end members of four time series not to differ significantly from each other. We argue that most observed temporal variation represents intrapopulation evolutionary change. Although most time series have somewhat stepped patterns, complete stasis is absent. Gradual variation is predominant, and in one case is nearly linear, but very rapid evolutionary bursts are also seen. The most rapid stratigraphic change appears to represent a local extinction, followed by recolonization by a differentiated population, but another episode of rapid change probably represents evolution in situ by means of standard neo-Darwinian mechanisms, without involvement of "macromutations" or true saltation. The irregular patterns and great magnitude of phenotypic change that are observed indicate that conventional paleontological samples may miss important evolutionary phenomena and are not comparable to shorter-term evolution in extant populations.
2401106|The ammonoid order Prolecanitida constitutes a relatively small (43 genera, 250 species) but long-ranging lineage (Lower Carboniferous-Triassic, 108 m.y.), which narrowly survived the P/Tr extinctions and provided the stock from which were derived all later Mesozoic ammonoids. Prolecanitids were a minority among Late Paleozoic ammonoids, which were dominated by the Goniatitida, and showed many features that set them far apart from their contemporaries, including (1) long-term, gradual changes in shell geometry (W-D-S); (2) the most strongly constrained morphospace of any Paleozoic ammonids examined to date; (3) an eight-fold increase in mean suture complexity (three times that of Pennsylvanian goniatitids); (4) high correlations between shell geometry, shell and septal thickness, and suture complexity; (5) short body chambers and, as a consequence, high aperture orientations; (6) indications that cameral liquid may have been used for buoyancy control; and (7) a genus longevity that averaged 14.7 m.y. compared with 5.7 m.y. in Upper Carboniferous goniatitids, and that appears to have been unrelated to suture complexity. Prolecanitids showed a pervasive tendency to increase suture complexity (in the clade as a whole as well as within subclades and in more than 90 percent of ancestor-descendant genera), thus arguing a case for a driven complexity trend. The uniqueness of the prolecanitids calls into question whether they and their Mesozoic descendants, ceratites and ammonites, were strictly analogous to Paleozoic goniatites.
2400679|Ricklefs (1980) suggested the use of neontological data to distirguish between puncuated equilibrium and gradualism as modes of evolution. This paper investigates his model and finds it contains oversimplifications that make any test difficult. We modify his model slightly and use it as a limited test of punctuated equilibrium by large morphological shifts at speciation. This test is applied to a data set of 110 species from two families of bats, the Emballonuridae and the Molossidae. We find no evidence of consistently large morphological shifts at the formation of subspecies, species or genera.
2400272|Mammalian generic, familial, and ordinal diversities correlate significantly with continental area. The area effect is similar in form to that shown for true islands: S = kA
4096842|For more than 60 years, evolutionary biologists have debated the issue of whether the processes of genetic change observable within populations (microevolution) can provide an adequate explanation for the large-scale patterns in the history of life (macroevolution). In general, population geneticists have argued in favor of microevolutionary extrapolation, whereas paleontologists have sought to establish an autonomous and hierarchical macroevolutionary theory based on the operation of selection at several levels of biological organization (especially species). The massive variation in eukaryotic genome sizes (haploid nuclear DNA contents, or "C-values") has similarly been a subject of debate for more than half a century, and it has become clear that no one-dimensional explanation can account for it. In this article, the basic concepts of macroevolutionary theory are reviewed and then applied to the long-standing puzzle of genome size variation (the "C-value enigma"). Genome size evolution provides a clear example of hierarchy in action and therefore lends support to the theoretical approach of macroevolutionists. Perhaps more importantly, it is apparent that genome evolution cannot be understood without such a hierarchical approach, thereby providing an intriguing conceptual link between the most reductionistic and expansive subjects of evolutionary study.
4500175|Tyrannosaurus rex and other tyrannosaurid theropods exerted high bite forces, and large muscle attachments suggest that the tyrannosaurid neck was a concomitantly powerful component of the feeding apparatus. We examine accelerative and work-generating capacity (WGC) of neck muscles in adult Tyrannosaurus rex, using a 3-D vector-based method that incorporates aspects of muscle force generation, reconstruction of muscle morphology and moment arms, and rotational inertias of the head and neck. Under conservative assumptions, radial accelerations of the head by large superficial muscles (M. transversospinalis capitis, M. complexus, and M. longissimus capitis superficialis) enabled rapid gaze shifts and imparted high tangential velocities to food sufficient for inertial feeding. High WGC by these and deeper muscles under eccentric contraction indicate high efficacy for tearing flesh, especially with the head and neck in an extended posture. Sensitivity analyses suggest that assigned density of the antorbital region has substantial effects on calculated rotational inertia, and hence on the accuracy of results. However, even with high latitude for estimation errors, the results indicate that adult T. rex could strike rapidly at prey and engage in complexly modulated inertial feeding, as seen in extant archosaurs.
2400151|Life-sized scale models and a flume were used to observe simulated feeding and hydrodynamics of the Paleozoic camerate crinoid, Pterotocrinus. Three orientations of the crown and filtration fan (downcurrent, upcurrent, upright) in a gentle (3.5 cm/sec) current were used. Maximum baffling of the current and eddying of water into feeding areas occurred where models were oriented like most living stalked crinoids, with a parabolic filtration fan perpendicular to the current and ambulacral side downcurrent. Facing the ambulacral side of the fan upcurrent reduced time available for entrapment of potential food particles. Calyx shape was important in modifying the nature of the filtration fan baffle. Overlapping (36%) of the pinnulate arms increased the baffling effect of the filtration fan. Conspicuous tegminal structures, the Pterotocrinus wing plates, only had a baffling effect where the fan was in an upright position or the arms were infolded between the wing plates. Species of Pterotocrinus possessing blade-like wing plates could have fed effectively in several different orientations. Evolutionary success of Pterotocrinus species with blade-like wing plates probably resulted from dual feeding and protective functions of the wing plates.
2401151|Allometric analysis of the size-shape relationships in the Pliocene-Pleistocene planktic foraminiferal Globorotalia (Globoconella) puncticulata-inflata plexus reveals several heterochronic modes underlying the morphological evolution of the clade. The ancestral lineage, G. puncticulata, is a peramorphocline, showing a pre-displacement mode of heterochrony between 3.5 Ma and 3.0 Ma and an acceleration mode from 3.0 to 2.7 Ma. A different peramorphosis process, isometric giantism (hypermorphosis), in the ontogeny of the ancestral stocks of Globoconella occurred at about 3.5 Ma and gave rise to the G. inflata lineage. The descendant lineage, G. inflata, appears to have adopted a paedomorphosis trend by delaying the onset of the neanic stage in ontogeny during the period of 3.5 to 2.35 Ma, resulting in a series of transposition allometries. During the interval of 2.4 to 1.73 Ma, the allometries shifted to the opposite direction, signifying a pre-displacement trend. Evolutionary stasis marks the evolution during 1.73 to 0.25 Ma. Neoteny concluded the final evolutionary stage of the G. inflata lineage during the latest Quaternary (0.26 to 0.05 Ma). The enormous plasticity and fluctuations in morphology of G. inflata are attributed to the highly positive allometric growth during the ontogeny and the wide-range transposing allometries in the phyletic history. The major changes in heterochronic mode coincide with paleoceanographic events, suggesting that the morphological evolution in the Globoconella clade has been modulated by changes in paleoceanographic conditions.
2400720|The degree to which the relative abundances of the species in a fossil assemblage represent those in the living community from which it came is an indication of the fidelity of the assemblage in preserving most of the aspects of community structure that we may hope to find in the fossil record. I have developed a model for the formation of attritional fossil mammal assemblages that shows that the logarithm of the number of individuals of each species in an ideal unbiased assemblage, when regressed on the logarithm of body mass, will exhibit a slope of approximately -1.05  0.25 (approximate 95% confidence interval). This value is based upon ubiquitous scaling relationships of population density and turnover rate with body mass among extant mammals. These relationships are the results of widespread energetic and metabolic regularities in community structure and physiology and can be expected to have been essentially the same in the remote past. The slope of -1.05 provides for the first time a reference standard for community structure of sufficient generality for use in the analysis of this aspect of fossil assemblages. We can use this value as a sort of "null hypothesis" of no bias against which we can compare actual fossil assemblages. Analysis of some promising assemblages reveals that they exhibit badly biased relative abundances. However, it is likely that in these cases we can explain this bias as almost entirely the result of pre-burial differential destruction of the carcasses of different-sized species. The combination of this new, biological approach with the largely physical approaches of taphonomy and sedimentology will allow us to ask more specific questions about bias in fossil assemblages, avoiding circular arguments. We can now distinguish, in a large number of situations, assemblages that preserve reliable community-structure information from those that do not.
4096908|Although the causes of mass extinctions have been studied in detail, recoveries have received little attention until recently. In this study, I examine the influence of extinction versus recovery intervals on ecological patterns across the end-Cretaceous (K/T) event in veneroid bivalves. Systematic and stratigraphic data were collected for 140 subgenera of veneroids, ranging from the Late Cretaceous through Oligocene of North America and Europe. Morphological data were collected for 1236 specimens representing 101 subgenera. Extinction selectivity and differential recovery were assessed with respect to morphology, and by extension, burrowing ecology in these bivalves. Eighty-one percent of veneroid subgenera went extinct at the K/T and diversity did not return to preextinction levels until 12 million years later. Despite the severity of the K/T extinction, I found little evidence of morphological or ecological selectivity. The K/T recovery, in contrast, was strongly biased toward taxa with deep pallial sinuses (i.e., toward deeper burrowers). For veneroids, the morphological and ecological effects of the K/T event are not tied to the extinction itself, but to the recovery that followed. The K/T recovery initiated a trend toward deeper burrowing that helped to establish veneroids as one of the most abundant and successful groups of modern marine bivalves.
2400421|Morphological continuity in the fossil record is the principal evidence favoring evolution as a historical explanation for the diversity of life. Continuity is usually discussed on scales broader than the species level. Patterns of morphological variation characteristic of living species are useful in recognizing species on time planes in the fossil record, but the fossil record is rarely complete enough temporally or geographically to preserve more than a fraction of species living in a given interval. Transitions between known species are even rarer. Where transitions are preserved, new species appear to arise through anagenesis (transformation of an ancestral stock producing a modified descendant) and through cladogenesis (subdivision of an ancestral lineage where one or more descendants differ from the ancestral stock). Evolutionary species are often necessarily bounded arbitrarily in the dimension of time. Orthogenesis and punctuated equilibrium lie at opposite poles in a spectrum of speciation modes. Orthogenesis, highly constrained anagenesis, is probably rare. Cladogenesis appears to differ little from anagenesis once ancestral stocks are segregated. Limited evidence suggests that morphological differentiation during cladogenesis postdates genetic isolation. Hence punctuated equilibrium may be rare as well. Patterns of gradual change over time indicate that morphological evolution is reasonably viewed as continuous within and between species. Rates of evolution vary greatly (continuity does not require constancy). Rate distributions are truncated and biased by limits of stratigraphic completeness and time resolution: moderate to high rates of morphological evolution and species turnover are rarely recorded by fossils. Species durations are poorly characterized, but they appear to be so variable that there is no suggestion of periodicity. Species longevity is unpredictable. The episodic nature of faunal turnover suggests that extrinsic environmental factors rather than intrinsic homeostatic factors govern evolution at the species level.
25482677|We outline a plausible evolutionary sequence that led from prokaryotes to the origin of the first nucleated cell. The nucleus is postulated to evolve after the archaebacterium and eubacterium merged to form the symbiotic ancestor of amitochondriate protists. Descendants of these amitochondriate cells (archaeprotists) today thrive in organic-rich anoxic habitats where they are amenable to study. Eukaryosis, the origin of nucleated cells, occurred by the middle Proterozoic Eon prior to the deposition in sediments of well-preserved microfossils such as Vandalosphaeridium and the spiny spheres in the Doushantou cherts of China.
2666091|One of the major obstacles in dealing with any form of data derived from fossils is the effects of time-averaging, which are the result of mixing the remains of organisms that did not live contemporaneously. Although this process results in loss of temporal resolution, it also serves to filter out short-term variations. Temporal resolution of a collection depends not only on the range of fossil ages, but also on their frequency distribution. Previous studies of marine molluscs indicate that most shells in an accumulation are relatively young. Such a distribution of shell ages can be fit by an exponential curve (assuming both a constant probability of shell loss and a constant rate of shell addition), which implies that 90% of the shells were added during the last 50% of the time interval represented by the collection. That is to say, differences between two collections can be discerned even if they overlap 50% in time, because the proportion of shells with shared ages is only 10%. Applying the exponential model to previously published data suggests that long-term rates of destruction are controlled by how frequently shells from the taphonomically active zone are re-exposed to rapid destruction. To take advantage of the "noise-filtering" property of time-averaging, samples need to be large enough to catch the full range of environmental variation recorded by an accumulation. A simple probability formula indicates that samples of easily achievable size can give satisfactory time-averaged results depending on the level of confidence and sampling density defined by the researcher.
2400270|The "niche-variation" model predicts that increase in environmental stability should be accompanied by increase in homozygosity and reduction in morphological variability. All Late Cambrian trilobite biomeres show an increase in regional species diversity from low in the biomere toward the top. This change in diversity is believed to reflect increasing environmental stability and consequently affords the opportunity to indirectly test the "nichevariation" hypothesis in a paleontological context. Measurements were made of eight cranidial features of samples of 17 species populations from the Pterocephaliid Biomere of the Great Basin. Coefficients of variation and a multivariate analog of them failed to reveal a relationship between morphological variability and species diversity. Consideration of these data together with contradictory, but limited, informaton for other organisms suggests that the predicted decrease in genetic variability may either be absent or be readily masked in naturally occurring populations, which typically retain a high degree of genetic polymorphism. If heterozygosity is common, it would appear that accidents of geography, rather than the genetic consequences of stable or unstable environments, are among the primary factors controlling the probability of speciation.
23014897|Particle size reduction is a primary means of improving efficiency in herbivores. The mode of food particle size reduction is one of the main differences between herbivorous birds (gizzard) and mammals (teeth). For a quantitative comparison of the efficiency of food comminution, we investigated mean fecal particle sizes (MPS) in 14 herbivorous bird species and compared these with a data set of 111 non-ruminant herbivorous mammal species. In general MPS increased with body mass, but there was no significant difference between birds and mammals, suggesting a comparable efficiency of food processing by gizzards and chewing teeth. The results lead to the intriguing question of why gizzard systems have evolved comparatively rarely among amniote herbivores. Advantages linked to one of the two food comminution systems must, however, be sought in different effects other than size reduction itself. In paleoecological scenarios, the evolution of ``dental batteries,'' for example in ornithopod dinosaurs, should be considered an advantage compared to absence of mastication, but not compared to gizzard-based herbivory.
2400819|This paper presents a new means of interpreting the distribution of taxa among taxonomic lists. Traditionally, "similarity" indices have been used to compare lists, and "association" measures have been used to compare taxonomic distributions. It is argued that when sampling regimes are poorly understood, all similarity and association indices are unjustifiable. However, observations that taxa have overlapping (conjunct) or nonoverlapping (disjunct) distributions are universally meaningful. Because greater sampling can only increase the number of known conjunctions and because long lists serve as conjunctional Rosetta Stones, conjunction data sets can be far more reliable than the lists that generate them. One way to account for patterns of conjunction and disjunction is to create theoretical spaces composed of two distributional boundaries or edges for each taxon in each dimension. A parsimonious arrangement of edges implies distributions that always overlap when taxa are conjunct and infrequently overlap when taxa are disjunct. A procedure involving correspondence analysis is shown to minimize the number of implied disjunctions. The method is used to analyze a set of 271 Miocene large-mammal genus lists from the Great Plains region. Biostratigraphic and radiometric data demonstrate that the "best" arrangement of distributional edges is temporal and corresponds to an age-range chart. The edge sequence is calibrated to the radiometric time scale and used to compute a detailed genus-level diversity curve and to redefine the boundaries between Miocene Land-Mammal Ages and Subages in the Great Plains. Each of the Miocene Ages can be divided into two or three Subages. Diversity levels are apparently low throughout the Early Miocene and rise sharply during the Middle Miocene. Significant drops in diversity occurred at about 17.4, 11.6, 8.7, and 6.5 Ma. The base of the Barstovian corresponds to the base of the Middle Miocene, and the Clarendonian straddles the Middle-Late Miocene boundary.
2400885|Being of especially high quality, the Neogene fossil record of planktonic foraminifera offers special opportunities for assessing patterns of extinction and speciation. A variety of metrics indicates that within this group the mean duration of lineages has been much shorter (rate of extinction has been higher) for the globorotaliid clade than for the globigerinid clade. Furthermore, in the globorotaliid clade rates of extinction and speciation have not been closely linked to changes in diversity, but rather have been relatively high even at times when diversity has undergone little change. Thus, the globorotaliid clade has undergone more rapid evolutionary turnover than the globigerinid clade. Data for living species reveal that neither geographic range nor temperature tolerance-is the primary factor controlling lineage duration. On the other hand, there is evidence that lineages marked by low abundance (small population size) are relatively short-lived. The reason that globorotaliid lineages have generally survived for shorter intervals, on the average, may be that their populations have been less abundant and less stable. Usually they live deeper in the water column, where food is often sparse, and many flourish only in areas of upwelling. Furthermore, the globorotaliids lack symbiotic algae for nutritional support. The same ecological factors may have accelerated speciation in the globorotaliid clade, by causing species to be patchily distributed. Thus, population size and structure have been more important than geographic range in determining rates of extinction and speciation. This parallels the situation for Neogene marine bivalves. For planktonic foraminifera, as for Western Atlantic Bivalvia, the normal pattern of extinction was reversed in late Pliocene time, apparently in response to climatic cooling. The globigerinids suffered a sudden pulse of extinction. The deeper dwelling globorotaliids fared better; probably many of their species benefited from elevation of the seasonal thermocline into the photic zone. At the same time, rate of speciation declined in the globorotaliid clade, which supports the idea, inferred from the evolutionary history of marine bivalves, that an increase in the size and stability of populations should depress both rate of extinction and rate of speciation.
2400190|Measurement of the compressive strength and elastic modulus of the skeletal material of three common Caribbean corals suggests that the mechanical properties of coral skeleton are an important factor in the adaptive repertoire of these animals. The strength (stress at fracture) of the specimens tested is 12-81 meganewtons/meter
20445607|Geographic range and taxonomic duration are known to be positively correlated in a number of biologic groups; this is usually attributed to the influence of range upon duration rather than the other way about. Here we analyze two distinct components of this correlation within species and genera of marine invertebrates and microfossils by partitioning the total duration into two parts: the time it takes a taxon to attain its maximum geographic range, and the time a taxon persists after attaining its peak range. We find that the longer it takes a taxon to attain its maximum geographic range, the wider is that range. We also find that the broader the maximum range, the greater is the duration after this maximum is attained. These two correlations are equally strong on average. There is thus a reciprocal relationship between duration and geographic range, and there is no compelling evidence that range generally determines duration more or less than duration determines range.
25609441|This paper presents a method for constraining the age of a clade with the ages of the earliest fossil specimens in that clade's outgroups. Given a sufficiently deep, robust, well-resolved, and stratigraphically consistent cladogram, this method can yield useful age constraints even in the absence of specific information about the fossil preservation and recovery rates of individual taxa. The algorithm is applied to simulated data sets to demonstrate that this method can yield robust constraints of clade ages if there are sufficient fossil outgroups available and if there is a finite chance that additional outgroups may be discovered in the future. Finally, the technique is applied to actual fossil data to explore the origin of modern placental mammals. Using data from recently published cladograms, this method indicates that if all Mesozoic eutherians are regarded as outgroups of Placentalia, then the last common ancestor of modern placental mammals and their Cenozoic allies lived between 65 and 88-98 million years ago, depending on the assumed cladogram and the number of outgroups included in the analysis.
2400488|The dominance of Paleozoic articulate brachiopods in once-muddy environments may be explained by an array of mechanisms and structures that reject nonfood particles, in some cases without interruption of feeding: (1) behavioral flexibility of the lophophore and its individual filaments; (2) persistent, variable-speed rejection currents on the mantle, which sometimes concentrate pseudofeces in topographically controlled vortices; (3) costae and alae (which have many other probable functions); (4) inhalant currents elevated above substrate; (5) marginal setae. Some mantle currents parallel (and presumably augment) lophophore feeding currents; others diverge up to 90
2400263| Regular discontinuities in the distributions of morphological measurements may conceivably reveal tempos in evolution. Recently Lvtrup et al. (1974) attributed apparent stepwise interspecific variation in mammalian and avian body size to an evolutionary cause: according to these workers, the pattern may reflect punctuation in phylogeny caused by speciation. The nature and appropriate use of data, the choice of techniques for detecting patterns, and the implications of the results of such tests are discussed here in the light of this Swedish study. A technique, which may be used to verify patterns in rose diagrams or a range of ostensibly rhythmic phenomena, is described and applied to new data. Clustering is found at intervals other than those predicted by Lvtrup et al., but there is no consistent trend in the values of these interval lengths among data sets. 
2400369|Geological data show that high Andean habitats have been available for plant colonization only since the end of the Tertiary. The manner in which plant species moved into these habitats, the times during which, and the methods by which they differentiated during the Pleistocene varied altitudinally and latitudinally along the tropical Andes. The process of speciation in all areas, however, was the same as that in temperate environments, namely, geographic isolation and subsequent divergence. Except on the Altiplano, most plant species expanded their ranges during glacial periods when vegetation zones were lowered. In the northern paramos at elevations above treeline, colonization was greatest during glacial periods but has always occurred in a manner similar to that of oceanic islands. At lower elevations in the northern Andes, and along the Eastern Cordillera, direct migration was possible in glacial times because of increased contiguity of upper montane forest habitats. On the upper slopes of the west coast of Peru, glacial-age plant migrations were fostered more by changes in precipitation than by the lowering of vegetation belts. In all of these areas, interglacial periods were, and are, times of isolation and differentiation. Across the Altiplano in contrast, glacial periods were times of population fragmentation accompanied by differentiation and/or speciation.
2400304|An intertidal sample of 118 to 155 Terebratalia transversa on Saltspring Island, B.C., was censused in 1974, 1975, and 1976. Growth in length was a maximum of 7.8 mm per year and declined with size (age). As in fossil articulates, mortality rate was independent of age (size). Recruitment was patchy in time and space, was multi-annual or continuous, and was concentrated near conspecific adults. There were as many as 800 individuals/m
2400256|This paper analyzes an aberrant group of echinoids in terms of constructional morphology, i.e., as modification of an established "Bauplan" by a set of new functional and morphogenetic constraints and possibilities. The characteristics of sand dollars (flat test, spine differentiation, branched food grooves, lunules) are related to a particular combination of burrowing and sieve feeding in sandy sediments. It has independently evolved from less specialized Clypeasteroids in at least three lineages (Scutellina, Rotulidae, Arachnoididae), which have solved inherent problems differently (sutural interlocking; growth patterning of food grooves and canal systems; lunule formation; weight belts). These three groups have radiated in different degrees due to their different palegeographic histories.
2400922|This short contribution clarifies similarities and differences between the findings of Gilinsky and Bambach (1986) and Gilinsky and Good (1989) regarding the shapes of clades. The methods developed in the latter contribution are preferred.
2400296|The fossil record of Phanerozoic brachiopod genera and Late Cenozoic New World mammal genera is examined for evidence of evolutionary equilibria. One necessary (but insufficient) condition is met: within temporal intervals, numbers of originations correlate with numbers of extinctions. Eliminating temporally short-ranging brachiopods, however, reduces the correlation so that it explains only 16% of the variation. More decisive tests of the equilibrium hypothesis appear impossible with available data. Difficulties of temporal and geographic scale, taxonomic level, and ecological consistency must be resolved before equilibrium models can be applied in paleontology for other than inspiration.
20445609|Previous discussions of mass extinction mechanisms generally focused on circumstances unique to each event. However, some have proposed that extensive volcanism combined with bolide impact may offer a general mechanism of mass extinction. To test this hypothesis we compared generic extinction percentages for 73 stages or substages of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic. We found that the highest frequency of intervals with elevated extinction occurred when continental flood basalt volcanism and bolide impact co-occurred. In contrast, neither volcanism nor impact alone yielded statistically elevated extinction frequencies. Although the magnitude of extinction was un-correlated with the size of the associated flood basalt or impact structure, crater diameter did correlate with extinction percentage when volcanism and impact coincided. Despite this result, case-by-case analysis showed that the volcanism-impact hypothesis alone cannot explain all intervals of elevated extinction. Continental flood volcanism and impact share important ecological features with other proposed extinction mechanisms. Impacts, like marine anoxic incursions, are pulse disturbances that are sudden and catastrophic, and cause extensive mortality. Volcanism, like climate and sea level change, is a press disturbance that alters community composition by placing multigenerational stress on ecosystems. We propose that the coincidence of press and pulse events, not merely volcanism and impact, is required to produce the greatest episodes of dying in Phanerozoic history.
4096924| Many late Pleistocene fossil localities contain the remains of multiple mammoths. Some of these sites have been interpreted as representing the mass death of an entire herd, or family group, of mammoths. These assemblages have been cited as evidence of intense human predation and used to reconstruct mammoth population dynamics. However, these interpretations remain controversial because the taphonomic settings of many sites are still debated. To reconstruct the taphonomic setting of each site and the movement patterns of mammoths among sites, I used analyses of carbon, oxygen, and strontium isotope ratios in mammoth tooth enamel. The carbon isotopes of fossils vary with diet and local vegetation, oxygen isotopes vary with local climate, and strontium isotopes vary with local soil chemistry. If Pleistocene mammoths traveled together in small family groups, then mammoths from sites that represent family groups should have lower isotopic variability than mammoths from sites containing unrelated individuals. I tested this conjecture by comparing the isotopic variability among mammoths from two sites-one that represents the mass death of a single herd (Waco, Texas) and one representing a time-averaged accumulation (Friesenhahn Cave, Texas)-and then used these analyses to examine mammoths from three Clovis sites: Blackwater Draw, New Mexico; Dent, Colorado; and Miami, Texas. Low levels of carbon isotope variability were found to be the most diagnostic signal of herd/family group association. Although the variability of oxygen and strontium isotope ratios proved less useful for identifying family group assemblages, these signals did provide information about the movement patterns of individuals among different sites. High levels of variability in each of the isotope systems at Clovis sites suggest that all of the sites examined represent time-averaged accumulations of unrelated individuals, rather than the mass deaths of family groups. In addition, analyses of the mean isotope values of Clovis mammoths show that although most mammoths from Blackwater and Miami had similar values, the values of Dent mammoths were significantly different. This demonstrates that the Dent mammoths belonged to a separate population and suggests that Clovis mammoths did not routinely undertake long distance (600 km) migrations. 
2400463|Methods currently used to estimate taxonomic extinction probabilities from fossil data generally assume that the probability of encountering a specimen in a particular stratum, given that the taxon was extant in the time period and location represented by the stratum, either equals 1.0 or else is a constant for all strata. Methods used to estimate taxonomic diversity (number of taxa) and speciation rate generally assume that encounter probabilities equal 1.0. We suspect that these assumptions are often false. Capture-recapture models were historically developed for estimation in the face of variable and unknown sampling probabilities. These models can thus be used to estimate parameters of interest from paleobiological data when encounter probabilities are unknown and variable over time. These models also permit estimation of sampling variances, and goodness-of-fit tests are available for assessing the fit of data to most models. Here we describe capture-recapture models which should be useful in paleobiological analyses and discuss the assumptions which underlie them. We illustrate these models with examples and discuss aspects of study design. We conclude that these models should prove useful in paleobiological analyses.
3595498|Teeth are generally the best-preserved elements among mammal fossil remains and are highly diagnostic characters. Consequently, much mammalian paleontological, systematic, and evolutionary research focuses on teeth, so it is important to understand how they vary and covary with other characters. Dental traits within populations of carnivores appear to be more variable than cranial traits, a pattern that results only partly from their usually smaller size. Furthermore, dental traits, although highly correlated with one another, are not highly correlated with cranial traits, which are also highly correlated with one another. Thus, teeth and cranial bones may be subject to quite different selective pressures and genetic/developmental constraints and may suggest different microevolutionary scenarios. Vestigial teeth show significantly greater variability than expected, reflecting the absence of stabilizing selection.
2665992|Conodont element function and feeding mechanisms are of considerable paleobiological importance, yet many details remain poorly understood and speculative. Analysis based on morphology, physical juxtaposition, and patterns of surface damage and microwear on pairs of Pa elements from individuals of Idiognathodus indicates that these elements crushed food by rotational closure, which brought the oral surfaces into complex interpenetrative occlusion. Other molariform conodont elements also functioned in this manner. Occlusion of this complexity is unique among nonmammalian vertebrates, and is all the more surprising given that conodonts lacked jaws. In addition to enhanced understanding of food processing in conodonts, our analysis suggests that many details of conodont Pa element morphology, which underpin taxonomy and biostratigraphy, can now be interpreted in a paleobiological, functional context.
4096932|A theoretical morphologic model defining ligament formation in the Bivalvia is introduced. It is based on the spacing of a lamellar layer, the spacing of a fibrous layer, and the relative growth rate of the expanding ligament with respect to enlargement of the ligamental area. Most of the diverse patterns of bivalve ligaments are successfully modeled by computer simulations. Wide intraspecific variation of the ligamental pattern is observed in an arcid species, Tegillarca granosa. This appears to be a consequence of allometric change of morphogenetic parameters during growth, adjusted to maintain the relationship between ligament strength and shell weight. The distribution of actual ligaments, which does not fill the theoretical morphospace, shows potential evolutionary pathways of bivalve ligaments. Thus, it implies phylogenetic relationships between ligament types from the viewpoint of pattern formation.
2400287|Mark and Flessa (1977) have argued that the evolutionary equilibrium hypothesis requires that there should be significant correlation between generic origins and extinctions, and they presented data on Phanerozoic brachiopods and Cenozoic mammals. Their data are re-examined and the correlations are found not to support their version of the evolutionary equilibrium hypothesis. We argue that the equilibrium hypothesis may not be falsifiable using paleontological data.
41432806|A key question in studies of mass extinctions is whether the extinction was a sudden or gradual event. This question may be addressed by examining the locations of fossil occurrences in a stratigraphie section. However, the fossil record can be consistent with both sudden and gradual extinctions. Rather than being limited to rejecting or not rejecting a particular scenario, ideally we should estimate the range of extinction scenarios that is consistent with the fossil record. In other words, rather than testing the simplified distinction of "sudden versus gradual," we should be asking, "How gradual?" In this paper we answer the question "How gradual could the extinction have been?" by developing a confidence interval for the duration of a mass extinction. We define the duration of the extinction as the time or stratigraphie thickness between the first and last taxon to go extinct, which we denote by . For example, we would like to be able to say with 90% confidence that the extinction took place over a duration of 0.3 to 1.1 million years, or 24 to 57 meters of stratigraphie thickness. Our method does not deny the possibility of a truly simultaneous extinction; rather, in this framework, a simultaneous extinction is one whose value of  is equal to zero years or meters. We present an algorithm to derive such estimates and show that it produces valid confidence intervals. We illustrate its use with data from Late Permian ostracodes from Meishan, China, and Late Cretaceous ammonites from Seymour Island, Antarctica.
2401205|Eocene lake beds of Horsefly, British Columbia, are preserved in varves, or discrete yearly layers representing seasonal changes in the lake. These varves allow study of temporal variation and rates of change in morphological and ecological characters on a very short time scale. One of the most sensitive indicators of the paleoenvironmental conditions on the floor of the lake may be the taphonomic condition of the fishes, which vary between perfectly articulated and completely disarticulated skeletons. Patterns of disarticulation correspond to those produced by scavengers. The taphonomy supports the hypothesis that the lake was warm monomictic, circulating in the winter, at which time scavengers could gain access to the bottom of the lake. Larger-scale environmental events (on the order of hundreds of years) are suggested by the fact that the proportion of well-preserved specimens reached two peaks within the seven centuries of deposition, one peak during the second century and another during the fifth and sixth centuries. These results clearly demonstrate two principles: that taphonomy can be a sensitive indicator of paleoenvironmental conditions, and that temporal averaging can affect the taphonomic properties of this fossil site, and presumably of others with equal or lower time resolution.
23014737|Species abundance data are of vital importance in paleontology, but fossil accumulations invariably represent a biased subset of original source communities. Efforts to quantify taphonomic biases are typically prevented by a lack of independent data on the ecological composition of prehistoric faunas. However, analysis of the continental Holocene record can provide a rare opportunity for independent calibration of fossil abundance patterns. We analyzed a comprehensive data set available for the Holocene avifauna of Sweden to investigate the relationship between species abundance in the recent fossil and zooarchaeological records and in prehistoric source communities, and to characterize the importance of different ecological factors in determining terrestrial vertebrate fossil abundances. The number of assemblages in which species occurred was compared with modern-day species abundance, annual residence, body mass, and ecological realm. Modern-day abundance is only one of several significant predictors of fossil abundance; the strongest predictor is body mass, and Holocene species abundance can be interpreted as a measure of species abundance in source communities for a given size class only. Our study represents one of the only direct attempts to quantify species abundance biases between fossil faunas and source communities, and has general applicability for a wide range of terrestrial vertebrate faunas.
2400207|The feces of the Shasta ground sloth (Nothrotheriops shastense), preserved by the arid climate of the lower Grand Canyon, were collected at various levels and examined by microhistological analyses to identify and quantify plant taxa in the diet. Over 500 pieces of different Shasta sloth coprolites were examined. Sloth dung from the nearby Muav Caves was examined and compared with that from Rampart Cave. Seventy-two genera of plants were identified in the sloth dung deposited discontinuously from over 40,000 to about 11,000 yr BP. The major plant taxa in the Rampart Cave sloth diets were desert globemallow (Sphaeralcea ambigua = 52%), Nevada mormontea (Ephedra nevadensis = 18%), saltbushes (Atriplex spp. = 7%), catclaw acacia (Acacia greggii = 6%), Cactaceae spp. (= 3%), common reed (Phragmites communis = 5%), and yucca (Yucca spp. = 2%). Six of the most abundant plants in sloth diets were collected in the environs of Rampart Cave and were analyzed for their energy, fiber and nutrient values. The simulated diets of Rampart Cave sloths averaged 1679 cal/g in digestible gross energy and 7.9% for digestible protein. Apart from a substantial increase in digestible energy and in mormontea there was no unusual change in the sloth diet immediately prior to the time of their extinction. The ecological role of Nothrotheriops shastense is less dramatically different from that of extant desert herbivores than was previously believed.
2401200|Symbioses are often regarded as an important means for the creation of evolutionary novelty as well as a trigger for the abrupt appearance of higher taxa. The fossil record of foraminifer-algal symbiosis suggests that the appearance of this ecological association contributed to the radiation of Paleogene planktic foraminifera. Isotopic evidence shows that photosymbiosis evolved in synchrony with a major diversification of trochospiral planktic foraminifera about 3.5 m.y. after the end-Cretaceous extinction. In modern planktic foraminifera, photosymbiotic species tend to have more cosmopolitan distributions than asymbiotic foraminifera and a greater ability to withstand periods of nutrient stress. The simultaneous taxonomic radiation and acquisition of photosymbiosis are evidence that the ecological strategy permitted Paleocene foraminifera to expand their niche in pelagic environments by diversifying into low-nutrient surface waters. A comparison of the species longevities of Neogene and Paleogene symbiotic clades suggests that photosymbiosis does not regulate the characteristic rate of taxonomic turnover in clades after they appear. Species longevities are much shorter in Paleocene and Eocene photosymbiotic morphospecies than they are among photosymbiotic Neogene clades; apparently photosymbiosis does not exert a significant control over long-term evolutionary rates. In addition, the absence of a characteristic morphology associated with photosymbiosis in Cenozoic planktic foraminifera suggests that morphology, as with rate of evolutionary turnover, is linked to symbiosis only because of common inheritance instead of a functional relationship. Although the coincidence between the acquisition of photosymbiosis and generic diversification does suggest a linkage between this ecology and the appearance of foraminiferal higher taxa, there is little indication at the present that symbioses control long-term morphological or ecological patterns within these groups after their appearance. Photosymbiosis, and other evolutionary innovations, may be more a catalyst for the differentiation of major groups than a predictable governor on evolutionary rates.
4096895|Biodiversity has two principal components: richness (the number of taxa) and evenness (the distribution of individuals among taxa). Both of these attributes are critical in defining community composition and structure, but evenness may be particularly important for ecological reasons, especially in the context of a possible evolutionary increase in richness. Here I examine abundance data in well-preserved Cambrian and Ordovician benthic marine assemblages from mixed carbonate-shale and shale lithofacies deposited below normal wave base in North America. Evenness increases significantly from the Cambrian to the Ordovician in these assemblage data. The increase cannot easily be attributed to differences in sample size, lithology, water depth, or other sample characteristics. There is relatively little variation in evenness among stages within the Cambrian and Ordovician periods. Much of the within-period variance in evenness appears to arise from environmental and/or taphonomic differences that may exist between stratigraphic formations, but some variance may also be ascribed to the degree of taxonomic and/or ecological overlap among dominant taxa. Specifically, assemblages that are co-dominated by taxa from the same class or order tend to have lower evenness than assemblages dominated by genera from different higher taxa, but the effect is not strong in these data. The Cambrian and Paleozoic evolutionary faunas show similar, but out-of-phase, patterns of evenness within assemblages. Both faunas have comparably low evenness early in their history but then increase to similar, higher evenness values. In the case of the Cambrian fauna, the increase occurs in the Late Cambrian or Early Ordovician. In the Paleozoic fauna, the increase appears to occur after the lower Arenigian.
2400260|Owls are important consumers of small vertebrates, and because they regurgitate pellets rich in bone, they may be important potential contributors of the concentrated remains of small vertebrates to the fossil record. Owls of three sizes, the large great horned owl (Bubo virginianus), the medium-sized barn owl (Tyto alba), and the small screech owl (Otus asio), were fed a common diet of mice. The bony contents of the pellets were analyzed to determine the amount of bone loss by digestion, bone completeness, and sites of bone breakage. For all three species, only about half the number of bones ingested were recovered in the pellets. Mandibles and femora were most abundant, and pelves and scapulae were the least abundant. Screech owls broke 80% of the cranial and limb elements, barn owls only 30%. Skulls fared poorly in great horned and screech owl pellets, while barn owls returned 80% of the skulls intact, with only the caudal portion of the cranium damaged; barn owls also returned articulated strings of vertebrae and complete paws. These results provide a baseline for the recognition of owls as agents of accumulation of small bones in the fossil record and suggest that the actions of ancient predators may be revealed by species-specific patterns of bone destruction of an assemblage of fossil prey species.
2400191|The intensity of drilling predation was studied on samples of fossil and Recent species of Turritella, a soft-bottom mesogastropod mollusc. Our data and records in the literature show that the frequency of drilling has remained about the same from the Eocene to the present. There may have been less predation by drilling during the Late Cretaceous. Among living Turritella, there is a sharp increase in intensity of drilling predation from the temperate zones to the tropics. This latitudinal trend is paralleled by an equatorward increase in number of species of drilling gastropods. Strong spiral ribs of some Eocene, Miocene, and Recent species of Turritella confer protection against drilling, but the mechanism of this immunity remains unclear.
2401066|Predatory marine snails and their prey provide a unique look at many aspects of predation events, allowing behavioral inference and studies of coevolution. This study examines differential predation patterns, rates, and success of two co-occurring gastropod predator families which drill two co-occurring species of Turritella (Turritelliade: Gastropoda) in the Gulf of California. Both naticid and muricid predators, identified by the shapes of their respective boreholes, attacked the thinner-shelled Turritella leucostoma more frequently than the thicker-shelled Turritella gonostoma. Both species were drilled more frequently and more successfully by naticid, as compared to muricid, predators. Naticids drilled prey in the 40- to 70-mm size class most frequently. Prey over 100 mm in length were relatively safe from all drilling predators. Predator size (estimated by borehole diameter) in naticids was correlated with prey size in both species, but for a given-sized prey, predators on T. gonostoma were proportionally larger. There was no size correlation for muricid predators. Unsuccessful attempts (incomplete drilling) were started on the suture more often than were completed holes, for both predator families on both prey species. naticids began drilling T.leucostoma on the suture significantly less than expected by chance. We looked for possible changes over evolutionary time by analyzing prey shells from Pleistocene and Recent storm deposits. We found no evidence of change in any aspect of implied predatory behavior over the past 100 k.y.
2401147|Benthic foraminifera have attained gigantic sizes many times throughout geologic history. To understand the selective processes underlying foraminiferal gigantism, we used a computer-based, three-dimension, solid finite element model to analyze the mechanical strength of different discoid forms, including two of the largest living foraminifera-Cycloclypeus carpenteri Brady and Marginopora vertebralis Quoy and Gaimard. These two species enlarge by cyclic, planar growth, resulting in slightly biconvex (C. carpenteri) and slightly biconcave (M. vertebralis) forms. As the tests enlarge, the maximum stresses induced by a standard bending moment decrease in both species. Such stress-reducing growth plans apparently allow growth to extraordinarily large sizes and allow volume to increase with minimal lowering of the surface-to-volume ratio, a critical functional factor in ensuring increased surface area for photosynthesis by endosymbionts contained within the tests and for chemical exchange by the foraminifera with the external environment. Of the two species, M. vertebralis has a stronger construction and a lower surface-to-volume ratio. These features indicate optimal constructional solutions to environmental constraints (degree of turbulence and light availability) in their disparate natural habitats: M. vertebralis in the mechanically rigorous inter- to subtidal, and C. carpenteri on the light-minimal and hydraulically quieter, deeper sea beds. We conclude that morphological design in larger foraminifera is constrained by a biomechanical factor, and that gigantism and biomechanical optimization are demonstrably related.
2401226|We compared phylogenies derived from morphological data for two cheilostome bryozoan genera, Stylopoma and Metrarabdotos, with genetic differences between species (Stylopoma) and the stratigraphic occurrence of fossils (both genera). Correspondence between species of Stylopoma defined by protein electrophoresis and on preservable skeletal morphology is excellent, despite great morphological variability within colonies and the predominance of quantitative over discrete characters. Moreover, agreement between genetic and morphological classifications increased greatly when morphological discrimination was pushed to the limit, despite inability to consistently assign all specimens to species with high confidence. This "splitting" strategy also maximized the correlation between genetic distances and the distances between species in cladistically derived phylogenies. Fossil and living species of both genera are sufficiently abundant and widespread to provide credible limits for inferred ancestral relationships. Inclusion of fossils in cladistic analyses of Stylopoma increased the consistency of cladistic hypotheses by up to 30% and provided a more effective means of rooting trees than comparison with living species of the most closely related genus ("outgroup"). Moreover, in the case of Metrarabdotos, failure to incorporate stratigraphic information turned the cladogram virtually upside down, so that postulated ancestors first appear in the fossil record 6-16 m.y. after their putative descendants became extinct. Stratigraphically rooted trees suggest that most well-sampled Metrarabdotos and Stylopoma species originated fully differentiated morphologically and persisted unchanged for > 1 to > 16 m.y., typically alongside their putative ancestors. Moreover, the tight correlation between phenetic, cladistic, and genetic distances among living Stylopoma species suggests that changes in all three variables occurred together during speciation. All of these observations support the punctuated equilibrium model of speciation.
2401182|The taxonomic diversity of crocodilians (Crocodylia) through the last 100 million years shows a general decline in the number of genera and species to the present day. But this masks a more complex pattern. This is investigated here using a comprehensive database of fossil crocodilians that provides the opportunity to examine spatial and temporal trends, the influence of sampling, and the role of climate in regulating biodiversity. Crown-group crocodilians, comprising the extant families Alligatoridae, Crocodylidae, and Gavialidae, show the following trend: an initial exponential diversification through the Late Cretaceous and Paleocene that is restricted to the Northern Hemisphere until after the K/T boundary; relatively constant diversity from the Paleocene into the middle Eocene that may be an artifact of sampling, which might mask an actual decline in numbers; low diversity during the late Eocene and Oligocene; a second exponential diversification during the Miocene and leveling off in the late Miocene and Pliocene; and a precipitous drop in the Pleistocene and Recent. The coincidence of drops in diversity with global cooling is suggestive of a causal link-during the initial glaciation of Antarctica in the Eocene and Oligocene and the Northern Hemisphere glaciation at the end of the Pliocene. However, matters are complicated in the Northern Hemisphere by the climatic effects of regional uplift. Although the global trend of diversification is unperturbed at the K/T boundary, this is largely due to the exceptionally high rate of origination in the early Paleocene. Nonetheless, the survival of such a demonstrably climate-sensitive group strongly suggests that a climatic explanation for the K/T mass extinctions, especially the demise of the dinosaurs, must be reconsidered.
2400396|A survey of all Cerion taxa and geographic variants reveals that a distinctive shape-a narrowly spired "smokestack" shell more than three times higher than wide-occurs only in dwarfs and giants and never in the much more common populations of normal size. The smokestack shape evolved once in giants (in the newly described species C. excelsior from Great Inagua and Mayaguana-the largest of all Cerion), but at least seven and probably eight times independently in dwarfs. A study of complex allometric patterns in Cerion's ontogeny, and of covariance sets in growth, indicates that smokestacks can easily evolve in dwarfs and giants by the common route of relative increase in whorl number during an allometric phase that adds height but no width to the shell. (Giants simply add more whorls to a shell with whorls of normal size; dwarfs grow a normal number of whorls in a shell with small whorls and reduced maximum width.) This pathway is not open to Cerion of normal size, and the restriction of smokestacks to both extremes of the size range records a channel set by Cerion's invariant allometries and the geometry of spiral growth in general, not an immediate adaptation conferring special advantages via the elevated spire itself.
23014904|Theoretical morphology is the scientific field in which researchers model organism growth and form. The field is developed well in studies on skeletons, especially shells. Researchers have contributed echinoid skeleton models to the field, but these have yet to be recognized collectively. We present herein the first comprehensive review for echinoid skeleton models in theoretical morphology. We apply a phylogenetic systematic analysis to those models, use the resulting consensus cladogram to classify and interrelate the models in an analogy in which they are likened to fossil specimens in a biostratigraphic record, and utilize the biostratigraphic metaphor to define trends within theoretical morphology as it applies to echinoid skeleton models.
2400606|The sequences of skeletal disarticulation in a broad range of African mammals in a tropical savanna environment suggest that in general the process is very consistent. There is some variation among species, but this cannot yet be convincingly related to higher taxonomic categories or to body size. Disarticulation begins shortly after death, proceeds more or less continuously, and is almost complete after 5 yr. Because of the overall predictability of disarticulation, the stage of disarticulation reached by comparable fossil skeletons provides useful information about their taphonomic history prior to burial.
2400795|Genera of montane conifers first appeared in the fossil record in large numbers in the Middle Eocene (47-45 Ma) as widespread volcanism in the Cordilleran region provided scattered, cold upland tracts suited for them. Higher subalpine environments, generally above 2,000 m, probably were confined then to upper slopes of scattered strato-volcanos and basement highs covered with thick pyroclastic deposits. As relief increased in the middle Tertiary, and especially during the Pliocene-Quaternary, the area suited for a subalpine forest zone increased significantly, enabling montane conifers to spread into that higher, colder environment and form a new major forest zone. During glaciations the subalpine zone was much larger and probably from 900-1,000 m lower than at present. Spreading post-glacial warmth and drought account for its retreat to higher levels and for the discontinuous distribution of the forest and its species today. Recency of the subalpine adaptive zone is implied also by the close relations of its varieties and subspecies of herbaceous perennials, a few annuals, and pines to those in vegetation zones below it.
20445575|We developed a new method to generate topographic maps of tooth crowns from X-ray synchrotron microtomographic data. Maps are drawn after cervix-plane orientation of tooth image stacks, without the need for a geographic information system. Classical topographic maps with contour lines are complemented by slope maps and angularity maps. Cartography allows precise comparisons of cusps morphologies, and quantification of the directions of cusp axis elongation and slope. Application of this method to muroid rodents with cricetine and murine dental patterns reveals clear-cut differences in cusps morphology that are indicative of the direction of the chewing movement, in agreement with wear facet analyses. Rodents with a murine dental pattern were derived from ancestors with a cricetine pattern, and their origin is associated with important changes in cusp morphology and organization. In order to understand such evolutionary change, our investigation is applied to a sample of extant and fossil muroid rodents that are characterized by either a murine dental plan or a cricetine one, or a dental pattern intermediate between those of cricetines and murines.
40792286|We analyze relationships among a range of ecological and biological traits geographic range size, body size, life mode, larval type, and feeding typein order to identify those traits that are associated significantly with species duration in New Zealand Cenozoic marine molluscs, during a time of background extinction. Using log-linear modeling, we find that bivalves have only a small number of simple, two-way associations between the studied traits and duration. In contrast, gastropods display more complex interactions involving three-way associations between traits, a pattern that suggests greater macroecological complexity of gastropods. This is not an artifact caused by the larger number of gastropods than bivalves in our data set. We used stratified randomized resampling of families to test for associations between traits that might result from shared inheritance rather than ecological trait interactions; we found no evidence of phylogenetic effects in any associations examined. The relationships revealed by our study should serve to constrain the range of possible biological mechanisms that underlie these relationships. As previously observed, two-way associations are present between large geographic range and increased duration, and between large geographic range and large body size, in both bivalves and gastropods. In gastropods, planktotrophic larval type is associated with large range size through a three-way interaction that also involves duration; there is no direct association of larval type and geographic range. Gastropods also display two-way associations between duration and life mode, and duration and feeding type. We note that in gastropods, an infaunal life mode is associated with large range size, whereas in bivalves infaunality is associated with reduced range size.
2400631|The age (mortality) profiles of ungulate species in a fossil fauna are useful for reconstructing modes of death and of bone accumulation. Crown height measurements probably provide the most practical means of obtaining age profiles in most fossil samples. Reliable, interpretable profiles will result when individual age is estimated from crown height using a mathematical model first suggested by C. A. Spinage and when the individual ages are grouped into relatively broad age classes. One potential objection to the model is that it requires tedious calculation and there is a strong possibility of calculation error when many crown heights are involved. This problem may be circumvented by the use of an interactive BASIC program appended to this paper. The user supplies the raw crown heights in a fossil sample, together with estimates of initial unworn crown height, ages of dental shedding and eruption, and maximum possible individual age. The program then tabulates the number of individuals in successive 10%-of-potential-lifespan intervals.
4096857|The discrete cosine transform (DCT) is a Fourier-related transform widely used in signal processing and well suited to analyzing open outlines such as ammonite ribs. The method is applied here to depict and decipher the ribbing morphospace of a large group of Lower Jurassic ammonites composed of the Oxynoticeratidae and their close ancestors. Because they are clearly associated with buoyancy and/or swimming ability, the usually clearly involute, comparatively smooth and compressed shells of these ammonites may well be misleading taxonomic markers. In this context, quantitative analysis of the ribbing pattern using the DCT may significantly improve our perception of the ornamental patterns expressed within the group. A set of 251 specimens illustrating the worldwide fauna and selected from more than 80 publications is analyzed. Big differences are found in the evolutionary patterns of the two main lineages of Oxynoticeratidae currently accepted in the literature. A previously unsuspected Mediterranean group comprising principally the genus Parasteroceras is identified from its distinctive ornamentation. The northwest European and Mediterranean genera Eparietites, Oxynoticeras, and Parasteroceras do not feature among the American (East Pacific) faunas. This finding calls into question some generally accepted correlations between European and American stratigraphic frameworks. The study shows that the DCT is a valuable tool for discriminating between species within the huge and often puzzling range of ornamental variation of the main genera (e.g., Gleviceras and Radstockiceras).
2400203|A simple equilibrial model for the growth and maintenance of Phanerozoic global marine taxonomic diversity can be constructed from considerations of the behavior of origination and extinction rates with respect to diversity. An initial postulate that total rate of diversification is proportional to number of taxa extant leads to an exponential model for early phases of diversification. This model appears to describe adequately the "explosive" diversification of known metazoan orders across the Precambrian-Cambrian Boundary, suggesting that no special event, other than the initial appearance of Metazoa, is necessary to explain this phenomenon. As numbers of taxa increase, the rate of diversification should become "diversity dependent." Ecological factors should cause the per taxon rate of origination to decline and the per taxon rate of extinction to increase. If these relationships are modeled as simple linear functions, a logistic description of the behavior of taxonomic diversity through time results. This model appears remarkably consistent with the known pattern of Phanerozoic marine ordinal diversity as a whole. Analysis of observed rates of ordinal origination also indicates these are to a large extent diversity dependent; however, diversity dependence is not immediately evident in rates of ordinal extinction. Possible explanations for this pattern are derived from considerations of the size of higher taxa and from simulations of their diversification. These suggest that both the standing diversity and the pattern of origination of orders may adequately reflect the behavior of species diversity through time; however, correspondence between rates of ordinal and species extinction may deteriorate with progressive loss of information resulting from incomplete sampling of the fossil record.
2400972|The Paratethyan basins of eastern Europe and western Asia became isolated from marine influence in the Late Miocene, and were the sites of several remarkable endemic radiations of brackish and freshwater organisms. Here I describe the patterns of tempo and mode before and during the radiation of the gastropod Melanopsis in the Pannonian basin of eastern and central Europe, and I explore the underlying mechanisms of evolutionary change. The most ancient melanopsid species in this area, M. impressa, was present in freshwater areas marginal to the basin well before the radiation. Widely spaced samples of M. impressa indicate that this species underwent a period of stasis lasting at least 7 m.y. The end of stasis corresponded with the extinction of the last of the normal marine fauna in the basin, suggesting that the lack of other fauna and/or reduced salinity in the basin permitted expansion of the melanopsids from the basin margins into the basin proper. Stasis ended with the onset of changes in size, shouldering, and ontogeny, which led eventually to M. fossilis. Change occurred over a 2-m.y. interval; a series of intermediates is present for all three characters. Within-sample correlations provide no evidence that the three characters are constructionally linked; instead they appear to be changing independently. The mode of change in the M. impressa-M. fossilis lineage appears to have been anagenetic. Alterations in the rate and direction of selection (and/or genetic links between characters) are probably required to explain the overall slowness of the change. Most Pannonian basin melanopsid species arose by rapid cladogenesis in the Middle Pannonian Stage. Physical factors in the basin probably influenced the timing of this diversification; contrasting patterns of variation and diversity between two melanopsid clades suggest that intrinsic factors influenced the extent of diversification.
2400656|An analysis of the structure and kinematics of the forelimbs and hindlimbs of pterosaurs, and functional analogy with recent and fossil vertebrates, supports a reappraisal of the locomotory abilities of pterosaurs. A hypothesis of structural, aerodynamic, and evolutionary differences distinguishing vertebrate gliders from fliers is proposed; pterosaurs fit all the criteria of fliers but none pertaining to gliders. The kinematics of the reconstructed pterosaur flight stroke reveal a down-and-forward component found also in birds and bats; structural features of the shoulder girdle and sternum unique to pterosaurs may be explained in light of this motion. The recovery stroke of flight was accomplished, in birdlike fashion, by a functional reversal of the action of the M. supracoracoideus by the pronounced enlargement of the acrocoracoid process, which acted as a pulley. The wing membrane was supported and controlled through a system of stiffened, intercalated fibers, which were oriented like the main structural elements in the wings of birds and bats. The hindlimbs of pterosaurs were independent of the wing membrane, and articulated like those of other advanced archosaurs and birds, not like those of bats. The gait was parasagittal and the stance digitigrade. Because of limitations on the motion of the forelimb at the shoulder, pterosaurs could not have walked quadrupedally. However, bipedal locomotion appears to have been normal and quite sufficient in all pterosaurs. There is nothing batlike about pterosaur anatomy; on the other hand, pterosaurs bear close structural resemblances to birds and dinosaurs, to which they are most closely related phylogenetically.
2400777|Analysis of the stratigraphic records of 19,897 fossil genera indicates that most classes and orders show largely congruent rises and falls in extinction intensity throughout the Phanerozoic. Even an ecologically homogeneous sample of reef genera shows the same basic extinction profile. The most likely explanation for the congruence is that extinction is physically rather than biologically driven and that it is dominated by the effects of geographically widespread environmental perturbations influencing most habitats. Significant departures from the congruence are uncommon but important because they indicate physiological or habitat selectivity. The similarity of the extinction records of reef organisms and the marine biota as a whole confirms that reefs and other faunas are responding to the same history of environmental stress.
4096854|Inferring the causes for change in the fossil record has been a persistent problem in evolutionary biology. Three independent lines of evidence indicate that a lineage of the fossil stickleback fish Gasterosteus doryssus experienced directional natural selection for reduction of armor. Nonetheless, application to this lineage of three methods to infer natural selection in the fossil record could not exclude random process as the cause for armor change. Excluding stabilizing selection and genetic drift as the mechanisms for biostratigraphic patterns in the fossil record when directional natural selection was the actual cause is very difficult. Biostratigraphic sequences with extremely fine temporal resolution among samples and other favorable properties must be used to infer directional selection in the fossil record.
4096944| Batches of freshly fallen Metasequoia glyptostroboides litter were subjected to one of 12 degradation regimes varying in temperature, pH, and oxygen availability for a three-month decay period. The regimes were intended to simulate possible conditions prevailing during the first winter following the autumnal leaf fall for the Metasequoia dominated forests of Axel Heiberg Island ca. 45 Ma. The decayed leaves were examined by transmission electron microscopy to quantify the extent and quality of chloroplast preservation. The best preservation of chloroplast membranes was observed at pH 8.5 and at 10C, although it was found that rapidly freezing samples also reliably preserved ultrastructural chloroplast features with a high degree of fidelity to the living state. The results from this study suggest that the ambient water chemistry of the depositional environment in the Eocene floodplain forests of Axel Heiberg Island could have been basic, and maintained by a natural carbonate buffering system, but they also demonstrate that the preservation of chloroplast features can occur under varying environmental conditions. 
2400318|The most important topics discussed thus far by community paleoecologists are: community approach to paleoenvironmental reconstruction, community development in evolutionary time, and community constraints upon species evolution. The first step in community-paleoecological analysis is to reconstruct the paleocommunity or paleoecosystem. However there are severe methodological limitations to any inference drawn from the composition and structure of a fossil assemblage. These result from various taphonomic biases. These constraints upon reliability of a community-paleoecological analysis are the least severe in the case of Cenozoic (and possibly Cretaceous) tropical to subtropical, mollusk-dominated, subtidal, benthic communities. The basic assumption of community paleoecology is that communities or biocoenoses represent a distinct, real level of biotic organization achieved through ecological integration of and coevolution among the species. This assumption seems to be invalid for two reasons. (1) The actual degree of community integration is in general insufficient to induce any driving forces for a structural development as predicted by the system theory. (2) The concept of biological reality and distinctness of the community level of biotic organization implies assignment of a significant role to group selection. The assumption that ecological communities achieve with time an equilibrium state representing an optimum habitat partitioning among the component species is invalid, at least as a generalization. This idea is largely falsified and refuted by a variety of ecological studies. Ecological communities are then merely an epiphenomenon of the overlap in distributional patterns of various organisms. There is no intrinsic, biotic mechanism inducing community dynamics in either ecological, or evolutionary time. In spite of this conclusion, the so-called "community approach" under favorable taphonomic conditions is among the most reliable methods of paleoenvironmental reconstruction, and the data on so-called "community evolution" are relevant to the problem of a relationship between actually realized niche patterns and their environmental framework. The latter problem can also be approached through analysis of longevity-frequency-distributions of chronospecies found living together in various habitats. A preliminary investigation may indicate that the precondition to optimization of niche dimensions through coevolution among ecologically related species was met in subtidal benthic habitats but not in pelagic ones. To account for a niche subdivision among planktonic organisms, one has therefore to invoke a stochastic pattern of speciation rather than coevolutionary mechanisms.
2400188|Given estimates of the variation in total standing species richness through the periods of the Phanerozoic, mean species duration, and the relative intensity of the sampling of the fauna from each of the periods, the expected number of described species can be predicted for each period of the Phanerozoic using an analytic sampling model. This model is based on the assumption that the relative abundances of species in any geologic period can be approximated by the canonical (lognormal) speciesabundance distribution. Three commonly cited models of standing species richness (Valentine, 1973; Gould et al., 1977; Bambach, 1977) each suggest different patterns of species richness in the Phanerozoic. By assuming that sampling of the fossil record is proportionate to sediment volume, it can be shown with the sampling model that the Empirical, Equilibrium, and Species-Richness Models each predict that the number of described species will be strongly correlated with sediment volume. Equally high correlations are predicted if it is assumed that sampling is proportionate to sediment area or to paleontological interest. The correlations predicted for each of the three models are remarkably similar. The impact of sampling effects is so strong that the variations in species richness postulated by these three models are almost completely obscured. Preservational biases will probably only further obscure the relationship between the number of described species and total species richness. Therefore, it seems likely that analysis of trends in the total number of described species will be of little use in determining trends in worldwide species richness in the Phanerozoic. Comparison of the actual patterns of variation in the number of described species and the expected numbers of described species predicted by the sampling model reveals that more species are known from the Cenozoic than would be predicted from the abundance of Cenozoic sediments or from the amount of paleontological interest in the Cenozoic. This might have resulted from the Cenozoic sediments remaining relatively free of diagenetic effects which might have destroyed the fossils entombed in the sediments.
41684303|Analysis of dental wear and damage is becoming an increasingly important tool in unraveling the trophic ecology of a wide range of vertebrates, and when applied to fossils it can provide evidence of both diet and feeding kinematics that is independent of morphological analysis. Conodonts have the best fossil record among vertebrates and their skeletal elements are known to exhibit surface wear and damage generated in vivo as a consequence of their function as teeth. We report the results of the first systematic survey and analysis of the frequency and extent of this wear and damage in conodonts (based on Pi elements from a range of Carboniferous genera). This has revealed that wear and damage are remarkably common, present in all conodont elements sampled. Multivariate analysis reveals that patterns of wear and damage differ significantly among different conodont taxa, and exploratory ANO VA and linear discriminant analyses show that wear and damage differ according to the position of taxa in an onshore-offshore gradient, and whether they are likely to have had a benthic or pelagic mode of life. The incidence of denticle tip spalling in particular is higher in more-offshore environments and in taxa likely to have had a pelagic mode of life. Aspects of the data also reflect the occlusal kinematics of the elements, providing a means of testing hypotheses of element function. Our results have wide-ranging implications for unlocking the fossil record of conodonts, by, for example, furnishing direct evidence of the diet-mediated processes that may have driven observed patterns of evolutionary change, and reducing the confounding effects of depth segregation when using conodonts in isotope-based paleotemperature studies.
4096811|Marsupial mammals are characterized by a pattern of dental replacement thought to be unique. The apparent primitive therian pattern is two functional generations of teeth at the incisor, canine, and premolar loci, and a series of molar teeth, which by definition are never replaced. In marsupials, the incisor, canine, and first and second premolar positions possess only a single functional generation. Recently this pattern of dental development has been hypothesized to be a synapomorphy of metatherians, and has been used to diagnose taxa in the fossil record. Further, the suppression of the first generation of teeth has been linked to the marsupial mode of reproduction, through the mechanical suppression of odontogenesis during the period of fixation of marsupials, and has been used to reconstruct the mode of reproduction of fossil organisms. Here we show that dental development occurs throughout the period of fixation; therefore, the hypothesis that odontogenesis is mechanically suppressed during this period is refuted. Further, we present comparative data on dental replacement in eutherians and demonstrate that suppression of tooth replacement is fairly common in diverse groups of placental mammals. We conclude that reproductive mode is neither a necessary nor a sufficient explanation for the loss of tooth replacement in marsupials. We explore possible alternative explanations for the loss of replacement in therians, but we argue that no single hypothesis is adequate to explain the full range of observed patterns.
2666121|A new sampling technique for fossil bone (coring with a 5/8 bit) was used to sample longbones of all four sauropod genera from the Upper Jurassic Tendaguru beds of Tanzania for paleohistological study. Brachiosaurus and Barosaurus are represented by growth series of humeri and femora, while Dicraeosaurus could be sampled in fewer specimens and only one bone of Janenschia was available. Although all samples are dominated by fibrolamellar bone tissue, taxa can be distinguished by the degree and nature of bone remodeling and the presence and spacing of a peculiar kind of growth line (here termed polish lines). In addition, Barosaurus bone revealed two types of histology, tentatively interpreted as sexual morphs. The Tendaguru sauropods show a common growth pattern in which growth is determinate but sexual maturity is achieved well before maximum size is reached. For Brachiosaurus and Barosaurus, size at sexual maturity can be estimated and was reached at about 40% and 70% maximum size, respectively. Quantification of growth is possible in Janenschia using polish lines: the specimen studied reached sexual maturity at $\geq$11 years, attained maximum size at $\geq$26 years, and died at $\geq$38 years.
20445578|Temporal variation in sampling intensity and geologically controlled rates of fossil preservation distort macroevolutionary patterns in the fossil record. Here, we use a comprehensive, list-based compilation of taxonomically and stratigraphically vetted global crinoid genus occurrences to evaluate and correct for the effects of variable and incomplete sampling from the Ordovician through Early Silurian. After standardizing the number of occurrences or the number of biofacies used to estimate the stratigraphic ranges of genera and after adjusting rates of turnover to account for the incomplete preservation of true extinction and origination pulses, we find support for several important revisions to the macroevolutionary history of crinoids. First, in contrast to the uncorrected data, sample-standardized genus richness does not appear to increase by more than 20% after an abrupt Middle Ordovician (Harnagian) diversification. Second, the only significant short-term change in genus richness following the Harnagian increase is a 24% decline from the Rawtheyan to the Hirnantian. Third, volatility in rates of genus extinction is increased after adjusting for preservatio and there remain significant peaks of extinction in the Rawtheyan, which marks the end-Ordovician extinction, and in the middle of the Early Silurian. Finally, significant increases in origination rates occur in the Early Silurian. These results reaffirm the importance of the end-Ordovician extinction for crinoids, but they also highlight the comparatively poorly sampled Early Silurian as a time of turnover among crinoids. Crinoid genus extinction rates are positively correlated with area-weighted rates of sedimentary package truncation, suggesting that extinction may have been controlled by physical environmental changes, such as the contraction of unique epicontinental sea habitats. The lack of a correlation between genus origination and sedimentary package initiation reinforces this hypothesis and suggests that other factors, such as evolutionary innovations and biotic interactions during the Ordovician radiation, may have been more important in controlling the diversification of crinoids.
20445623|The marine faunas of tropical America underwent substantial evolutionary turnover in the past 3 to 4 million years in response to changing environmental conditions associated with the rise of the Isthmus of Panama, but the ecological signature of changes within major clades is still poorly understood. Here we analyze the paleoecology of faunal turnover within the family Pectinidae (scallops) over the past 12 Myr. The fossil record for the southwest Caribbean (SWC) is remarkably complete over this interval. Diversity increased from a low of 12 species ca. 10-9 Ma to a maximum of 38 species between 4 and3 Ma and then declined to 22 species today. In contrast, there are large gaps in the record from the tropical eastern Pacific (TEP) and diversity remained low throughout the past 10 Myr. Both origination and extinction rates in the SWC peaked between 4 and 3 Ma, and remained high until 2-1 Ma, resulting in a 95% species level turnover between 3.5 and 2 Ma. The TEP record was too incomplete for meaningful estimates of origination and extinction rates. All living species within the SWC originated within the last 4 Myr, as evidenced by a sudden jump in Lyellian percentages per faunule from nearly zero up to 100% during this same interval. However, faunules with Lyellian percentages near zero occurred until 1.8 Ma, so that geographic distributions were extraordinarily heterogeneous until final extinction occurred. There were also striking differences in comparative diversity and abundance among major ecological groups of scallops. Free-swimming scallops constituted the most diverse guild throughout most of the last 10 Myr in the SWC, and were always moderately to very abundant. Leptopecten and Argopecten were also highly diverse throughout the late Miocene and early Pliocene, but declined to very few species thereafter. In contrast, byssally attaching scallops gradually increased in both diversity and abundance since their first appearance in our samples from 8-9 Ma and are the most diverse group today. Evolutionary turnover of scallops in the SWC was correlated with strong ecological reorganization of benthic communities that occurred in response to declining productivity and increased development of corals reefs.
2400162|The EDTA-soluble fractions extracted from rostra of two late Cretaceous belemnites (Cephalopoda), Gonioteuthis and Belemnitella, were divided into an humic acid and a fulvic acid fraction (the latter was absent in Belemnitella). The extracts are compared with preparations from shells of two recent cephalopods, Nautilus pompilius and Sepia officinalis. Use was made of immunology, amino acid analysis, pyrolysis mass spectrometry and some other techniques. The fulvic acid fraction of Gonioteuthis, a mixed peptide-like saccharide-like substance, produced confluent immunodiffusion patterns with an EDTA-soluble Nautilus extract against anti-Nautilus rabbit serum. The humic acid of Gonioteuthis did not contain D-alloisoleucine and its amino acid composition was very similar to that of the EDTA-insoluble fraction of Nautilus. This humic acid was enriched in polyphenol, which may be due to chemical reaction of peptides and carbohydrates during diagenesis. It is concluded that both fractions of Gonioteuthis are original belemnite materials that have undergone only minor alterations during diagenesis. This is an exploratory study of biochemical compounds derived from fossils, with particular emphasis on immunological methods.
23014905|Minimum Sample Richness (MSR) is defined as the smallest number of taxa that must be recorded in a sample to achieve a given level of inter-assemblage classification accuracy. MSR is calculated from known or estimated richness and taxonomic similarity. Here we test MSR for strengths and weaknesses by using 167 published mammalian local faunas from the Paleogene and early Neogene of the Quercy and Limagne area (Massif Central, southwestern France), and then apply MSR to 84 Oligo-Miocene faunas from Riversleigh, northwestern Queensland, Australia. In many cases, MSR is able to detect the assemblages in the data set that are potentially too incomplete to be used in a similarity-based comparative taxonomic analysis. The results show that the use of MSR significantly improves the quality of the clustering of fossil assemblages. We conclude that this method can screen sample assemblages that are not representative of their underlying original living communities. Ultimately, it can be used to identify which assemblages require further sampling before being included in a comparative analysis.
40792284|The most abundant and diverse graptolite assemblages are found in offshore, deep-water black shales the classical "graptolite facies" (deep-water or isograptid biofacies). The mean duration of Ordovician graptolite species confined to the deep-water facies (here referred to as "group 1" species) is 2.19 Myr, significantly shorter than the mean duration of species in the deep-water facies that are also known in sediments of the shallow-water shelf or platform ("group 2" species) -4.42 Myr, indicating a significantly higher extinction probability (p = < 0.001). These figures are based on the precise age ranges of species derived from the time-calibrated composite sequence of 1446 Ordovician to early Devonian graptolites, built by the constrained optimization procedure (CONOP) from 256 measured sections worldwide, and exclude the effects of the Hirnantian mass extinction. The difference between groups cuts across families, morphological types, and pandemic/endemic distributions. An environmental influence is strongly suggested, and although both groups were planktonic, they were unlikely to have shared the same habitat in the water column. The new duration measurements therefore are interpreted as favoring a depth-stratification of graptolite habitats in the water column.
2400796|Digitizing the third upper molars of Microtus pennsylvanicus reveals evolutionary change in some traits but stability in others during the last 30,000 years. Fossils from Strait Canyon, Virginia (radiocarbon dated between 29,870 + 1,800/-1,400 and 17,880  150 yr B.P.) were compared with modern samples from the margin of the species' conterminous geographic range: Virginia, Colorado, Alaska, and Hudson Bay. Since the late Pleistocene a modification from narrow to wide teeth took place in the eastern populations but not in the western ones, and populations in Virginia apparently evolved wider confluence between triangles 1 and 2. Traits that remained stable through time in the Virginia area, but not necessarily elsewhere, include the numerical shape factors of the occlusal surface and the posterior loop. Potentially widespread stability is evident in the perimeter of the posterior loop relative to total tooth perimeter. Tooth length forms a geographic cline, in which both the fossil and modern populations from Virginia occupy the same position. A peripheral population from southern Colorado shows the most derived dental morphology. These morphological relationships suggest that mosaic evolution operates in arvicoline lineages and provide testable paradigms for future studies.
3595500|The vomeronasal (VN) system is a pheromone-processing sensory system of tetrapods. Tetrapods use pheromones to communicate territorial boundaries, reproductive status, sex, and species identity. Presumed impressions of VN bulbs on phytosaur frontals led to a claim that phytosaurs possessed the VN system. However, in extant crocodilians, which lack the VN system, the corresponding impressions are associated not with cerebral tissue but with the ophthalmic nerves. Phytosaur head morphology was not conducive to pheromone collection. The extant phylogenetic bracket suggests that all extinct archosaurs, including phytosaurs, lacked the VN system. Without the pheromonal sense, they would not have used chemical means to convey territorial boundaries, reproductive status, sex, and species identity. Instead, they would have used visual, acoustic, and tactile cues, as in extant archosaurs and other tetrapods in which the VN sense is reduced or absent.
4500162|Ecology is thought to be of crucial importance in determining taxonomic turnover at geological time scales, yet general links between ecology and biodiversity dynamics are still poorly explored in deep time. Here we analyze the relationships between the environmental affinities of Triassic-Jurassic marine benthic genera and their biodiversity dynamics, using a large, taxonomically vetted data set of Triassic-Jurassic taxonomic occurrences. On the basis of binomial probabilities of proportional occurrence counts, we identify environmental affinities of genera for (1) carbonate versus siliciclastic substrates, (2) onshore versus offshore depositional environments, (3) reefs versus level-bottom communities, and (4) tropical versus non-tropical latitudinal zones. Genera with affinities for carbonates, onshore environments, and reefs have higher turnover rates than genera with affinities for siliciclastic, offshore, and level-bottom settings. Differences in faunal turnover are largely due to differences in origination rates. Whereas previous studies have highlighted the direct influence of physical and biological factors in exploring environmental controls on evolutionary rates, our analyses show that the patterns can largely be explained by the partitioning of higher taxa with different evolutionary tempos among environments. The relatively slowly evolving bivalves are concentrated in siliciclastic rocks and in level-bottom communities. Furthermore, separate analyses on bivalves did not produce significant differences in turnover rates between environmental settings. The relationship between biodiversity dynamics and environments in our data set is thus governed by the partitioning of higher taxa within environmental categories and not directly due to greater chances of origination in particular settings. As this partitioning probably has ecological reasons rather than being a simple sampling artifact, we propose an indirect environmental control on evolutionary rates. Affinities for latitudinal zones are not linked to systematically different turnover rates, possibly because of paleoclimatic fluctuations and latitudinal migrations of taxa. However, the strong extinction spike of tropical genera in the Rhaetian calls for an important paleoclimatic component in the end-Triassic mass extinction.
2400718|The siphuncular tube is a key component of the buoyancy control and mechanical strength systems in both Nautilus and fossil cephalopods. We measured the rate of hydrostatically induced fluid flow across the tube wall and tube rupture strength of Nautilus pompilius at hydrostatic pressures in the range of 10-85 bars. We found that in fresh, undecayed tubes, rupture occurs at pressures of about 80-85 bars. This is equivalent to the strength of the shell proper and to the depth limit of the live animal. The siphuncular tube is neither markedly stronger, nor weaker, than the shell. Siphuncle rupture strength is constant in the last 20 chambers of the shell despite a strong decrease in the siphuncle strength index (ratio of tube thickness to radius). The notion that strength index gives an accurate indication of tube strength is therefore in error. This suggests that the geometry of the siphuncular tube can not be straight-forwardly used as an index of living depth in fossil cephalopods. Rupture occurs at the siphuncle-septum contact. The junction of the tube to its mechanical supports is thus weaker than the tube itself. Measured flow rates are in the range of 1-20 ml/h/chamber. Flow rates increase linearly with applied pressure and in successively larger chambers as a result of size-related variation in surface area and thickness of the tube wall. Rates of osmotic pumping in live animals are up to three orders of magnitude lower than hydrostatically induced flow rates across the siphuncular tubes of empty shells. Pumping capacity of live animals is apparently limited by functional constraints of the osmotic pump rather than by the fluid conductance properties of the tube wall. Living depth in evolving cephalopod lineages may be limited ultimately by physiologic or chemical restrictions of the osmotic pumping mechanism rather than by mechanical strength of the shell or siphuncle.
2400645|Using computer simulations and analytic calculations, we have evaluated whether conspicuous expansions and contractions of natural clades may have represented chance fluctuations that occurred while probabilities of speciation and extinction remained equal and constant. Our results differ from those of previous workers, who have not scaled generating parameters empirically at the species level. We have found that the waxing and waning of many real clades have almost certainly resulted from changes in probabilities of speciation and extinction. For some of these changes, likely explanations are evident. The emplacement of adaptive innovations, for example, has at times elevated probability of speciation. We conclude that chance factors have not played a dominant role in producing dramatic changes in standing diversity within speciose higher taxa.
2400906|An investigation of shell morphometrics of the prosobranch genus Paramelania from Lake Tanganyika shows striking contrasts between some live and dead populations from identical localities. Living populations and surficial dead shells were collected from 15 sublittoral-profundal localities along the east side of the lake. Interpopulation variability in this endemic gastropod is clinal (N-S) for several shell characters. Intrapopulation variability of dead shell populations frequently exceeds that of live populations. Distinctive morphs may be present in a local dead shell population which are absent in the live population from the same locality. However, the phenodeviant dead shell morphology may occur among live snails elsewhere in the lake. Phenodeviant shells may be encrusted, but are unabraded and show no preferred orientation. Radiocarbon ages of >2000 yr b.p. on dead phenodeviants suggest that surficial shell accumulations in Lake Tanganyika are strongly time-averaged. Although wave activity and biogenic concentration are important processes in Lake Tanganyika, neither is sufficient under modern lake conditions to account for these admixed assemblages. Winnowing and in situ stratigraphic condensation during periods of lowered lake levels is the most likely explanation for the occurrence of phenodeviant surficial shells. This hypothesis is consistent with the observation that extensive shell lags are exposed on the lake floor in areas currently inhabited by the same snails. A model of biogeographic range fluctuations for particular Paramelania morphs during the Holocene, in concert with lake level fluctuations, can account for the shell assemblages seen on the lake floor today. The complex history of these accumulations suggests that taphonomic admixtures may obscure the interpretation of evolutionary sequences in the lacustrine stratigraphic record.
2401228|The well-known decline of global background extinction intensity was caused by the sorting of higher taxonomic groups. Two factors were responsible. First, probabilities of familial origination and extinction in these groups (taxonomic orders) were highly correlated. Groups whose families had high probabilities of origination and extinction tended to have highly volatile diversity paths and, consequently, short life spans. Second, orders with high probabilities of familial origination and extinction were rarely replaced by new high-turnover orders. Thus, because high-turnover orders tended to become extinct without replacement, the global background extinction intensity declined. Since familial origination and extinction probabilities are correlated, global background origination intensity inevitably declined as well. As a consequence of these processes, virtually all groups of organisms now living have low probabilities of familial origination and extinction. Simulations of branching evolution were used to obtain the expected relationships among probabilities (of origination and extinction), volatilities, and longevities for the entire range of possible probabilities, and these relationships were compared to those obtained from the empirical record. In the simulations, only the probabilities of origination and extinction were specified, so volatilities and clade longevities were determined entirely by the probabilities. The similarity between results obtained by simulation and those obtained by analysis of the empirical record further supports the inference that the observed decline of background extinction (and origination) intensity can be explained largely by the loss of high-probability groups to induced volatility.
2400895|We propose that the kelps (Laminariales) radiated in the North Pacific following the onset of late Cenozoic polar cooling. The evidence is that (1) extant kelps occur exclusively in cold-water habitats; (2) all but one of 27 kelp genera occur in the North Pacific, 19 of these exclusively; and (3) limpets and herbivorous marine mammals obligately associated with kelps or other stipitate brown algae appeared late in the Cenozoic, even though more generalized forms of both groups are much older. We propose, further, that sea otters and perhaps other groups of benthic-feeding predatory mammals, whose late Cenozoic distributions all were limited to the North Pacific, created an environment for the evolution of kelps in which the intensity of herbivory was unusually low. We hypothesize that this interaction created predictable differences among habitats in the intensity of herbivory on several spatial scales, with resulting trade-offs between anti-herbivore defenses and plant competitive abilities in their respective floras. Sea otters incur time and energy costs for diving, resulting in depth-related reductions to foraging efficiency and thus increased sizes and densities of herbivorous sea urchins. Thus, the deep-water flora is well defended, but competitively subordinate, compared with the shallow-water flora. Similarly, we argue that during the same period of earth history, predation had less of a limiting influence on herbivorous invertebrates in the temperate southwestern Pacific. We hypothesize that (1) consequent biogeographical differences in the intensity of herbivory may have selected the phenolic-rich brown algal flora in temperate Australia/New Zealand; and (2) tightly coevolved plant/herbivore interactions may explain why Australian and New Zealand herbivores are undeterred by phenolics and why other classes of secondary compounds in the Australian/New Zealand flora significantly deter herbivores.
2400729|Fourier analysis of percent extinction data for genera of fossil marine animals during the past 260 million years indicates the existence of a 26 m.y. extinction cycle. The first three harmonics, which account for 51.7 percent of the sum of squares, show the major extinction trends in the late Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic. The first ten harmonics, which account for 89.5 percent of the sum of squares, are aligned with eight extinction peaks. The tenth harmonic, with a period of 26 million years, has an amplitude of 6.5 percent and accounts for 12.7 percent of the sum of squares. Several different methods are used to test the validity of the apparent 26 m.y. extinction cycle. Analysis of variance indicated that the 26 m.y. extinction cycle is statistically significant at the 95 percent level. When the 260 m.y. sample interval is divided into equal 130 m.y. segments, the phases and amplitudes for the 26 m.y. cycle were almost equal within the two independent segments. When the 260 m.y. interval is divided into 10 shorter time segments of different lengths, the 26 m.y. cycle is represented in each time segment. A series of experiments is run to test the influence of the Late Permian and Cretaceous peaks on the observed 26 m.y. cycle. When all peaks are smoothed out except for the two major peaks, a pseudo-cycle with a period of 26 m.y. is generated that accounts for 3.0 percent of the sum of squares. When the Permian and Cretaceous peaks are reduced to about half their observed height, the sum of squares accounted for by the 26 m.y. cycle is reduced from 12.7 to 11.0 percent. When the number of extinctions within each stage is used in the harmonic analysis in place of extinction percent, the 26 m.y. cycle accounts for 19.3 percent of the sum of squares. Therefore, the evidence from harmonic analysis of fossil marine animals points toward a distinct and persistent 26 m.y. cycle in mass extinctions in the late Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic.
2400804|Species duration data for living benthic foraminifera derived from an extensive literature search have been compiled and analyzed to investigate rates and patterns of species origination. The same data subjected to taxonomic standardization through examination of many specimens lodged in museum collections indicate strikingly different, and more realistic, rates and patterns. Evolutionary generalizations based on data generated from the literature only are often unreliable and may be directly in opposition to reality. Extensive attempts at taxonomic standardization should be the norm in paleobiological investigations.
25609408|Several lines of theoretical and empirical evidence suggest that there can be a positive correlation between alpha diversity (genus richness) of marine communities (D) and average longevity of marine genera included in these communities (L). One possible reason for such a correlation is that diversity can be expected to give rise to ecosystem stability, which, in turn, may slow down the extinction of taxa. However, this hypothesis has not been verified on the global scale. The analysis of two large data sets (Sepkoski's compendium of fossil marine genera and the Paleobiology Database) shows that the correlation (1) actually exists and (2) is robust to some possible sources of errors in L and D estimation. Further analysis reveals that the correlation is not a secondary pattern caused by any of the following factors: (1) encounter probability of taxa, which is greatly influenced by differential incompleteness of the fossil record; (2) degree of sediment lithification, which is one of the major factors affecting the preservation of fossils; (3) onshore-offshore gradient; (4) parallel growth of both L and D through the Phanerozoic; (5) paleolatitudinal gradient. Although there may be other factors that influence both L and D in a similar way, the results generally confirm the hypothesis that higher alpha diversity enhances longevity of genera.
2400386|Interpretations of vertebrate paleoecology depend on knowledge of taphonomical processes which alter the composition of the preserved fossil assemblage from that of the original community. Study of the potential fossil record of a recent mammal community in Amboseli National Park, Kenya, shows the effects of some of these biasing processes and demonstrates how a bone assemblage on a modern land surface can be a source of past and present ecological information. In the bone assemblage, species presence or absence and relative abundance differ from recorded living species occurrences and population sizes: only 74% of the extant species in the basin are identified in the bone sample, and carcass abundances vary significantly from known population sizes of the major herbivore species. Both biases appear to be strongly correlated to body size, and this results from greater destruction of bones of smaller animals within the weight range from about 1-1000 kg. This size-biasing against small species appears to be due primarily to the greater susceptibility of small bones to destruction by carnivore mastication, breakage through bioturbation (trampling), and physical and chemical processes of weathering. Size-biasing resulting from such primary processes can thus be inherited by buried bone assemblages whatever their final mode of deposition. The bone assemblage also provides information on the spatial distributions of the major herbivore species over six major habitats. Patterns of strong habitat specificity are accurately represented in the bone assemblage. However, the record for certain species is affected by their seasonal and diurnal habitat shifts so that their bone distributions do not match live census data. The Amboseli bone assemblage provides a modern analogue for taphonomical processes which may have affected fossil assemblages derived from paleo-land surfaces prior to fluvial transport. It also helps to define limits of resolution in interpreting paleoecological information from such fossil assemblages.
1558102|The Ordovician Radiation exhibited a global transition in dominance from the Cambrian evolutionary fauna (e.g., trilobites), to the Paleozoic and Modern faunas (e.g., articulate brachiopods and bivalve molluscs). Although its causes have yet to be determined definitively, the transition coincided with increased global tectonism. Erosion of source areas uplifted during orogenic activity increased the siliciclastic richness of marine substrates in many venues, and it has been hypothesized previously that higher taxa with affinities for siliciclastics diversified in association with these environmental changes, whereas higher taxa not exhibiting such affinities either failed to radiate or declined in diversity. Here, we provide an initial test of this substrate affinity hypothesis by evaluating the Ordovician affinities of trilobites and articulate brachiopods. Our analyses-at the class level for both trilobites and articulate brachiopods, and at the order level for orthid and strophomenid brachiopods-were based on the affinities of constituent genera for siliciclastic, carbonate, and mixed siliciclastic/carbonate settings. Individual genus affinities are calculated with a database of genus occurrences encompassing nine Ordovician paleocontinents. Using these values, we developed a standardized relative affinity (SRA) metric to compare the propensities of higher taxa, and to assess changes in relative affinities of individual higher taxa from series to series. A simple comparison of trilobites and articulate brachiopods for the Ordovician in aggregate does not appear to support the substrate affinity hypothesis: articulate brachiopods, which contributed increasingly to overall diversity through the period, exhibit an overall affinity for carbonates and an aversion to siliciclastics. However, a rather different view emerges when we consider the affinity trajectories of higher taxa through the period: articulate brachiopods exhibit a growing affinity for siliciclastics and a declining affinity for carbonates, whereas the opposite is the case among trilobites. Among constituent articulate brachiopod orders, the affinity trajectories of orthids and strophomenids mirror that of the class. Thus, the increasing dominance of articulate brachiopods in the Middle and Late Ordovician may have been linked to the affinity for siliciclastics of a diversifying subset of the group, but further investigation will be required to verify this claim.
2400251|Geographic distribution, species duration, and population size of 41 bivalve species which coexisted during the uppermost biozone (S ciponoceras gracile zone) of the Cenomanian were measured. Average species duration and correlation between geographic distribution, species duration, and population size were computed for five groups: total, infaunal, epifaunal, cemented epifaunal, and uncemented epifaunal bivalves. Average species duration for all bivalves is less than 2 Myr. Infaunal bivalves averaged slightly higher, epifaunal slightly lower. Positive correlation was measured between species duration and geographic distribution for all five groups and statistical significance of the relationships was demonstrated for all but infaunal forms. In general no correlation was found between species duration and population size, and between population size and geographic distribution with the following exceptions: species duration and population size were significantly correlated for infaunal bivalves and uncemented epifaunal bivalves, and population size and geographic distribution were correlated for uncemented bivalves. Because these 41 fossil species coexisted at the same time and were distributed in the same space, differences in the relationships of species duration, geographic distribution and population among the various life habits indicate differences in ecological strategy and the evolutionary consequences of that difference.
23014755|The modern structure of marine benthic ecosystems was largely established during the Jurassic and Early Cretaceous (200-100 Ma), a transition that has been termed the Mesozoic Marine Revolution (MMR). Although it has been suggested that the MMR marks an increase in the average energy consumption of marine animal ecosystems, this hypothesis has not been evaluated quantitatively. In this study, we integrate body size and abundance data from the fossil record with physiological data from living representatives to estimate mean per capita metabolic rates of tropical to subtropical assemblages of shallow-marine gastropodsa major component of marine ecosystems throughout the Meso-Cenozoicboth before and after the MMR. We find that mean per capita metabolic rate rose by 150% between the Late Triassic and Late Cretaceous and remained relatively stable thereafter. The most important factor governing the increase in metabolic rate was an increase in mean body size. In principle, this size increase could result from secular changes in sampling and taphonomic biases, but these biases are suggested to yield decreases rather than increases in mean size. Considering that post-MMR gastropod diversity is dominated by predators, the net primary production required to supply the energetic needs of the average individual increased by substantially more than 150%. These data support the hypothesis that benthic energy budgets increased during the MMR, possibly in response to rising primary productivity.
25609435|Previous analyses of the history of Phanerozoic marine biodiversity suggested that the post-Paleozoic increase observed at the family level and below was caused, in part, by an increase in global provinciality associated with the breakup of Pangea. Efforts to characterize the Phanerozoic history of provinciality, however, have been compromised by interval-to-interval variations in the methods and standards used by researchers to calibrate the number of provinces. With the development of comprehensive, occurrence-based data repositories such as the Paleobiology Database (PaleoDB), it is now possible to analyze directly the degree of global compositional disparity as a function of geographic distance (geo-disparity) and changes thereof throughout the history of marine animal life. Here, we present a protocol for assessing the Phanerozoic history of geo-disparity, and we apply it to stratigraphic bins arrayed throughout the Phanerozoic for which data were accessed from the PaleoDB. Our analyses provide no indication of a secular Phanerozoic increase in geo-disparity. Furthermore, fundamental characteristics of geo-disparity may have changed from era to era in concert with changes to marine venues, although these patterns will require further scrutiny in future investigations.
2666026|Sideritic "coprolites" from the late Miocene of southwest Washington, the Upper Cretaceous of Saskatchewan and Madagascar, and the Permian of China have often been claimed to be pseudofossils. They are here interpreted as intestinal casts (cololites) prefossilized by bacterial activity and later transformed into siderite with no traces of original food particles left. All occurrences are found within fluvial overbank deposits that carry no other vertebrate remains. Their absence could be due to aquifer roll-fronts that destroyed phosphatic bones and teeth but favored siderite precipitation.
2666050|Accretionary outlines of many brachiopods are closely matched by one or more episodes of logarithmic spiral growth where each episode has a constant growth gradient. An episodic model supports the observations of abrupt change, but not that of gradual change in accretionary growth. A reliable guide to the number of growth episodes is given by the pattern of residuals after fitting a single spiral to an outline. An episodic model exposes subtle variations in growth that are not easily described by visual examination. A three-episode model clarifies a shape difference between two species of the endemic New Zealand genus Neothyris. Direct observation, along with linear measurements and their ratios, was unable to pinpoint that the well-documented dorsoventral compression in one species arises from a growth episode in the ventral valve. Logarithmic spirals about a single coiling axis are not suited for large, disjunct changes in outline for which the moving-frame methods or aperture-deposition models are applicable.
4096985|During the Early Jurassic, cyst-forming dinoflagellates began a long-term radiation that would portend ecological importance of these taxa in the pelagic plankton community throughout the rest of the Mesozoic era. The factors that contributed to the evolutionary success of dinoflagellates are poorly understood. Here we examine the relationship between oceanographic and climatic conditions during the Hettangian-Toarcian interval in relation to the radiation of dinoflagellates and other organic-walled phytoplankton taxa in the Tethys Ocean. Our analysis is based on two data sets. The first includes
2400973|Both fossil preservation and sampling methods affect perceived patterns of biotic diversity. Artificial range truncations, for example, may lead to incongruences between apparent- and actual-diversity curves. Thus, a catastrophic extinction event may appear gradual. Recent advances in biostratigraphic-gap analysis provide models for the distribution of gap lengths between fossil occurrence horizons and provide methods to place confidence intervals on local taxon ranges and remove the biases caused by artificial range truncations. Confidence intervals for a set of local taxon ranges may then be evaluated collectively to test a hypothesis of co-extinction/co-emigration or co-origination/co-immigration. In the case of terminal Cretaceous ammonites from Seymour Island, range-chart data are compatible with an abrupt extinction event, although the test statistic is not minimized at the stratigraphic horizon that was suggested by Macellari (1986).
2400805|The multibrachiate grade of organization in camerate crinoids was principally attained through pinnule differentiation: the accelerated development of a proximal pinnule that ultimately became a pinnule-bearing arm. Although pinnule differentiation is not the only means of achieving a multibrachiate organization in modern crinoids, it was the primary mode in producing both dichotomous and exotomous branching patterns in multibrachiate camerates. Whereas most of the proximal branchings, commonly fixed in the cup of camerates, were due to pinnule differentiaton, the first dichotomy and distal dichotomies above the cup apparently developed from direct modification of a brachial plate at the growing tip of the immature crinoid arm.
2400616|The proposition is presented that the large thecae of many Paleozoic crinoids housed gonads, unlike modern crinoids that have the gonads on the arms or pinnules. Early in their history, inadunate crinoid gonads migrated into a voluminous anal sac, effectively separating them from other vital organs. Excision of the sac by predatory fishes and cephalopods would have been less traumatic than an attack on the theca, and the sac could be more readily regenerated. The pores and slits between plates on inadunate sacs are interpreted as gonopores. Some anal sacs may also have served as brood chambers. The traditional explanation of the sac as a special respiratory structure is discounted.
2400518|Histological examination of Stegosaurus dorsal bony plates shows a thin wall of incompletely remodeled bone surrounding a large cancellous region containing some large "pipes" delineated by thin bony walls. Growth proceeded mainly from the basal region of the plates. Histological observations provide a test against which several functional interpretations of the plates are checked. While some interpretations (e.g., plates as armor) are clearly falsified, others (linked to thermoregulatory functions) seem to be more robust, although by no means can they be viewed as clearly vindicated on the basis of the evidence presently available.
23014729|We use Fourier analysis to investigate evolutionary dynamics related to periodicities in marine fossil biodiversity. Coherent periodic fluctuation in both origination and extinction of "short-lived" genera (those that survive <45 Myr) is the source of an observed 62 million year periodicity (which we confirmed in an earlier paper and also found to be ubiquitous in global compilations of marine diversity). We also show that the evolutionary dynamics of "long-lived" genera (those that survive >45 Myr) do not participate in the periodic fluctuation in diversity and differ from those of "short-lived" genera. The difference between the evolutionary dynamics of long- and short-lived genera indicates that the periodic pattern is not simply an artifact of variation in quality of the geologic record. Also, the interplay of these two previously undifferentiated systems, together with the secular increase in abundance of "long-lived" genera, is probably the source of observed but heretofore unexplained differences in evolutionary dynamics between the Paleozoic and post-Paleozoic as reported by others. Testing for cycles similar to the 62-Myr cycle in fossil biodiversity superimposed on the long-term trends of the Phanerozoic as described in Paper I, we find a significant (but weaker) signal in sedimentary rock packages, particularly carbonates, which suggests a connection. The presence of a periodic pattern in evolutionary dynamics of the more vulnerable "short-lived" component of the marine fauna demonstrates that a long-term periodic fluctuation in environmental conditions capable of affecting evolution in the marine realm characterizes our planet's history. Coincidence in timing is more consistent with a common cause than with sampling bias. A previously identified set of mass extinctions preferentially occur during the declining phase of the 62-Myr periodicity, supporting the idea that the periodicity relates to variation in biotically important stresses. Further work should focus on finding links to physical phenomena that might reveal the causal system or systems.
2666064|A geometric analysis of fenestrate bryozoan lophophore shape and arrangement is conducted by creating a theoretical morphospace of apertural positioning within the colonial meshwork. Working from the assumption that fenestrate bryozoans needed to form a continuous filtering surface with contact between adjacent lophophores, we show that within the morphospace three regions exist for optimum close-packing of lophophores with circular projections; all other close-packing configurations in the morphospace require the existence of noncircular lophophores. Examination of the actual distribution of 251 fenestrate colonies within the morphospace reveals that the morphospace regions occupied by fenestellids and polyporids are displaced and have little overlap, but that they are very similar in size and shape, and that the colonies scale similarly. With increasing size, fenestrate meshworks expand laterally faster than the branches widen and the proximodistal spacing of the apertures increases, apparently because the larger zooids require disproportionately more room for their lophophores. Two of the optimum close-packing regions of the morphospace are occupied by fenestrates. The positioning of the fenestellid region within the morphospace suggests that these biserial bryozoans followed a proximodistal-row placement of the lophophores, and that the lophophores were generally equitentacular, with circular projections. The positioning of the polyporid region within the morphospace suggests that these polyserial bryozoans followed a diagonal-row placement of the lophophores, and that the lophophores were heteromorphic, with medical lophophores on the branch being more equitentacular whereas the laterally placed lophophores were obliquely truncate. The third optimum close-packing region in the morphospace, corresponding to a hypothetical lateral-row placement of the lophophores within the colony, is unoccupied. We suggest that hypothetical fenestrate morphologies in the vacant region of morphospace have branches that would be too narrow to support normally shaped zooids, and that the lateral-row placement of the lophophores would have required the branches of the colony to have been perfectly aligned throughout growth.
4096996|Spectral algorithms have been shown to work well in a wide range of situations that involve the task of ordering. When applied to the localities of a set of European Neogene land mammal taxa, spectral ordering relies almost entirely on the most common genera, depends on connectivity more than on length of taxon lists, and is robust to noise from rarer and less connected taxa. The spectral coefficients for localities are highly correlated with known geochronological ages. Although elementary compared with more sophisticated biochronological tools, spectral ordering allows a fast and standardized way to generate biochronological ordering of localities when other information than faunal lists is lacking. Compared with the conventional mammal Neogene (MN) units, spectral ordering of localities appears to lack distinct temporal boundaries in taxon content and render a much lower count of Lazarus events. If, as seems to be the case, biochronology depends mainly on the most common taxa and if evolutionary change is also most clearly reflected in them, then the main evolutionary patterns should be detectable at a modest level of sampling.
2400250|Barnacles living along rocky shores provide the classic example of competitive dominance in the marine ecosystem: by means of firm attachment and rapid growth, balanoid barnacles commonly undercut and overgrow the genus Chthamalus, which is thereby restricted to the upper fringe of the intertidal zone, where balanoids are physiologically incapable of living. Today, after perhaps less than 50 Myr of evolution, balanoid barnacles are in the midst of rampant adaptive radiation, being represented by about 273 species, of which about half are free-living species of intertidal or shallow subtidal habitats. Chthamaloid barnacles, in contrast, are on the decline, having originated at least 70 Myr ago but today comprising only about 53 living species, approximately 40 of which occupy the uppermost intertidal. The remainder persist as localized, relict, and often disjunct populations. Through competitive exclusion, balanoid barnacles have apparently caused the ecological restriction and decline of the chthamaloids. The balanoids have an advanced feeding mechanism, but the most important adaptive breakthrough leading to their competitive success was probably the origin of a tubiferous wall structure, which affords rapid skeletal growth for the efficient monopolization of free space and for the destruction of chthamaloids.
2401146|The same three subtypes of derived multiserial Hunter-Schreger bands are found in the incisor enamel of African phiomorph rodents from the late Eocene-early Oligocene and the oldest South American Caviomorpha from the Deseadan (late Oligocene). The synapomorphies contained therein, especially arrangement and orientation of interprismatic matrix, make an African origin of the Caviomorpha very probable. A North American origin of the Caviomorpha is thus rejected, as only primitive pauciserial Hunter-Schreger bands have been observed in possible ischyromyoid caviomorph ancestors. A multiserial Schmelzmuster apparently never evolved in the North American rodent fauna.
4096929|Area cladograms produced by parsimony analysis of endemicity illustrate historically developed biogeographical associations among Caradocian, Ashgillian, Llandoverian, and Wenlockian bryozoans. Areas in North America, Siberia, and Baltica were organized into three provinces and 12 biomes over a time interval of 35 million years. Six of these biomes belonged to the North American-Siberian Province and became extinct during the Ashgillian. Three biomes represent a successional series of biogeographical associations in the Late Ordovician of Baltica, and the middle biome of this succession is most closely related to that of the Wenlockian platform in North America. All four Silurian biomes are represented in Late Ordovician local areas, indicating that the associations important in the recovery radiation were already in existence prior to the extinction events. Three of these four biomes expanded their geographic extent in the wake of the Late Ordovician extinctions. Several biome extinction and replacement events took place during lowstands of sea level, suggesting that biogeographic reorganizations took place as a consequence of habitat loss in epeiric seas. Biome development largely depended on the extent of major lithotopes and their intersections with deep ocean and climatic barriers. The loss of regional habitats, associated with marine regression, was a key factor in biome extinction and reorganization, and indicates that biogeography played a significant role in the Late Ordovician mass extinctions and Silurian recovery radiations. Vicariance hypotheses are needed to account for the development of barriers subdividing ancestral areas, whereas hypotheses of congruent dispersal are required to explain the appearance of biomes in geographically disjunct areas.
2400540|Rates of modern sedimentation in various depositional settings have been compiled and adjusted for compaction for the purpose of estimating the spans of time represented in thin stratigraphic samples. Owing to discontinuous or low rates of sedimentation, it is either impossible or impractical to recover a continuous series of discrete life assemblages of fossil populations by collecting microstratigraphic samples from continuously fossiliferous intervals. Assemblages that are less time-averaged may be recovered from discontinuous records formed in depositional environments with higher rates of intermittent sedimentation, but these are isolated in time and cannot be used to observe the dynamics of local faunal history. Patterns of fossil distribution may appear similar to patterns of living populations explained by neontologic processes, but the longer time scale of even the best fossil sequences suggests the action of uniquely paleontologic processes that may be driven by environmental changes.
2400594|The buoyancy, stability, and orientation of a shelled cephalopod in water are the predictable products of shell geometry, body chamber length, and such physical parameters as shell, tissue, and water densities. Given such physical characteristics as shell geometry, shell, tissue, and water densities, and shell thickness, the hydrostatic characteristics of planispiral shelled cephalopods, including orientation, centers of mass and buoyancy, stability, and neutrally buoyant body chamber length, can be calculated and simulated using microcomputer-based techniques. Individual variables such as geometry, body chamber length, and shell thickness are linked in a calculable manner to orientation, neutral buoyancy, and stability. Living Nautilus provides a means of testing the model and for making hydrostatic comparisons between ammonoids and nautiloids. The close agreement between calculated versus observed body chamber lengths in five species of Mississippian ammonoids shows that neutral buoyancy, and (with one exception) Nautilus-like orientations, were at least feasible for these species.
3595514|The Burgess Shale arthropod Leanchoilia superlata Walcott 1912, commonly preserves a three-dimensional axial structure generally interpreted as gut contents. Thin-section examination shows this instead to be phosphatized biserially repeated midgut glands, including exceptional preservation of subcellular features. The preferential mineralization of these structures is related to their unusually high chemical reactivity and probably to an internal source of phosphate. Submillimetric lineations previously interpreted as annular musculature are in fact planar, sometimes radially arranged, subdivisions of these glands. Ventral rows of isolated phosphate patches appear to represent the same tissue. In extant arthropods, extensively developed midgut glands are related to a rich but infrequent diet with a primary function in storage. Their conspicuous occurrence in unambiguous fossil predators such as Sidneyia and Laggania (Anomalocaris) suggests they served a similar role in the Cambrian; by extension, their conspicuous occurrence in Leanchoilia suggests it was a predator or scavenger. Phosphatized midguts with a structure essentially indistinguishable from that of Leanchoilia are also found in Burgess Shale Odaraia, Canadaspis, Perspicaris, Sidneyia, Anomalocaris, and Opabinia. All are characterized by a distinctive sub-millimetric arrangement of planar elements that is not found in extant arthropods or trilobites, suggesting they diverged before the last common ancestor of extant forms; i.e., they represent stem-group arthropods. Three-dimensionally preserved guts are widely preserved in the Lower Cambrian Chengjiang biota but, unlike those in the Burgess Shale, appear to be filled with sediment. Although generally interpreted as evidence of deposit feeding, the form of these structures points to early permineralization of (sediment-free) midgut glands that were subsequently altered to clay minerals. There is no evidence of deposit feeding in the Chengjiang; indeed, there is a case to be made for deposit feeding not being generally exploited generally until after the Cambrian. Fossils with three-dimensionally preserved axes from the Lower Cambrian Sirius Passet biota have been interpreted as lobopodians; however, most of the putative lobopodian features find alternative interpretations as aspects of Leanchoilia-type midgut glands. Although Kerygmachela is reliably identified as a stem-group arthropod, its phylogenetic position remains unresolved owing to the non-preservation of critical external features and to the plesiomorphic nature of its Leanchoilia-type midgut.
4096855|For almost 30 years, paleontologists have analyzed evolutionary sequences in terms of simple null models, most commonly random walks. Despite this long history, there has been little discussion of how model parameters may be estimated from real paleontological data. In this paper, I outline a likelihood-based framework for fitting and comparing models of phyletic evolution. Because of its usefulness and historical importance, I focus on a general form of the random walk model. The long-term dynamics of this model depend on just two parameters: the mean
2400758|Geographical restriction to refuges implies the regional extinction of taxa in areas of the previous range falling outside the refuge. A comparison of the circumstances in the refuge with those in areas from which the taxa were eliminated is potentially informative for pinpointing the causes of extinction. A synthesis of data on the geographical and stratigraphical distributions of cool-water molluscs of the North Pacific and North Atlantic Oceans during the late Neogene reveals four patterns of geographical restriction, at least two of which imply that climatic cooling was not the only cause of extinction during the last several million years. These four patterns are (1) the northwestern Pacific restriction, involving 15 taxa whose amphi-Pacific distributions during the late Neogene became subsequently restricted to the Asian side of the Pacific; (2) the northwestern Atlantic restriction, involving six taxa whose early Pleistocene distribution is inferred to have been amphi-Atlantic, but whose present-day and late Pleistocene ranges are confined to the northwestern Atlantic; (3) a vicariant Pacific pattern, in which many ancestral amphi-Pacific taxa gave rise to separate eastern and western descendants; and (4) the circumboreal restriction, involving six taxa whose early Pleistocene distribution, encompassing both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, became subsequently limited to the North Pacific. Like the Pliocene extinctions in the Atlantic, previously studied by Stanley and others, the vicariant Pacific pattern is most reasonably interpreted as having resulted from regional extinction of northern populations in response to cooling. The northwestern Pacific and Atlantic restrictions, however, cannot be accounted for in this way. In contrast to the northeastern margins of the Pacific and Atlantic, the northwestern margins are today characterized by wide temperature fluctuations and by extensive development of shore ice in winter. Northeastern, rather than northwestern, restriction would be expected if cooling were the overriding cause of regional extinction. Among the other possible causes of extinction, only a decrease in primary productivity can account for the observed northwestern and circumboreal patterns of restriction. Geographical patterns of body size and the distribution of siliceous deposits provide supporting evidence that primary productivity declined after the Miocene in the northeastern Pacific, but remained high in the northwestern Pacific, and that productivity in the Pacific is generally higher than it is in the Atlantic. The patterns of geographical restriction in the northern oceans thus provide additional support to previous inferences that reductions in primary productivity have played a significant role in marine extinctions.
2666104|Statistical inference about mass extinction events is commonly based on the pattern of fossil finds among a group of taxa. An important issue for existing methods is the selection of taxa for inclusion in the analysis. A common approach is to select taxa on the basis of the stratigraphic height of their uppermost finds. This approach creates a bias in favor of detecting a mass extinction event. This paper describes and illustrates an approach that avoids this problem.
40792287|Species arise and establish themselves over the geologic time scale. This process is manifested as a change in the relative frequency of occurrences of a given species in the global pool of species. Our main goal here is to model this rise and the eventual decline of microfossil species using a mixed-effects model where groups each have a characteristic occurrence trajectory (main effects) and each species belonging to those groups is allowed to deviate from the given group trajectory (random effects). Our model can be described as a "hat" with logistic forms in the periods of increase and decline. Using the estimated timings of rises and falls, we find that the lengths of the periods of rise are about as long as the lengths of the periods when species are above 50% of their estimated maximal occurrences. These latter periods are here termed periods of dominance, which are in turn about the same length as the species' periods of fall. The peak rates of the rises of microfossils are in general faster than their peak rates of falls. These quantified observations may have broad macroevolutionary and macroecological implications. Further, we hypothesize that species that have experienced and survived high levels of environmental volatility (specifically, periods of greater than average variation in temperature and productivity) during their formative periods should have longer periods of dominance. This is because subsequent environmental variations should not drive them to decline with ease. We find that higher estimated environmental volatility early in the life of a species positively correlates with lengths of periods of dominance, given that a species survives the initial stress of the environmental fluctuations. However, we find no evidence that the steepness of the rise of a species is affected by environmental volatility in the early phases of its life.
20445581|It has recently been argued that barren intervals of marine sedimentary rock are less common in the Cenozoic than in the Paleozoic, and that this arises as a direct consequence of wide-spread epeiric seas and the prevalence of dysaerobic conditions at such times. We show, using an independent and more direct measure of rock outcrop through time in western Europe, that barren marine sedimentary rocks do become less frequent toward the present, but that this is not linked to any epeiric-seas effect. The proportion of barren to fossiliferous rock outcrop correlates well with the inferred Phanerozoic marine diversity curve (although more so in the Paleozoic than in the post-Paleozoic), and shows no correlation or only a weak negative correlation with area over which the sediments have been deposited. We therefore concluded that the Phanerozoic trend in fossiliferousness most likely records the degree to which space is occupied in the shallow marine realm.
2400968|The periosteal cortex in the shaft of limb bones is described histologically in three ichthyosaurian genera, Omphalosaurus, Stenopterygius, and Ichthyosaurus. The primary periosteal deposits are composed of typical woven-fibered tissue that was accreted as spongy bone in young individuals, and more or less compact bone in older individuals. During growth, the bone tissue was extensively remodeled with a quantitative imbalance between resorption and redeposition. As a result, the cortex was made cancellous, if previously compact, or still more spongy, if already cancellous. This pattern of remodeling explains why compact cortices are generally lacking in the long bones of ichthyosaurs. The presence of woven-fibered tissue strongly suggests that the limb bones, and probably also the body as a whole, had a rapid postnatal growth in ichthyosaurs, that might have been related to a high, "endotherm-like" metabolic rate. This hypothesis bears on the ecological interpretation of the ichthyosaurs: they could have been capable of sustained, fast swimming and long-range movements, rather than being slow-moving creatures as commonly supposed.
2666088|Statistical analyses of occurrence data derived from new collections through scattered Caribbean sections indicate that increased speciation preceded a pulse of extinction during regional turnover of the Caribbean reef coral fauna in Plio-Pleistocene time. The data are based on samples that were newly collected and identified to species using standardized procedures. Age-dates were assigned using high-resolution chronostratigraphic methods. The results show that coral species with a wide range of ecological traits originated and were added to the species pool as much as 1-2 million years before extinction peaked at the end of the turnover interval. Local assemblages consisted of a mix of extinct and living species, which varied in composition but not in richness. Extinction was selective and resulted in a faunal shift to the large, fast-growing species that dominate Caribbean reefs today. The unusual relationship between origination and extinction may have been caused by changes in oceanic circulation associated with emergence of the Central American Isthmus, followed by the onset of Northern Hemisphere glaciation. The pattern of origination preceding extinction may have been responsible for the stability of reef ecosystems during the intense climatic fluctuations of the late Pleistocene, and for the composition and structure of modern Caribbean reef ecosystems.
3595524|Multiple regression models were developed for seasonal test inputs to, and preservation of, marsh foraminiferal assemblages for a two-year period at Bombay Hook National Wildlife Refuge (BHNWR; Smyrna, Delaware). Seasonal assemblages were quite variable and yielded poor regression models. However, signal/noise ratios were amplified using artificially time-averaged (ATA) assemblages, in which separate dead and live abundances of the most abundant species were summed for all seasons. Regression models that used ATA species abundances to retrodict original sample depths accounted for up to ~99% (p < 0.0001) and ~91% (p < 0.023) of the variation of dead and live ATA assemblages, respectively, and usually retrodicted sample depths within 2-3 cm of actual depths. Artificially time-averaged assemblages were also used to extract multidecadal- to centennial-scale sea-level signals from near-surface assemblages at BHNWR formed during the past few centuries. The BHNWR sea-level curve closely resembles one previously published for marshes in Clinton, Connecticut (also based on foraminifera). The technique of artificial time-averaging therefore links the temporal scales of ecology and paleobiology by extracting high-resolution paleoenvironmental signals preserved in the fossil record.
41684611|Electron microprobe analyses of platform (pectiniform Pa) elements of Permian conodonts reveal detailed and systematic chemical element distributions. The crown of the conodont element is more densely mineralized than the basal body and shows evidence of less dense mineralization in areas of rapid growth. Patterns in sodium and sulfur concentrations indicate oral to aboral differentiation within conodont elements. These chemical element patterns support oral exposure during life and functional use as a tooth, and they approximate the erupted and embedded positions of the conodont tooth when the animal was alive. Previously unrecognized spatial distributions of geochemically important chemical elements warrant consideration in future geochemical studies of conodonts.
2666079|Teleost otoliths are located in the membranous labyrinth and are mainly composed of aragonite and a small amount of organic matrix. Their rhythmic growth may provide important data about age, growth, maturity, and life-history events. This article presents insights into paleoecological and evolutionary details from a study of the otolith microstructure of Trisopterus kasselensis, Trisopterus sculptus, and Pterothrissus umbonatus (Oligo-Miocene, North Sea Basin). Otoliths of Recent Trisopterus minutus were analyzed using the same methods (light and electron microscopy, thin slides) as a basis for comparison with the fossil sample. Growth structures similar in size and aspect to the seasonal and daily growth increments in living fish indicate both individual age and early life transitions in habitat and life strategy suggesting planktonic larvae and benthic juveniles. The aspect of rhythmic growth patterns is due to lunar periodicity, a common feature in fish otoliths. Moreover, fossil Trisopterus show an phylogenetic increase in otolith-and consequently-somatic growth, indicating a change of life strategy during evolution (Oligocene to Recent). Thus the internal structure of fossil otoliths allows the determination of growth, age composition, and early life history of fossil fish, as well as their direct comparison with living relatives.
1558084|Two models of faunal turnover patterns, one with constant turnover and another with climatically induced turnover pulses, were tested against the empirical fossil data of first and last appearances of large mammals from the late Pliocene and Pleistocene of East Africa. Computer simulations of each model were generated by first creating change in hypothetical faunal communities and then sampling the evolving communities in a manner scaled to the specific contingencies of the East African fossil record. Predictions of the two turnover models were compared with the empirical data. Neither model yielded predictions that deviated significantly from the observed patterns of first and last appearances of species, and both models produced extremely similar results. The implication is that the fossil data of East Africa are not refined enough to detect variations in the pace of turnover; the patterns of first- and last-appearance frequencies are determined more by the contingencies of the fossil record than by the underlying evolutionary and migrational patterns. Whereas these results undermine the primary basis of empirical support for the turnover-pulse hypothesis, they do not imply that other models are more likely. However, the simulation results were highly suggestive of significant reduction in species biodiversity of large mammals during the past 2 Myr.
20445601|An early Pliocene fossil locality in the Canadian High Arctic preserves the remains of the extinct beaver Dipoides sp. (Castoridae, Rodentia) in association with an assemblage of fossil beaver-cut wood. The wood assemblage presents a first opportunity to investigate woodcutting behavior and ecological performance in an extinct castorid genus. This study compares woodcutting in Dipoides sp. with that of the modern beaver, Castor canadensis, using evidence from small-diameter cut sticks (i.e., sticks transected by parallel series of cut marks) in combination with behavioral observations of Castor woodcutting. During woodcutting both Castor and Dipoides used their incisors unilaterally; the upper incisor was pressed against the stick while the corresponding lower incisor cut. Cut marks were relatively larger for Castor than Dipoides (scaled to incisor size). Compared with Dipoides, Castor more frequently used a cutting strategy that minimized the number of cuts needed to transect a stick (e.g., clipping as opposed to chip removal). Taken together, the behavioral evidence suggests that ecological cutting performance was lower for Dipoides than Castor.
2400927|Observed stratigraphic ranges almost always underestimate true longevities. Strauss and Sadler (1987, 1989) provide a method for calculating confidence intervals on the endpoints of local stratigraphic ranges. Their method can also be applied to composite sections; confidence intervals may be placed on times of origin and extinction for entire species or lineages. Confidence interval sizes depend only on the length of the stratigraphic range and the number of fossil horizons. The technique's most important assumptions are that fossil horizons are distributed randomly and that collecting intensity has been uniform over the stratigraphic range. These assumptions are more difficult to test and less likely to be fulfilled for composite sections than for local sections. Confidence intervals give useful baseline estimates of the incompleteness of the fossil record, even if the underlying assumptions cannot be tested. Confidence intervals, which can be very large, should be calculated when the fossil record is used to assess absolute rates of molecular or morphological evolution, especially for poorly preserved groups. Confidence intervals have other functions: to determine how rich the fossil record has to be before radiometric dating errors become the dominant source of error in estimated times of origin or extinction; to predict future fossil finds; to predict which species with fossil records should be extant; and to assess phylogenetic hypotheses and taxonomic assignments.
2400732|Analysis of an exhaustive data base of Namurian ammonoid shell characters indicates that the morphology of the Goniatitida can be explained in terms of functional constraints, resulting particularly from hydrostatic and hydrodynamic properties. Modes of life ranging from benthic to pelagic are inferred on this basis for various goniatitid morphotypes; all morphologic features and facies associations are normally compatible with these inferences. Neutral buoyancy is shown to have been likely for all goniatitids. By contrast, the prolecanitids (Order Agoniatitida) exhibit a number of hydrostatic and morphologic anomalies; these anomalies are not explicable using the same principles and remain problematic. This is noteworthy, in that prolecanitids survived the Permian/Triassic extinctions and gave rise to the diverse ceratitic radiation in the Triassic. The applicability of these results to ammonoids outside the Namurian is assessed, and, in particular, morphologic parallels with Mesozoic ammonites are discussed.
2400204|The rates and patterns of phyletic body size increase and decrease are discussed on the assumption that size change proceeds toward some limit due to selective advantage. Because the selection pressure must decrease as the average body size of an evolving population approaches the limit, some sigmoidal curve should be regarded as more appropriate for the model of size increase than an exponential curve as in the case of population growth. For phyletic size decrease, the predicted pattern is similar to a radiometric decay curve. The conventional unit of morphological rate, darwin, has been used on the assumption that the change is exponential, but actual lineages in the fossil record may represent only fractions of such sigmoidal curves. Some actual data on size increases in ceratopsian dinosaurs and Jurassic bivalves are examined, and it is concluded that sigmoidal size increase seems also empirically to be a more widespread pattern than exponential.
2400138|While the importance of allopatric speciation in the fossil record has long been underestimated, phyletic change within single unbranching lineages also occurs. The 50% increase in thoracic width observed in the radiolarian species Pseudocubus vema from an Antarctic deep-sea core is a clear example of a long-term phyletic trend in a continuous fossil sequence. Phyletic change in P. vema occurred at varying rates, but changes in the morphologic rate of evolution do not correspond to any obvious breaks in the fossil record such as would be indicated by missing segments of the core's magnetic stratigraphy Variation in thoracic width, as measured by the coefficient of variation, does not depend on the morphologic rate of evolution, proportional rate of evolution, nor the amount of time required for the width to change by one standard deviation, so much as it depends on whether change was accomplished by addition or removal of extreme phenotypes to or from the population.
2401138|Speciation processes are only rarely studied with fossil materials, even though in principle hypotheses of speciation patterns are most directly testable in the fossil record. We quantitatively document in two widely separated South Pacific DSDP holes the mid-Pliocene speciation of the planktonic foraminifer Globorotalia truncatulinoides. Speciation, with continuous geographic co-occurrence of ancestor and descendant forms, occurred simultaneously at both localities over a period of \sim500,000 years. This suggests a sympatric speciation process that involved a large, geographically extensive population. Globorotalia truncatulinoides underwent its most rapid and extensive evolutionary change between \sim2.8 and 2.5 Ma. This time interval corresponds to the development of northern hemisphere glaciation, suggesting that climate-controlled paleoceanographic change may have played a significant role in the evolution of G. truncatulinoides.
4096949|All interpretable trace fossils from the Ediacarian-Cambrian transition strata of northern Siberia, Ukraine, and elsewhere represent shelters of infaunal animals feeding from the sediment surface. There is a gradation of forms ranging from (1) makers of horizontal galleries in soft sand with bilobed lower surface and proboscis extended to the surface, through (2) linear or zigzag series of short, widely U-shaped burrows in firm clay with bilobed or three-lobed lower surface, to (3) series of cylindrical chambers dug completely inside the sediment but opening to its surface. At the same time, protective skeleton originated in animals living above the sediment surface. Apparently, the diversification of predators in the earliest Cambrian forced other animals to invest energy either in digging or in a protective armor ("the Verdun Syndrome"). True mud-eaters appeared later, as documented by the late Tommotian horizontal spreite structures from central Siberia. Most, if not all, of those infaunal traces of activity were produced probably by relatives of priapulid worms. It appears that body cavities and segmentation in the Metazoa (diverse already in the Ediacarian) evolved independently of, and prior to, hydraulic burrowing.
2666100|Exploration of the theoretical morphospace of erect helical colony form in Bryozoa, created by McKinney and Raup (1982), reveals that only a small volume of the three-dimensional space of hypothetical form is occupied by actual colonies of the Paleozoic fenestrates (Class Stenolaemata) Archimedes and Helicopora, helical species of the cheilostome (Class Gymnolaemata) Bugula, and the cyclostome (Class Stenolaemata) Crisidmonea archimediformis. Actual helical-colony bryozoans are not found in regions of the morphospace characterized by colony geometries that possess the largest surface areas of filtration sheet. Examination of computer-simulated colonies in the theoretical morphospace reveals that, although possessing high surface areas, colonies in the empty region of high-surface-area morphospace possess other aspects of geometry that are unrealistic as filter-feeding geometries: the filtration-sheet whorls are held at small acute angles to the central colony axis and are deeply nested within one another, both of which are disadvantageous conditions for the system of filter feeding used by the extant cheilostome Bugula, and presumably by extinct helical-colony bryozoans as well. Even though actual bryozoans are found only in the low to intermediate surface-area regions of the theoretical morphospace, surface area of filtration sheet is a major determinant of form in these helical colonies, as is evidenced by a negative correlation in values of the parameters BWANG and ELEV exhibited by the colony data. Minimum values of BWANG are even further constrained by the apparent need of the Archimedes colonies to maintain filtration-sheet branching densities within the range of 20 to 50.
4096873|The recognition that past catastrophic events may have caused the simultaneous extinction of many taxa has prompted the development of statistical tests to determine the compatibility of the fossil record with such scenarios. Statistical tests necessitate simplifying assumptions, the most significant of which are continuous (as opposed to discrete) data in the sampling of the fossil record and random distribution of fossil occurrences because constant preservation potential and collecting intensity of fossils are assumed. The assumption of random distribution of fossil occurrences has been addressed quantitatively, but the continuity of data has not. The assumption of continuous data is not trivial, for although collecting may appear continuous, the resulting data are never strictly continuous because the stratigraphic positions of fossils are known with limited precision. For one test of simultaneous extinction, simulations demonstrate that the data behave in a less continuous manner as the occurrence rate increases, decreasing the reliability of the test at higher occurrence rates. Out of mathematical simplicity, nearly all tests use simultaneous extinction as the null hypothesis. However, even under ideal sampling circumstances, gradual extinctions that occurred over a sufficiently short stratigraphic interval are likely to be statistically indistinguishable from extinction occurring at a single horizon. Therefore, a range of gradual extinction scenarios will also be compatible with the fossil record even if the null hypothesis is not rejected. Because direct tests of gradual extinction scenarios have not yet been developed, simulations were used to determine the probability that an extinction occurring over a given stratigraphic distance with a given number of taxa will be statistically indistinguishable from extinction at a single horizon. The simulation results allow the test results to be used to define a range of extinction scenarios compatible with the fossil record. Finally, the simulation results were applied to two Late Cretaceous ammonite data sets. Although both data sets sufficiently approximate continuous sampling for the use of statistical tests, the method shows that the data are not always sufficient to rule out either stratigraphically simultaneous extinction or a literal reading of extinction rate as representing gradual or episodic extinction.
2666115|Vase-shaped microfossils (VSMs) occur globally in Neoproterozoic rocks, but until now their biological relationships have remained problematic. Exceptionally preserved new populations from the uppermost Chuar Group, Grand Canyon, Arizona, display details of morphology and taphonomy that collectively point to affinities with the testate amoebae. The fossils are tear-shaped tests, $\sim$20-300 $\mu$m long and $\sim$10-200 $\mu$m wide, that are circular in transverse section, expand aborally toward a rounded or slightly pointed pole, and taper orally toward a "neck" that ends in a single aperture. Apertures may be circular, hexagonal, triangular, or crenulate, and may be rimmed by a distinct collar. Approximately 25% of the Chuar VSMs are curved, such that the oral and aboral poles do not lie opposite each other. Tests are preserved as mineralized casts and molds, commonly coated with organic debris or iron minerals, but they were originally composed of nonresistant organic matter. Approximately 1% have a "honeycomb-patterned" wall attributable to the original presence of mineralized scales whose bases were arranged regularly in the test wall. Scale-bearing testate amoebae, such as members of the Euglyphidae, are essentially identical to the honeycomb VSMs, and a close relationship between other Grand Canyon VSMs and additional testate amoebae, both lobose and filose, is likely. The VSM population therefore most likely represents a multispecies assemblage whose spatial association reflects a common habitat and/or taphonomic circumstances that favor test preservation. The assignment of these fossils to the testate amoebae strengthens the case for a major diversification of eukaryotic organisms by mid-Neoproterozoic times and, more significantly, provides the earliest morphological evidence for heterotrophic eukaryotes in marine ecosystems.
41684306|Northern Appalachian Basin deposits and associated fossils have served as exemplars for ecological-evolutionary investigations, and as the reference interval for the concept of coordinated stasis. Here, we examine faunal and environmental changes within the uppermost Hamilton and lowermost Genesee Groups of the late Middle Devonian succession of New York State. Dramatic diversity loss, faunal migrations, and ecological restructuring recognized in these strata have been used previously to define the end of the Hamilton ecological-evolutionary subunit, and, furthermore, these strata and corresponding faunal changes represent the type region for the global Taghanic Biocrisis. We present and analyze a new, high-resolution data set of post-Taghanic Genesee fossil assemblages, in which we recognize 11 biofacies corresponding to an onshore-offshore (depth) gradient. The Genesee Fauna shows an unexpectedly high taxonomic similarity to nearshore biofacies of the pre-Taghanic Hamilton Fauna, related to the persistence of siliciclastic-dominated nearshore settings through the Taghanic Biocrisis, whereas the onset of anoxic/dysoxic conditions typified offshore portions of the environmental gradient. The "Nearshore Refugium Model" of Erwin offers a possible explanation for the persistence of taxa through the biocrisis in nearshore settings. This constriction was followed by subsequent expansion of these residual taxa to offshore environments in relatively similar associations, as increased Acadian orogenic activity and resultant delta progradation increased habitable space offshore by decreasing the extent of deeper-water, oxygen-poor settings. Although taxonomic similarity was high between the Hamilton and Genesee Faunas, biofacies structure differed primarily because of technically driven physical transformations to the basin and associated biotic turnover. Nevertheless, the combination of high taxonomic persistence of Hamilton nearshore taxa and the introduction of relatively few new taxa in the Genesee Fauna resulted in a taxonomic holdover that was much higher than observed in the original formulation of coordinated stasis.
2666114|Reefs containing abundant calcified metazoans occur at several stratigraphic levels within carbonate platforms of the terminal Proterozoic Nama Group, central and southern Namibia. The reef-bearing strata span an interval ranging from approximately 550 Ma to 543 Ma. The reefs are composed of thrombolites (clotted internal texture) and stromatolites (laminated internal texture) that form laterally continuous biostromes, isolated patch reefs, and isolated pinnacle reefs ranging in scale from a meter to several kilometers in width. Stromatolite-dominated reefs occur in depositionally updip positions within carbonate ramps, whereas thrombolite-dominated reefs occur broadly across the ramp profile and are well developed as pinnacle reefs in downdip positions. The three-dimensional morphology of reef-associated fossils was reconstructed by computer, based on digitized images of sections taken at 25-micron intervals through 15 fossil specimens and additionally supported by observations of over 90 sets of serial sections. Most variation observed in outcrop can be accounted for by a single species of cm-scale, lightly calcified goblet-shaped fossils herein described as Namacalathus hermanastes gen. et sp. nov. These fossils are characterized by a hollow stem open at both ends attached to a broadly spheroidal cup marked by a circular opening with a downturned lip and six (or seven) side holes interpreted as diagenetic features of underlying biological structure. The goblets lived atop the rough topography created by ecologically complex microbial-algal carpets; they appear to have been sessile benthos attached either to the biohermal substrate or to soft-bodied macrobenthos such as seaweeds that grew on the reef surface. The phylogenetic affinities of Namacalathus are uncertain, although preserved morphology is consistent with a cnidarian-like bodyplan. In general aspect, these fossils resemble some of the unmineralized, radially symmetric taxa found in contemporaneous sandstones and shales, but do not appear to be closely related to the well-skeletonized bilaterian animals that radiated in younger oceans. Nama reefs demonstrate that biohermal associations of invertebrates and thrombolite-forming microorganisms antedate the Cambrian Period.
2400320|Torticonic (helically-coiled) ammonoids have been most commonly interpreted as vagile, benthonic forms. Their mode of coiling, however, places the siphuncle in a functionally dorsolateral, rather than ventral position on the shell whorl due to: 1) their probable apex-upward shell orientation during life, and 2) size asymmetry of the lateral sutural saddles due to helical coiling, associated with upward siphuncle displacement. The resultant positioning of the siphuncle produces cameral liquid de-coupling soon after initiation of cameral liquid removal (emptying of liquid from a newly formed chamber within the phragmocone). Since in Recent chambered cephalopods cameral liquid de-coupling increases efficiency of vertical migration, a similar mode of life was indicated for the torticonic ammonites.
2401169|Documentation of morphologic variation within and among fossil species (and larger clades) provides fundamental data needed for studies of evolution, paleoecology, and the systematic foundation required for most fields of paleobiology. In paleontological (and, frequently, biological) studies, morphologic variation is used as a general proxy for genetic variation. Although the occurrence of ecophenotypic variation is well appreciated in these studies, it is only with the use of colonial (clonal) organisms that the scope and significance of phenotypic variation can be evaluated directly. Systematic evaluation of intracolonial morphologic variation (transects through growth series) can yield insights about ecophenotypic variation in bryozoans and suggest the most appropriate methods for data collection in paleobiologic and taxonomic studies. In this study, morphological conservatism is documented within local segments of bryozoan colonies; each zooid is generally more similar to adjacent zooids than to distant zooids within the same colony. One region of a colony, therefore, can be more similar to a region of a different colony than to a distant region of its own colony. Variation within one colony does not, however, represent the total variation among a group of specimens, indicating a colonial level of morphologic control (genetic or macroenvironmental) over morphogenesis. Directional morphogenetic gradients (associated with successive ontogenetic histories) are not recognized in these specimens, but fluctuating trends within colonies (some cyclic), were observed and are indicative of changing microenvironmental influence during skeletal formation. In order to best document morphologic variation within a population, for any type of paleobiological study, individual measurements should be widely distributed over large colony fragments and (or) a minimal number of measurements collected from each of a large number of smaller fragments. Direct extrapolation of these results to non-colonial organisms is not appropriate at this time. However, additional, related studies with bryozoans and other colonial organisms (e.g., corals, graptolites), should provide a greater, general appreciation of relationships between morphology and genetics.
2400665|In North America, hipparion horses consisted of four distinct genera, Hipparion, Neohipparion, Nannippus, and Cormohipparion, known from the medial Miocene to the late Pliocene, ca. 15.5-2 ma ago. The speciation mode is determined for 10 of the 16 valid hipparion species; 50% (5) seem to have resulted from anagenesis and 50% (5) from cladogenesis. Roughly contemporaneous species of the four hipparion genera seem to proceed through similar evolutionary stages of cranial and dental characters. The mean hipparion species longevity is 3.3 ma (N = 16); the mean generic longevity is 8.4 ma (N = 4). Only two species become extinct in less than 2 ma; extinction occurs at a rate of ca. 470 macarthurs for species with durations between 2 and 5 ma. For selected dental characters, mean evolutionary rates (for the 16 species) were between .08 darwins (d) and .03 d with crown height evolving most rapidly. Despite the commonly held notion that fossil horses evolved rapidly, these data suggest normal or average (horotelic) evolution for hipparions, which is not surprising because they were already established in the grazing adaptive zone during their history.
1558093|Apparent variation in rates of origination and extinction reflects the true temporal pattern of taxonomic rates as well as the distorting effects of incomplete and variable preservation, effects that are themselves exacerbated by true variation in taxonomic rates. Here I present an approach that can undo these distortions and thus permit estimates of true taxonomic rates, while providing estimates of preservation in the process. Standard survivorship probabilities are modified to incorporate variable taxonomic rates and rates of fossil recovery. Time series of these rates are explored by numerical optimization until the set of rates that best explains the observed data is found. If internal occurrences within stratigraphic ranges are available, or if temporal patterns of fossil recovery can otherwise be assumed, these constraints can be exploited, but they are by no means necessary. In its most general form, the approach requires no data other than first and last appearances. When tested against simulated data, the method is able to recover temporal patterns in rates of origination, extinction, and preservation. With empirical data, it yields estimates of preservation rate that agree with those obtained independently by tabulating internal occurrences within stratigraphic ranges. Moreover, when empirical occurrence data are artificially degraded, the method detects the resulting gaps in sampling and corrects taxonomic rates. Preliminary application to data on Paleozoic marine animals suggests that some features of the apparent record, such as the forward smearing of true origination events and the backward smearing of true extinction events, can be detected and corrected. Other features, such as the end-Ordovician extinction, may be fairly accurate at face value.
2400979|To assess the degree to which forest litter reflects the source forest, three 1-ha plots of temperate deciduous forest were mapped and litter accumulating in these forests was sampled. Identity, position, and diameter of all stems 2 cm or larger diameter at breast height are known for each forest. Composition of the leaf litter is governed by two key factors: (1) abscised leaves are deposited primarily on the forest floor directly underneath the canopy that produced them, and (2) the leaf mass of a species is highly correlated with its stem cross-sectional area. These factors produce autochthonous litter samples that correspond closely in composition to the forest within a circle of canopy-height radius or less. Even relatively small litter samples (350 leaves) consistently contained all the common species in the local area. However, the rarer tree species were seldom recovered in the litter samples. Correlation coefficients for litter mass and basal area by species are typically over .80. These observations have three important implications for interpreting autochthonous compression-fossil assemblages. First, approximate relative abundances of locally dominant and subdominant forest taxa can be obtained from relatively small samples of autochthonous compression-fossil assemblages. Second, representation of rare forest species, even in large fossil samples, will be fortuitous. For this reason, complete species lists and consistent estimates of richness cannot be derived directly from most existing samples of autochthonous compression-fossil assemblages. Third, the strong tendency for leaves to fall beneath the canopy of the tree that sheds them suggests that properly sampled autochthonous fossil leaf assemblages may yield information on crown size of individual trees and the spatial distribution of individuals and species, aspects of vegetational structure that have been thought accessible only in well-preserved "fossil forests" with standing trunks.
4096896|We present a quantitative analysis of megafloral turnover across the Cretaceous/Paleogene boundary (K/T) based on the most complete record, which comes from the Williston Basin in southwestern North Dakota. More than 22,000 specimens of 353 species have been recovered from 161 localities in a stratigraphic section that is continuous across and temporally calibrated to the K/T and two paleomagnetic reversals. Floral composition changes dynamically during the Cretaceous, shifts sharply at the K/T, and is virtually static during the Paleocene. The K/T is associated with the loss of nearly all dominant species, a significant drop in species richness, and no subsequent recovery. Only 29 of 130 Cretaceous species that appear in more than one stratigraphic level (non-singletons) cross the K/T. Only 11 non-singletons appear first during the Paleocene. The survivors, most of which were minor elements of Cretaceous floras, dominate the impoverished Paleocene floras. Confidence intervals show that the range terminations of most Cretaceous plant taxa are well sampled. We infer that nearly all species with last appearances more than about 5 m below (approximately 70 Kyr before) the K/T truly disappeared before the boundary because of normal turnover dynamics and climate changes; these species should not be counted as K/T victims. Maxima of last appearances occur from 5 to 3 m below the K/T. Interpretation of these last appearances at a fine stratigraphic scale is problematic because of local facies changes, and megafloral data alone, even with confidence intervals, are not sufficient for precise location of an extinction horizon. For this purpose, we rely on high-resolution palynological data previously recovered from continuous facies in the same sections; these place a major plant extinction event precisely at the K/T impact horizon. Accordingly, we interpret the significant cluster of last appearances less than 5 m below the K/T as the signal of a real extinction at the K/T that is recorded slightly down section. A maximum estimate of plant extinction, based on species lost that were present in the uppermost 5 m of Cretaceous strata, is 57%. Palynological data, with higher stratigraphic but lower taxonomic resolution than the megafloral results, provide a minimum estimate of a 30% extinction. The 57% estimate is significantly lower than previous megafloral observations, but these were based on a larger thickness of latest Cretaceous strata, including most of a globally warm interval, and were less sensitive to turnover before the K/T. The loss of one-third to three-fifths of plant species supports a scenario of sudden ecosystem collapse, presumably caused by the Chicxulub impact.
2400983|The temporal dimension of fossil sequences provides a critical component to the study of intraspecific dynamics and species formation. Here I report on the branching and subsequent morphological evolution of two gastropods (Melanopsis fossilis and M. vindobonensis) from the Late Miocene of the Pannonian basin in eastern and central Europe. Although morphological divergence between species is rapid, intermediates between the two species co-occur with typical individuals for approximately 1 m.y. and then disappear. The long-term persistence of intermediates followed by their ultimate disappearance is a pattern that, to my knowledge, has not been previously observed. Distinguishing genetic from ecophenotypic influences on shell form in freshwater prosobranchs is difficult. Nevertheless, consideration of the temporal, geographic, lithologic, and paleoecologic patterns of this sequence suggests that the morphologic differences between M. fossilis and M. vindobonensis had some genetic basis. Whether these forms were initially morphs of a single species or two species with some hybridization between them is impossible to determine. In either case, the morphological changes that resulted in M. vindobonensis were rapid, but the attainment of complete isolation between M. fossilis and M. vindobonensis apparently did not occur until approximately 1 m.y. later.
2400590|Four basic types of skeletal concentrations are modeled in terms of changes in sedimentation rate alone. The model categorizes fossil concentrations on the relatively objective basis of their bed contacts, and uses this criterion to infer directional shifts in net sedimentation. This radical simplification of accumulation histories, in which hardpart input is held constant, yields a surprisingly powerful model capable of predicting a broad spectrum of taphonomic and paleobiologic phenomena. Type I concentrations grade from less fossiliferous sediments and terminate in omission surfaces; if hardpart supply is held constant, they record a slowdown from positive to zero net sedimentation. Type II concentrations are the same as Type I but terminate in erosion surfaces (slowdown to negative net sedimentation), and Type III and IV concentrations are characterized by basal erosion or omission surfaces, respectively, grade upward into less fossiliferous sediments, and record increases in net sedimentation from negative or zero rates to positive rates. According to the model, samples collected from successive horizons within any of these shell beds will differ in the degree and type of post-mortem bias owing to differing histories of hardpart exposure at the depositional interface. Moreover, because rates of sediment accumulation govern the abundance of hardparts at the depositional interface and thus many of the physical characteristics of the benthic habitat, the dynamics of fossil accumulation have direct consequences for the structure of benthic communities (taphonomic feedback) and for ecologically controlled species morphometry. The model is highly robust to fluctuations in hardpart input, as judged by its ability to correctly infer modes of formation of concentrations in synthetic stratigraphic sections. In addition, field examples of Type I-IV concentrations show independent evidence of formation during intervals of reduced net sedimentation, and many exhibit trends in taphonomic and paleobiologic features expected from the postulated changes in net sedimentation. The model thus provides a testable working hypothesis for the accumulation of fossil material in a wide range of environments, and should be applicable to concentrations of any taxonomic composition, state of preservation, or geologic age. The power and robustness of this heuristic model in fact argue that fossil-rich and fossil-poor strata provide fundamentally different records of past conditions, and that sedimentation rather than hardpart input is the primary control on the nature of the fossil record.
2400612|Using a conservative definition of the hominid taxon Homo erectus, the sample of specimens known at this time, 92 individuals in all, is examined to determine whether the species exhibited significant temporal trends or evolutionary stasis. The sample is divided into three low-resolution time spans, and it is shown that significant change characterizes a number of cranial, mandibular, and dental features. Rates of change are comparable to or above rates reported for other fossil vertebrate lineages sampled over a similar duration. The often repeated assertion that Homo erectus is an example of a species in evolutionary stasis is incorrect.
25609410|Stable carbon and oxygen isotope ratios were measured for carbonate in samples of hadrosaurid tooth enamel and dentine, and gar scale ganoine and dentine from five geologically "contemporaneous" (two-million-year resolution) and geographically distant late Campanian formations (Two Medicine, Dinosaur Park, Judith River, Kaiparowits, and Fruitland) in the Western Interior Basin. In all cases, isotopic offsets were observed between enamel and dentine from the same teeth, with dentine being characterized by higher and more variable carbon and oxygen isotope ratios. Isotopic offsets were also observed between gar ganoine and hadrosaur enamel in all sites analyzed. Both of these observations indicate that diagenetic overprinting of enamel isotope ratios did not entirely obfuscate primary signals. Decreases in carbon and oxygen isotope ratios were observed in hadrosaur enamel from east to west, and overlap in isotope ratios occurred only between two of the sampled sites (Dinosaur Park and Judith River Formations). The lack of isotopic overlap for enamel among localities could be due to diagenetic resetting of isotope ratios such that they reflect local groundwater effects rather than primary biogenic inputs. However, the large range in carbon isotope ratios, the consistent taxonomic offsets for enamel/ganoine data, and comparisons of enamel-dentine data from the same teeth all suggest that diagenesis is not the lone driver of the signal. In the absence of major alteration, the mostly likely explanation for the isotopic patterns observed is that hadrosaurids from the targeted formations were eating plants and drinking waters with distinct isotopic ratios. One implication of this reconstruction is that hadrosaurids in the Late Cretaceous of the Western Interior did not migrate to an extent that would obscure local isotopic signatures.
2401243|Carbon (<sup>13</sup>C) and oxygen (<sup>18</sup>O) isotopic results are presented from 42 tooth enamel carbonate samples of rhinos (Family Rhinocerotidae) from a sequence of Florida Neogene localities between 9.5 and 4.5 Ma. These data are used to interpret ancient diets and test previous hypotheses of terrestrial/aquatic adaptations of two sympatric rhinos, Aphelops and Teleoceras. The long-limbed, shorter-crowned Aphelops traditionally has been reconstructed as an open-country browser (similar to the modern black rhino), whereas short-limbed, higher-crowned Teleoceras traditionally has been reconstructed as an amphibious grazer (similar to the modern hippo). Between about 9. 5 and 7 Ma the <sup>13</sup>C values (all < -11.0%) from Florida Aphelops and Teleoceras indicate that both rhinos were feeding on C<sub>3</sub> plants. This diet probably included a combination of browse and C<sub>3</sub> grasses, although the exact proportions for each genus cannot be distinguished isotopically. In contrast, after the late Miocene global carbon shift as represented at 4.5 Ma in Florida, Aphelops was a browser (mean <sup>13</sup>C = -11.9%), whereas Teleoceras was a mixed feeder/C<sub>4</sub> grazer (mean <sup>13</sup>C = -7.0%). Oxygen isotopic values indicate that neither Aphelops nor Teleoceras was principally aquatic. Given these new isotopic data, more plausible modern analogs for these two extinct rhinos are, respectively, the terrestrial browsing black rhino (Diceros bicornis) and the terrestrial grazing white rhino (Ceratotherium simum), which are sympatric today in Africa.
2400168|Species diversity among fossil invertebrates of the Phanerozoic is highly correlated with volume and area of sedimentary rocks. The correlations are statistically significant at the 1% level. The relationship holds even in regions (such as Canada) where the area and volume of rock do not increase through time. These results are interpreted as indicating that the apparent number of species is strongly dependent on sampling and that many of the changes in diversity seen in the Phanerozoic are artifactual. Consequently, there is no compelling evidence for a general increase in the number of invertebrate species from Paleozoic to Recent. This conclusion applies primarily to marine organisms. Diversity may have been in dynamic equilibrium throughout much of this time. A few intervals of the Phanerozoic have consistently fewer invertebrate species than would be predicted from the amount of sedimentary rock available for study. The Silurian, Permian, and Cretaceous stand out in this regard. This may result either from lower than normal diversity during these periods or from an unusual abundance of unfossiliferous rocks (evaporites, red beds, etc.).
4096831|Morphological adaptations may indicate increased specialization (narrowing of ecological niche) or expansion of the suite of lifestyles available to an organism (increasing niche breadth). Hypsodonty in mammals generally has been interpreted as a specialization into a grazing niche from a browsing niche. Here I examine the feeding strategy of the extinct hypsodont camel Hemiauchenia through an analysis of stable carbon isotope values from its tooth enamel, which was used to clarify its feeding strategy and to resolve conflicting interpretations of dental versus muzzle attributes. The paleodiet of Hemiauchenia is then used to test whether hypsodonty correlates to grazing within fossil Lamini. This study focuses on fossils from Florida, which is geographically ideal because unlike other regions of the country almost all extant plants on which animals browse use the C
2666052|In this paper we analyze the ontogenies of four species of pachypleurosaur (Reptilia: Sauropterygia) occurring in Triassic-age deposits in the Monte San Giorgio region, Switzerland. Preservation of multiple complete specimens representing a growth series from each taxon allows the comparison of ontogenetic trajectories through a space composed of nine variables important in the evolution of the clade. Trajectories are characterized using the multivariate generalization of the allometry equation and then compared through calculations of the angles between allometry vectors. Individual coefficients of vectors are compared after calculation of bootstrapped confidence intervals. Pachypleurosaur ontogeny is found to be allometric and generally conserved, although significant differences between taxa exist. Shape-disassociated allometric changes characterize the transition between Serpianosaurus and Neusticosaurus, while allometric changes within Neusticosaurus are less significant. N. edwardsii is inferred to have arisen through hypermorphosis. Interpretation of whole-body heterochrony in multivariate analysis is discussed.
2401108|Late Eocene foraminiferal extinction shows diverse patterns of selective morphologic and latitudinal extinction. Taxa with discoidal shape, calcareous tests, and narrow and low-latitudinal ranges are at significantly greater risk of extinction. Elevated extinction intensities in calcareous tests are mainly due to the presence of larger benthic foraminifera that evolved in late Paleocene and diversified through the lower to middle Eocene. Selectivity of late Eocene foraminiferal extinction indicates that this extinction event was not a globally uniform event. Although this result does not verify an extraterrestrial impact or any other proposed cause of extinction, it does constrain the causes of late Eocene extinction. Furthermore, the geography of late Eocene foraminiferal extinction, and previously studied Cenomanian/Turonian extinction, demonstrates that mass extinctions exhibit different patterns of selectivity.
2400407|Calibrating levels of time resolution that are accessible in the fossil record is important in understanding what evolutionary phenomena can be profitably studied using fossils. A model for attritional bone assemblage formation in fluvial deposits, based on observations of taphonomic processes in modern environments, provides order-of-magnitude estimates for time intervals represented in single unit, `contemporaneous' vertebrate samples. In order to form units with adequate material for analysis of morphological variation or paleoecological associations, it appears that bones must be spatially concentrated or stratigraphically condensed by sedimentary processes or biological agencies. In many cases this means that significant periods of time will be represented by single unit assemblages. According to predictions from modern environments, carcasses contributed through normal attrition can accumulate in the soil to `fossiliferous' densities over time intervals of 10
2400816|The post-Paleozoic radiation of echinoids entailed a rapid diversification not only of adult morphology, but also of larval morphology. The timing, order, and phylogenetic distribution of evolutionary transformations in echinopluteus larvae are reconstructed here under maximum parsimony assumptions from a large neontological data base. Many echinoid larval apomorphies apparently evolved within the Paleozoic stem lineage and were subsequently retained during much of the crown-group radiation. This suite of apomorphies includes most (and perhaps all) of the skeletal elements and some features of soft anatomy such as vibratile lobes. Other features apparently arose or were modified during the post-Paleozoic radiation. These include skeletal features such as arm-rod structure and length, and soft structures such as epaulettes and skeletal muscles. Transformational hypotheses of this kind can be supported or rejected with further neontological data, and many can potentially be tested from fossil evidence. Many post-Paleozoic transformations in echinopluteus structure may be adaptive. For example, increases in arm length and flattening of arm ectoderm may increase feeding rate and efficiency, and both types of transformation have occurred several times within the crown group. Relational hypotheses of this nature can be tested through comparative functional studies in extant echinoplutei. Parallel evolutionary losses of feeding in echinoplutei are accompanied by loss or modification of characteristic structures. This suggests that developmental constraints do not fully explain the conservation of these structures in plank-totrophic echinoplutei. Comparisons of larval and adult morphology over congruent time intervals demonstrate that the origin of many orders was accompanied by a suite of synapomorphies in larval morphology that was subsequently conserved. Many details of echinopluteus morphology are therefore of taxonomic significance. Intraordinal patterns of larval diversity, however, vary considerably. That larval morphology has diversified independently of adult morphology indicates that mosaic evolution has occurred within the life cycle and suggests that echinoid larvae and adults can and do respond to selection independently. Taken together, these findings underscore the complex ways in which complex life cycles can evolve.
2400603|Several important questions in evolutionary biology and paleobiology involve sources of variation in extinction rates. In all cases of which we are aware, extinction rates have been estimated from data in which the probability that an observation (e.g., a fossil taxon) will occur is related both to extinction rates and to what we term encounter probabilities. Any statistical method for analyzing fossil data should at a minimum permit separate inferences on these two components. We develop a method for estimating taxonomic extinction rates from stratigraphic range data and for testing hypotheses about variability in these rates. We use this method to estimate extinction rates and to test the hypothesis of constant extinction rates for several sets of stratigraphic range data. The results of our tests support the hypothesis that extinction rates varied over the geologic time periods examined. We also present a test that can be used to identify periods of high or low extinction probabilities and provide an example using Phanerozoic invertebrate data. Extinction rates should be analyzed using stochastic models, in which it is recognized that stratigraphic samples are random variates and that sampling is imperfect.
2401127|Computer models of the tail of Apatosaurus louisae show it could reach supersonic velocities, producing a noise analogous to the "crack" of a bullwhip. Similarity in tail structure suggests this was feasible for other diplodocids, and possibly for unrelated sauropods like Mamenchisaurus and the dicraeosaurids. Lengthening of caudal vertebrae centra between positions 18 and 25 is consistent with adaptation to the stresses generated by such tail motion, as is coossification of vertebrae via diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH), which occurs in the same region in about half the specimens. The noise produced may have been used for defense, communication, intraspecific rivalry, or courtship, in which case supersonic "cracking" may have been a sexually dimorphic feature. Comparisons with the club-bearing tails of the sauropods Shunosaurus lii and Omeisaurus tianfuensis show the diplodocid whiplash tail was not well adapted as a direct-impact weapon, bringing the tail-as-weapon hypothesis into doubt.
3595522|Cell division is a key biological process in growth, morphogenesis, and reproduction. Despite our improved understanding of the genetics and dynamics of cell division in all major groups of living organisms, paleontological evidence for cell division is largely restricted to silicified (and some carbonaceous) algae and vascular plants where three-dimensional observation is possible. Animal cell division has been documented in the fossil record to a lesser extent; however, such knowledge is highly desirable in the recently revitalized field of evolutionary developmental biology. Two fundamentally different mitotic cell division topologies are preserved in late Neoproterozoic Doushantuo phosphorites (ca. 550-600 million years old) in South China. Doushantuo algal cells (~20 m in diameter) are successively cleaved by mitotic division planes that are offset but not deformed by subsequent cytokinesis. Mitotic division planes in successively cleaving Doushantuo animal embryos (several hundred microns in diameter) are also offset. However, in sharp contrast to Doushantuo algae, Doushantuo animal blastomeres repeatedly shift to mechanically stable configurations by disturbing preexisting division planes. This divergence reflects the underlying cytological and developmental differences between algae and animals. Specifically, the presence/absence of rigid cell walls and different cytokinetic mechanisms, coupled with mechanics at mitotic offsets, contribute to the diverging mitotic topologies in Doushantuo algae and animal embryos. These findings not only confirm previous interpretation of Doushantuo fossils but also provide direct paleontological evidence of cell movement in the development of these early animal fossils.
2400480|The correlation between epidermal cells and cuticular reticulation was clearly shown by transmission and scanning electron microscopes with larval ostracods just before ecdysis. Comparison of the reticulation patterns of Recent and Pleistocene specimens revealed that the epidermal cell arrangement of the adult ostracods is both consistent in the Recent population and conservative in phylogeny. Ontogenetic changes of the reticulation pattern were studied with specimens cultivated separately. Some gene control over the mitosis of epidermal cells was assumed, based on the ontogenetic development of the reticulation pattern. The pattern of fossil specimens suggests that the control has been well maintained in ostracod phylogeny.
4500164| We assessed selective extinction patterns in bivalves during a late Neogene mass extinction event observed along the temperate Pacific coast of South America. The analysis of 99 late Neogene and Quaternary fossil sites (recorded from 7S to 55S), yielding ~2800 occurrences and 118 species, revealed an abrupt decline in Lyellian percentages during the late Neogene-Pleistocene, suggesting the existence of a mass extinction that decimated ~66% of the original assemblage. Using the late Neogene data set (n = 59 species, 1346 occurrences), we tested whether the extinction was nonrandom according to taxonomic structure, life habit, geographic range, and body size. Our results showed that the number of higher taxa that went extinct was not different than expected by random. At first sight, extinction was selective only according to life habit and geographic range. Nevertheless, when phylogenetic effects were accounted for, body size also showed significant selectivity. In general, epifaunal, small-sized (after phylogenetic correction), and short-ranged species tended to have increased probability of extinction. This is verified by strong interactions between the variables herein analyzed, suggesting the existence of nonlinear effects on extinction chances. In the heavily decimated epifaunal forms, survival was not enhanced by widespread ranges or larger body sizes. Conversely, the widespread and large-sized infaunal forms tended to have lower probability of extinction. Overall, the ultimate extinction of late Neogene bivalve species along the Pacific coast of South America seems to have been determined by a complex interplay of ecological and historical (phylogenetic) effects. 
2401042|Phylogenetic patterns of trilobite clades were used to deduce biogeographic patterns during the Middle Devonian, a time of active plate collision between North America (Laurentia) and other plates, coincident with several major episodes of sea-level rise and fall. The mapping of biogeographic states onto phylogenies for asteropyginid and proetid trilobites indicated that during their history these trilobite clades often shifted the areas they occupied, and also underwent vicariant differentiation, followed by range expansion, followed by subsequent vicariance. Biogeographic patterns in these individual phylogenies were evaluated and synthesized using a modified version of Brooks Parsimony Analysis, which is discussed. This method makes it possible using cladistic methods to distinguish between episodes of vicariance and episodes of dispersal. Two types of dispersal are recognized herein: (1) the individualistic responses of certain taxa in a single clade that cannot be generalized, i.e., traditional ad hoc dispersal, and (2) those patterns of congruent range expansion that are replicated across several clades. The latter are not treated as true dispersal, expansion of a taxon's range over a barrier accompanied by diversification, but rather as a result of the temporary removal of barriers to marine taxa, due either to relative sea-level rise or to the collision of formerly disjunct plates. These are interpreted as changes in the structure of areas, and this type of dispersal is referred to as geo-dispersal. Geo-dispersal was found to have occurred in the Middle Devonian trilobite fauna of Eastern North America. Biogeographic analysis indicated that Eastern North America is a strongly supported area, with the Appalachian and Michigan Basins as sister areas. Armorica and the Canadian Arctic are also sister areas. Congruence was found between area cladograms produced by vicariance and dispersal analyses for Middle Devonian trilobites, suggesting that in some cases the geological processes governing vicariance, such as sea-level changes, were the same as those that caused dispersal.
25482676|The thoughts and writings of Stephen Jay Gould have had an enormous impact on the shaping of macroevolutionary theory. The notion of punctuated equilibria (Eldredge and Gould 1972) remained prominent throughout his work. It also unleashed a storm of debate in paleontology and evolutionary theory. A second theme that recurs throughout Gould's opus is heterochrony (evolution by changes in the rates and timing of ontogenetic events, sensu Gould 1977a). His analyses of these two subjects have inspired many of us to explore further and add to them. My contribution discusses their expansion to encompass large numbers of lineages through long time, and the relationship of punctuated equilibria and heterochrony to physical environmental change, and to each other.
2400717|Associations of bathymetrically anomalous fossils, a phenomenon particularly common in shallow-water, marine, Neogene faunas of the northeastern Pacific, have yet to be explained adequately. No known physical transport processes can selectively move species upslope from deep water into diverse nearshore, shallow-water habitats. Previously proposed biological explanations are based on undocumented phenomena. We document bathymetric anomalies in Recent mollusc accumulations on Southeast Farallon Island, California, that are created by the activities of diving marine birds. Application of these observations to patterns in the Neogene fossil record is direct, involving the same genera and often the same species. We argue that the process has occurred since at least the Miocene when diving marine birds radiated rapidly, probably in response to trophic resources created by intensive upwelling (Lipps and Mitchell 1976) and that they could have transported specimens upslope in sufficient quantity to have contributed anomalous species to the Neogene fossil record. Specific examples from the literature are discussed.
23014895|A variety of means, including forelimb proportions and shell bone histology have been used to infer the paleoecology of extinct turtles. However, the height-to-width ratio of the shell (as a one-parameter shell model) has been dismissed because of its unreliability, and more complex aspects of shell geometry have generally been overlooked. Here we use a more reliable, three-parameter geometric model of the shell outline in anterior view as a means to assess turtle paleoecology. The accuracy of predictions of extant turtle ecology based on our three-parameter shell model is comparable to that derived from forelimb proportions when distinguishing between three ecological classes (terrestrial, semiaquatic, and aquatic). Higher accuracy is obtained when distinguishing between two classes (terrestrial and non-terrestrial), because the contours of aquatic and semiaquatic turtles are often very similar. Our model classifies Proterochersis robusta, a stem turtle from the Late Triassic of Germany, as non-terrestrial, and likely semiaquatic. Our method, combined with inferences based on limb proportions, indicates a diverse range of ecotypes represented by Late Triassic stem turtles. This implies that the ecological diversification of stem-group turtles may have been rapid, or that a substantial period of currently cryptic diversification preceded the first fossil appearance of the turtle stem lineage during the Late Triassic.
3595523|Cruising speeds of Mesozoic marine reptiles have been estimated in the past by using a mathematical model of energetic equilibrium during steady swimming. This method suffered from a significant tendency to overestimate speeds of extant cetaceans for no clear reason, which raised questions about the validity of the approach itself. The present study identifies the factors that caused this shortcoming and proposes corrections and some additional modifications. These include the use of more accurate body shape models, updated metabolic rate models, and optimal rather than critical swimming speeds. The amended method successfully approximates published optimal speeds of several extant marine vertebrates, including cetaceans, showing that the basic framework of the energetic approach is valid. With this confirmation, the method was applied to Mesozoic marine reptiles, by assuming three different metabolic rate categories known in extant swimming vertebrates (i.e., average ectothermic, raised ectothermic, and marine endothermic levels). The results support previous inferences about the relative cruising capabilities of Mesozoic marine reptiles (i.e., ichthyosaurs > plesiosaurs > mosasaurs). Stenopterygius, a thunniform ichthyosaur, was probably capable of cruising at a speed at least comparable to those reported for some extant thunniform teleosts with similar diets (~1 m/second).
2400791|Six compilations of fossil tetrapod families, spanning 100 years, each contain a broadly similar diversity pattern since the Upper Devonian. Comparison of four recent data bases, one of which is derived from a strict cladistic treatment, reveals widespread taxonomic and stratigraphic inaccuracies in three earlier data bases. Improvement of our interpretation of the tetrapod fossil record will come through continued taxonomic and stratigraphic revision as well as discovery of new fossils.
2666032|Globorotalia truncatulinoides is an extant species of planktic foraminiferans commonly used for stratigraphic and paleoenvironmental analyses. It originated $\sim$2.8 m.y. ago in subtropical areas of the South Pacific, spread to all subtropical and temperate regions of the world ocean, and expanded its range to southern subantarctic waters between 500 and 200 Ka. The wide geographic distribution of G. truncatulinoides is associated with a latitudinal morphological variability considered as an ecophenotypic variation within a single species. Here, we present the first molecular, morphological, and ecological evidence that G. truncatulinoides corresponds to a complex of four genetic species adapted to particular hydrographic conditions. The different species are separated by significant genetic distances in several ribosomal genes (SSU, ITS-1, 5.8S, ITS-2). Species 1 and species 2 characterize subtropical waters, species 3 is abundant exclusively in the Subantarctic Convergence, while species 4 inhabits subantarctic waters. By using an absolute molecular clock, we deduce the time of divergence between the subtropical and frontal/subantarctic species at $\sim$300 Ka, which is in agreement with stratigraphic data and suggests an adaptive radiation of the species allowing it to colonize the nutrient-rich and cold subantarctic waters. This genetic dichotomy is associated with a morphological differentiation identified using outline analysis. Species of the same regions are more similar in test shape but can be distinguished by coiling direction. The evolutionary patterns recognized here by combining DNA and morphological analyses from plankton-tow specimens mirror and allow a new interpretation of the data available from Recent sediments. They highlight the importance of adaptation and heterochronic processes, leading to cryptic speciation, in planktic foraminifera.
2400236|The traditional belief that vertebrae must alternate in position with the segmented body musculature (myotomes) to allow bending of the axial skeleton is evaluated in terms of the patterns of development and structure of gnathostome vertebrae. The key functional parameter allowing lateral bending of the axial skeleton is the intersegmental position of both the neural and haemal arches, not the centrum. The intersegmental position of both the centrum and arches in tetrapods is the result of a secondary association of the centrum with the primary intersegmental position of the neural and haemal arches. The pattern of vertebral ontogeny and structure in primitive gnathostomes suggests that a causal link between sclerotomic resegmentation during amniote development and the presence of intersegmental vertebrae in the adult is spurious and corroborates the hypothesis that the process of resegmentation evolved as a method of redistributing large volumes of sclerotome cells during development. Patterns of vertebral construction in lower vertebrates are related to fast-start performance and the use of the body as a hybrid oscillator during locomotion.
4096982|The traditional "taxon counting" method of estimating ancient biodiversity is open to many criticisms, not least of which are the problem of inconsistency in the preservation of fossil organisms and the associated error on first and last appearance times of taxa. Construction of phylogenetic trees provides a way of correcting the first appearance of a taxon based on the origination time of its sister group. Workers have suggested that biodiversity studies include such phylogenetically implied range extensions. Potential problems with this method, in particular the bias inherent in altering origination-but not extinction-times, and the potential for incorrect addition of ghost ranges if the ancestor of a taxon is defined as its sister, are investigated by using a new computer simulation. The program creates a phylogeny, samples it and then adds ghost lineages, with diversity counts being made at all three stages. Results show that under certain conditions, such as in the case of a taxonomic group with many extant representatives, the phylogenetic method is superior to the taxic at capturing diversity pattern. However, there are also important conditions where the taxic approach provides an equal or superior estimate of diversity, such as if the group is extinct or has few extant lineages. Use of the phylogenetic method has the effect of magnifying the Signor-Lipps sampling effect seen before mass extinction events, and if ancestral species within a phylogeny are misdiagnosed as the sister species of their descendants, the phylogenetic method also consistently overestimates diversity magnitudes.
2400258|The stratophenetic approach to phylogeny reconstruction, developed in numerous recent papers by Gingerich, has its strongest data base in comprehensive collections from early Eocene rocks in the Big Horn Basin of northwestern Wyoming. Other examples have been criticised for lack of well-documented collection data, making suitable testing of stratophenetic interpretations of evolutionary modes virtually impossible. Study of Hyopsodus from the middle Eocene Bridger Formation of southwestern Wyoming provides new collection data. Adequate stratigraphic documentation is available, so Gingerich's graphical presentation can be essentially duplicated. In contrast to the complex branching pattern Gingerich interpreted from his data, Bridger Formation Hyopsodus data seems to show little size change through approximately one million years. This stasis or equilibrium condition, which is considered rare by Bookstein et al. (1978), is the only well developed pattern in Bridger Hyopsodus.
4096821|Understanding the extent to which the reported fossil record reflects biological history, rather than preservational artifacts or other biasing factors, remains one of the central issues in the interpretation of the history of life on Earth. The development of large interactive paleontological databases, such as the Paleobiology Database (PBDB), allows detailed analyses of the patterns of occurrence, both regionally and globally, of taxa in the fossil record and makes possible testing hypotheses of the controls of the patterns. An analysis of data from the PBDB shows that most genera in the fossil record are rare, whereas a relatively small percentage of taxa account for a disproportionate share of the total occurrences. These ubiquitous taxa tend to be speciose and have long stratigraphic ranges. These patterns of occurrence might represent a true biological signal; it is also possible that they reflect taphonomic processes or are the result of taxonomic practice. In particular, common taxa may be taxonomic wastebaskets, i.e., residual and polyphyletic groups resulting from inadequate systematic attention and/or from taphonomic biases resulting in inadequate specimens being preferentially placed in particular genera. A conceptual model for the development of taxonomic wastebaskets suggests that these taxa should be speciose, widely distributed, common, and old (in terms of year of first description), and that they should be the nominate forms for higher taxa. Our analyses suggest that many of the common taxa in the PBDB are consistent with two or more of these expectations and are thus good candidates for being wastebaskets. These taxa are, however, only a small percentage of total genera. A more detailed examination of one group, early gastropods, indicates that possible wastebaskets still are present in a group that has received much recent systematic work. Given that likely wastebasket taxa are a small fraction of all genera, they probably have little effect on overall temporal patterns of generic richness. Their impact on other types of metrics, such as turnover rates or metrics of community diversity or biogeographic similarity, however, might be quite important.
2400146|The pattern observed in nature has often served as a compelling motivation for seeking the underlying processes which are assumed to control the pattern. Spatial and temporal patterns of species diversity are the most commonly observed and described from the study of recent and paleocommunities. These patterns include those found within a local or discrete region such as succession and changes along an environmental gradient and interregional or global patterns such as latitudinal diversity gradients and comparisons of the deepsea and the continental shelf faunas. Many hypotheses have been advanced to explain these patterns in terms of differences in the biology of species adapted to different or changing environments. However, a more simple explanation is possible: that these patterns do not result from any specific biologic processes. We examine this possibility and show that succession can result from probabilistic immigration and local extinction of species, diversity gradients can result from probabilistic disturbance in naturally patchy environments, and that latitudinal gradients can be simply a function of the shape of the earth. As long as such diversity patterns can be explained independent of any specific biologic processes, they offer no test of the importance of these processes, either ecologically or evolutionarily.
2400310|Fragments of cheilostome and cyclostome bryozoans are the most common fossils in the mound structures commonly found in the Lower Danian limestones of southern Scandinavia. Sedimentological investigations and measurement of colony morphology combined with flume channel experiments indicate that: 1) The mounds were affected by unidirectional currents which created relatively high current velocities on the upstream flanks and summits, and low velocities on the downstream flanks and in the basins. 2) Colonies with slender stems and thin walls dominated in areas with low current velocities and those with thick stems and thick walls dominated in areas with high velocities. 3) The specific variability of the stem diameter was mainly controlled by the geometrical arrangement of the zooids. In general, species with a bilamellar arrangement of the zooids show high variability, whereas species with a radial arrangement show small variability. 4) Variation in the wall thickness is primarily related to the mode of growth of the individual zooids. In the ascophorans deposition was confined to the external surface of the stems. On the other hand, in the coilostegoid anascans the secondary skeletal material was deposited on all the internal surfaces of the zooids as well as on the external side of the cryptocyst. Cuticles do not seem to have been present in the secondary thickened part of the frontal wall of either the coilostegoid anascans or the ascophorans. 5) Calcareous material was deposited predominantly on the lower and older portions of the colony.
23014758|Phanerozoic trends in shell and life habit traits linked to postmortem durability were evaluated for the most common fossil brachiopod, gastropod, and bivalve genera in order to test for changes in taphonomic bias. Using the Paleobiology Database, we tabulated occurrence frequencies of genera for 48 intervals of 11 Myr duration. The most frequently occurring genera, cumulatively representing 40% of occurrences in each time bin, were scored for intrinsic durability on the basis of shell size, reinforcement (ribs, folds, and spines), life habit, and mineralogy. Shell durability is positively correlated with the number of genera in a time bin, but durability traits exhibit different temporal patterns across higher taxa, with notable offsets in the timing of changes in these traits. We find no evidence for temporal decreases in durability that would indicate taphonomic bias at the Phanerozoic scale among commonly occurring genera. Also, all three groups show a remarkable stability in mean shell size through the Phanerozoic, an unlikely pattern if strong sizefiltering taphonomic megabiases were affecting the fossil record of shelly faunas. Moreover, small shell sizes are attained in the early Paleozoic in brachiopods and in the latest Paleozoic in gastropods but are steady in bivalves; unreinforced shells are common to all groups across the entire Phanerozoic; organophosphatic and aragonitic shells dominate only the oldest and youngest time bins; and microstructures having high organic content are most common in the oldest time bins. In most cases, the timing of changes in durability-related traits is inconsistent with a late Mesozoic Marine Revolution. The post-Paleozoic increase in mean gastropod reinforcement occurs in the early Triassic, suggesting either an earlier appearance and expansion of durophagous predators or other drivers. Increases in shell durability hypothesized to be the result of increased predation in the late Mesozoic are not evident in the common genera examined here. Infaunal life habit does increase in the late Mesozoic, but it does not become more common than levels already attained during the Paleozoic, and only among bivalves does the elevated late Mesozoic level persist through the Holocene. These temporal patterns suggest control on the occurrence of durability-related traits by individual evolutionary histories rather than taphonomic megabiases. Our findings do not mean taphonomic biases are absent from the fossil record, but rather that their effects apparently have had little net effect on the relative occurrence of shell traits generally thought to confer higher preservation potential over long time scales.
4096846|Modern histological techniques allow paleontologists to investigate the internal microstructure of bone tissue. We apply high resolution images of histological thin sections from an ontogenetic series (not conspecific) of pachycephalosaurid frontoparietal domes to test the hypothesis that these Late Cretaceous dinosaurs used their heads as battering rams, analogous to the behavior of the bighorn sheep, Ovis canadensis, or as a thermoregulatory device. Our analysis reveals that the internal structure of the pachycephalosaur dome is a dynamic tissue that reflects the changeable expansion and vascularity of the dome throughout ontogeny. The radiating structures within the frontoparietal dome, used previously to support "head-butting" hypotheses, are unexpectedly transitory, diminishing in mature individuals and nearly absent in adult skulls where head-butting behavior is presumed to occur. The unique architecture of the pachycephalosaurid dome is dividable into three distinct Zones. We demonstrate that the relative vascularity, associated tissue structures, and orientation and density of Sharpey's fibers within these Zones are modified during growth. Evidence for an external dome covering in vivo precludes the determination of the final shape of the pachycephalosaur skull. On the basis of these new observations, we propose that cranial display in support of species recognition and communication is a more parsimonious interpretation of the function of the pachycephalosaurid dome. Sexual display behaviors were probably secondary.
1558087|During the first 10-20 Kyr of the Eocene temperatures warmed by 4-8C in middle and high latitudes, then cooled again over the succeeding 200 Kyr. Major changes in the composition of marine and terrestrial faunas, including one of the largest mammalian turnover events of the Cenozoic, occurred during this temperature excursion. To better understand the effects of rapid climatic change on continental biotas, we studied 60 fossil pollen samples collected from 900 m of section spanning approximately three million years of the late Paleocene and early Eocene; the samples come from the Fort Union Formation and Willwood Formation in the Bighorn Basin of northwestern Wyoming, paleolatitude approximately 47N. There are 40 samples from the 500 m of rock deposited during the one million year interval centered on the Paleocene/Eocene boundary, although pollen was not preserved well in rocks representing the short warm interval at the base of the Eocene. Overall, the palynoflora shows moderate change in composition and diversity. Two pollen taxa clearly expanded their ranges to include North America in the first 400 Kyr of the Eocene, Platycarya (Juglandaceae), and Intratriporopollenites instructus (cf. Tilia), but they account for less than 5% of pollen grains in the early Eocene. There are no last appearances of common taxa associated with the Paleocene/Eocene boundary. The most noticeable palynological changes are the decrease in abundance of Caryapollenites spp. and Polyatriopollenites vermontensis (Juglandaceae), and the increase in abundance of Taxodiaceae (bald cypress family), Ulmaceae (elm family), and Betulaceae (birch family), particularly Alnipollenites spp. (alder). There are 22% more species in the Eocene samples than in the Paleocene samples; mean richness of Eocene samples is 17% higher than the mean of Paleocene samples. The mean evenness of Eocene samples is higher than that of Paleocene samples, but the difference is not significant. The modest level of floral change during the late Paleocene and early Eocene contrasts with the major taxonomic turnover and ecological rearrangement of North American mammalian faunas observed at the same time. Faunal change probably resulted from intercontinental range expansion across Arctic land bridges that became habitable as a result of high-latitude warming, so it is surprising that climatically sensitive plants did not also experience a major episode of interchange. The absence of fossil plants from the temperature excursion interval itself could prevent us from recognizing a transient shift in floral composition, but it is clear that the flora did not undergo a major and permanent restructuring like that seen in the mammals. The contrast between the moderate floral response to warming and the strong faunal response is consistent with the idea that interactions between immigrant and native taxa, rather than climate directly, were the primary cause of terrestrial biotic change across the Paleocene/Eocene boundary.
4500163|Understanding what drives global diversity requires knowledge of the processes that control diversity and turnover at a variety of geographic and temporal scales. This is of particular importance in the study of mass extinctions, which have disproportionate effects on the global ecosystem and have been shown to vary geographically in extinction magnitude and rate of recovery. Here, we analyze regional diversity and turnover patterns for the paleocontinents of Laurentia, Baltica, and Avalonia spanning the Late Ordovician mass extinction and Early Silurian recovery. Using a database of genus occurrences for inarticulate and articulate brachiopods, bivalves, anthozoans, and trilobites, we show that sampling-standardized diversity trends differ for the three regions. Diversity rebounded to pre-extinction levels within 5 Myr in the paleocontinent of Laurentia, compared with 15 Myr or longer for Baltica and Avalonia. This increased rate of recovery in Laurentia was due to both lower Late Ordovician extinction rates and higher Early Silurian origination rates relative to the other continents. Using brachiopod data, we dissected the Rhuddanian recovery into genus origination and invasion. This analysis revealed that standing diversity in the Rhuddanian consisted of a higher proportion of invading taxa in Laurentia than in either Baltica or Avalonia. Removing invading genera from diversity counts caused Rhuddanian diversity to fall in Laurentia. However, Laurentian diversity still rebounded to pre-extinction levels within 10 Myr of the extinction event, indicating that genus origination rates were also higher in Laurentia than in either Baltica or Avalonia. Though brachiopod diversity in Laurentia was lower than in the higher-latitude continents prior to the extinction, increased immigration and genus origination rates made it the most diverse continent following the extinction. Higher rates of origination in Laurentia may be explained by its large size, paleogeographic location, and vast epicontinental seas. It is possible that the tropical position of Laurentia buffered it somewhat from the intense climatic fluctuations associated with the extinction event, reducing extinction intensities and allowing for a more rapid rebound in this region. Hypotheses explaining the increased levels of invasion into Laurentia remain largely untested and require further scrutiny. Nevertheless, the Late Ordovician mass extinction joins the Late Permian and end-Cretaceous as global extinction events displaying an underlying spatial complexity.
2400140|Magadina cumingi (Davidson) lives in an environment of high current energy and mobile sediments using the pedicle as an elevating device. This previously undescribed substrate relationship is reflected in pedicle form, the muscular system, distribution of secondary thickening and characters of the beak. The cardinalia provide the evidence of key differences in the muscular system from an attached species Magellania australis (Quoy and Gaimard) and a free lying species with atrophied pedicle Neothyris lenticularis (Deshayes). The possession of an open foramen in articulate brachiopods is not synonymous with permanent attachment.
2401122|Oxygen and carbon isotopic analyses have been conducted on Miocene to Pliocene (6.0 to 2.9 Ma) members of the gradually evolving, deep-dwelling planktonic foraminiferal clade, Globoconella, in temperate waters of the southwest Pacific, Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) Site 593. In the late Miocene the clade began with Globoconella conoidea, and continued through G. conomiozea, G. sphericomiozea, and G. puncticulata to the extant form G. inflata. Isotopic analyses were performed on ancestor-descendant species within the clade to determine if isotopic differences exist between these species which would, in turn, suggest depth and/or seasonal habitat differences and perhaps segregation, as well as ecological changes in the clade. Isotopic analyses were also conducted on the relatively shallow-dwelling planktonic foraminifer Orbulina universa and the benthic form Cibicidoides wuellerstorfi to determine if any relationships exist between the evolution of Globoconella and paleoceanographic/paleoclimatic change. Small (usually 0.1-0.15% but up to 0.3%) oxygen isotopic differences exist between ancestor and descendant forms that we believe represent small (1<sup></sup>C) temperature differences. These temperature differences are inferred to indicate depth and/or seasonal habitat differences and possible segregation between the species during the gradual evolution. The largest differences in oxygen isotopic values occur between ancestor and descendant forms during the most conspicuous morphological transition within the clade near the Miocene/Pliocene boundary. During this interval, the clade underwent a transformation from conical to spherical forms and there was a loss of the keel. No consistent differences were observed between ancestor and descendant carbon isotopic values. Both morphological and ecological evolution appear to have been associated with paleoceanographic/paleoclimatic changes. Intervals marked by warming of surface-to-upper intermediate waters are associated with evolution of forms with a spherical test and inferred adaptation to cooler waters relative to ancestral forms. We propose two alternative models for the evolution of the Globoconella clade. In the first model, we assume that depth and/or seasonal segregation between ancestor and descendant forms provided a partial barrier to gene flow and that evolution resulted from genetic drift and/or differential selective pressures acting on each morphotype. In the second model, we assume that coeval members of Globoconella formed a vertical and/or seasonal morphocline in the water column and that segregation did not provide an effective barrier to gene flow. Evolution proceeded as directional selection acted on morphotypes of Globoconella inhabiting selectively advantageous positions in the water column.
2400731|The extent to which perceived patterns of evolution are affected by the use of single characters versus overall morphology or measured versus counted and coded characters is explored empirically, employing multiple-character data from closely spaced sequential populations of the Neogene bryozoan Metrarabdotos. In all nine species examined, the pattern of evolution in overall morphology revealed by discriminant analysis is so highly punctuated that changes within species do not vary significantly from zero. Among the 46 single characters in the nine species, a few statistically significant temporal trends do occur, as apparent departures from the static pattern in overall morphology. However, these exceptions are so poorly related to the morphology that distinguishes inferred ancestor and descendant species from each other, and are so few in number, that they can be interpreted as chance variation from a general condition of no change within species. There is no difference in behavior between measured characters and counted or coded ones, in part because the distinction between the two types of characters can be artificial in bryozoans and other modular organisms. The results suggest that interpretation of single-character changes, in isolation rather than as statistical samples of the change in overall morphology, should be made with caution.
4500159|The 2.0-1.8-billion-year-old Stirling Range Formation in southwestern Australia preserves the deposits of a siliciclastic shoreline formed under the influence of storms, longshore currents, and tidal currents. Sandstones contain a megascopic fossil biota represented by discoidal fossils similar to the Ediacaran Aspidella Billings, 1872, as well as ridge pairs preserved in positive hyporelief on the soles of channel-fill sandstones bounded by mud drapes. The ridges run parallel or nearly parallel for most of their length, meeting in a closed loop at one end and opening with a slight divergence at the opposite end. The ridges are interpreted as casts of sediment-laden mucus strings formed by the movement of multicellular or syncytial organisms along a muddy surface. The taxa Myxomitodes stirlingensis n. igen., n. isp., are introduced for these traces. The Stirling biota was roughly coeval with other presumed multicellular eukaryotes appearing after a long period of profound environmental changes involving a rise in ambient oxygen levels, similar to that which preceded the Cambrian explosion. The failure of multicellular life to diversify during most of the Proterozoic may be due to environmental constraints related to the comparatively low level of oxidation of the world oceans.
2400881|We examined the radiocarbon age, taphonomic condition and stratigraphic position of shells of the venerid bivalve Chione spp. from the tidal flats of Bahia la Choya, Sonora, Mexico. Shells in Bahia la Choya are time-averaged. Thirty shells yielded radiocarbon dates from modern (A.D. 1950 or younger) to 3569 years before present. The median calendar age of inner flat shells is 483 years; the median age of tidal channel shells is 427 years. We interpret such long shell survival to be the result of frequent shallow burial. Such burial retards bioerosion of shells. The taphonomic condition of shells varied with environment. Shells from the surface of the inner flats were better preserved than shells from the tidal channel. Shells are more likely to be physically worn and biologically degraded in the waters of the channel than on the quieter and more frequently exposed inner tidal flat. Taphonomic condition is an unreliable indicator of a shell's time-since-death. Poorly-preserved shells on the inner flats tended to be old, but in general shell condition was much more variable than shell age. A shell's condition is more likely the result of its total residence time on the surface than its time-since-death (surface time plus burial time). Two composite short (44 cm and 50 cm) cores revealed varying degrees of stratigraphic disorder (the departure from perfect correlation between relative stratigraphic position and relative age). One of eight shells in the inner flats core was disordered; four of nine shells in the tidal channel were disordered. The actual age range of surface shells approximates the age range of shells in cores. Stratigraphic disorder is a consequence of both time-averaging and physical and biogenic mixing. Time-averaging controls the degree of precision possible in paleoecological studies. Environmental changes and ecological phenomena occurring within a span of 3500 years would not be recognized in deposits like those of Bahia la Choya. Time-averaging and stratigraphic disorder also constrain the temporal resolution possible in microstratigraphic studies of evolution. The extent of time-averaging and stratigraphic disorder will dictate an appropriate sample interval. In order to prevent temporal overlap between successive samples in deposits like Bahia la Choya, sample spacing should not be less than approximately 0.5 m.
4096816|The centric diatom Stephanodiscus yellowstonensis Theriot and Stoermer is endemic to Yellowstone Lake, where it can be an important component of the summer phytoplankton assemblage. Its close relative, Stephanodiscus niagarae Ehrenberg, is abundant in nearby lakes and regional reservoirs. We used the stratigraphic record of Yellowstone Lake to investigate the evolution of S. niagarae to S. yellowstonensis and to describe the limnologic and climatic conditions associated with its evolution. A dramatic morphological shift took place between about 13.7 and 10.0 Ka, but morphology remained stable from 10 Ka to the present. Coincident with morphological change in the S. niagarae/S. yellowstonensis complex were changes in the diatom species assemblage, biogenic silica concentrations, sediment lithology, and regional vegetation. These changes suggest an environment that experienced progressive warming following the retreat of continental glaciers. We could not identify a specific selective factor driving evolution. Nevertheless, nonrandom morphological evolution strongly associated with continuous environmental change suggests that directional selection is a reasonable hypothesis to account for evolution of S. yellowstonensis. Protists are presumed to evolve gradually after speciation events because of large population size, high dispersal capacity, and low reproductive barriers. However, published diatom examples and the evolution of S. yellowstonensis suggest that it is premature to generalize about rates of evolution in protists, or at least to include diatoms in this generalization.
2401098|Faunal abundance and fossil size and shape data from microvertebrate localities in the Upper Cretaceous Judith River Formation of south-central Montana illustrate that even when located in similar sedimentary facies, concentrations of vertebrate microfossils may exhibit strikingly different taphonomic profiles. Degrees of microfossil size and shape sorting may vary even among sites from the same sedimentary facies. In some instances, such variations may make it impossible to disregard taphonomic causes for differences sites exhibit in paleofaunal abundances. To limit the possibility that taphonomically generated faunal differences might be mistaken for true differences in paleoecology, comparisons of paleofaunal abundances should be restricted to microvertebrate sites both from similar sedimentary facies and with similar profiles of fossil sizes and shapes.
25609411|The significant impact of extant carnivores, particularly spotted hyenas, on the depositional history and physical characteristics of archaeofaunal and paleontological assemblages is well recognized. We focus on the behavioral ecology of extant spotted hyenas (Crocuta crocuta) in relation to bone accumulations produced by one East African clan at communal dens. Limbs and skulls of prey animals more frequently appear at dens than do other carcass portions. These items reflect the relative abundance of prey species near dens; carnivore remains are poorly represented. Comparative analysis reveals that bones are deposited far more slowly (<7 carcass portions per month) and accumulations tend to be smaller at Crocuta dens than at dens of either brown (Parahyaena brunnea) or striped (Hyaena hyaena) hyenas. We propose that extant Crocuta bone accumulation rates and sizes are likely affected by prey species abundance, clan size, social interactions within the clan, and the type and availability of den sites. We also suggest that the potential for intraspecific behavioral variability in bone accumulation patterns is important when comparisons are made among spotted hyena populations and across hyena species. For example, accumulation patterns may be dramatically influenced by the temporal span, potentially ranging from days to hundreds or thousands of years, in which bones are collected, depending on the species-specific history of occupation at a given site. Understanding the behavioral and ecological variability likely to influence bone accumulation patterns at dens used by different hyaenids will allow taphonomists and zooarchaeologists to refine their knowledge of mechanisms underlying site formation processes and potential causes of variability in deeper-time den assemblages.
2400555|Diversity and faunal turnover of North American land mammals are calibrated against the magnetic polarity time scale for million-year intervals for the latest Eocene through late Oligocene. A major, gradual Late Eocene decline in diversity, caused mostly by an extended period of extinction of archaic forms, seems to be related to the worldwide crisis known as the "Terminal Eocene Event." Along with other evidence of gradual changes in deep-sea microfossils, this evidence argues against a catastrophic explanation for late Eocene extinctions. Faunal stability characterized the rest of the Oligocene except for a wave of extinctions in the mid-Oligocene (Chadronian-Orellan boundary, about 32.4 ma). This mid-Oligocene event is sudden and severe, occurring in less than 200,000 yr, based on estimates from sedimentation rates calibrated from magnetic polarity interval boundaries. The mid-Oligocene event is found in many paleoclimatic records, but not in all of them. It may be related to the completion of the Circum-Antarctic Current and to increased mid-Oligocene glaciation.
20445610|Medullosa stands apart from most Paleozoic seed plants in its combination of large leaf area, complex vascular structure, and extremely large water-conducting cells. To investigate the hydraulic consequences of these anatomical features and to compare them with other seed plants, we have adapted a model of water transport in xylem cells that accounts for resistance to flow from the lumen, pits, and pit membranes, and that can be used to compare extinct and extant plants in a quantitative way. Application of this model to Medullosa, the Paleozoic coniferophyte Cordaites, and the extant conifer Pinus shows that medullosan tracheids had the capacity to transport water at volume flow rates more comparable to those of angiosperm vessels than to those characteristic of ancient and modern coniferophyte tracheids. Tracheid structure in Medullosa, including the large pit membrane area per tracheid and the high ratio of tracheid diameter to wall thickness, suggests that its xylem cells operated at significant risk of embolism and implosion, making this plant unlikely to survive significant water stress These features further suggest that tracheids could not have furnished significant structural support, requiring either that other tissues supported these plants or that at least some medullosans were vines. In combination with high tracheid conductivity, distinctive anatomical characters of Medullosa such as the anomalous growth of vascular cambium and the large number of leaf traces that enter each petiole base suggest vascular adaptations to meet the evapotranspiration demands of its large leaves. The evolution of highly efficient conducting cells dictates a need to supply structural support via other tissues, both in tracheid-based stem seed plants and in vessel-bearing angiosperms.
4500150|Evolutionary stasis has often been explained by stabilizing selection, intrinsic constraints, or, more recently, by spatially patterned population dynamics. To distinguish which of these mechanisms explains a given case of stasis in the fossil record, stasis must first be rigorously documented in a high-resolution stratigraphic time series of fossil specimens. Furthermore, past studies of evolutionary mode in fossil mammalian lineages have often been limited to univariate traits (e.g., molar crown area). It is reasonable to assume that tooth shape, a multivariate trait, reflects important additional aspects of tooth form and function. Here we present the results of a geometric morphometric analysis of the lower dentition of the Paleocene-Eocene condylarth species Ectocion osbornianus collected from the Bighorn and Clarks Fork Basins of northwestern Wyoming. Tooth margin shape, cusp configuration, and shearing crest shape were digitized for the last lower premolar, p4, and for two lower molars, m1 and m3. Multivariate statistical tests of evolutionary mode were used to analyze the change in shape variance over time in addition to the magnitude and direction of shape change. Test results characterize the shape time series as consisting of counteracting changes with less change than expected under a random walk (i.e., stasis). The temporal structure of shape variance implies that the sampled E. osbornianus most likely represent a single population, which is not concordant with the population dynamic mechanism of stasis. Stabilizing selection and/or intrinsic constraints remain as the mechanisms that could explain stasis in the lower dental shape of E. osbornianus despite the variable environmental conditions of the Paleocene-Eocene.
2400977|Our assessment of morphological diversity is influenced by morphological extremes and therefore depends on sample size (taxonomic richness). Rarefaction predicts the morphological diversity that would probably be observed in a sample of reduced size, thereby allowing both compensation for differences in sample size that may be strictly preservational, and analysis of diversity structure, that is, the relationship between morphological and taxonomic diversity. Middle and Late Cambrian trilobites exhibit a diversity structure characterized by many variations on a few morphological themes. In contrast, Middle and Late Ordovician trilobites occupy a larger range of morphospace per unit of species richness. Diversity structure in the Devonian is similar to that in the Middle and Late Ordovician, but the magnitude of morphological diversity is lower in the Devonian, as many fewer species are observed. For blastoids, different aspects of morphological diversity (range of morphospace occupied, number of character states possessed, and number of different regions in morphospace occupied) exhibit different relationships to taxonomic richness. In all cases Permian blastoids are characterized by a diversity structure in which morphological diversity per unit of taxonomic richness is greater than for Devonian blastoids. Changes in morphological diversity in fissiculate blastoids appear to reflect evolution of continuous variation in thecal morphology more than changes in the number of character states. Saunders and Swan's data on Namurian ammonoids illustrate some significant differences in diversity structure among stratigraphic levels, but many apparent differences in morphological diversity are consistent with the possibility that they reflect the sampling of different numbers of species from the same underlying diversity structure. Rarefaction curves are also presented for idealized increases and decreases in diversity, and these are compared to some of the observed changes in trilobites, blastoids, and ammonoids.
2400884|Global taxonomic richness is affected by variation in three components: within-community, or alpha, diversity; between-community, or beta, diversity; and between-region, or gamma, diversity. A data set consisting of 505 faunal lists distributed among 40 stratigraphic intervals and six environmental zones was used to investigate how variation in alpha and beta diversity influenced global diversity through the Paleozoic, and especially during the Ordovician radiations. As first shown by Bambach (1977), alpha diversity increased by 50 to 70 percent in offshore marine environments during the Ordovician and then remained essentially constant for the remainder of the Paleozoic. The increase is insufficient, however, to account for the 300 percent rise observed in global generic diversity. It is shown that beta diversity among level, soft-bottom communities also increased significantly during the early Paleozoic. This change is related to enhanced habitat selection, and presumably increased overall specialization, among diversifying taxa during the Ordovician radiations. Combined with alpha diversity, the measured change in beta diversity still accounts for only about half of the increase in global diversity. Other sources of increase are probably not related to variation in gamma diversity but rather to appearance and/or expansion of organic reefs, hardground communities, bryozoan thickets, and crinoid gardens during the Ordovician.
2400476|Skull and tooth dimensions of Homo erectus fossils from Africa, Europe and Asia appear to fluctuate rather than to change progressively during an interval of 1.3 Myr prior to the start of the Upper Pleistocene. No significant trends can be observed. This suggests a period of stasis in human evolution, after which Homo sapiens may have evolved rapidly from archaic mid-Pleistocene ancestors.
2400697|Systematics and paleontology have had a long conceptual relationship, united by the common goal of reconstructing the history of life. Yet, with few exceptions, paleontologists have had little input into formulating systematic theory and methodology. The reasons for this apparently relate to two conceptual-philosophical traditions of post-Darwinian paleontology: (1) the widespread adoption of a species concept in which taxa are viewed as nondiscrete, arbitrarily designated segments of evolutionary continua, and (2) the belief that phylogenetic reconstruction is primarily an empirical matter of tracing evolutionary change through the stratigraphic record. Available systematic evidence supports the hypothesis that species are real, discrete units in space and time and that, unless they are postulated to be directly ancestral to another species, they can be defined by the possession of one or more evolutionary novelties (derived characters). Species beginnings are delineated by speciation (vicariance) events and their terminations by subsequent speciation events or by extinctions. Natural groups are composed of taxa that have shared a common genealogical history. Cladistic analysis is a method to construct and test hypotheses of monophyly and thereby define natural groups. Cladistic hypotheses are necessary to investigate many of the major questions within contemporary paleobiology. Virtually no studies of evolutionary rates, patterns of taxonomic diversity, modes of taxic evolution, and patterns of morphological diversification can be undertaken without reference to cladistic hypotheses about the composition of natural groups. Because paleobiology is historical in its content, paleontologists are greatly limited in their ability to use paleontological data to investigate questions about the evolutionary process. According to current evolutionary theory, the concepts of adaptation and natural selection relate to genetic and ecological processes that take place within local populations (microevolution). If so, then data relevant to examining these phenomena are likely to be lacking in paleontological samples. Consequently, explanations of paleontological pattern that include process-related concepts such as adaptation and natural selection are axiomatic in their logical structure and thus cannot be falsified or critically evaluated by that paleontological pattern.
2400314|The paleoecologist has been hampered in his studies of ancient communities by an inability to obtain reasonable estimates of standing crops and diversities. Finding the diversity of an ancient community is no simple matter, because a fossil assemblage is a mixture of living and recently dead individuals from that community. Considerable numbers of each group may be missing. The relationship of the elements in a fossil population for an individual species can be expressed as follows: F = F
2401219|I describe a mathematical model of shells that incorporates simple morphometric measurements, which can be obtained easily from sectioned specimens. The model reconstructs form (size and shape) by describing the path in space traversed by, and the changes in dimensions of, a shell aperture during accretionary growth. The model contains parameters that independently affect components of these two aspects of shell form in directions radially away from (or toward) and along a coiling axis. I also describe a computer program, CerioShell, that uses the mathematical model to graphically simulate shell forms. The program permits the viewing of images from different three-dimensional orientations, using various graphical representations, and provides dimensions of the images it generates. Together, the model and the program allow one to investigate the effects that changes in modes of growth would have on shell form.
2400515|We have recently shown how capture-recapture models can be used in conjunction with stratigraphic range data to estimate taxonomic extinction rates and taxonomic diversity. Here we present a new method that can be used to estimate taxonomic turnover (defined here as the proportion of taxa extant at time i, that originated in the interval i -1 to i). We used these methods in conjunction with stratigraphic range data for families in five phyla of Paleozoic marine invertebrates. We estimated fossil encounter probabilities, extinction rates, diversity, and turnover and used these estimates to test hypotheses about variation among phyla and geologic series. Encounter probabilities varied among taxa and showed evidence of a decrease over time for the geologic series examined. The number of families varied substantially among the five phyla and showed some evidence of an increase over the series examined. There was no evidence of variation in extinction probabilities among the phyla. Although there was evidence of temporal variation in extinction probabilities within phyla, there was no evidence of a linear decrease in extinction probabilities over time, as has been reported by others. We did find evidence of high extinction probabilities for the two intervals that had been identified by others as periods of mass extinction. We found no evidence of variation in turnover among the five phyla. There was evidence of temporal variation in turnover, with greater turnover occurring in the older series.
2400302|Implosion of 47 epoxy-sealed shells of Nautilus pompilius indicates that very young shells (20-30 mm diameter at last septum) can withstand 136 atm pressure (= 1360 m equivalent depth), but intermediate and mature shells (30-145 mm diameter) implode at approximately 30-70 atm (= 300-700 m). Strain gages attached to the shells during implosion tests show that the flank and venter are compressed by external pressure, but the septum undergoes tension and structurally should be the most vulnerable to hydrostatic pressure. Overall shell strength is substantially less than reported values of tensile strength (approximately 364 atm) and compressive strength (approximately 1561 atm) of the constituent shell material, nacre. Shell strength as a depth limiting factor appears to be controlled by shell and septal architecture and by stress concentrators such as flaws and microstructural inhomogeneity. The wide range in implosion values and lack of strong correlation between such parameters as septal thickness and implosion pressure indicate that determination of depth ranges for fossil cephalopods may be difficult.
2400460|The geometry of the simpler types of graptolite stipes can be quantified by assuming them to consist of stacked cylinders representing the thecal tubes. It can be shown that specification of any three characters, for example, thecal inclination, thecal spacing, and stipe width, effectively defines the others (thecal overlap, thecal length and width, thecal "density"); hence the parameters commonly used in the definition of species are not independent. Variation within and between species can be represented by three-character plots. The effects of altering the apertural angle from 90
2400605|Scanning electron microscope (SEM) examination of bone surfaces from the Pleasant Lake mastodon, excavated in southern Michigan, documents features indicative of butchery. These features are identified by comparison with modern bones modified by human and natural processes. We report new studies of (1) marks made by bone tools during removal of meat from and disarticulation of carcasses and (2) use wear developed on bone tools. We also apply previously developed criteria for recognizing stone tool cutmarks and stages in the burning of bone. The Pleasant Lake site, dated to between 10,395  100 and 12,845  165 B.P., provides compelling evidence of mastodon butchery and bone tool use. Another site, near New Hudson, Michigan, provides replication of much of this evidence. Together these sites offer new examples of patterns of bone modification and extend the geographic and temporal representation of the much discussed, but still controversial, late Pleistocene bone technology.
4096960|Cutan, a resistant non-hydrolyzable aliphatic biopolymer, was first reported in the cuticle of Agave americana and has generally been considered ubiquitous in leaf cuticles along with the structural biopolyester cutin. Because leaves and cuticles in the fossil record almost always have an aliphatic composition, it was argued that selective preservation of cutan played an important role in leaf preservation. However, the analysis of leaves using chemical degradation techniques involving hydrolysis to test for the presence of cutan reveals that it is absent in 16 of 19 taxa (angiosperm and gymnosperm), including many previously reported to contain cutan on the basis of pyrolysis data. Cutan is clearly much less widespread in leaves than previously thought, and its presence or absence does not exert any major bias on the preservation of leaves in the fossil record. In the absence of cutan, other constituents-cutin, plant waxes, and internal plant lipids-are incorporated into the geomacromolecule and contribute to the formation of a resistant aliphatic polymer by in situ polymerization during diagenesis.
2400197|Growth processes and patterns set functional limits on the adaptive range of organisms that have evolved a particular "Bauplan." The design of the elastic ligament has played a large part in determining the scope of the evolutionary radiation of the Arcoida. Tensional lamellar and compressional fibrous materials of this ligament, which appear to be similar in their elastic properties to those of other bivalves, are not segregated in positions where they could best perform their different mechanical functions. The growth of this unspecialized ligament exhibits strong positive allometry, with respect to shell size, in many fossil and living arcoids. A simple mechanical model shows that this allometry is essential if the strength of the ligament is to keep up with the weight of the animal, during ontogeny. Inherent disadvantages of the allometry include increasing dorsal breakage of the ligament itself, interference with the function of the hinge teeth and reduction of the closing moment exerted by the adductor muscles. Direct measurements of living arcoids show that allometric growth just maintains a linear relationship between ligament strength and animal volume. Major differences in ligament strength are related to shell growth patterns and substantially different environmental adaptations. Ligament strength is highly variable within individual populations; between populations, it is correlated with shell thickness and local environmental conditions. Most arcoids are adapted for shallow-burrowing or epifaunal modes of life in physically unstable environments, where they are frequently disturbed. The large, muscular foot enables these mobile animals to regain suitable living positions after such disturbances. The weak ligament has limited the potential specialization of the arcoids for either deeper burrowing or permanent epibyssal attachment, also requiring the retention of the foot in epifaunal forms. This ligament has made diverse adaptations possible, while preventing extreme specialization, except in isolated taxa. As such, it is largely responsible for the evolutionary reversals documented by Stanley (1972). This is konstrukionsmorphologie No. 46.
2400557|Immunologically reactive protein substances were extracted from bone samples of an American mastodon (Mammut americanum), 10,200 yr old by radiocarbon dating, and from muscle samples of three woolly mammoths (Mammuthus primigenius), 10,000, 40,000 and 53,000 yr old, respectively. The mastodon samples contained significant quantities of the amino acids hydroxylysine and hydroxyproline, both of which are usually found in collagens and not in albumins. Using these products and other comparable extracts, as well as sera and purified collagens from modern elephants and other living mammals, as test antigens, immunological comparisons were carried out with the following antisera: rabbit anti-mastodon bone; chicken anti-mammoth muscle; chicken anti-elephant muscle; rabbit anti-elephant albumin and rabbit anti-elephant collagen, as well as with rabbit antisera to purified albumins and collagens of other mammals. For the first time, mastodon bone was found to have elephant-like proteins, which elicited antibodies that reacted strongly with collagen and serum proteins of extant elephants. Mammoth muscle strongly reacted with anti-elephant collagen and anti-elephant albumin, but the concentrations of the recoverable mammoth collagen and albumin decreased with increasing chronological age of the mammoth specimens. Nevertheless, in the immunological comparisons, the mammoth was closer to Asian (Elephas maximus) and African (Loxodonta africana) elephants than to the mastodon; in turn, the mastodon was closer to these elephantid species than to mammals outside the order Proboscidea.
1558100|In computational studies of the body mass and surface area of vertebrates, it is customary to assume that body cross-sections are approximately elliptical. However, a review of actual vertebrate cross-sections establishes that this assumption is not usually met. A new cross-sectional model using superellipses is therefore introduced, together with a scheme that allows estimates to be given with ranges. Tests of the new method, using geometrical shapes, miniature vertebrate models, and actual animals, show that the method has a high accuracy in body mass estimation. A new computer program to perform the computation is introduced. The application of the method to some Mesozoic marine reptiles suggests that the tuna-shaped ichthyosaur Stenopterygius probably had body masses comparable to those of average cetaceans of the same body length.
3595496|Living fossils are taxonomic groups surviving for a long time without any remarkable morphological change. Most of them retain low taxonomic diversities. Although some of them have survived in refuges to avoid predators and competitors, not all living fossils live in refuges. The survival of these groups, therefore, should be discussed in the context of biological interaction. I carried out computer simulations of a model food web system, in which each species feeds on others according to its feeding preference. The system evolves via evolution of species. In the simulation, some clades, like "living fossils," survived for a long time with low species diversities. Such clades consisted of species with low evolutionary rates, which result in high predation pressure and intraclade competition for food. Nevertheless, the clades sustainably utilize prey clades and are consequently provided with sufficient food. In addition, because of the low species diversities of the clades, predators of the clades soon become extinct through lack of food. This study strongly suggests that in an evolving food web system, the low evolutionary rates of living fossils allow the long survival of those groups with low taxonomic diversities.
41684305|Recovery of marine biodiversity following the Permo-Triassic extinction is thought to have been delayed relative to other mass extinctions. Terrestrial vertebrate biodiversity is said to have taken as much as 15 Myr longer to recover than the marine. The present study tests, at the scale of an individual fossil community, whether a disparity in biodiversity existed in the American Southwest, between the Moenkopi Formation, containing an early Middle Triassic (Anisian) terrestrial tetrapod fauna, and the Chinle Formation, containing a successor Late Triassic (Norian) tetrapod fauna. Taking Chinle faunal biodiversity to represent full biotic recovery, comparison of taxonomic and guild diversity of faunas from similar depositional and taphonomic environments in these two formations allowed us to assess the possibility of incipient terrestrial recovery of biodiversity in the Anisian. Comparisons were made between the Holbrook Member fauna of the Moenkopi, a unit best characterized as a low-sinuosity medium-to coarse-grained fluvial deposit, and each of four Chinle stratigraphie units, representing fluvial settings from sandy low-sinuosity to muddy high-sinuosity. Three metrics were applied: generic and familial taxonomic diversity and guild diversity; these were compared by rarefaction. Simpson and Shannon diversity metrics augmented the analysis. Units of extraordinary preservation in the Chinlethe so-called blue layerswere removed from the analysis. In all tests the biodiversity of the Holbrook Member fauna is within the variation seen in Chinle faunas. If the results of our study represent global conditions, they suggest that by at least early Anisian time (~6 Myr after the P/T extinction) biodiversity had reached levels comparable to those seen in the Late Triassic. This potentially brings the terrestrial vertebrate recovery in line with the 4-8 Myr it took for recovery in the marine realm.
2400904|Several very large, taxonomically standardized data sets have been compiled and utilized to investigate biogeographic and evolutionary patterns of continental margin benthic foraminifera. Mean partial species durations for 87 frequently occurring and 180 rarely occurring species on the Atlantic continental margin of North America are the same, namely 21 m.y. The global fossil record of these species indicates no center or centers of origin and indicates very rapid dispersal. The Miocene had the greatest number of first occurrences with 46%, followed by the Pleistocene, Pliocene and Oligocene with approximately 13% each. The remaining 14% first occur in the Eocene, Paleocene, and Cretaceous. Species with a wide geographic distribution often exhibit longer species durations than those with narrow geographic ranges. The vast majority of endemic species (150 of 175) occur rarely and have no fossil record.
4096984|Communal hunting allows some modern canids to catch large and powerful prey. As opposed to felids, for example, Recent canids have a limited ability to grapple and subdue prey by using their forelimbs. Instead, they engage in sustained pursuit predation and the success rate during this activity typically increases with the number of individuals participating in the hunt. Clearly, such behaviors do not fossilize directly and have to be inferred from anatomy. This paper focuses on how social pack-hunting in large-bodied fossil canids can be determined and the potential for it among Tertiary canids (Canidae, Carnivora). Craniodental adaptations for handling and killing large prey and forearm utility in running and grappling are investigated by principal components and canonical variates analyses. I also test whether fossil canids responded to predation of large prey by evolving the same morphological traits as their Recent pursuit-type relatives. The analyses show that small and large members of the Recent Caninae share similar craniodental morphologies. However, the same pattern is not present in the fossil subfamilies Borophaginae and Hesperocyoninae. In the latter, large representatives are characterized by being relatively short-faced with reduced anterior premolars and enlarged posterior premolars, thus approaching a "pantherine-like" configuration. These traits are interpreted as an adaptation for killing prey with felid-like canine bites. The elbow joints of large canids also do not converge on a single morphotype. All analyzed species of borophagines and hesperocyonines have retained the ability to supinate their forearms, unlike Recent large Caninae. It is therefore likely that manual manipulation was part of their hunting behavior, thus removing an essential part of the argument for social pack-hunting in these forms, as the benefits of such a strategy become less obvious. An association between the origin of pack-pursuit "wolf avatars" and the origin and evolution of grass-dominated ecosystems is hypothesized. The results presented here clearly suggest that Recent large canids are poor ecological, morphological, and behavioral analogs for their large fossil relatives.
2400734|Endothermic tetrapods differ dramatically from ectothermic tetrapods in having a great capacity to sustain vigorous locomotion. I suggest that this difference reflects alternative adaptive responses to a mechanical constraint that was an inherent consequence of the vertebrate transition from aquatic to terrestrial modes of locomotion and respiration. The earliest tetrapods may not have been able to walk and breathe at the same time. Their sprawling gait and lateral vertebral bending would have required unilateral contractions of the thoracic musculature that may have interfered with the bilateral movements necessary for breathing. Modern lizards, whose locomotor and respiratory anatomy resembles that of the early tetrapods, provide support for this hypothesis because their breathing is greatly reduced during locomotor activity. Tetrapod lineages that gave rise to modern ectotherms apparently retained the constraint, becoming either highly specialized for burst activity based on anaerobic metabolism or specialized in passive mechanisms of defense against predators. The lineages from which birds and mammals are derived have undergone morphological changes that enable simultaneous running and breathing. In modern tetrapods upright posture is correlated with endothermic metabolism. This correlation may have arisen to circumvent ancestral constraints on locomotor stamina.
2666027|Analyses of limb joint morphology in nonmammalian therapsid "mammal-like reptiles" have suggested that among many lineages, individual animals were capable of shifting between sprawling and upright hindlimb postures, much like modern crocodilians. The ability to use multiple limb postures thus might have been ancestral to the generally more upright posture that evolved during the transition from "mammal-like reptiles" to mammals. Here I derive a biomechanical model to test this hypothesis through calculations of expected posture-related changes in femoral stress for therapsid taxa using different limb postures. The model incorporates morphological data from fossil specimens and experimental data from force platform experiments on iguanas and alligators. Experimental data suggest that the evolutionary transition from sprawling to nonsprawling posture was accompanied by a change in the predominant loading regime of the limb bones, from torsion to bending. Changes in the cross-sectional morphology of the hindlimb bones between sphenacodontid "pelycosaurs" and gorgonopsid therapsids are consistent with the hypothesis that bending loads increased in importance early in therapsid evolution; thus, bending stresses are an appropriate model for the maximal loads experienced by the limb bones of theriodont therapsids. Results from the model used to estimate stresses in these taxa do not refute the use of both sprawling and more upright stance among basal theriodont therapsids. Thus, the hypothesis that the use of multiple postures was ancestral to the more upright posture typical of most mammals is biomechanically plausible. Model calculations also indicate that the axial rotation of the femur typical in sprawling locomotion can reduce peak bending stresses. Therefore, as experimental data from alligators and iguanas suggest, the evolution of nonsprawling limb posture and kinematics in therapsids might have been accompanied by increased limb bone bending stress.
1571665|Tree-based paleobiological studies use inferred phylogenies as models to test hypotheses about macroevolution and the quality of the fossil record. Such studies raise two concerns. The first is how model trees might bias results. The second is testing hypotheses about parameters that affect tree inference. Bias introduced by model trees is explored for tree-based assessments of the quality of the fossil record. Several nuisance parameters affect tree-based metrics, including consistency of sampling probability, rates of speciation / extinction, patterns of speciation, applied taxonomic philosophy, and assumed taxonomy. The first two factors affect probabilistic assessments of sampling, but also can be tested and accommodated in sophisticated probability tests. However, the final three parameters (and the assumption of a correct phylogeny) do not affect probabilistic assessments. Often paleobiologists wish to test hypotheses such as rates of character change or rates of preservation. Assumptions about such parameters are necessary in simple phylogenetic methods, even if the assumptions are that rates are homogeneous or that sampling is irrelevant. Likelihood tests that evaluate phylogenies in light of stratigraphic data and / or alternative hypotheses of character evolution can reduce assumptions about unknowns by testing numerous unknowns simultaneously. Such tests have received numerous criticisms, largely based in philosophy. However, such criticisms are based on incorrect depictions of the logical structures of parsimony and likelihood, misunderstandings about when arguments are probabilistic (as opposed to Boolean), overly restrictive concepts of when data can test a hypothesis, and simply incorrect definitions of some terms. Likelihood methods can test multiparameter hypotheses about phylogeny and character evolution (i.e., rates, independence, etc.). The best hypothesis positing a single rate of independent character change (with no variation among character states) is determined for each topology. Hypotheses about rate variation among characters or across phylogeny, character independence, and different patterns of state evolution then are examined until one finds the simplest (i.e., fewest varying parameters) hypothesis that cannot be rejected given knowledge of a more complicated hypothesis. This is repeated for alternative topologies. An example is presented using hyaenids. Two trees are contrasted, one of which requires the minimum necessary steps and the other of which requires at least seven additional steps. Given either tree, likelihood rejects fewer than three general rates of character change and also rejects the hypothesis of independence among the characters. However, hypotheses of changes in rates across the tree do not add substantially to the tree likelihood. The likelihoods of the trees given stratigraphic data also are determined. Both morphologic and stratigraphic data suggest that the multiparameter hypothesis including the parsimony tree is significantly less likely than the multiparameter hypothesis including a different tree.
2666123|Morphologically complex metazoans appear abruptly during the Cambrian explosion. Suggested measures of metazoan complexity include number of cell morphotypes and aspects of the genome such as the amount of DNA, the number of genes, and the information content of the genome or egg. Estimates of gene numbers are now available for metazoan species belonging to five different phyla or subphyla. There is little correlation between gene number and morphological complexity in the invertebrates: relatively complex forms can have fewer genes than relatively simple forms. Presumably, the more complex forms use more gene-expression events during development, implying that, on average, cis-regulatory elements of more complex invertebrates are richer in binding sites than are those of simpler forms. Vertebrates have many more genes than invertebrates and therefore have more total gene-expression events during development, although they may have, on average, fewer expression events per gene than the invertebrates. There are thus two genomic pathways in the evolution of metazoan complexity: one involves increasing the number of genes, the other involves increasing the number of cis-regulatory binding sites. Both modes were associated with the origin of bodyplans that first appear as fossils during the Cambrian explosion.
2400716|Growth rhythms are described in the accretionary skeletons of Rafinesquina alternata, a Late Ordovician brachiopod from southeastern Indiana. Contiguous growth increments widen and narrow in repeating series, giving the appearance of adjacent clusters of increments. Fourier analyses of growth increment widths and counts of the number of increments within individual clusters yield similar per-iodicities. Increments vary in width over a period of approximately 19 increments, modulated with a lower amplitude oscillation of 27 increments. The number of increments per cluster falls into two groups; clusters having between 8 and 17 increments outnumber those having between 18 and 30 increments. All specimens were obtained from a Maysvillian facies of the Dillsboro Formation, previously inferred to represent a shallow subtidal environmental setting. The growth periodicities described here are consistent with this interpretation. The intensity of tidal parameters such as emersion-immersion cycles, substrate shifts, changes in nutrient supply or in oxygen tension declines with depth as would the number of growth increments added each month in response to these factors. Thus, for these specimens, the maximum number of increments per cluster probably approximates the true number of "tidal" days in the Late Ordovician synodic month (period between full moons). The paleoecological model derived from these analyses can be used in future studies to predict the rate of the earth's rotation and the motion of the moon in the Late Ordovician and, equally importantly, to evaluate the limits of uncertainty of such studies.
2400531|Four main potential contributions of fossils to phylogenetic systematics and historical biogeography are (1) to provide additional taxa which (when sufficiently well preserved) can give new morphological and ontogenetic data in addition to those provided by Recent species; (2) to provide additional taxa which can increase the known biogeographic range of a taxon; (3) to help establish a minimum age for a taxon; and (4) to present fossil biotas that can be examined for biogeographic patterns not recognizable in younger (including the Recent) or older biotas. The first three points have been expressed or at least implied by other workers and are only briefly reviewed. The fourth point is proposed as a method of using fossil biotas to provide time controls to cladistic studies of historical biogeography. Previously, cladistic vicariance biogeographers have used fossil plus Recent biotas, or the Recent biota alone, for the geographic areas of study. Such investigations that lack any time control in the data base cannot effectively deal with areas that have complex histories as, for example, an earlier area of endemism in which area relationships are later complicated through the addition of exotic taxa by dispersal. By using time controls provided by fossil biotas, we may learn more about the relationships of areas with complex histories and may reveal biogeographical information that is sometimes unavailable through examination of the Recent biota.
2401104|The fossil record is incomplete in the sense that taxa for which there are no preserved finds are unrepresented. Because the probability that there is at least one preserved find is greater for long-lived taxa, failure to account for this effect will bias estimation of mean taxonomic duration. This paper describes maximum likelihood estimation of mean taxonomic duration, fossil preservation rate, and completeness of the local fossil record under a model in which duration has an exponential distribution and the locations of preserved finds follow a Poisson process. The estimates under this model have simple closed forms. It is also straightforward to construct confidence regions for the model parameters. The method is applied to data on 110 trilobite species from the Upper Cambrian-Lower Ordovician in Oklahoma.
2400370|The cranial structure of anteosaurid and many tapinocephalid dinocephalians became modified in a manner consistent with Geist's hypothesis that they used their heads for pushing and ramming during intraspecific combat. These modifications are most pronounced in certain tapinocephalids by the evolution of a strong dorsal head shield supported by a massive arch network suitable for receiving and supporting blows delivered to the dorsal surface of the head. The position of the occipital condyle reduced the torque created by such blows at the craniocervical joint. Evidence also indicates that the head was reoriented into a position suitable for butting. The cranial architecture displayed by dinocephalians suspected of head-butting differs from that of living mammalian rammers. The differences can be directly attributed to the modification, in the former, of a reptilian skull with its relatively unexpanded braincase into a ramming instrument.
2400838|Like living herbivorous lizards, chelonians, birds, and mammals, plant-eating dinosaurs probably relied on a symbiotic gut microflora, housed in a hindgut fermentation chamber, to break down plant cell wall constituents. Large body sizes in most herbivorous dinosaurs resulted in low mass-specific metabolic rates and low rates of digesta passage through the gut; the effects of large body size were probably enhanced by the low metabolic rates of large dinosaurs as compared with large mammals. The long residence time of digesta in the gut permitted long exposure of refractory plant materials to the microflora, probably enabling even those dinosaurs with unsophisticated dentitions to survive on fodder with high fiber content. Large herbivorous dinosaurs probably fed on plants whose allelochemical defenses were geared more toward reducing digestibility than attacking the herbivore's metabolism directly, obviating the need for a foregut fermentation chamber and permitting these large herbivores to take advantage of the energetic benefits of hindgut fermentation for digestion of low-quality fodder. Differences in dentitions among the groups of herbivorous dinosaurs may correlate with differences in standard metabolic rate, activity level, body size, or food quality, or combinations of these factors, but the relative importance of each is difficult to assess. Because the mass of the fermentation contents was probably large in big herbivorous dinosaurs, the heat of fermentation may have been a significant source of thermoregulatory heat for these reptiles.
2401032|Gastropod opercula are classified here on a new morphogenetic basis, which distinguishes three main types: (1) flexiclaudent spiral (mostly multispiral) operculum, the shape of which does not coincide with that of the aperture, (2) rigiclaudent spiral (usually paucispiral) operculum, the shape of which fits that of the aperture, and (3) rigiclaudent concentric operculum, also aperture-fitting. The first type fits by flexing into the aperture and is secreted when the soft parts are partly or wholly extended (i.e., when the operculum is not in a closed position). The other two types do not flex upon retraction (except at the very margin) and grow when the operculum closes over the aperture, with or without rotation. A study of opercular types at the family level confirms the systematic and evolutionary significance of opercula. Types 1 and 2 are the only ones present in archaeogastropods, Type 1 being predominant. Opercula (if present) in Neritopsina are always rigiclaudent. Within Caenogastropoda, Type 2 predominates; the only flexiclaudent spiral opercula are found in certain basal cerithioidean families. Concentric opercula are predominant in higher neotaenioglossans and exclusive in neogastropods. Except for one family, opercula in Heterostropha are always rigiclaudent spiral. Morphological, systematic, and histological criteria point to the flexiclaudent spiral operculum as the ancestral form. This leads us to propose the "periostracum shaving" model in prosobranchs to account for the origin of this kind of operculum. According to this model, in the earliest trochospiral gastropods the periostracum ceased to serve a shell-formation function at the band of overlap between whorls (the parietal band). The periostracal band was then extruded from the shell to constitute an incipient operculum, taking on the appearance of a spiral strip coiling opposite to the shell. The parietal segment of the periostracal groove migrated toward the epipodium and became independent from the rest of the mantle. The concomitant development of an opercular disc allowed the successive turns of periostracal strip to seal together. In this way, a spiral operculum emerged, coiling counterclockwise without matching the aperture shape. During the course of prosobranch evolution, rigiclaudent spiral opercula emerged several times from the ancestral flexiclaudent type, although they were always restricted to apertures with a spiral-shaped outer (labral) edge. Such opercula enlarged the range of shell morphologies for which the operculum constituted an efficient protective barrier to include those of neritoidean or naticoidean type. The onset of calcification in opercula took place with the rigiclaudent type. Concentric opercula also evolved independently from rigiclaudent spiral opercula in several gastropod groups, thus further broadening the spectrum of apertures and, hence, of shell morphologies using opercula for protection. From the standpoint of adaptation, the concentric type was probably the only one available to neogastropods having long and wide siphonal canals.
2400308|It is commonly believed that the brains of the ancestors of modern carnivores (miacids) were superior to (e.g., larger than) those of other early carnivores (creodonts and mesonychids). Examination of the fossil record of brains of early carnivores reveals no evidence to support that belief. Moreover, evolutionary trends towards increasing relative brain size and an expansion of neocortex are seen in both miacids and creodonts. The neocortex expanded in a different way in miacids than in creodonts and mesonychids (evidenced by different sulcal patterns), but the biological significance of the observed differences is unknown.
2400196|Ecological investigations were conducted on rodent faunas in the Sonoran Desert of the southwestern United States and the Monte Desert of northwestern Argentina. Both study areas are physiognomically quite similar and the rodents are only distantly related. Such conditions are ideal for an assessment of possible evolutionary convergence. Multivariate analyses of morphoecological characters support the subjective interpretation that ecological equivalents between the deserts differ in their degree of similarity. The data indicate that the Monte rodent fauna is composed of two distinct groups: a) the caviomorph rodents, which are highly desert adapted; and b) the murids, which range widely beyond the desert's boundaries and are probably not as highly desert adapted, as a group, as are the caviomorphs. When the Monte and Sonoran faunas are compared with a North American coniferous forest rodent fauna, data show that both desert groups have converged toward one another. The different degrees of desert adaptation and different distributional patterns indicate that the Monte Desert was colonized in two different periods (one in the early Tertiary and one in the late Pliocene or early Pleistocene) and can be interpreted as supporting theories regarding South America's colonization by mammals which were first proposed by Simpson (1951).
2400158|The foraging paradigm of trace fossil theory has historically accorded random behavior to non-food-limited deposit-feeders and non-random behavior to food-limited feeders. A series of randomness measures derived from empirical modeling, simulation modeling, stochastic modeling and probability theory applied to foraging patterns observed in deep-sea bottom photographs from the Arctic and Antarctic yielded a behavioral continuum of increasing non-randomness. A linear regression of trace positions along the continuum to bathymetric data did not substantiate the optimal foraging efficiency-depth dependence model of trace fossil theory, except that all traces exhibited a greater optimization than that of simulated random foraging. It is hypothesized that optimization as evidenced by non-random foraging strategies represents maximization of the cost/benefit ratio of resource exploitation to risk of predation and that individual foraging patterns reflect an exploration response to the morphometry of a patchily distributed food resource. Differential predation and competition may account for the co-occurrence of random and non-random strategies within the same bathymetric zone.
2400994|For a survivorship curve to show a meaningful pattern, it is essential that a suitably homogeneous group is selected for analysis. If taxa have originated at different times in the geological record and have consequently experienced different extinction probabilities during the times that they existed, they do not constitute such a homogeneous group. A correction factor for variations in real-time extinction rates must be employed, as is described here. By application of the "corrected survivorship score," it is shown that the Paleogene planktonic foraminifera exhibit a very strong survivorship pattern, namely an extinction probability that progressively increases with taxonomic longevity. That is to say, when extinction occurred, it was preferentially selective of older taxa. This is manifested as convexity in the survivorship curves. However, the pattern is degraded by variations in the real-time extinction rate, which causes straightening of the survivorship curves if they are calculated in the usual uncorrected way. If the law of constant extinction is to be tested for a given group, it is necessary either that stochastically constant real-time extinction rates are demonstrated or that variations in the extinction rate are corrected for in the manner described. As a separate issue, it is also essential that biologically meaningful taxa are analyzed. The convexity of planktonic foraminiferal survivorship curves is probably an artifact of the way evolving lineages have been subdivided in the application of typological taxonomy. Consequently, we are still a long way from being able to use survivorship analysis of planktonic foraminiferal data for adequately testing evolutionary models such as the Red Queen's hypothesis.
2400578|One method of increasing the resolving power of paleontological inquiries is to assess the time distribution, or phenology, of perispeciational change. The rationale for this test is that, while concentration of morphologic change around the time of speciation is consistent with both known microevolutionary mechanisms and punctuated equilibria, punctuated equilibrium theory presupposes that most of the change occurs either before or during initial allopatry to produce morphologically static taxa. Considerable change in the initial phases of speciation could also result from known microevolutionary mechanisms, but if significant change occurs in the neosympatric phase, or at any time after the species have become differentiated, then that change is best explained by known microevolutionary mechanisms. Amount and rate of morphologic change during each phase of the allopatric speciation process were determined for two cognate species of the radiolarian genus Eucyrtidium. In this case, morphologic change accruing to these species during the neosympatric phase was 2-3 times as great as that which occurred during the initial allopatric phase. Morphologic trends in both these species during the allopatric phase differed significantly from a random walk. The size differential that characterized this speciation event was not the product of a single large step early in the process but of a disproportionate number of small steps in one direction during neosympatry. Therefore, the hypothesis of no statistically significant change following the "first stage" of speciation, which is a major tenet of punctuated equilibrium theory, is falsified for this case.
4096971|The Mesozoic marine revolution focuses on increased predation by durophagous (shell-crushing) predators and the concomitant evolution of prey organisms that occurred in the Mesozoic. Evidence of this predator/prey revolution is found in the appearance and increase of new types of predators that can crush hard shells of prey organisms, and is also found in the morphological changes of prey organisms, such as the appearance of a protective shell morphology of gastropods. We present new data based on the occurrence of shell fragments that indicate a slower increase in durophagous predation than has been considered previously. The results of an experiment on shell abrasion, in which shells were tumbled in barrels with sediments, indicate that incomplete bivalves and gastropods with angular margins from shallow-marine deposits can be considered as good evidence of durophagous predation. Such angular shell fragments are virtually absent from Japanese Mesozoic shell beds, whereas they are occasionally or commonly found in the Paleogene and are usually abundant in Neogene shell beds. The dominant occurrence of fossil shell fragments in the Cenozoic, as well as the data from shell abrasion experiments using tumbling barrels, indicates that wave agitation or currents do not produce shell fragments with angular margins. Such angular shell fragments are interpreted as the result of durophagous predation that has increased during Cenozoic time, and can be a useful tool in estimating durophagous predation in the fossil record. Revised data on the number of durophagous predator taxa (crustaceans and teleostean fishes) also support this conclusion.
2400368|Studies of the internal anatomy of Mississippian camerate crinoids have revealed the presence and plan of groove and ridge networks here interpreted as evidence of former nervous systems in these animals. The inner thecal surfaces of hollow specimens and surfaces of internal chert molds possess radiating networks of grooves and ridges in both the dorsal cup and tegmen that resemble the plan of the aboral and hyponeural nervous systems, respectively, of modern crinoids. The aboral network of camerates radiates from the basal region of the dorsal cup at the point of stem attachment and provides one radially positioned nerve trunk per arm. In addition to the radial trunks, branches are present in each of the five interrays; the pattern in the CD (i.e., posterior) interray is different from the others. Two ring commissures interconnect the radial and interradial nerve trunks. The hyponeural nerve network in the tegmen originates from a ring commissure located near the upper part of the tegmen. From the ring commissure radiate radial and interradial nerve trunks that divide to produce two nerve trunks per arm as in modern crinoids. Raised ridges that define the hyponeural nerve network on the inner tegminal surface are separate from impressions representing the water vascular network. By analogy to living crinoids, the aboral nerve center in camerates was located in the base of the dorsal cup. The radial portion of the aboral nervous system is judged to have functioned as the main motor network in camerates, innervating arm flexor muscles, pinnules, and arm epidermis, thus controlling the "display" of arms to form an effective filtration baffle. The interradial aboral nerves may have been sensory nerves which were part of an active balance system in these stalked echinoderms. The hyponeural system in camerates, as in living forms, probably acted as a sensory system by innervation of the lateral walls of the tube feet and arms. A third system, the ectoneural system, which lines the ciliated food grooves and gut of living crinoids has not been detected in fossil camerates; however, due to its functional significance, its presence in camerates was very probable.
2400554|An evaluation of the history of polysyringian species (filibranchs and eulamellibranchs) reveals that the huge early Pliocene bivalve fauna of the Mediterranean Basin (MB) and North Sea Basin (NSB) suffered heavy extinction during late Pliocene and early Pleistocene time. This is evidenced by low survivorship of early Pliocene species in the Recent and by a decline in species richness of the two basins from 323 known early Pliocene species to 198 living species. Several kinds of evidence indicate that cooling rather than the areal effect of eustatic sea-level lowering was the primary cause of the excessive extinction: (1) heavy Plio-Pleistocene extinction of mollusks was not global but concentrated around the margins of the northern Atlantic-an ocean fringed by polar ice caps; (2) taxa of tropical affinities were most severely affected; (3) heavy extinction occurred in the MB in areas not marked by facies change; (4) in the MB the onset of extinctions coincided with the onset elsewhere, but because of tectonic activity, water depths in the MB were not under tight eustatic control; (5) 14 species present in both the MB and NSB during early Pliocene time are now restricted to waters south of the NSB; and (6) the majority of species common to the two basins during the early Pliocene (eurythermal species) have survived to the present. Molluscan data support palynological evidence that the climate in the MB was warmer and less seasonal in early Pliocene time than today, when latitudinal temperature gradients are steeper. Molluscan evidence indicates that the North Sea is exceptional in being less seasonal (though cooler) today than in early Pliocene time, and we attribute this anomaly to the local effects of the Gulf Stream, which was strengthened in mid-Pliocene time by the uplift of the Isthmus of Panama. The heavy extinction in the MB and NSB about 3.2-3.0 ma ago approximately coincided with the earliest deposition of glacial tills in Iceland and with isotopic shifts in the tests of planktonic foraminifers preserved in deep-sea cores. Additional heavy extinction probably coincided with a pulse of severe cooling in late Pliocene time, 2.5-2.4 ma ago. Heavy extinction of mollusks in the MB and NSB continued into the early Pleistocene but not into the middle and late Pleistocene, apparently because by this time it was primarily only eurythermal species that survived. Today the molluscan faunas of the MB and NSB are unusually eurythermal; few species are restricted to a single biogeographic province.
2401039|Hierarchies in natural science are ranked and nested structures such that units at each rank include parts that are units at lower ranks. Hierarchies are able to render complexity tractable, by homogenizing units into collectives and by ordering collectives in ranks of increasing inclusiveness. Hierarchies contrast with positional structures, such as phylogenetic trees, for in trees all positions are occupied by the same sort of entity-there are no ranked collectives-and positions are specified by the order of appearance or precedence of the entities. In hierarchies, interactions within ranks are most important; in trees, sequences of events along branches are of primary concern. As a result hierarchies do, and trees do not, display emergent properties. The value of the hierarchical structure can be lost when ranks are misspecified. A common error is the use of only a fraction of entities that actually occur in a rank, as when genes are considered as a rank below cells, disregarding the remaining cell contents and rendering the nature of cellular organization moot. Misspecification is also common when attributes or processes are used in ranks without indications of the physical entities to which they refer, thus losing track of the proper composition and ranking of the collectives.
4096826|Understanding the response of a species or lineage to long-term environmental change is a critical aspect of evolutionary paleoecology. In order to do this, paleobiologists must have an excellent fossil record of a lineage and an independent source of environmental data in the same region. This situation occurs in the San Pedro area of southern California, where relatively new paleotemperature and paleoproductivity records enhance the well-known fossil gastropod record. We quantified shell morphology of late Pleistocene and Recent turritellid gastropods from this area and compared the timing of changes with temperature and productivity reconstructions for the region. Our results indicate that warm temperatures and moderate to high productivity are associated with larger shells and wider whorls. Cold temperatures and lower productivity are associated with smaller, narrower shells. We propose that warm temperatures and moderate productivity result in higher growth rates in turritellid gastropods. Our work also suggests that below a certain threshold temperature, productivity appears to have no influence on shell morphology. In other words, growth rate is unaffected by high productivity unless average temperatures are above a certain level. These results are consistent with models of shell deposition and with experimental results from living gastropods and bivalves reported in the literature.
41684606|Rates of phenotypic evolution are central to many issues in paleontology, but traditional rate metrics such as darwins or haldanes are seldom used because of their strong dependence on interval length. In this paper, I argue that rates are usefully thought of as model parameters that relate magnitudes of evolutionary divergence to elapsed time. Starting with models of directional evolution, random walks, and stasis, I derive for each a reasonable rate metric. These metrics can be linked to existing approaches in evolutionary biology, and simulations show that they can be estimated accurately at any temporal resolution via maximum likelihood, but only when that metric's underlying model is true. The estimation of generational rates of a random walk under realistic paleontological conditions is compared with simulations to that of a prominent alternative approach, Gingerich's LRI (log-rate, log-interval) method. Generational rates are estimated poorly by LRI; they often reflect sampling error more than the actual pace of change. Further simulations show that under some realistic conditions, it is simply not possible to infer generational rates from coarsely sampled populations. These modeling results indicate a complex dependence between evolutionary mode and the measurement of evolutionary rates, and that there is unlikely to be a rate metric that works well for all traits and time scales. Compilations of paleontological and phylogenetic data indicate that all of the three rate metrics derived here show some relationship with interval length. Although there is no perfect rate metric, at present the most practical choices derive from the parameters of the stasis and random walk models. The latter, called the step variance, is particularly promising as a rate metric in paleontology and comparative biology.
2401216|Brachiopods generally have not been considered to be typical or significant faunal components of modern or ancient hydrothermal vent and cold-seep settings. The Early Cretaceous (Neocomian) rhynchonellide brachiopod Peregrinella has long been viewed as a paleontological curiosity because of its distinctive morphology, status as the largest Mesozoic brachiopod, anomalous stratigraphic associations, and widespread, yet discontinuous paleogeographic distribution. Examination of all worldwide Peregrinella occurrences (14) indicates restriction of this brachiopod to ancient cold-seeps. It is probable that Peregrinella grew to large sizes in such great abundances at fossil cold-seep sites because of a richly organic food supply generated by localized fluid seepage and bacterial chemosynthetic activity. Living brachiopods are not known to harbor chemosymbiotic bacteria in their tissues; however, direct chemoautotrophic utilization of reduced fluids by Peregrinella cannot be rejected or demonstrated at present. Peregrinella occurs at widely separated coldseeps of Neocomian age (e.g., California, Mexico, Tibet, Europe), yet its mode of dispersal and larval development is unknown. In modern hydrothermal vents of the deep-sea, organism dispersal occurs along oceanic ridges, where benthic faunas display both planktotrophic and nonplanktotrophic larval-mode types. Peregrinella may represent a Mesozoic relic of a long-lived "lineage" of ventseep associated rhynchonellides from the Paleozoic (e.g., ?Eoperegrinella, Dzieduszyckia), but major gaps in the stratigraphic record between these rhynchonellide occurrences, and the lack of rigorous phylogenetic analysis for these groups preclude a clear resolution of the origin(s) of vent-seep brachiopods at present.
4096974|The asphalt deposits of Rancho La Brea are well known for preserving a prolific and diverse Late Pleistocene fauna. However, little taphonomic research has been done on these collections. To better understand the formation of this impressive assemblage, a taphonomic study of the bones of the large mammals from one asphalt deposit. Pit 91, was carried out, and results are presented here. The predominance of carnivore specimens in the Rancho La Brea deposits has long been explained by a scenario in which a prey animal was trapped in asphalt and attracted large numbers of carnivores who became trapped in turn. Hypotheses generated from this scenario were tested by collecting taphonomic data on over 18,000 specimens. Weathering data indicate that elements were deposited fairly rapidly. However, patterns of skeletal part representation for the seven most common species demonstrate that complete skeletons are not present. Water transport is ruled out as the primary process responsible for removing skeletal elements based on abrasion data. Instead, the feeding activity of carnivores (ravaging) appears to have been an important factor in the formation of the assemblage.
40792302|Biometric analyses are useful tools for the study of organisms, their phylogenetic affiliation, and the pattern and rate of their evolution. Various morphometric techniques have been developed to analyze morphological variation, but methodological choices are often made arbitrarily because quantitative comparisons are lacking or inconclusive. Here we address morphometric quantification of taxa with few unambiguously identifiable landmarks (< 15), utilizing ornamented and unornamented gastropod shells. Support vector machines were applied to evaluate classification performances of landmark (LMA), elliptic Fourier (EFA), and semi-landmark analysis (SLM). This evaluation is based on the discrimination of between-group differences relative to within-group variation, and thus allows comparing how the techniques treat different types of biological information. The results suggest that EFA performs slightly better than SLM (and certainly LMA) in discerning a priori identified taxa with unornamented shells, but that SLM is significantly superior to other techniques for ornamented shells. Alignment and homology problems may cause the subtle variations in ornamentation to become blurred as noise in EFA, even though EFA is often cited to be able to deal with complex shapes. Performance of LMA depends entirely on how accurately the structure can be covered with landmarks. Guidelines in choosing a morphometric technique in diverse cases are provided.
2400787|Laboratory experiments on regular echinoids indicate that low water temperatures retard organic decomposition far more effectively than anoxia, and that the primary role of anoxia in the preservation of articulated multi-element calcareous skeletons may be in excluding scavenging organisms. When tumbled at 20 rpm, specimens that were first allowed to decay for two days in warm seawater (30
2400238|Models for the areal distribution of marine animals may be formulated in such a way that their validity can be tested statistically. Five such models are described here: in each case the distributions of the individual taxa are made functions of depth of water, oceanicity, and substrate type. The simplest model proposes that benthic species are substrate-dependent: it can be verified by a series of <sup>2</sup> tests. Benthic species can also be seriated along an environmental gradient: this second model can be tested by using a Monte Carlo simulation procedure. The third model proposes that planktic species are to some degree stratified in the water column, and hence that their remains are distributed additively in the underlying sediments: tests on modern and sub-fossil data sets indicate that realistic versions of this model are probably valueless for most geological work. The final models are extensions of the additive model: they are used here to demonstrate the importance of selecting an appropriate model and, in particular, of knowing the mode of life of each species before the model is selected.
2401091|Fitting the generalized inverse Gaussian-Poisson distribution (GIGP) to observed frequency distributions of taxa from the Late Triassic Molteno Formation of South Africa has yielded estimates of the corresponding preserved biodiversities. Three extrapolations have been made on the basis of the uniquely rich megaflora/insect coassemblages from 100 taphocoenoses: insect species-335 observed, 7740 preserved; vegetative species-206 observed, 667 preserved; gymnosperm ovulate orders-16 observed, 84 preserved. The reliability of the results varies according to the abundance and observed diversity of the taxa. These results, with further estimations in a companion paper of existed diversity (regional, continental and global), hint at Late Triassic floral and faunal richness akin to today. This conflicts with the traditionally held model of an increasing cone of biodiversity through time and suggests a phase of explosive evolution in the Triassic hitherto unsuspected. Application of the GIGP to other well-documented collections from other periods might reveal a pattern of diversity trends offering fundamentally new insights into the evolving terrestrial biosphere.
2400351|Two types of predation (shell breakage at the lip by calappid crabs and drilling by gastropods) were studied in more than 6000 Recent and 1500 fossil terebrid gastropods. The occurrence of lip-peeling was assessed by the frequency of shell repair, defined as the number of repaired injuries divided by the total number of shells in a sample. This frequency is interpreted as a measure of the demonstrated importance of the shell as a protective device against peeling. In the Recent fauna, frequencies of repair are highest in the tropical Indo-West-Pacific, intermediate in tropical America, and lowest in warm-temperate areas. When comparisons are restricted to particular size classes, these geographical differences become blurred, especially among smaller shells. Slender, many-whorled species have significantly lower frequencies of repair than do terebrids with more compact shells. Samples of Terebra affinis from atolls have fewer repairs than do those from high islands or continental shores. Among fossils, there is no difference in repair between Paleogene and Neogene samples. In the Miocene, warm-temperate terebrids had frequencies of repair similar to those of tropical species. The frequency of repair is loosely correlated with the number of species of shell-peeling calappid crabs. Frequencies of drilling have been at high modern levels since Eocene time. Incomplete drill-holes are common in large Recent species, and suggest that the terebrid shell is well adapted to withstand attacks by naticid gastropods. The results of this study are consistent with those of architectural analyses of soft-bottom gastropod assemblages and with other studies on predation of gastropods.
4096976|The single bony element forming the lower jaw of living mammals, the dentary, has been interpreted as representing the culmination of a long and gradual evolutionary trend. Numerous fossil nonmammalian synapsids ("mammal-like reptiles") show varying degrees of enlargement of the dentary and concomitant reduction in the postdentary bones. To quantitatively reexamine patterns of morphological change in the evolution of the mammalian lower jaw, measurement and discrete character data were collected from 322 fossil synapsid mandibles spanning Late Carboniferous through Jurassic time. Measurements confirm that the relative contribution of the dentary increased in theriodont (advanced therapsid) evolution with regard to both stratigraphic and phylogenetic position. However, dentary enlargement and postdentary reduction failed to typify all therapsid subclades. Qualitative characters of the mandible were used to quantify morphological similarity with regard to the early mammal Morganucodon. Analyses contrasting stratigraphic and phylogenetic position with mammalian similarity indicate that mandibular evolution was primarily conservative, with only anomodont therapsids evolving substantial morphological novelty. Scaling analyses comparing the area of the dentary and postdentary regions to jaw length uniformly show isometry or slight positive allometry, although cynodont therapsids have a smaller postdentary region than any other therapsid subgroup. These results suggest that body size decreases cannot fully explain the reduction of the postdentary bones. Finally, step size bias was tested as a mechanism for explaining long-term trends. Qualitative data reveal no significant difference in the magnitude of character changes occurring in mammalian and nonmammalian directions.
1558088|Vertebrate tracks are a unique, abundant source of fossil data that supplements the skeletal record in many ways. However, the utility of ichnofossil data depends on how specifically the authors of tracks can be identified. Despite this fact, there is little consensus about how to identify potential trackmakers, and existing methods differ in their bases, assumptions, and corresponding implications. In this paper we support the proposal that trackmakers should be identified primarily by skeletal structures that are both preserved in the ichnofossils and synapomorphies of some body-fossil clade. This synapomorphy-based technique enables certain taxa to be positively identified as candidate trackmakers and others to be excluded from consideration. In addition, the diagnostic level of the synapomorphy (i.e., to a higher or lower level) corresponds to that of the trackmaker. Additional features, such as body size and provenance, can be used in association with synapomorphies as additional differentiae of trackmaker identity. Trackway analyses are dependent on the level of trackmaker diagnosis, but not all analyses require the same diagnostic specificity. Palichnostratigraphic correlations to the stage level are shown to require at least a genus-level identification of a trackmaker, whereas studies of vertebrate distributions (i.e., origins, extinctions, ranges) accommodate much coarser designations. Anachronistic occurrences of trace and body fossils result in range extensions for either the skeletal taxon or the feature in question. For example, the temporal distribution of theropods can be extended on the basis of the footprint record, resulting in an earlier estimated divergence time for Dinosauria.
2400905|The Mesozoic marine revolution theory postulates a causal connection between the Cretaceous radiations of durophagous predators and the decline of suspension-feeding echinoderms in shallow-water habitats. In order to test the temporal distribution of dense ophiuroid populations for such a decline, I present a method of calculating the expected distribution of populations or communities in different geologic timespans. This statistical null hypothesis may then be compared with data from the fossil record to draw paleoecological inferences. The model takes into account the relative lengths of time blocks, the decay of sedimentary rock, and changes in shallow sea area through time. Although mass extinctions did not cause the immediate disappearance of shallow-water "brittlestar beds," brittlestar beds show a significant decline in the Early Cretaceous. Results of several studies suggest that predators were at least partially responsible for reducing the distribution of dense ophiuroid populations.
1558083|No egg of any fossil nautiloid has yet been discovered. However, anomalies of embryonic shell growth, described for the first time in several Mesozoic Nautilida, provide important clues on morphology, structure, and size of their egg capsules; on the physical characteristics where egg laying occurred; and on the hatching processes. Roughness inside the inner egg capsule-caused by hard and uneven egg-laying substrate, locally and temporarily slowing down or stopping the apertural shell growth-could cause temporary deformations of growth lines. Such roughness, caused by stone, is described inside an egg capsule of Nautilus, which was fixed obliquely relative to the egg-laying substrate. This reduced the space between the inner and outer capsules, which locally fused together. The lateral-umbilical grooves, furrows, and deformations of growth lines were probably caused by the inner egg capsule during the prehatching stage. In fossil Nautilida, as in Nautilus, the size of this capsule was relatively small compared with the shell diameter at hatching. During the last stages of embryonic development, the shell extended backwards outside the egg capsule before hatching. This prehatching stage, during which the egg capsule continued to press against the shell, can be marked by a prehatching constriction. In fossil species, as in Nautilus, the inner capsule constituted a kind of "straitjacket" during the last stages of embryonic development. The expansion in whorl width at hatching, in normal as well as in abnormal shells, marks release of this straitjacket. Important deformations of the whorl section probably result from an abnormal form and size of the egg capsules mainly caused by the manipulations by the female during the egg laying on a hard and hollow substrate, increasing the straitjacket effect. An alternative explanation could be that the chorion did not expand adequately. From relatively early embryonic stages (approximately 180 adapical of the nepionic constriction) to hatching, both flaps of the hyponome could be turned backward under the shell, jammed between the inner wall of the egg capsule and the mantle margin, resulting in the formation of paired ventral parallel grooves. Many normal features of the embryonic development of nautiloids can be clarified through the study of the anomalies of embryonic shell growth.
2400350|Based on inspection of gnawing damage done to bones of modern prey animals, sets of typical damage types or patterns are recognized for certain elements. The presence of these damage patterns suggests carnivore activity even when bones exhibit no identifiable tooth marks or other obvious sign of gnawing. Observations are made of these damage types on bones of Pleistocene and Recent North American mammals, including Bison, proboscidean, Alces, Equus, Cervus, and Rangifer. Damage to the following elements is briefly described: antlers, vertebrae, scapulae, humeri, ulnae, radii, femora, tibiae, metapodials, and innominates.
2400630|656 mandibles and isolated teeth of the bovid Pachytragus solignaci Robinson from two localities in the Miocene Beglia Formation, Gafsa, Tunisia, have been individually aged on the basis of ontogenetic development and state of dental wear. The sample probably represents normal but seasonally restricted mortality Life table analysis indicates an annual mortality rate of 25-30%, increasing in old animals. Dental dimensions are affected by stabilizing selection which sets in as the tooth comes into function, earlier mortality being nonselective in that respect.
2400523|Field experiments with bivalve molluscs at Mugu Lagoon, California (USA), during an intense rainstorm in February 1978 provided tests of the selectivity of mortality during catastrophic sedimentation. In a high-current sand channel, sedimentation was slight, the effects on sediment grade short-lived, and the effects on survival of two suspension-feeding bivalves, Protothaca staminea and Chione undatella, undetectable. In a lower-energy, muddy-sand environment, the storm deposited
2401179|Developmental constraints presumably operate by influencing patterns of variability: when development causes some features to vary more than others and when the level of variability is correlated with evolutionary change, then development can be said to constrain evolution. This idea was tested by examining the relationship between tooth variation and three other factors: developmental processes, tooth function, and evolutionary change. Data came from two lineages of viverravid carnivorans (Viverravidae, Carnivora) from the Paleogene of North America. Variability in cusp position was significantly correlated with position in the developmental cascade, with the amount of intercusp growth (when growth is relatively greater in some cusps than others), and with amount of evolutionary change. This indicates that tooth development exerts a local constraint on phenotypic variability and on the evolutionary response to functional selection, but comparative data suggest that the developmental constraint itself may evolve. Intense directional or stabilizing selection may modify the developmental cascade so that the constraint is either removed or modified to permit new evolutionary patterns. Thus development does not constrain evolution in an absolute sense, but rather introduces modifiable patterns of covariance among crown features. Both development and function seem to play important, intertwined roles in coordinating evolutionary change in mammalian molars.
2400301|Modern crinoids are dominated by the comatulids (unstalked forms) which range from the intertidal to abyssal depths. Modern stalked crinoids are restricted to depths greater than about 100 m. In the geologic past some stalked crinoids lived at depths of a few tens of meters or less in reef and bank environments. The primary vehicles postulated for the post-Triassic radiation of comatulids are lack of permanent fixation to the substratum and the capacity for mobility. Development of complex muscular articulations has enabled crawling or swimming which serve in habitat selection and avoidance of stress and predators. These and other adaptations may have bestowed on comatulids a higher survival capacity in shallow-water environments compared to stalked crinoids. Modern stalked crinoids lack mobility and complex behavioral adaptations seen in comatulids. Possibly, stalked crinoids in shallow water were unable to cope with the radiation of abundant, predaceous bony fishes in the late Mesozoic and became restricted to greater depths while the more adaptable comatulids gained ascendancy in shallow water.
2400960|Stanley's (1979) method of estimating taxonomic longevity from Lyellian curves differs from Kurten's (1960) because of different underlying assumptions. Kurten's model supposes that taxon richness and longevity are stochastically invariate over the period used for the Lyellian estimate. Both Kurten and Stanley seek to calculate the average longevity of a taxon, when the temporal stratigraphic ranges are known after and before a given time datum. Under the exponential decay model used by Kurten, mean taxonomic longevity is indeed approximately 2.89 half-lives, as he maintained. Stanley's estimate is based on the unrealistic assumptions of uniform longevity and evenly-spaced origins of fossil taxa. This leads to an estimate of longevity as exactly two half-lives.
2401078|We propose that the ancestors of bats were small, nocturnal, sylvatic gliders that used echolocation for general orientation. Their echolocation calls were short, low intensity, broadband clicks, which translated into a very short operational range. In the lineage that gave rise to bats, a switch to stronger, tonal signals permitted the use of echolocation to detect, track, and assess flying insects in subcanopy settings. We propose that these animals hunted from perches and used echolocation to detect, track, and assess flying insects, which they attacked while gliding. In this way, the perfection of echolocation for hunting preceded the appearance of flapping flight, which marked the emergence of bats. Flapping flight had appeared by the Eocene when at least eight families are known from the fossil record. Stronger signals and adaptations to minimize self-deafening were central to the perfection of echolocation for locating flying prey. Echolocation constituted a key innovation that permitted the evolution and radiation of bats. At the same time, however, its short effective range imposed a major constraint on the size of bats. This constraint is associated with flight speed and the very small time intervals from detection of, and contact with a flying target. Gleaning and high duty cycle echolocation are two derived approaches to hunting prey in cluttered situations, places where echoes from background and other objects arrive before or at the same time as echoes from prey. Both had appeared by the Eocene.
2400615|By digitizing the enamel configuration and calculating the overall directional tendencies of the enamel edges in complex equid dental patterns, quantitative changes in functional attributes were traced through a phylogenetic series. Pronounced changes both in the directional emphasis of the enamel edges and in the chewing motion occurred and were interrelated. Two distinct trends were found. From early Eocene to Oligocene, edge alignment became increasingly confined to a single direction, but the teeth retained the phase I and phase II chewing angles characteristic of many primitive herbivorous and omnivorous mammals. The chewing direction in the horizontal plane also remained essentially unchanged. During the Oligocene and the early Miocene, both edge direction and chewing direction remained stable. However, the middle Miocene genus Merychippus represents a stage in which the enamel directional emphasis was lost in transition to a new anteroposterior emphasis, a trend that continued into the late Tertiary equine taxa. Concurrent with this transformation was a loss of all but vestiges of the phase I and II chewing angles in the vertical plane and a shift of the chewing direction in the horizontal plane to an almost transverse movement of the jaw. In the Oligocene equids, the edges of the labial cusps did attain perpendicularity to the phase I chewing direction, which was oblique to the horizontal plane, but the chewing direction in the horizontal plane was far from perpendicular to the lingual enamel edge direction because the lingual cusps were configured for efficiency in compressive, not shearing, motion that dominated the phase II surfaces. In the later Tertiary the chewing direction and edges attained essentially a perpendicular relationship, which represents the theoretical optimum for a shearing system. The radical change in edge direction in the Miocene probably occurred as a result of an increase in translative movement (longer glide) between the surfaces, making the lingual edges subject to selection for perpendicularity and flattening of the occlusal surface, resulting in a condition where a single edge direction became optimal for all cusps. The extended chewing stroke translation was perhaps the key event initiating the other changes and would have resulted from increased chewing effort accompanying a shift to a diet of mainly grass. The loss of the dual (shearing and compressive) function of the occlusal surface suggests that the earlier diet may have contained significant proportions of other plant parts, such as fruits, seeds, or tender leaves that might be optimally chewed by compressive movements.
23014735|The evolutionary history of the Order Carnivora is marked by episodes of iterative evolution. Although this pattern is widely reported in different carnivoran families, the mechanisms driving the evolution of carnivoran skull morphology remain largely unexplored. In this study we use coordinate-point extended eigenshape analysis (CP-EES) to summarize aspects of skull shape in large fissiped carnivores. Results of these comparisons enable the evaluation of the role of different factors constraining the evolution of carnivoran skull design. Empirical morphospaces derived from mandible anatomy show that all hypercarnivores (i.e., those species with a diet that consists almost entirely of vertebrate flesh) share a set of traits involved in a functional compromise between bite force and gape angle, which is reflected in a strong pattern of morphological convergence. Although the paths followed by different taxa to reach this "hypercarnivore shape-space" differ because of phylogenetic constraints, the morphological signature of hypercarnivory in the mandible is remarkably narrow and well constrained. In contrast, CP-EES of cranial morphology does not reveal a similar pattern of shape convergence among hypercarnivores. This suggests a lesser degree of morphological plasticity in the cranium compared to the mandible, which probably results from a compromise between different functional demands in the cranium (e.g., feeding, vision, olfactory sense, and brain processing) whereas the mandible is only involved in food acquisition and processing. Combined analysis of theoretical and empirical morphospaces for these skull data also show the lower anatomical disparity of felids and hyaenids compared to canids and ursids. This indicates that increasing specialization within the hypercarnivorous niche may constrain subsequent morphological and ecological flexibility. During the Cenozoic, similar skull traits appeared in different carnivoran lineages, generated by similar selection pressures (e.g., toward hypercarnivory) and shared developmental pathways. These pathways were likely the proximate source of constraints on the degree of variation associated with carnivoran skull evolution and on its direction.
2401116|The rate and pattern of phenotypic evolution of the endemic land-snail Mandarina chichijimana in the oceanic Bonin Islands through 40,000 years were examined by using radiocarbondated fossil specimens. There are drastic variations in rates and patterns of changes detected. Some characters show irregular fluctuation within a restricted range. Other characters show a rapid shift from stasis in one state to stasis in an alternative state. Because of the isolation, the limited distributions, and the presence of transitional forms, these changes are regarded as genuine evolutionary transformations within a lineage. These findings suggest that phyletic evolution is essentially irregular and punctuated.
4096817|Persistent fossil taxa contravene paradigms of evolution: pervasive morphological change and taxic turnover. Comparative studies of taxic duration have often been approached from biogeographic, climatic, and ecological perspectives, with a focus on process. Here I use a morphological approach to study the pattern of longevity of a large family of marine living and fossil podocopid ostracodes, Trachyleberididae sensu lato. I test if geologically longer-lived genera are collectively morphologically more deviant from a group mean than their shorter-lived relatives by using both discrete morphological data and outline data. I discovered that long-lived genera are in general not significantly more or less morphologically deviant from the average morphology than their shorter-lived relatives. However, I found that contemporaneous subsets of long-lived trachyleberidids are often at least marginally significantly more deviant in discrete morphology than shorter-lived ones, especially in external morphology. No significant patterns of association between morphological deviation and durations in other subdivisions of the data emerged (i.e., whole data set, birth cohorts, groups of morphological characters, and outline data using both Fourier analysis and eigenshape analysis). This is in contrast to a previous finding that long-lived genera of crinoids within orders are often morphologically less deviant than their shorter-lived relatives than expected by chance.
2400547|Growth increments in bivalve shells have been used in geophysics and paleoecology. However, little study has been given to the variability of increment patterns within and between shells. The variability of increment patterns is examined visually and quantitatively, with the help of a serial correlation computer program. Analyses of increment patterns of the bivalves Chione fluctifraga and Protothaca staminea (Veneridae) indicate that: 1) quantitative results complement the visual observations; 2) increments are not consistently detected during successive measurements; 3) a striking similarity exists between right and left valves of the same specimen; and 4) different specimens collected from the same natural environment do not show any one-to-one increment relationship-however, increment width trends may be present. The variation of increment patterns seen between specimens suggests caution in the use of bivalve increments in paleoecology.
25482671|Gould's Wonderful Life (1989) was a landmark in the investigation of the Cambrian radiation. Gould argued that a number of experimental body plans ("problematica") had evolved only to become extinct, and that the Cambrian was a time of special fecundity in animal design. He focused attention on the meaning and significance of morphological disparity versus diversity, and provoked attempts to quantify disparity as an evolutionary metric. He used the Burgess Shale as a springboard to emphasize the important role of contingency in evolution, an idea that he reiterated for the next 13 years. These ideas set the agenda for much subsequent research. Since 1989 cladistic analyses have accommodated most of the problematic Cambrian taxa as stem groups of living taxa. Morphological disparity has been shown to be similar in Cambrian times as now. Konservat-Lagersttten other than the Burgess Shale have yielded important new discoveries, particularly of arthropods and chordates, which have extended the range of recognized major clades still further back in time. The objective definition of a phylum remains controversial and may be impossible: it can be defined in terms of crown or total group, but the former reveals little about the Cambrian radiation. Divergence times of the major groups remain to be resolved, although molecular and fossil dates are coming closer. Although "superphyla" may have diverged deep in the Proterozoic, "explosive" evolution of these clades near the base of the Cambrian remains a possibility. The fossil record remains a critical source of data on the early evolution of multicellular organisms.
2400222|Genetic and morphologic differentiation in the bryozoan Schizoporella errata parallel each other over a distance of 102 km along the southern shore of Cape Cod. This is seen in the allele frequencies of two marker genes and in the length of the avicularium (a type of defensive polymorph of the bryozoan colony). These changes appear to be part of the continuing evolutionary adaptation to local environmental conditions, perhaps characteristic of marine species whose dispersal ability is very limited. The length scale of significant changes in allele frequencies at the two loci is as low as 10-11 km, and for avicularium length is 13 km.
2401008|Potential hybrid fossil crinoids, Eretmocrinus magnificus \times Eretmocrinus praegravis, are identified from the Lower Mississippian Fort Payne Formation of south-central Kentucky. These are the first fossil hybrid crinoids identified, and one of very few examples of hybrids recognized in the fossil record. Eretmocrinus magnificus \times E. praegravis specimens have shapes and calyx plate sculpturing that are morphologically intermediate between well-defined, distinct parent species. Suspected hybrids occur at localities where parent species co-occur and where the parent species are the most abundant; the hybrids occur at what may have been the distributional margins of the parent species; and the mixture of characters on suspected hybrids seems to be morphogenetically partitioned. Parent species are derived from separate lineages within Eretmocrinus, and hybridization is the most probable explanation for these morphologically intermediate specimens. This example highlights the need to consider hybridization as a potential interpretation of intermediate morphologies among fossils and raises questions concerning the impact of hybridization for our interpretation of the fossil record and the role of hybridization in the evolutionary process.
4096988|Polar deciduous forests were an important biome during much of the Mesozoic and Paleogene, occupying upwards of 40% of the total land surface. Little is known about their physiological ecology, however, because these types of forests do not exist for study today. Furthermore, the role of high atmospheric CO
20445576|Examination of organismal characteristics which promote survivorship through both background and mass extinctions may reveal general ecological principles potentially critical to modern conservation efforts. This study explores survivorship of brachiopods, a highly diverse and abundant Paleozoic clade, through the mid-Permian to mid-Triassic interval, which includes the greatest mass extinction in the history of metazoan life. This interval of time separates two of the major Phanerozoic evolutionary faunas. In this regard, survivorship across any one extinction during the interval would not have been relevant if the survivor went extinct shortly after the extinction event; surviving background extinction is as important as surviving a mass extinction. Similarly, taxa that survived but failed to rediversify also were not major elements of the Mesozoic evolutionary fauna. Thus, the analysis aims to analyze survivorship not just across a single extinction but across the entire mid-Permian to mid-Triassic; only survivors through the entire interval can be the ancestors of the Mesozoic clades. Fewer brachiopod genera survived the interval than did brachiopod clades, suggesting that pseudoextinction or insufficient sampling could be a problem in analyzing these extinctions; thus, survivorship analysis should be conducted at the clade level. Nine characteristics were examined for generic representatives of 20 North American brachiopod clades, five of which survived both Permian extinctions and the subsequent earliest Triassic transitional interval. Characteristics include both those that operate on global scales and those that operate on the higher-resolution scales of individuals and populations. Survivors were significantly smaller and occurred less frequently than victims. Mean diversity of communities in which survivors were present was significantly greater. The finding that rare taxa belonging to high-diversity communities were more likely to survive runs counter to traditional predictions. However, these results are consistent with recent studies suggesting that higher diversity within a trophic level may create a buffer, as surviving taxa quickly occupy the vacant niche space of the victims. As size, abundance, and community diversity are all statistically related, the small size of survivors may be an artifact of reduced biovolume per taxon in a diverse community. No significant relationship exists between global-scale processes and survivorship of brachiopods through the mid-Permian to mid-Triassic. The results suggest that ecological processes can strongly influence global extinction patterns.
2400253|The Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation has yielded one of the richest dinosaur faunas of the world. Morrison sediments are distributed over more than a million square kilometers in the western United States and represent a mosaic of riverine, lacustrine and floodplain environments developed on a vast alluvial plain nourished by debris from the ancestral Rocky Mountains. Plant productivity must have been reasonably high to support abundant large-bodied herbivores, but the absence of coals, scarcity of small aquatic vertebrates, the abundance of oxidized sediments, and presence of calcretes lead us to believe that water was periodically in short supply. A strongly seasonal climate may have necessitated annual large-scale movements of large herbivores, accounting in part for their remarkably broad and uniform geographic distribution. Dinosaur diversity is lower in the Morrison than in the Late Cretaceous, and taphonomic alteration is higher. Massed accumulations of thousands of bones are characteristic of the Morrison. Morrison dinosaurs were not confined to specific depositional environments but were distributed across the complete spectrum of available habitats, from lakes to dry floodplains; this type of distribution is similar to that of large terrestrial mammals such as elephants and rhinos and is different from that of hippos and crocodiles. Common Morrison taxa were Camarasaurus, Apatosaurus, Diplodocus, Allosaurus and Stegosaurus; these genera probably constituted a true dinosaur community. Stegosaurus may have been partially segregated from the other genera, and Camptosaurus more strongly so. Camarasaurus and Diplodocus were gregarious, with juveniles and subadults of the former particularly common; Apatosaurus was less abundant and more solitary in its habits. Juveniles and subadults are known for a number of dinosaurs.
2400398|The mid-Paleozoic was punctuated by a rapid radiation of durophagous (shell-crushing) predators. These new predators were primarily placoderm and chondrichthyan fishes but probably also included phyllocarid and eumalacostracan arthropods. Coincident with the radiation of these durophages, beginning in the mid-Devonian, there was an increase in the frequency of predation-resistant morphologies in a variety of marine invertebrate taxa. Among bellerophontid molluscs, disjunct coiling disappeared and umbilici became less common while the frequency of genera with sculpture increased. The abundance of brachiopod genera with spines on one or both valves increased dramatically. Sculpture became more pronounced and common among genera of coiled nautiloids. Inadunate and camerate crinoids showed a marked increase in spinosity, and all three crinoid subclasses tended to develop thicker thecal plates. Trends toward increasing relative frequencies of predation-resistant features were formed in different ways. Bellerophontid genera lacking predation-resistant features tended to go extinct, leaving the sculptured, tightly coiled forms as the predominant forms. Among Brachiopoda, the radiation of productids provided the tremendous increase in numbers of spinose genera. Among crinoids, predation-resistant features were acquired through evolution within established clades. These observations suggest that predation by shell-crushing predators has been an important control on the morphology and composition of the marine invertebrate fauna since at least the Middle Devonian. The mid-Paleozoic radiation of durophages and response of the marine fauna was in many respects similar to events of the Mesozoic Marine Revolution, in effect, the Paleozoic precursor to that event.
2400870|When the Bering Strait between Alaska and Siberia opened about 3.5 Ma during the early Pliocene, cool-temperate and polar marine species were able to move between the North Pacific and Arctic-Atlantic basins. In order to investigate the extent, pattern, and dynamics of this trans-Arctic interchange, I reviewed the Recent and fossil distributions of post-Miocene shell-bearing Mollusca in each of five northern regions: (1) the northeastern Atlantic (Lofoten Islands to the eastern entrance of the English Channel and the northern entrance of the Irish Sea), (2) northwestern Atlantic (southern Labrador to Cape Cod), (3) northeastern Pacific (Bering Strait to Puget Sound), (4) northwestern Pacific (Bering Strait to Hokkaido and the northern Sea of Japan), and (5) Arctic (areas north of the Lofoten Islands, southern Labrador, and Bering Strait). I have identified 295 molluscan species that either took part in the interchange or are descended from taxa that did. Of these, 261 are of Pacific origin, whereas only 34 are of Arctic-Atlantic origin. Various analyses of the pattern of invasion confirm earlier work, indicating that there is a strong bias in favor of species with a Pacific origin. A geographical analysis of invaders implies that, although trans-Arctic interchange contributed to a homogenization of the biotas of the northern oceans, significant barriers to dispersal exist and have existed for trans-Arctic invaders within the Arctic-Atlantic basin. Nevertheless, trans-Arctic invaders in the Atlantic have significantly broader geographical ranges than do taxa with a pre-Pliocene history in the Atlantic. Among the possible explanations for the asymmetry of trans-Arctic invasion, two hypotheses were explicitly tested. The null hypothesis of diversity states that the number of invaders from a biota is proportional to the total number of species in that biota. Estimates of Recent molluscan diversity show that the North Pacific is 1.5 to 2.7 times richer than is the Arctic-Atlantic, depending on how faunistic comparisons are made. This difference in diversity is much smaller than is the asymmetry of trans-Arctic invasion in favor of Pacific species. Rough estimates of regional Pliocene diversity suggest that differences in diversity during the Pliocene were smaller than they are in the Recent fauna. The null hypothesis was therefore rejected. The hypothesis of ecological opportunity states that the number of invaders to a region is proportional to the number of species that became extinct there. The post-Early Pliocene magnitude of extinction was lowest in the North Pacific, intermediate in the northeastern Atlantic, and probably highest in the northwestern Atlantic. The absolute number and faunistic importance of post-Early Pliocene invaders (including trans-Arctic species, as well as taxa previously confined to warm-temperate waters and western Atlantic species that previously occurred only in the eastern Atlantic) was lowest in the North Pacific, intermediate in the northeastern Atlantic, and highest in the northwestern Atlantic. Further support for the hypothesis of ecological opportunity comes from the finding that hard-bottom communities, especially those in the northwestern Atlantic, show a higher representation of molluscan species of Pacific origin, and are likely to have been more affected by climatic events, than were communities on unconsolidated sandy and muddy bottoms. Support for the hypothesis does not rule out other explanations for the observed asymmetry of trans-Arctic invasion. A preliminary study of species-level evolution within lineages of trans-Arctic invaders indicates that anagenesis and cladogenesis have been more frequent among groups with Pacific origins than among those with Atlantic origins, and that the regions within the Arctic-Atlantic basin with the highest absolute number and faunistic representation of invaders (western Atlantic and Arctic) are the regions in which speciation has been least common among the invaders. The asymmetry of invasion is therefore distinct from the asymmetry of species-level evolution of invaders in the various northern marine regions.
2401045|It has been suggested that a sudden event at the end of the Cretaceous period caused a major extinction that was felt disproportionately by creatures in the water column. It also has been argued that benthic deposit feeders, being relatively independent of abundance of organic particles in the water column, should have survived the crisis more readily than suspension feeders, which depended more upon feeding upon phytoplankton. I argue that the hypothesis of relative immunity of deposit feeders is insufficient, because deposit feeders by and large depend upon a supply of organic matter from the water column and would have succumbed to food shortage nearly as rapidly as suspension feeders, possibly within a maximum of three to six months. This near simultaneity of extinction would have been especially true of continental shelf environments. Even in some parts of the deep sea, it is likely that a dependence upon the water column above might have caused deep-sea deposit feeders to succumb rapidly. Therefore, deposit feeders would not necessarily have outsurvived suspension feeders during a crisis of depleted water-column phytoplankton, increased shading by inert particles, or poisoning of the water column and killing of phytoplankton. The relatively lower rate of extinction of nuculoid bivalves may relate instead to their presence in deeper-water refuge habitats, their apparent relative ability to diversify in higher latitudes, or their resistance to factors other than food shortage.
25482675|A simple principle predicts a tendency, or vector, toward increasing organismal complexity in the history of life: As the parts of an organism accumulate variations in evolution, they should tend to become more different from each other. In other words, the variance among the parts, or what I call the "internal variance" of the organism, will tend to increase spontaneously. Internal variance is complexity, I argue, albeit complexity in a purely structural sense, divorced from any notion of function. If the principle is correct, this tendency should exist in all lineages, and the resulting trend (if there is one) will be driven, or more precisely, driven by constraint (as opposed to selection). The existence of a trend is uncertain, because the internal-variance principle predicts only that the range of options offered up to selection will be increasingly complex, on average. And it is unclear whether selection will enhance this vector, act neutrally, or oppose it, perhaps negating it. The vector might also be negated if variations producing certain kinds of developmental truncations are especially common in evolution. Constraint-driven trends-or what I call large-scale trends of the fourth kind-have been in bad odor in evolutionary studies since the Modern Synthesis. Indeed, one such trend, orthogenesis, is famous for having been discredited. In Stephen Jay Gould's last book, The Structure of Evolutionary Thought, he tried to rehabilitate this category (although not orthogenesis), showing how constraint-driven trends could be produced by processes well within the mainstream of contemporary evolutionary theory. The internal-variance principle contributes to Gould's project by adding another candidate trend to this category.
2400643|Quantification of Paleozoic, Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous ammonoid shell ornamentation shows that commonality and roughness of ornamentation increased throughout the geologic range of the ammonoids. The two major hypotheses concerning the function of ammonoid shell ornamentation are that 1) ornament served a protective (defensive) function against shell breakage by predators, and 2) it increased hydrodynamic efficiency of the shell during swimming. The heavily ribbed and spined ammonoid shells of the late Mesozoic have ornamentation too coarse to have served any hydrodynamic purpose. The increasing proportion of such shells during the Jurassic and Cretaceous may have been in response to increased numbers of late Mesozoic shell crushing predators and "better armed" ammonoid prey. This trend parallels adaptive trends of other invertebrate groups during the "Mesozoic marine revolution" as defined by Vermeij (1977).
2400375|Poecilozonites (Gastrelasmus) is an important component of the endemic land snail fauna of Pleistocene Bermuda. The type species P. circumfirmatus Redfield usually occurs in sympatry with its congener P. discrepans Pfeiffer, though each species is found alone at several localities. The species are less alike morphologically where they occur together than where they are allopatric. This allopatric convergence and sympatric divergence strongly suggests the biological interaction known as character displacement, often documented for living populations. The relatively complete fossil record of Bermuda offers advantages for studying this phenomenon. Collections can be made from a variety of microhabitats occupied through time. Statistical analysis of 1,600 individuals collected from more than 100 localities indicates that interspecific variation is primarily a function of the presence or absence of a congener and depends to a lesser degree on microhabitat. P. circumfirmatus undergoes a smaller morphological change between allopatry and sympatry than does P. discrepans. Study of relative abundances suggests that P. discrepans may have been competitively inferior, though no functional bases for differences between the species are known.
2400744|Studies in the past 20 years have often interpreted size fluctuations in fossil mammal remains as a response to climatic change, in accord with Bergmann's rule. However, such paleoecological inference requires careful consideration of changes in community composition that could cause ecological character displacement or release. Recent size gradients of mammals should be screened for the possibility of character displacement if fossil size gradients are to be used as a "paleothermometer" for past climate. The use of teeth in paleontological studies as a measure of body size presents a further complication; for several carnivore guilds, it appears that competitive pressures act most strongly on tooth size. Teeth may therefore inaccurately estimate body size, even if body size accurately indicates climatic conditions. In the fossil record different species exhibit different size patterns under the same conditions of climatic change, and the same species may show diametrically opposite size fluctuations under similar conditions of climatic change, in different regions.
40792296|In the modern world, biotic diversity is typically higher in low-latitude tropical regions where there is abundant insolation (light and heat) and low thermal seasonality. Because these factors broadly covary with latitude, separating their possible effects on species diversity is difficult. The Eocene was a much more equable world, however, with low temperature seasonality extending into lower-insolation higher, cooler latitudes, allowing us to test these factors by comparing insect species diversity in (1) modern, temperate, low-insolation, highly seasonal Harvard Forest, Massachusetts, U.S.A., 4229'N; (2) modern, tropical, high-insolation, low-seasonality La Selva, Costa Rica, 1026'N, and; (3) Eocene, temperate, low-insolation, yet low-seasonality McAbee, British Columbia, Canada, above 50N paleolatitude. We found insect diversity at McAbee to be more similar to La Selva than to Harvard Forest, with high species richness of most groups and decreased diversity of ichneumon wasps, indicating that seasonality is key to the latitudinal diversity gradient. Further, midlatitude Eocene woody dicot diversities at McAbee, Republic (Washington, U.S.A.), and Laguna del Hunco (Argentina) are also high, similar to modern tropical samples, higher than at the modern midlatitude Harvard Forest. Modern correlations between latitude, species diversity, and seasonal climates were established some time after the Eocene.
2400600|Paedomorphosis has played an important evolutionary role in several vertebrate lineages, yet there are few studies in which fossils have been used to document this evolutionary pattern directly. The unusually good fossil record of lungfishes offers an excellent opportunity to do this. An approach to recognizing paedomorphic character complexes in fossil lineages is formalized, and the interdependence of ontogenetic and phylogenetic studies is reemphasized. Concordant evolutionary changes in seven characters representing a variety of organ systems are discussed. For example, in Devonian lungfishes, the tail is heterocercal, endochondrally ossified bones are present, and the fin rays are similar to those of other Osteichthyes. Recent lungfishes have protocercal tails, suppression of endochondral ossification, and greatly reduced fin rays. The data suggest that paedomorphosis played a pervasive role in the evolution of lungfishes and give further evidence for the evolutionary importance of heterochrony.
41684297|We documented changes in the relative abundance of bivalve genera and functional groups in the southwest Caribbean over the past 11 Myr to determine their response to oceanographie changes associated with the closure of the Central American Seaway ca. 3.5 Ma. Quantitative bulk samples from 29 localities yielded 106,000 specimens in 145 genera. All genera were assigned to functional groups based on diet, relationship to the substrate, and mobility. Ordinations of assemblages based on quantitative data for functional groups demonstrated strong shifts in community structure, with a stark contrast between assemblages older than 5 Ma and those younger than 3.5 Ma. These changes are primarily due to an increase in the abundance of attached epifaunal bivalves (e.g., Chama, Arcopsis, and Barbatia) and a decrease in infaunal bivalves (e.g., Varicorbula and Caryocorbula). Taxa associated with seagrasses, including deposit-feeding and chemosymbiotic bivalves (e.g., Luana), also increased in relative abundance compared to suspension feeders. The composition of bivalve assemblages is correlated with the carbonate content of sediments and the percentage of skeletal biomass that is coral. Our results strongly support the hypothesis that increases in the extent of coral reefs and Thalassia communities were important drivers of biologic turnover in Neogene Caribbean benthic communities.
2400954|Distributional patterns of late Osagean (Mississippian) crinoids from the east-central United States are examined using multivariate analysis of crinoid species diversity and species abundance data. We confirm previous hypotheses that three well-defined crinoid associations existed during the late Osagean. These associations were dominated, respectively, by 1) monobathrid camerates preserved in carbonate packstones; 2) poteriocrine inadunates in higher-energy siltstones and sandstones; and 3) disparid inadunates, cyathocrine inadunates, and flexibles in mudstones where neither monobathrids nor poteriocrines dominated. In conjunction with petrologic data on the enclosing sediments, the analyses suggest that these associations occurred along a spectrum of increasing current velocity at the seafloor. Camerates, poteriocrine inadunates, and flexibles are interpreted to display preferences for specific environmental conditions, whereas disparid and cyathocrine inadunates are inferred to be environmental generalists. The different environmental distributions of the major crinoid groups are interpreted to be a function of the mode or modes of aerosol filtration feeding used by each group. This inference is possible through functional morphologic and morphometric studies of crinoid arms, because the skeletal elements of the arms, which are commonly preserved, are directly involved in feeding.
2400247|The Mesozoic-Cenozoic coral Order Scleractinia has been suggested to have originated or evolved (1) by direct descent from the Paleozoic Order Rugosa or (2) by the development of a skeleton in members of one of the anemone groups that probably have existed throughout Phanerozoic time. In spite of much work on the subject, advocates of the direct descent hypothesis have failed to find convincing evidence of this relationship. Critical points are: (1) Rugosan septal insertion is serial; Scleractinian insertion is cyclic; no intermediate stages have been demonstrated. Apparent intermediates are Scleractinia having bilateral cyclic insertion or teratological Rugosa. (2) There is convincing evidence that the skeletons of many Rugosa were calcitic and none are known to be or to have been aragonitic. In contrast, the skeletons of all living Scleractinia are aragonitic and there is evidence that fossil Scleractinia were aragonitic also. The mineralogic difference is almost certainly due to intrinsic biologic factors. (3) No early Triassic corals of either group are known. This fact is not compelling (by itself) but is important in connection with points 1 and 2, because, given direct descent, both changes took place during this only stage in the history of the two groups in which there are no known corals.
2400359|The covariation patterns of the postcranial skeleton in eight species of moas (Aves, Dinornithidae) from the Pleistocene of New Zealand are described using multiple factor analysis. Rotation schemes include an orthogonal Varimax and oblique (direct quartimin) simple structure solutions. Four major patterns of covariation are resolved: a length factor, primarily that of leg length; a width factor, including pelvis width and long bone widths; a sternal breadth factor; and a sternal length-posterior pelvis length factor. The first two patterns represent a functional separation between body size and those aspects of the skeleton, scaling allometrically, adapted to support body weight. The sternal breadth factor may indicate that features contributing to trunk support are independent from those width measurements of the pelvis and hindlimb bones. The sternal length-posterior pelvis length factor reveals a pattern of covariation that is somewhat independent of other patterns (long bone lengths) determining variability in body size.
3595493|The shell size of 1236 ammonite species representing all known Early Jurassic faunas is analyzed. Size patterns are studied for the entire period and then at the biozone scale for the first four stages of the Jurassic (28 Myr), during which ammonites recovered from the crisis at the Triassic/Jurassic (T/J) boundary. Our analysis reveals that (1) a size continuum (normal distribution from "dwarfs" to "giants") exists for all Early Jurassic ammonites; (2) although there are no sustained trends (e.g., no Cope's rule), the succession is not monotonous and patterns may differ conspicuously from one biozone to the next; and (3) increases and decreases in size range are the most frequent evolutionary styles of size change. The only pattern that can be connected with a particular episode of Early Jurassic ammonite history is the initial increase in size disparity during the first four biozones attributable to phyletic radiation after the T/J crisis. Subsequent correlations with environmental constraints (e.g., sea-level changes), although suspected, cannot be shown.
2400474|The history of diversity, origination and extinction of Cambro-Ordovician nautiloid cephalopods is explored to determine if differences in evolutionary rates between nautiloid orders are sufficient to document significantly high or low rates of evolutionary turnover (taxotely of Raup and Marshall 1980). The stratigraphic ranges of 425 nautiloid genera are analyzed for this purpose. Evolutionary rates for five of the seven time intervals analyzed fall within frequency distributions of rates which are thought to be characteristic for a given time interval (horotelic distribution of Simpson 1944). Sufficient heterogeneity is present among extinction rates of Arenigian orders and origination rates of Caradocian orders to reject the null hypotheses of horotely in favor of taxotely. The orders Ellesmerocerida and Tarphycerida, each with a significantly high rate of extinction (P  0.99), and the Actinocerida, with a significantly low rate of extinction (P  0.99), were responsible for taxotely during the Arenigian. The Oncocerida and Discosorida, each with a significantly high rate of origination (P  0.99), were responsible for taxotely during the Caradocian. In each case, taxotely is attributable to the influence of North American endemics. This effect is believed to be more the result of real biological aspects of nautiloid evolution than an artifact of the fossil record.
25609420|The excellent fossil record of conodonts represents an ideal, yet underutilized, resource for resolving fundamental issues of pattern and process in evolutionary theory. However, this potential has not been exploited because the quantitative understanding of the evolution of conodont element morphology is limited. This work applies standardized morphometric protocols to skeletal elements belonging to the condont Pterospathodus, derived from a densely sampled section from Estonia. It has established a robust quantitative framework for morphological variation in Pterospathodus, permitting statistical analysis of the current qualitative hypotheses of evolutionary pattern within this genus for the first time. Apparent directional trends were statistically compared with patterns expected for directional evolution, an unbiased random walk and stasis, using maximum-likelihood model fitting, rescaled range analysis, and the runs test. Results confirmed the presence of trends in size and shape change through time, providing an example of convincing directional morphological change in a fossil lineage. The morphometric analyses have also allowed quantitative investigation of ontogenetic processes in Pterospathodus, suggesting that allometric repatterning was the proximal mechanism responsible for mediating the observed shifts in morphology through time. The results have demonstrated that condonts represent an important resource for understanding evolutionary pattern and process in the fossil record.
3595513|We investigated the petrography and biochemistry of varved sediments from a Pleistocene mass occurrence of fossil vertebrates in the lake basin of Neumark-Nord (Sachsen-Anhalt, Germany). The carbonate portions of the varves appear to be cyanobacterial layers that have been decomposed by benthic bacteria. The biochemical results obtained by absorption spectroscopy and RP-HPLC with UV-detection show that pigments, and probably toxins, characteristic for cyanobacteria are preserved in the sediment. The results of this study indicate the presence in the lake of large amounts of toxic cyanobacteria that probably occurred in seasonal blooms. It seems likely that these toxic cyanobacterial blooms caused the mass death of the large mammals preserved at the Neumark-Nord locality. This model may explain comparable lithologies and vertebrate occurrences in other Tertiary lake sediments such as the Messel oil shale.
2400846|Pteroscaphites are small, rare species of scaphitid ammonites from the Upper Cretaceous (Turonian-Santonian) of the Western Interior of North America. Their evolution appears to parallel that of the larger species of Scaphites or Clioscaphites, with which they co-occur. To investigate this evolutionary pattern, I constructed a phylogeny of all these species based on their distribution of shared derived characters including ornamentation, ammonitella size, whorl shape, umbilical diameter, sutures, number of whorls, adult size, shape of the adult body chamber, and apertural modifications. This analysis revealed numerous instances of congruence in the preadult morphology of the pteroscaphites and that of the co-occurring scaphites or clioscaphites. However, there is a marked divergence at maturity. Adult pteroscaphites are uniformly small (2.5 postembryonic whorls in their phragmocone) and develop apertural projections. The scaphites and clioscaphites exhibit a number of morphological changes at approximately the same whorl number, but secrete as many as two more whorls in their phragmocone before forming a mature body chamber with a relatively unmodified aperture. Both groups display sexual dimorphism. The process of progenesis may explain this conflicting pattern of congruence prior to maturity and divergence at maturity. Adult pteroscaphites are not mature replicas of the juvenile shells of the larger scaphites or clioscaphites, because maturation produces its own set of morphological modifications. Nevertheless, such features as the apertural projections on adult pteroscaphites may be interpreted as extrapolations of juvenile patterns of growth into maturity. The repeated associations of pteroscaphites with scaphites or clioscaphites in the Upper Cretaceous suggest that progenesis was iterative and may have represented an optional developmental pathway common to all of these species.
1558086|Growth rings of Mesozoic fossil woods have often been used for paleoclimatological inferences. Most of the studies, however, rest upon uniformitarian deductions based on the observation of conifers from the present boreal temperate realm, whereas warm climates dominated during the Mesozoic. We propose a new approach, based on the study of the distribution of growth ring types among 643 samples from the Jurassic-Cretaceous interval. A clear picture emerges from analysis, consistent with what is known of Mesozoic climates from other sources. Woods with no rings are encountered in a wide latitudinal zone, extending up to 75N and 65S during the Late Cretaceous. Woods with well-developed latewood do not occur at low latitude and disappeared from the Northern Hemisphere during the Late Cretaceous. Our data set also shows that the taxonomic distribution of growth ring types is not regular. Among the genera encountered, 40% can build only one type of ring. The genus Agathoxylon never displays thick latewood, although it ranges from 75S to 70N. This demonstrates that growth ring studies must include a taxonomic analysis.
4096889|A theoretical morphologic model defining patterns of shell sculptures in Bivalvia is introduced. It is based on the displacement of sculptural elements along the growing shell margin and introduction of new sculptural elements. The kinematics of the sculptural elements are defined in terms of the following parameters: maximum speed of displacement of sculptural elements, position along the growing shell margin where a migrating element attains maximum speed, and position of the divergence axis of the riblets. Computer models successfully mimicked most of the diverse patterns of bivalve shell sculptures. Morphometric analysis revealed that the displacement speed of a sculptural element is not constant but depends on the relative position of the element on the shell margin. It was revealed that the primary component of variation in bivalve shell sculptures could be explained by variation in the displacement speed of sculptural elements around the divergence axis of riblets.
2401129|A compilation of species occurrences in a chronostratigraphic framework of depositional sequences from a 250,000 km<sup>2</sup> area in the eastern United States is used to test for coordinated stasis in Middle and Upper Ordovician articulate brachiopods. Two rapid pulses of turnover in brachiopod species separate three periods of relatively lower turnover (ecologic-evolutionary [EE] subunits) that range from 3 to 9 m.y. in duration. Turnover within these EE subunits is characterized by high levels of percent species origination (ca. 60%) and percent species extinction (ca. 80%) and low levels of percent species persistence (<10%), all of which fall outside the range reported for coordinated stasis. Turnover between EE subunits is characterized by low levels of percent species holdover and percent species carryover (ca. 10% or less) and is consistent with coordinated stasis, although turnover pulses are driven largely by pulses in either extinction or origination, and not by pulses in both, as reported for coordinated stasis. Taken together, although these data display a marked bimodality in turnover, high levels of turnover within EE subunits is inconsistent with a pattern of coordinated stasis. Turnover rates within these EE subunits are much higher than previous global estimates for Cambro-Ordovician brachiopods or Phanerozoic marine species and indicate that local extirpation and migration play a significant role in regional biodiversity dynamics. Despite the high level of turnover observed within these EE subunits, some level of ecologic stability occurs because abundant genera persist throughout entire EE subunits. Ordovician species in this study behaved relatively independently of other taxa and were not tightly integrated as suggested by the broadly overlapping taxon abundance curves, the shifting habitat preference of some taxa, the piecemeal turnover between EE subunits, and the continuous creation of new species associations due to background levels of turnover within EE subunits. Turnover within EE subunits was associated with relatively stable or only mildly fluctuating environments. Rapid turnover between EE subunits was caused by extreme perturbations to the regional or possibly global ocean-climate system.
23014756|Niche conservatism is increasingly recognized in diverse modern ecological settings, and it influences many aspects of modern ecosystems, including speciation mechanisms, community structure, and response to climate change. Here, we investigate the stability of niches with benthic marine invertebrates along a Late Ordovician onshore-offshore gradient on the Cincinnati Arch in the eastern United States. Using a Gaussian niche model characterized by peak abundance, preferred environment, and environmental tolerance, with these parameters estimated through weighted averaging and logistic regression, we find evidence of strong niche conservatism in peak abundance and preferred environment, particularly for abundant taxa. This conservatism is maintained in successive depositional sequences and through the nearly 910 Myr study interval. Environmental tolerance shows no evidence of conservatism, although numerical simulations suggest that the error rates in estimates of this parameter are so high that they could overwhelm evidence of conservatism. These numerical simulations also indicate that both weighted averaging and logistic regression produce useful estimates of peak abundance and preferred environment, with slightly better results for weighted averaging. This evidence for niche conservatism suggests that long-term shifts of higher taxa of marine invertebrates into deeper water are primarily the result of differential rates of origination and extinction. These results also add to the evidence of long periods of relatively stable ecosystems despite regional environmental perturbations, and they constrain the causes of peaked patterns in occupancy.
2665995|Outline-based morphometric methods have been more or less restricted to the consideration of closed curves and plagued by problems related to the maintenance of close biological correspondence across all forms within a sample. Methods developed herein generalize and extend the eigenshape method of outline analysis along the following lines: (1) consideration of open curves, (2) improvement of interobject correspondence via incorporation of information provided by landmarks, and (3) extension to the analysis of three-dimensional (open and closed) curves. In addition, techniques for using eigenshape results to create models of shape variation and for more consistently assessing the digital resolution necessary to represent an object are discussed and illustrated. These improvements are then placed in context via discussions of previous attempts to extend morphometric outline analysis methods, the relation between landmark and outline-based morphometric methods, the use of morphometric analyses to test biological hypotheses, and the nature of morphometric shape spaces (with special reference to studies of morphological disparity).
4096818|The species-characteristic combination of morphological characters that depend on an environmental gradient can be used to determine the frequency distribution of the species along the gradient. All functional characters of a phylogenetically closely related species group demonstrate overlapping intervals along an environmental gradient. The gradual change in character composition along the gradient is called a morphocoenocline. Based on transfer functions, a morphocoenocline can be used for gradient values estimation (proxies) in the historical or geological past, similar to a coenocline based on species (democoenocline). Transforming the empirical frequency distributions of characters and character states along the gradient to probability distributions enables calculating a probability density function of any subset of characters of the morphocoenocline. Because a species is distinguished by a specific combination of characters that are functionally related to the gradient, the distribution of this species along the gradient can be estimated using the probability density functions of combined characters. Assuming "functional uniformitarianism" this estimation can be extended into the geologic past for all fossil species, as long as their functional characters are homologous or analogous to those found among Recent forms. When a morphocoenocline is based on a compound environmental gradient, such as depth, which represents a combination of single environmental factors, the gradient estimation reflects only a specific combination of single factors. A morphocoenocline for test characters of symbiont-bearing benthic foraminifera from the West Pacific was established for water depth. This compound environmental gradient represents tropical open sea conditions at a slope where the water is highly transparent (low inorganic nutrients and sediment input). Depth distributions based on probability density functions were compared with empirical distributions to prove the accuracy of this method, and were used to estimate the depth distribution of other living species that had not been included in the determination of the morphocoenocline because they live in other regions. The method was also applied to fossil species that are closely related to Recent forms (Nummulites, Assilina from the Eocene) and to fossil species that are more distantly related to the living species (Orbitoides from the Upper Cretaceous).
40926787|Constrained seriation of a species-locality matrix of the Australian Cenozoic mammal record resolves a preliminary sixfold succession of land mammal ages apparently spanning the late Oligocene to the present. The applied conditions of local chronostratigraphic succession and inferences of relative stage-of-evolution biochronology lead to the expression of a continental geological timescale consisting of, from the base, the Etadunnan, Wipajirian, Camfieldian, Waitean, Tiraran, and Naracoortean land mammal ages. Approximately 99% of the 360 fossil assemblages analyzed are classifiable using this method. Each is characterized by a diagnostic suite of species. An interval of age magnitude may eventually be shown to lie between the Camfieldian and Waitean, but is currently insufficiently represented by fossils to diagnose. Development of a land mammal age framework marks a progressive step in Australian vertebrate biochronology, previously expressed only in terms of local faunas. Overall, however, the record remains poorly calibrated to the Standard Chronostratigraphic Scale. Codifying the empirical record as a land mammal age sequence provides an objective basis for expressing faunal succession without resort to standard chronostratigraphic terms with the attendant (and hitherto commonly taken) risks of miscorrelating poorly dated Australian events to well-dated global events.
2400427|Taphonomy established itself in paleontology primarily as a subdiscipline of paleoecology, but it has evolved into a much broader study of the ways in which preservation affects the fossil record. The past decade has seen a change in emphasis from descriptive taphonomic studies of fossil assemblages to more experimental, process-oriented investigations of necrolysis, stratification, and diagenesis of organic remains in modern environments. These actualistic studies are increasing the sophistication of taphonomic analysis in the fossil record by sharpening the diagnosis of bias in paleontological data and by providing a baseline for quantitative modeling of preservational patterns. The analysis of bias is also expanding into the evaluation of temporal resolution in the fossil record (sample acuity, stratigraphic completeness), and taphonomic research is thus contributing to broad-scale problems in evolution, biogeography, and biostratigraphy. In addition, taphonomic studies are providing new insights into paleoenvironmental reconstruction and into the direct paleobiological significance of post mortem processes such as the behavior of scavengers and the role of dead hardparts in structuring benthic communities. One of taphonomy's most promising new frontiers is comparative analysis applied to different taxonomic groups within assemblages and across environments, tectonic settings, and climatic regimes. All of this currently active research is contributing to a better understanding of the fossil record as the result of a dynamic, evolving, integrated system of biological and sedimentological processes that have both limited and enhanced knowledge of Earth history.
2400538|The presumed geometry of clam and brachiopod clades (brachiopod declines matched closely by clam increases) has long served as primary data for the classic case of gradual replacement by competition in geological time. Agassiz invoked the geometric argument to assert the general superiority of clams, and it remains the standard textbook illustration today. Yet, like so many classic stories, it is not true. The supposed replacement of brachiopods by clams is not gradual and sequential. It is a product of one event: the Permian extinction (which affected brachiopods profoundly and clams relatively little). When Paleozoic and post-Paleozoic times are plotted separately, numbers of clam and brachiopod genera are positively correlated in each phase. Each group pursues its characteristic and different history in each phase-clams increasing, brachiopods holding their own. The Permian extinction simply reset the initial diversities. The two groups seem to track each other in each phase and a plot of brachiopod vs. clam residuals (each from their own within-phase regressions against time) yields significantly positive association. Some of this tracking may be an artifact of available rock volumes; we could, however, detect no effect of stage lengths. Passive extrapolation of microevolutionary theory into the vastness of geological time has often led paleontologists astray. Competitive interaction may rule in local populations, but differential response to mass extinctions (surely not a matter of conventional competition) may set the relative histories of large groups through geological time. Similarly, adaptive superiority in design cannot, in the usual sense of optimal engineering, have much to do with the macroevolutionary success of clams. The interesting question lies one step further back: what in the inherited Bauplan of a clam permits flexibility in design and why are other groups, however successful in their own domain, unable to alter their basic design.
2400836|The known Cretaceous formicoids are better interpreted from morphological evidence as forming a single subfamily, the Sphecomyrminae, and even a single genus, Sphecomyrma, rather than multiple families and genera. The females appear to have been differentiated as queen and worker castes belonging to the same colonial species instead of winged and wingless solitary females belonging to different species. The former conclusion is supported by the fact that the abdomens of workers of modern ant species and extinct Miocene ant species are smaller relative to the rest of the body than is the case for modern wingless solitary wasps. The wingless Cretaceous formicoids conform to the proportions of ant workers rather than to those of wasps (Figs. 1-2) and hence are reasonably interpreted to have lived in colonies. The Cretaceous formicoids are nevertheless anatomically primitive with reference to modern ants and share some key traits with nonsocial aculeate wasps. They were distributed widely over Laurasia and appear to have been much less abundant than modern ants.
41432162|Improvements in the perceived completeness of the fossil record may be driven both by new discoveries and by reinterpretation of known fossils, but disentangling the relative effects of these processes can be difficult. Here, we propose a new methodology for evaluating historical trends in the perceived completeness of the fossil record, demonstrate its implementation using the freely available software ASCC (version 4.0.0), and present an example using crown-group birds (Aves). Dates of discovery and recognition for the oldest fossil representatives of 75 major lineages of birds were collected for the historical period ranging from 1910 to 2010. Using a comprehensive phylogeny, we calculated minimum implied stratigraphie gaps (MIG range) across these 75 lineages. Our results show that a reduction in global MIG values of 1.35 Ga (billion years) occurred over the past century in avian paleontology. A pronounced increase in the average rate of global MIG reduction is noted in the post-1970s interval (290.5 Myr per decade) compared to the pre-1970s interval (31.9 Myr per decade). Although the majority of the improvement in the fossil record of birds has come from new discoveries, substantial improvement (~22.5%) has resulted from restudy and phylogenetic revision of previously described fossils over the last 40 years. With a minimum estimate indicating that at least 1.34 Gyr of gaps remain to be filled between the predicted and observed first appearances of major lineages of crown Aves, there is much progress to be made. However, a notable tapering off in the rate of global MIG reduction occurs between 1990 and 2010, suggesting we may be approaching an asymptote of oldest record discoveries for birds. Only future observations can determine whether this is a real pattern or a historical anomaly. Either way, barring the discovery of fossils that substantially push back the minimum age for the origin of crown-clade Aves, new discoveries cannot continue to reduce global MIG values at the average post-1970s rate over the long term.
4500174|Carbon and nitrogen stable isotopic compositions of fossil materials from Lake Messel (47 Ma) in Germany are used to investigate Eocene ecosystem dynamics. Autolithified soft tissues of terrestrial and aquatic vertebrate organisms, as well as plant compression fossils, contain organic material (20-50 wt% C, 1-6 wt% N), which appears to retain precursor compositions. Stable isotopic compositions (
2400465|One testable hypothesis of the theory that dinosaurs were endothermic is the observation that sauropod dinosaurs were too large, their heads were too small, and their food was too indigestible for them to be warm-blooded. Calculations on the daily calorie requirements of the sauropod Brachiosaurus, adjusted for digestibility and the energetic cost of "free-living," were compared with the caloric density of Late Jurassic food plants and the feeding rates of an elephant and a giraffe. Using Brachiosaurus as a model I concluded that endothermy in large sauropods (greater than 55 metric tons) was impossible. Depending on assumptions about feeding rates and the cost of free-living, endothermy in smaller sauropods ranges from improbable to impossible.
2666093|Two major ichnotypes of sauropod trackways have been described: "narrow-gauge," in which both manus and pes prints approach or intersect the trackway midline, and "wide-gauge," in which these prints are well apart from the midline. This gauge disparity could be the result of differences in behavior, body size, or morphology between the respective trackmakers. However, the biomechanics of locomotion in large terrestrial vertebrates suggest that sauropods were probably restricted in locomotor behavior, and the lack of systematic size differences between footprint gauges argues against body-size-related influences. We argue that skeletal morphology is responsible for gauge differences and integrate data from locomotor biomechanics and systematics with the track record to predict the hindlimb morphology of wide-gauge trackmakers. Broader foot stances in large, graviportal animals entail predictable mechanical consequences and hindlimb modifications. These could include outwardly angled femora, offset knee condyles, and a more eccentric femoral midshaft cross-section. A survey of sauropod hindlimb morphology reveals that these features are synapomorphies of titanosaurs, suggesting that they were the makers of wide-gauge trackways. The temporal and geographic distribution of titanosaurs is consistent with this hypothesis because wide-gauge trackways predominate during the Cretaceous and are found worldwide. Additional appendicular synapomorphies of titanosaurs are interpreted in light of identifying these animals as wide-gauge trackmakers. We suggest that titanosaurs may have used a bipedal stance more frequently than did other sauropods. These correlations between ichnology, biomechanics, and systematics imply that titanosaurs were unique among sauropods in having a more varied repertoire of locomotor habits.
2400177|We believe that punctuational change dominates the history of life: evolution is concentrated in very rapid events of speciation (geologically instantaneous, even if tolerably continuous in ecological time). Most species, during their geological history, either do not change in any appreciable way, or else they fluctuate mildly in morphology, with no apparent direction. Phyletic gradualism is very rare and too slow, in any case, to produce the major events of evolution. Evolutionary trends are not the product of slow, directional transformation within lineages; they represent the differential success of certain species within a clade-speciation may be random with respect to the direction of a trend (Wright's rule). As an a priori bias, phyletic gradualism has precluded any fair assessment of evolutionary tempos and modes. It could not be refuted by empirical catalogues constructed in its light because it excluded contrary information as the artificial result of an imperfect fossil record. With the model of punctuated equilibria, an unbiased distribution of evolutionary tempos can be established by treating stasis as data and by recording the pattern of change for all species in an assemblage. This distribution of tempos can lead to strong inferences about modes. If, as we predict, the punctuational tempo is prevalent, then speciation-not phyletic evolution-must be the dominant mode of evolution. We argue that virtually none of the examples brought forward to refute our model can stand as support for phyletic gradualism; many are so weak and ambiguous that they only reflect the persistent bias for gradualism still deeply embedded in paleontological thought. Of the few stronger cases, we concentrate on Gingerich's data for Hyopsodus and argue that it provides an excellent example of species selection under our model. We then review the data of several studies that have supported our model since we published it five years ago. The record of human evolution seems to provide a particularly good example: no gradualism has been detected within any hominid taxon, and many are long-ranging; the trend to larger brains arises from differential success of essentially static taxa. The data of molecular genetics support our assumption that large genetic changes often accompany the process of speciation. Phyletic gradualism was an a priori assertion from the start-it was never "seen" in the rocks; it expressed the cultural and political biases of 19th century liberalism. Huxley advised Darwin to eschew it as an "unnecessary difficulty." We think that it has now become an empirical fallacy. A punctuational view of change may have wide validity at all levels of evolutionary processes. At the very least, it deserves consideration as an alternate way of interpreting the history of life.
2400866|The stratigraphic framework for Triassic and Early Jurassic continental strata has greatly changed in recent years. These revised correlations necessitate a review of traditional views of early Mesozoic continental faunal succession and biogeography. We have examined the relationship between tetrapod distribution and paleogeographic context during the Triassic and Early Jurassic on the basis of a data base comprising updated faunal lists for major early Mesozoic assemblages of continental tetrapods. Analysis of these data supports the hypothesis that there were few barriers to biotic interchange among continental tetrapods throughout the Triassic and Early Jurassic. Early Mesozoic tetrapod assemblages are dominated by widely distributed, often cosmopolitan families. Late Triassic patterns of latitudinal variation among tetrapod assemblages appear to be correlated to those seen among terrestrial plants and contrast with the extremely uniform distribution of Early Jurassic continental biotas.
2400169|Raup's (1976a) data on Phanerozoic species numbers are examined for speciesarea relationships, using published estimates of areas of continental seas. By means of multiple regression, species numbers are regressed on both estimated areas of seas and amounts of available rock for sampling, as measured by outcrop area and rock volume. Although the sampling effects apparently have the strongest mfluence on fossil species diversity, areas of seas substantially increase the total correlation, suggesting that Phanerozoic species numbers were in equilibrium with habitat area. This is further supported by the fact that estimated parameters in the regressions are fairly consistent with established island biogeographic theory. Much of the remaining residual variation can be explained by periods of disequilibrium.
2400435|Animals evolve by changing their form and by changing the rate at which they develop. Since evolution of development through time may be directly related to the adaptation of their life histories, study of ontogeny in fossils may yield information about the ecology of extinct animals. We need to know how to measure animals' ontogeny and at what taxonomic level structural differences overshadow differences in development. Two closely related species of the Permian ostracode Cavellina were compared to determine how much of the morphological difference between them is due to differences in their ontogenies. Most of the difference is not related to ontogeny. They also differ in a way that could be explained by heterochrony, although this difference is secondary in importance to the structural difference. These findings suggest that ecological adaptation might best be studied by examining the changes in development that occur within species through time and space.
23014751|Documenting sexual dimorphism for structures that exhibit indeterminate growth can be more difficult than for structures exhibiting determinate growth. Most proboscidean tusks are ever-growing structures that change size and shape throughout life. Sexual dimorphism is pronounced in tusks of mature individuals, but the external form of tusks offers no clear evidence of maturation, and it is difficult to distinguish a young male's tusk from that of an older female. Thus, with previous approaches, knowledge of age was often required to assess sex from tusk measurements. This study examines sexual dimorphism of American mastodon (Mammut americanum) tusks through principal components analysis to determine which aspects of tusk form contribute most strongly to the variance among measurements and to explore the relationship between tusk form and individual age and sex. Twenty-one mastodon tusks from the Great Lakes region were evaluated in two analyses, the first focusing on geometrically distinct aspects of tusk form and the second adding measurements that reflect ontogenetic changes in a single aspect of morphology (circumference). Both analyses separated mastodons by sex (PC-I) and sorted them by age (PC-II). The distribution of tusks on the PC-II versus PC-I plane provides better discrimination of sex than univariate or bivariate methods because tusks of similar size and opposite sex appear near opposite ends of an age spectrum. The second analysis enhances sorting by age, thereby clarifying assessment of sex. This work contributes to studies of mastodon paleobiology by presenting a reliable method for assessing the sex of an individual from tusk measurements without requiring independent knowledge of age.
2400841|Few paleontological studies of species distribution in time and space have adequately considered the effects of sample size. Most species occur very infrequently, and therefore sample size effects may be large relative to the faunal patterns reported. Examination of 10 carefully compiled large data sets (each more than 1,000 occurrences) reveals that the species-occurrence frequency distribution of each fits the log series distribution well and therefore sample size effects can be predicted. Results show that, if the materials used in assembling a large data set are resampled, as many as 25% of the species will not be found a second time even if both samples are of the same size. If the two samples are of unequal size, then the larger sample may have as many as 70% unique species and the smaller sample no unique species. The implications of these values are important to studies of species richness, origination, and extinction patterns, and biogeographic phenomena such as endemism or province boundaries. I provide graphs showing the predicted sample size effects for a range of data set size, species richness, and relative data size. For data sets that do not fit the log series distribution well, I provide example calculations and equations which are usable without a large computer. If these graphs or equations are not used, then I suggest that species which occur infrequently be eliminated from consideration. Studies in which sample size effects are not considered should include sample size information in sufficient detail that other workers might make their own evaluation of observed faunal patterns.
4500136|The richness (number of species) and evenness (uniformity of species abundances) of death assemblages can differ from corresponding living communities due to processes such as between-habitat transport, environmental condensation, and differential taphonomic destruction. Analysis of 132 single-census live-dead comparisons of benthic molluscs from a variety of soft-bottom marine settings indicates that on average evenness does not differ greatly between live and dead assemblages, regardless of the particular depositional setting or grain size of associated sediment. However, individual death assemblages can deviate quite substantially from their corresponding living assemblages, especially if processed using a fine mesh. In addition, death assemblages collected using sieves with 2 mm mesh or coarser showed consistently and significantly greater evenness than corresponding living assemblages. These results are encouraging for broad-scale assessments of evenness in the fossil record based on the comparison of average values (rather than for individual assemblages) and where trends in evenness are the aim of the study. Our live-dead comparisons of richness sample-size corrected by rarefaction revealed that death assemblages were on average ~ 1.45 times richer than the corresponding living assemblages regardless of rarefied size. In 63.6% of death assemblages both dead richness and dead evenness were greater than live, suggesting sufficient time-averaging to catch significant random or directional changes in the living community and/or introduction of individuals from outside the sampled habitat. In 12.9% of collections both dead richness and dead evenness were less than live, suggesting either rapid loss of dead shells so that dead diversity is depressed below the local living community or selective loss of taphonomically vulnerable taxa. In 18.2% of data sets dead richness was elevated but dead evenness was depressed relative to live: these are interpreted to reflect the addition of low-evenness allochthonous material. The remaining 4.5% of data sets had elevated dead evenness but depressed dead richness, suggesting that live and dead in this case may not be closely related. In seven available time series, temporal volatility in living communities over 6-24 months was considerable but could not account for observed (mostly higher) evenness values in corresponding death assemblages, whose evenness and composition were quite stable in the few examined studies. A densely sampled spatial transect shows that changes in living-assemblage evenness along an environmental gradient were preserved in the corresponding death assemblages, although dead evenness at any location on the gradient was substantially higher than living evenness.
2400178|The distribution of numbers of species and the median number of species from 386 selected fossil communities are tabulated for high stress, variable nearshore, and open marine environments during the Lower, Middle, and Upper Paleozoic, the Mesozoic and the Cenozoic. The number of species always increases from high stress to variable nearshore to open marine environments. Within-habitat variation in number of species is small for long intervals of the Phanerozoic. The median number of species in communities from high stress environments remains fixed at about 8 from the Cambrian to the Pleistocene. In open marine environments, the median is near 30 for the Middle and Upper Paleozoic and almost the same for the Mesozoic. Increases of 50% in median number of species between the Lower and Middle Paleozoic and 2 times between the Mesozoic and Cenozoic occur in open marine environments with parallel, but less pronounced, increases in variable nearshore environments. Conditions controlling overall within-habitat species richness changed at those times. These changes do not correlate directly with evolution of new major taxa, change in physical conditions, predation, space availability or oxygen supply. They may be related to changes in resource availability influenced by factors such as the developing terrestrial flora, to lag-time inherent in the evolutionary process of diversification, or to as yet undetermined factors. Although provinciality determines total species richness for the biosphere, the within-habitat data suggest that the number of marine invertebrate species in the world has increased since the Middle Paleozoic, contrary to Raup's (1976b) contention, but possibly only by about 4 times, not the order of magnitude or more suggested by Valentine (1970).
2400193|The modern gorgonocephalid ophiuroid Astrophyton, a basketstar, has feeding habits which may be analogous to those of some Paleozoic crinoids that lack pinnulate arms (Meyer and Lane 1975). Field study has demonstrated the very quick response of Astrophyton when plankton impinge upon its arms. Study of the skeletal microstructure by scanning electron microscopy has shown that the quick response is facilitated by the development of relatively large ventral muscle fossae and articular surfaces whose shape follows a catenary curve. Prey are impaled by spines which articulate with the ventral surface of vertebral ossicles. Stereomic microstructure of vertebral ossicles is galleried where ligaments are present and labyrinthic where muscular tissue is present. The same microstructures are found in muscular articulations of modern crinoids. Future work on the arm structure of Paleozoic taxocrinids and cyathocrinids may demonstrate structural analogies and suggest similarities in food capture between such crinoids and modern basketstars.
2400792|In Baculites, a straight shelled ammonite, the constructional limits on shell shape resulting from the limited strength of nacre in tension are circumvented by a system of vaults in the phragmocone. Vaults bridge between regions of the phragmocone supported by the complex ammonite septal suture, and maintain the shell wall in compression when hydrostatic load induces bending moments. To determine how these vaults interact in the phragmocone to resist hydrostatic loading, measurements were made on a suite of Baculites specimens. In Baculites there is a statistically significant inverse relationship between circumferential curvature (radius of curvature) of the vaulted shell surface and the size of vaults spanning between sutural elements supporting the phragmocone. The inverse relationship between radius of curvature and the sizes of spans in this system of vaults results in the generation of comparable reactive forces at the ends of the vault spans where adjacent vaults interact. The equivalence of these reactive forces prevents the lateral displacement of the vault ends. Consequently, compressive stresses from adjacent vaults are superimposed on, and reduce, the tensional stress component of bending. Limiting tensile stress is of utmost importance in a lightweight shell composed of a brittle material such as nacre, which is strong in compression but weak in tension. Baculites is particularly appropriate for this study because its straight shell is curved only in the circumferential direction, thus simplifying the problem. However, sutural patterns in coiled ammonites appear to be similarly constrained to produce vaults in the phragmocone which vary inversely in curvature and span size.
2401110|Precise estimates of past temperatures are critical for understanding the evolution of organisms and the physical biosphere, and data from continental areas are an indispensable complement to the marine record of stable isotopes. Climate is considered to be a primary selective force on leaf morphology, and two widely used methods exist for estimating past mean annual temperatures from assemblages of fossil leaves. The first approach, Leaf Margin Analysis, is univariate, based on the positive correlation in modern forests between mean annual temperature and the proportion of species in a flora with untoothed leaf margins. The second approach, known as the Climate-Leaf Analysis Multivariate Program, is based on a modern data set that is multivariate. I argue here that the simpler, univariate approach will give paleotemperature estimates at least as precise as the multivariate method because (1) the temperature signal in the multivariate data set is dominated by the leaf-margin character; (2) the additional characters add minimal statistical precision and in practical use do not appear to improve the quality of the estimate; (3) the predictor samples in the univariate data set contain at least twice as many species as those in the multivariate data set; and (4) the presence of numerous sites in the multivariate data set that are both dry and extremely cold depresses temperature estimates for moist and nonfrigid paleofloras by about 2<sup></sup>C, unless the dry and cold sites are excluded from the predictor set. New data from Western Hemisphere forests are used to test the univariate and multivariate methods and to compare observed vs. predicted error distributions for temperature estimates as a function of species richness. Leaf Margin Analysis provides excellent estimates of mean annual temperature for nine floral samples. Estimated temperatures given by 16 floral subsamples are very close both to actual temperatures and to the estimates from the samples. Temperature estimates based on the multivariate data set for four of the subsamples were generally less accurate than the estimates from Leaf Margin Analysis. Leaf-margin data from 45 transect collections demonstrate that sampling of low-diversity floras at extremely local scales can result in biased leaf-margin percentages because species abundance patterns are uneven. For climate analysis, both modern and fossil floras should be sampled over an area sufficient to minimize this bias and to maximize recovered species richness within a given climate.
2400719|Liquid removal rates in chambers of the living cephalopod Nautilus depend on two factors: the surface area of siphuncular epithelium exposed to liquid in the chambers and the buoyancy of the specimen. In Nautilus made artificially heavy, liquid removal rates are increased as much as five times above neutral buoyancy rates in surface aquaria. Although chamber volume increases faster than siphuncular surface area in successively larger chambers, the increase is small, especially in the last formed dozen chambers. Under conditions of constant liquid removal per unit area of siphuncular epithelium, this means that removal rates of liquid from any two or three successive chambers are nearly constant. Nautilus shows ranges of chamber volume/siphuncular surface area ratios of .04 cc/mm
1571654|Mathematical modeling of cladogenesis and fossil preservation is used to explore the expected behavior of commonly used measures of taxonomic diversity and taxonomic rates with respect to interval length, quality of preservation, position of interval in a stratigraphic succession, and taxonomic rates themselves. Particular attention is focused on the independent estimation of origination and extinction rates. Modeling supports intuitive and empirical arguments that single-interval taxa, being especially sensitive to variation in preservation and interval length, produce many undesirable distortions of the fossil record. It may generally be preferable to base diversity and rate measures on estimated numbers of taxa extant at single points in time rather than to adjust conventional interval-based measures by discarding single-interval taxa. A combination of modeling and empirical analysis of fossil genera supports two major trends in marine animal evolution. (1) The Phanerozoic decline in taxonomic rates is unlikely to be an artifact of secular improvement in the quality of the fossil record, a point that has been argued before on different grounds. (2) The post-Paleozoic rise in diversity may be exaggerated by the essentially complete knowledge of the living fauna, but this bias is not the principal cause of the pattern. The pattern may partly reflect a secular increase in preservation nevertheless. Apparent temporal variation in taxonomic rates can be produced artificially by variation in preservation rate. Some empirical arguments suggest, however, that much of the short-term variation in taxonomic rates observed in the fossil record is real. (1) For marine animals as a whole, the quality of the fossil record of a higher taxon is not a good predictor of its apparent variability in taxonomic rates. (2) For a sample data set covering a cross-section of higher taxa in the Ordovician, most of the apparent variation in origination and extinction rates is not statistically attributable to independently measured variation in preservation rates. (3) Previous work has shown that standardized sampling to remove effects of variable preservation and sampling yields abundant temporal variation in estimated taxonomic rates. While modeling suggests which rate measures are likely to be most accurate in principle, the question of how best to capture true variation in taxonomic rates remains open.
2400733|Analysis of relative changes in plate position during ontogeny was made on a number of Cenozoic spatangoid echinoids: species of Breynia, Lovenia, Protenaster and Echinocardium. Contrary to the generally held view that adjacent ambulacral and interambulacral columns in echinoids always remain in a fixed relative position during ontogeny, many spatangoids show great fluidity in plate growth, with adjacent columns `sliding past' one another during ontogeny. Furthermore, in many genera plates from one column may undergo strong lateral growth and bisect pairs of plates in adjacent rows. This phenomenon of relative plate movement, both meridional and equatorial, is herein termed `plate translocation'. It is considered to occur by localized resorption and redeposition in a narrow zone along adjacent plate boundaries. Plate translocation has been of considerable phylogenetic significance to spatangoids and, combined with an increase in differential allometries between plates, has been one of the most important factors in the evolution of the Spatangoida. Furthermore, the initiation of plate translocation in the apical system in certain Jurassic echinoids may have been the trigger for the migration of the periproct out of the apical system, and a major factor in the evolution of irregular echinoids. Heterochrony in plate growth has been critical in controlling the course of evolution in many lineages of spatangoid echinoids.
4096910|The relative proportions of Sepkoski's Cambrian, Paleozoic, and Modern evolutionary faunas in Cambrian-Ordovician benthic marine assemblages from mixed carbonate-shale and shale lithofacies deposited below normal wave base (herein, deep subtidal) in North America are strongly positively correlated with global relative genus richness in Sepkoski's global compendium. The correlation between local and global faunal proportions is robust regardless of how proportions are calculated, including when local proportions are based on number of specimens. Like the global pattern, the transition between the Cambrian and Paleozoic evolutionary faunas appears to occur gradually, in that Lower Arenigian (Ibexian) deep subtidal assemblages contain approximately equal proportions of Cambrian and Paleozoic faunal elements. In agreement with previous work, an onshore-offshore differentiation of faunas is evident both within Ordovician deep subtidal communities and across a larger environmental gradient. Within the deep subtidal assemblages studied here, the Paleozoic fauna tends to have a greater proportion of individuals for a given proportion of genera than the Cambrian fauna, although both tend to accrue genera at similar rates with increasing relative abundance. The Modern evolutionary fauna appears to accrue genera more rapidly with increasing local relative abundance. The extent to which these differences reflect ecological factors such as biomass, metabolic requirements or larval recruitment patterns, taxonomic practices stemming from variable morphospace saturation, or taphonomy-related counting biases remains unclear, but it suggests the possibility that Sepkoski's evolutionary faunas may share ecological characteristics that influence both local relative abundance and global rates of taxonomic evolution.
2400240|The modern synthesis, as an exclusive proposition, has broken down on both of its fundamental claims: extrapolationism (gradual allelic substitution as a model for all evolutionary change) and nearly exclusive reliance on selection leading to adaptation. Evolution is a hierarchical process with complementary, but different, modes of change at its three major levels: variation within populations, speciation, and patterns of macroevolution. Speciation is not always an extension of gradual, adaptive allelic substitution to greater effect, but may represent, as Goldschmidt argued, a different style of genetic change-rapid reorganization of the genome, perhaps non-adaptive. Macroevolutionary trends do not arise from the gradual, adaptive transformation of populations, but usually from a higher-order selection operating upon groups of species, while the individual species themselves generally do not change following their geologically instantaneous origin. I refer to these two discontinuities in the evolutionary hierarchy as the Goldschmidt break (between change in populations and speciation) and the Wright break (between speciation and trends as differential success among species). A new and general evolutionary theory will embody this notion of hierarchy and stress a variety of themes either ignored or explicitly rejected by the modern synthesis: punctuational change at all levels, important non-adaptive change at all levels, control of evolution not only by selection, but equally by constraints of history, development and architecture-thus restoring to evolutionary theory a concept of organism.
2401063|Rapid shell closure in articulate brachiopods occurs by a twitch contraction of the "quick" adductor muscles. Rapid accelerations and decelerations of the valves induce large accelerations of the surrounding fluid, placing constraints on the speeds of closure; inertial forces govern the mechanics of the closing mechanism. The position, size, and physiological properties of the muscles, and the size and shape of the shell, govern the properties of the shell closing system. A numerical model predicts that, for given muscle and shell characteristics, there is a location of the adductor muscle which maximizes the shell's closing velocity, and that this position shifts allometrically with size. Positive allometry in the muscle's moment arm length is observed in both living and fossil brachiopods, although the observed coefficients are less than those predicted by the model. The brachiopod closing mechanism provides a model for understanding the biomechanical interrelationships between components of dynamic skeletal systems. Dynamic systems, where the muscles induce resisting inertial reactions, are characterized by mechanical feedback loops, or couplings. Mechanical couplings may represent an important class of constraints on the evolution of skeleto-muscular architecture.
2400390|The hyrax, a living primitive subungulate, makes an ideal model in terms of its molar morphology for early lophodont ungulates. Cine fluoroscopic studies of mastication show that the proposed Phase II in jaw movement, experimentally demonstrated in primates, but surmised in ungulates only from molar wear facets, does in fact exist in this animal, but does not appear to be an important component of the masticatory cycle. Comparison of tooth wear in early Tertiary ungulates with contemporaneous primates shows that, whereas primates enlarge the Phase II wear facets on the molars as they move into more herbivorous niches, the same is not true for ungulates, and in fact Phase II may be lost altogether in grazing forms. It is concluded that "grinding" in herbivorous ungulates is a process fundamentally different from that described for herbivorous primates.
2401192|The evolutionary rates of Paleozoic Crinoidea were obtained using dynamic survivorship analysis. The stratigraphic ranges of 838 genera were used in the analyses, revealing a mean generic duration of 12.0 m.y. and a mean species duration of 6.7 m.y., values within the range of longevities reported for other taxa. Further analyses showed differences in evolutionary rates among crinoid taxa: camerate species and genera were shorter-lived than species and genera of flexibles and inadunates. This pattern may result from ecological differences among these taxa: an energy budget equation solved for crinoids with various filter morphologies revealed that crinoids with fine-mesh filters require higher current velocities to supply them with sufficient particulate nutrients than do crinoids with coarsemesh filters. A hypothesis stipulating that these differences control the distribution of crinoids among different environments is supported by patterns of occurrence of Mississippian crinoids: the pinnulate camerates (fine filter) dominate higher energy settings while the non-pinnulate inadunates and flexibles (coarse filter) are found in all environments. The "specialized" pinnulate crinoids may therefore be more prone to speciation and extinction than the non-pinnulate "generalists," thus accounting for the observed differences in the evolutionary rates of the three subclasses. The above hypothesis was tested by comparing evolutionary rates of two morphological groups: fine-filtered crinoids (camerates) and coarse-filtered crinoids (non-pinnulate Paleozoic crinoids). As predicted, fine-filtered taxa had higher extinction and origination rates. A "bootstrapping" technique revealed that the differences in extinction rates were significant at the p < 0.10 level.
4096820|A neurological method for assessment of nasal cavity homologies in extant archosaurs is extended to lambeosaurine hadrosaurids (Dinosauria: Ornithischia) to test functional hypotheses associated with their hypertrophied nasal passages and highly derived cranial crests. The olfactory system and associated cranial nerve pathways that have consistent relationships to soft tissue divisions of the nasal cavity are reconstructed in lambeosaurines on the basis of new paleoneurological data and a comparative phylogenetic approach. The new model of the lambeosaurine olfactory system and nasal cavity shows that a significant portion of nasal cavity proper was located outside the crest cavities and that the primary olfactory region was located rostromedial to the orbits. All available data indicate that the evolutionary hypertrophy of the nasal cavity occurred predominantly within the non-olfactory nasal vestibule, and that crest development was not causally associated with olfaction. The high level of interspecific and ontogenetic variation in crest shape and nasal vestibule development in lambeosaurine dinosaurs is most consistent with proposed behavioral functions, notably acoustic resonance for intraspecific communication. Despite significant modification to the nasal cavity within Archosauria and its extreme hypertrophy and supraorbital development in Lambeosaurinae, the neural olfactory system and the olfactory region of the nasal cavity proper retain their plesiomorphic positions and associations, suggesting that this system is highly conserved in vertebrate evolution.
2665989|The Cretaceous angiosperm radiation offers an opportunity to examine patterns of morphological evolution in terrestrial plants and to compare them with patterns previously observed during radiations of marine animals. Focusing on evolution among angiosperm pollen types, I used average pairwise dissimilarity and total variance to describe changing morphological varieties (disparity) through the Cretaceous and Paleocene in North America. Angiosperm species diversity shows an approximately tenfold increase through this interval, but this taxonomic diversification is not matched by a comparable change in morphological disparity. Partitioning of morphological disparity among major pollen groups shows that most of the variance is contributed by eudicots from the Albian onwards. Constant disparity across the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary despite decreased taxonomic diversity suggests that the Cretaceous/Tertiary extinction was not selective with respect to the pollen morphological characters analyzed here. The two measures of disparity show similar patterns. The overall pattern is robust to changes in character weighting, indicating that no one set of characters or weighting scheme is driving the pattern. Analyses of older data indicate that the initial burst of disparity in the Aptian could be due in part to analytical time-averaging. The observed incongruence between taxonomic diversity and morphological disparity suggests that morphological evolution in pollen was characterized by larger jumps early and smaller jumps later on, and is similar to that found in several groups of marine invertebrates.
2400576|The punctuated equilibrium hypothesis, largely derivable from Mayr's peripheral isolate model of speciation, is but one of many possible paleontologic patterns of speciation which may be tested against the deep-sea fossil record of planktonic microfossils. The nature of reproduction and variation within a species has a profound effect on its expected tempo and mode of evolutionary change. Biologic data on pelagic plankton and on protistan genetics and reproduction suggest that speciation in pelagic holoplanktonic protists may also be parapatric, "equal" allopatric, or the result of hybridization. Each of these models is shown to make testable predictions of paleontologic pattern. Published records of speciation in planktonic deep-sea microfossil data are compatible with these alternative models. Existing data sets are not yet sufficiently complete to provide strong tests. Future work needs to integrate taxonomic, paleoecologic, biogeographic, and biometric data in studies of individual speciation events. Micropaleontologic studies of morphologic change through time may thereby contribute to our understanding of speciation mechanisms in the pelagic protistan plankton.
25609447|Natural accumulations of skeletal remains represent a valuable source of ecological data for paleontologists and neontologists alike. Use of these records requires a quantitative assessment of the degree to which potential biasing factors affect how accurately ecological information from the living community is recorded in the sedimentary record. This has been a major focus in recent years for taphonomists working with marine records, yet terrestrial systems have remained virtually unstudiedparticularly communities of small-bodied taxa. Our ability to assess the potential origins and effects of postmortem bias in terrestrial skeletal assemblages (both modern and fossil) has therefore been limited. Predation is a common mechanism by which small-mammal skeletal remains are concentrated; raptors regurgitate the remains of their small-mammal prey in pellets rich in skeletal material, which accumulate below long-term roosting sites, especially in protected areas such as caves and rock shelters. Here I compare small-mammal death assemblages concentrated via owl predation at Two Ledges Chamber, a long-term owl cave roost in northwestern Nevada, with data from modern trapping surveys to evaluate (1) their ecological fidelity to the modern small-mammal community, (2) the effects of temporal variation and time-averaging (over months to centuries) on live-dead agreement, and (3) how spatial averaging affects the landscape-scale picture of the small-mammal community as reconstructed from dead remains. Despite potential obstacles to the recovery of ecological information from skeletal deposits generated via predation, I find high live-dead agreement across all ecological metrics and all temporal comparisons. I also find that the effects of time-averaging (specifically increased species richness of the death assemblage) become significant only at the century scale. Finally, I combine a mixing model approach with a principal coordinates analysis to show that the owls at Two Ledges Chamber sample from all habitats present in the immediate vicinity of the cave, producing a high-fidelity snapshot of the community that is spatially integrated at the local landscape scale.
23014722|Diversity dynamics of the PermianTriassic land plants in South China are studied by analyzing paleobotanical data. Our results indicate that the total diversity of land-plant megafossil genera and species across the Permian/Triassic boundary (PTB) of South China underwent a progressive decline from the early Late Permian (Wuchiapingian) to the Early-Middle Triassic. In contrast, the diversity of land-plant microfossil genera exhibited only a small fluctuation across the PTB of South China, showing an increase at the PTB. Overall, land plants across the PTB of South China show a greater stability in diversity dynamics than marine faunas. The highest extinction rate (90.91%) and the lowest origination rate (18.18%) of land-plant megafossil genera occurred at the early Early Triassic (Induan), but the temporal duration of the higher genus extinction rates (>60%) in land plants was about 23.4 Myr, from the Wuchiapingian to the early Middle Triassic (Anisian), which is longer than that of the coeval marine faunas (311 Myr). Moreover, the change of genus turnover rates in land-plant megafossils steadily fluctuated from the late Early Permian to the Late Triassic. More stable diversity and turnover rate as well as longer extinction duration suggest that land plants near the PTB of South China may have been involved in a gradual floral reorganization and evolutionary replacement rather than a mass extinction like those in the coeval marine faunas.
2401155|Use of quantitative statistical tests can show that there is generally good congruence between estimated cladistic hypotheses of relationship and observed stratigraphy. A data set of 376 cladograms of fishes, continental tetrapods, and echinoderms was tested using three metrics, Spearman Rank Correlation (SRC), Relative Completeness Index (RCI), and Stratigraphic Consistency Index (SCI), to explore the relationships between the indices and differences in results among the three groups of organisms. There is a strong relationship between SCI and SRC, since both tests measure the same aspect of the fossil record. There is no relationship between RCI and either SCI or SRC. There is a highly significant relationship, as expected, between SRC coefficients and the number of taxa in a cladogram, but no such relationship for RCI or SCI (except in fishes). There is no significant relationship between any of the indices and either the number of internal nodes or tree balance. Echinoderms show the best stratigraphic consistency of nodes, while continental tetrapods have the best matching of stratigraphic age and cladistic node order. Fishes have the worst match of age and clade ranks, but they do have the most complete fossil record as measured by the RCI. They are followed by echinoderms, and then continental tetrapods, which have the least complete record. This seems to show that life in an aquatic environment leads, in general, to a more complete fossil record.
2400858|Several groups of siliceous microorganisms possess a skeletal latticework of interconnected rods. Skeletal configurations of one of these groups, the silicoflagellates, can be produced by a simple mathematical model that minimizes the apical surface area for a given basal area and internal volume. A similar model that minimizes the total length of the skeletal elements, and thus the silica utilization and skeletal weight, produces configurations that are generally less common in silicoflagellates. The diversity of silicoflagellate skeletal morphologies suggests that both the minimization of apical surface area and the conservation of skeletal material may be important factors in skeletal design. The two most important morphologies found in modern oceans, the four-sided Dictyocha and the six-sided Distephanus, can co-occur in an environment where both factors have some relative importance. However, these models do not explain the range of silicoflagellate skeletal morphology found in nature.
2400344|In the past fifteen years, the biological interpretation of vertebrate fossils has been markedly advanced by the application of experimental techniques in functional morphology, biomechanical and allometric modelling, more rigorously-derived empirical correlations between form and function in living species, and studies of modern community structure and of the taphonomic processes by which fossil assemblages are formed. Traditional paleontological methods of phylogenetic analysis are under attack by the advocates of cladistics; the resulting debate is leading to increased rigor in paleontological systematics. Paleobiogeographical studies of vertebrates has become an extremely active area of research due to the need to reanalyze past distribution patterns in the light of plate tectonics. New information has extended the fossil record of vertebrates back to the Late Cambrian, but little more is known about the nature of the earliest vertebrates or of the pre-vertebrate ancestors. Much has been learned of the fishes antecedent to tetrapods but little of the earliest tetrapods. The early reptiles are now well known, but the nature of their amphibian ancestors is uncertain. Restudy of Archaeopteryx has suggested a dinosaurian ancestry for birds. The origin and early evolution of mammals is the subject of extensive research as a result of greatly augmented recent collecting. The most active and innovative research is on the biology of dinosaurs, especially on their physiology. Among Cenozoic mammals, the fossil record of primates has been greatly expanded and knowledge of primate history, from the basal prosimians of the Paleocene to early man, is increasing rapidly.
4096975|Bivalves and gastropods, prominent members of the Modern Evolutionary Fauna, are traditionally noted for sharing remarkably similar global diversity trajectories and environmental distributions throughout the Phanerozoic. By comparing their fossil occurrences at several scales within a finely resolved geographic, environmental, and temporal framework, it is possible to evaluate whether such similarities are caused primarily by intrinsic macroevolutionary factors or extrinsic ecological factors. Using a database of 7779 global gastropod and bivalve genus occurrences, we investigate the geographical and environmental attributes of bivalves and gastropods during the Ordovician Period at scales ranging from global, to a comparison among five paleocontinents, to an intracontinental comparison of four regions within Laurentia. Although both classes shared statistically indistinguishable global diversity trajectories and broadly similar environmental distributions during the Ordovician, their environmental distributions differed in several significant features. Furthermore, the diversity trajectories and environmental distributions of these classes differed significantly among paleocontinents and among regions within Laurentia. Bivalves were consistently most diverse in deeper water, siliciclastic-rich settings in higher-latitude paleocontinents whereas gastropods were consistently most diverse in shallower, carbonate-rich settings in more-equatorial paleocontinents. Notably, these environmental differences were robust to changing physical parameters within paleocontinents, with each class consistently tracking its preferred environmental setting. These results suggest that environmental factors played significant, albeit distinct, roles in the Ordovician diversifications of gastropods and bivalves. However, their similar global diversity trajectories suggest that shared, intrinsic macroevolutionary attributes also may have played an important role in the evolution of these classes during the Ordovician Radiation.
4096844|Historical changes in the coastline of Kikai Island of the Ryukyu Islands in the southeast part of Japan were estimated by using a numerical simulation based on a glacio-hydro-isostasy model. Temporal changes in the area of the island during the last 40 Kyr were compared with temporal changes in species diversity in fossil land snails of the island. The species number in the past was theoretically estimated by the area of Kikai Island in the past and a species-area relationship among the modern land snail fauna of the Ryukyu Islands. The theoretical species numbers are very close to the actual ones. This suggests that the change in island area is the main cause of the change in species diversity in Kikai Island. In addition, we discuss causes other than the area, such as island elevation, distance to the nearest large island, climate change, human activity, and imperfection of fossil data. We also discuss the change in Fisher's alpha and body size against the change in the area.
41432164|The deep-sea microfossil record is characterized by an extraordinarily high density and abundance of fossil specimens, and by a very high degree of spatial and temporal continuity of sedimentation. This record provides a unique opportunity to study evolution at the species level for entire clades of organisms. Compilations of deep-sea microfossil species occurrences are, however, affected by reworking of material, age model errors, and taxonomic uncertainties, all of which combine to displace a small fraction of the recorded occurrence data both forward and backwards in time, extending total stratigraphie ranges for taxa. These data outliers introduce substantial errors into both biostratigraphic and evolutionary analyses of species occurrences over time. We propose a simple methodPacmanto identify and remove outliers from such data, and to identify problematic samples or sections from which the outlier data have derived. The method consists of, for a large group of species, compiling species occurrences by time and marking as outliers calibrated fractions of the youngest and oldest occurrence data for each species. A subset of biostratigraphic marker species whose ranges have been previously documented is used to calibrate the fraction of occurrences to mark as outliers. These outlier occurrences are compiled for samples, and profiles of outlier frequency are made from the sections used to compile the data; the profiles can then identify samples and sections with problematic data caused, for example, by taxonomic errors, incorrect age models, or reworking of sediment. These samples/sections can then be targeted for re-study.
2400797|The first lower molar length, width, and posterior loop width were analyzed for ten Cosomys primus populations from horizontal deposits ranging in elevation from 3,000 to 3,295 feet. Sedimentation rates based on radiometric dates for two ashes and rates derived in previous studies suggest that these sediments span an interval of time that ranges from 45,000 to 164,000 years ago. Nonmetric data included the presence of enamel pits, prism folds, and crenulations; the number of triangles; and relative dentine tract heights. Coefficients of variation for the metrics were low, 4 to 7, and a one-way ANOVA revealed no significant differences between any of the populations. Changes in the mean phenotype were less than two phenotypic standard deviations and were not correlated with elevation. The presence of enamel pits, prism folds, and crenulations correlated only with less occlusal wear. Thus, these microtine rodent populations appear to exhibit stasis over a time period of at least 45,000 and possibly as much as 164,000 years, unless the deposits accumulated more rapidly than previously estimated.
4500143|Echinoderms have long been characterized by the presence of ambulacra that exhibit pentaradiate symmetry and define five primary body axes. In reality, truly pentaradial ambulacral symmetry is a condition derived only once in the evolutionary history of echinoderms and is restricted to eleutherozoans, the clade that contains most living echinoderm species. In contrast, early echinoderms have a bilaterally symmetrical 2-1-2 arrangement, with three ambulacra radiating from the mouth. Branching of the two side ambulacra during ontogeny produces the five adult rays. During the Cambrian Explosion and Ordovician Radiation, some 30 clades of echinoderms evolved, many of which have aberrant ambulacral systems with one to four rays. Unfortunately, no underlying model has emerged that explains ambulacral homologies among disparate forms. Here we show that most Paleozoic echinoderms are characterized by uniquely identifiable ambulacra that develop in three distinct postlarval stages. Nearly all "aberrant" echinoderm morphologies can be explained by the paedomorphic ambulacra reduction (PAR) model through the loss of some combination of these growth stages during ontogeny. Superficially similar patterns of ambulacral reduction in distantly related clades have resulted from the parallel loss of homologous ambulacra during ontogeny. Pseudo-fivefold symmetry seen in Blastoidea and the true fivefold symmetry seen in Eleutherozoa result from great reduction and total loss, respectively, of the 2-1-2 symmetry early in ontogeny. These ambulacral variations suggest that both developmental and ecological constraints affect the evolution of novel echinoderm body plans.
2401237|An understanding of several macroevolutionary trends has been greatly advanced in recent years by a focus on disparity (morphological variety) rather than taxic diversity. A seminal issue has been the nature of the Cambrian Radiation, and the question of whether problematical Cambrian fossils embody a range of anatomical design far exceeding that observed thereafter. Arthropods have hitherto furnished the only case study, revealing comparable levels of Cambrian and Recent disparity. The generality of this observation needs to be tested in other groups, and the priapulid worms provide a well-documented example. Cladistic analysis of morphological characters for priapulids reveals a paraphyletic series of Cambrian taxa below a crown-group of post-Cambrian genera. However, one extant family (the Tubiluchidae) may be more closely related to Cambrian forms or resolve basally. Character-based morphospace analysis demonstrates greater disparity amongst Recent taxa than amongst their Cambrian counterparts. There is relatively little overlap between the regions of morphospace occupied by Cambrian and Recent genera (contrasting with the situation in arthropods). The Tubiluchidae are morphologically intermediate between Cambrian and other Recent families using several measures of phenetic proximity, and they inhabit environments more comparable with their Cambrian cousins. This work confirms the extensive morphological diversification of major clades by the Cambrian but lends no support to models of a post-Cambrian "decimation" of disparity.
4096804| Although there is extraordinary interest in the quantitative measurement of species diversity, published statements on the behavior of the components of species diversity are contradictory and lead to opposite conclusions. In this paper, we demonstrate that the confusion is due to two key oversights: (1) whether or not biological sampling is carried out within or between communities; and (2) determination of the statistical distribution underlying a biological community, which is crucial for the evaluation of all of the components of diversity measurement. The problem of sampling "within" a population or community is basically distinct from the equivalent integration of structure and diversity measurement "between" differing multispecies populations. "Within-community sampling" is defined as a set of biological samples from a statistical population that has a particular statistical distribution or a constant value for the associated parameter(s). As the number of individuals increases along with the number of species, for a log series distribution, the diversity measures of Shannon's H, log series or Fisher's , and Simpson's Index 1/ remain constant while the evenness measures of Buzas-Gibson's E and Pielou's/decrease. For a log-normal distribution, J will remain constant while E decreases and , 1/, and H increase. No single measure of evenness remains constant over all statistical distributions, so if constancy as a type of independence is required, the appropriate distribution must first be determined. Each species ensemble is mathematically fixed by the applicable statistical distribution. In contrast, "between-community sampling" is defined as a set of biological samples from different statistical distributions and/or the same distribution with differing parametric values. If sampling is between communities and S increases while the number of individuals remains constant, then all the other measures considered here increase. The exception is the broken stick, for which E remains constant while H, J, , and 1/ increase. Herein we propose and justify the use of the log-series distribution (with regression on the information decomposition equation) as a null model for determination of community structure and demonstrate that the community structure of a Miocene bed at Calvert Cliffs, Maryland, is a log series by use of this new unified methodology. 
2400326|Facets of the Silurian receptaculitid Ischadites barrandei are arranged in circlets about a nucleus. They form a set of spirals, originally eight in number, but increasing by the intercalation of new facets (initiating new spirals) in later circlets. We have simulated the surficial geometry of this alga by assuming, as much evidence indicates, that facets are limited in final size and that new spirals must therefore be intercalated in order to cover the surface with a fully tesselated pattern. We use only five parameters in our simulation: nature of the surface (radius of a sphere), tightness of the spirals (assumed to be logarithmic) and rate of increase in facet width (three parameters of an equation fitted to actual data). The program draws facets in circlets and intercalates new ones whenever the sum of facet diameters is at least a facet less than the circumference of the circlet. By holding all but one parameter constant, we can test the influence of single factors upon the pattern of intercalation. We compare these figures with actual patterns of intercalation for eight specimens. Variation in tightness of the spiral seems to affect the pattern most radically-tight spirals intercalate fewer facets because new circlets stay near the pole of the sphere. The morphology of intercalation supports the interpretation of Rietschel (1969, contra Nitecki, 1972 and Byrnes, 1968) that the nuclear circlets are the oldest part of the plant and that new circlets are generated at the opposite pole. Our simulation represents a basic pattern in nature, not a specific feature of receptaculitids. All structures that fill space with spirals and impose limits upon the size of individual units must add new spirals. Bryozoans subject to similar constraints but growing in a completely different way (peripheral growth in radial rows) display the same final pattern.
2400781|Evolutionary morphologists and paleontologists have long questioned whether there are general historical patterns to the distribution of morphological types. Few studies have rigorously addressed that question. This study tests the decoupling hypothesis, which predicts an increase in the number of morphological constraints with a reduction in the number of independent elements. Eight cases of historical transformation of the epicoracoid cartilages of frogs were selected for analysis. Similar morphological shape changes occurred across the independently derived historical transformations as determined by a triangle analysis of shape. These results support the decoupling hypothesis and indicate that there may be generalized historical pathways of structural change. This finding is important for the development of a predictive theory in evolutionary morphology.
2400563|Adaptation has been defined and recognized by two different criteria: historical genesis (features built by natural selection for their present role) and current utility (features now enhancing fitness no matter how they arose). Biologists have often failed to recognize the potential confusion between these different definitions because we have tended to view natural selection as so dominant among evolutionary mechanisms that historical process and current product become one. Yet if many features of organisms are non-adapted, but available for useful cooptation in descendants, then an important concept has no name in our lexicon (and unnamed ideas generally remain unconsidered): features that now enhance fitness but were not built by natural selection for their current role. We propose that such features be called exaptations and that adaptation be restricted, as Darwin suggested, to features built by selection for their current role. We present several examples of exaptation, indicating where a failure to conceptualize such an idea limited the range of hypotheses previously available. We explore several consequences of exaptation and propose a terminological solution to the problem of preadaptation.
25609419|The middle Carboniferous was an interval of global change when the climate was transitioning from greenhouse to icehouse conditions. Field collections of paleotropical brachiopod assemblages across the Mississippian/Pennsylvanian boundary reveal a taxonomic turnover event in which the overall diversity structure is conserved, despite an apparent regional extinction of 63% of latest Mississippian genera and an apparent regional origination of 50% of earliest Pennsylvanian. An analysis of the global ranges of the brachiopods encountered in the field reveals that turnover was driven primarily by extirpation and immigration rather than true extinctions and originations. Taxonomic richness and evenness are indistinguishable between the latest Mississippian and earliest Pennsylvanian stages. Additive diversity partitioning shows that the within-collection, between-collections (i.e., within-bed), and between-bed diversity components do not change across the Mississippian/Pennsylvanian boundary for richness or evenness. Rank-abundance plots of genera show the same distribution for both stages, but with no correlation between the Mississippian abundances of range-through genera and their abundance in the Pennsylvanian. Detrended correspondence analysis shows a major change in taxonomic composition across that Mississippian/Pennsylvanian boundary and consistency in the general gradient along which genera were distributed. An estimation of spatio-temporal heterogeneity of taxonomic composition within each stage reveals that the earliest Pennsylvanian was significantly more homogeneous. These results suggest that middle Carboniferous brachiopod assemblages from tropical shallow-water carbonate platform settings were organized by some factor that was independent of the specific taxa present. Furthermore, the increased homogeneity in taxonomic composition in the Morrowan did not affect the overall diversity structure. Strong competitive interactions among taxa do not appear to be important in determining the taxonomic compositions and abundances of brachiopod stage-level assemblages.
4096947|The Mesozoic-Cenozoic transition is generally seen as a pivotal time in the evolution of benthic marine assemblages but the details of the timing and drivers of these changes are poorly known. The Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains of the United States contain assemblages preserved as original aragonitic and calcitic material in unconsolidated sediments. This makes coastal plain assemblages ideally suited to paleoecological analyses. Data derived from bulk samples of the Coffee Formation (lower/middle Campanian: Mississippi) as well as published faunal lists from comparable samples of the Severn (Maastrichtian: Maryland), Providence (Maastrichtian: Georgia and Alabama), Stone City (Eocene: Texas), and Gosport (Eocene: Alabama) Formations are used to assess changes in taxonomic diversity and ecomorphological group (life habit and trophic group) composition through this time interval. These analyses find a significant decrease in rarefied-sample species richness from the Campanian through the Eocene, but no change in evenness. With the notable exception of the Stone City Formation, increases in carnivore (neogastropod) richness and abundance occur before the Campanian. Epifaunal suspension-feeding species are a smaller proportion of the sample richness in Eocene samples than in Cretaceous samples. Decreased relative epifaunal suspension-feeder biomass but unchanged relative numbers of epifaunal suspension-feeder individuals suggests a relative decrease in epifaunal suspension-feeder size. Infaunal suspension feeders increase in richness and abundance through the interval. The proportion of drilled bivalves and gastropods does not change through the interval. Changes found in the structure of local shallow-shelf benthic assemblages from the Campanian through the Eocene are generally small relative to the variability between samples. Formation-level variation between assemblages is high relative to the magnitude of the temporal signal, emphasizing the need for investigators to include multiple formations per interval in tests of temporal trends.
20445626|Since David Raup's seminal 1976 work, paleontologists have been aware of the relationship between outcrop area and diversity. By incorporating lithologic data derived from Alexander Ronov and coworkers into our own data on areas of mapped outcrops from worldwide geologic maps, we are able to establish a quantitative connection between area of sedimentary rock exposure and diversity from the same general depositional environments. Significant power-law relations are observed at both global and continental scales of consideration. The addition of data on areas of habitable area estimated from paleogeographic maps does not substantially affect these correlations between outcrop area and diversity, indicating that the relation between outcrop area and diversity is primarily a function of sampling and not a common cause such as sea level. We observe a significant diversity-area effect, first noted by Jack Sepkoski in the marine realm. Unlike Sepkoski's, however, our diversity-area effect appears to play a substantial role in influencing diversity through time; a true global diversity signal appears to be contained in the rock record despite the impacts of variable sampling. Greater outcrop area can serve to increase estimated diversity by increasing both the sample size and the range of habitats and biogeographic provinces sampled. After standardizing for pure sampling intensity by rarefying the number of taxon occurrences, outcrop area continues to explain a substantial portion of global marine diversity. This indicates that coverage, or sampling from multiple habitats and biogeographic provinces, is even more important than sampling intensity. If we remove the effect of outcrop area from our estimate of global biodiversity, we do not observe a net increase in diversity toward the present, lending support to other studies that have not supported a substantial, long-term global increase in biodiversity during the Phanerozoic.
4096897|Ammonoid taxonomic history is a well-documented series of diversity "booms and busts", but the effect of this taxonomic pattern on morphological evolution has not received as much attention. We know particularly little about the effects of the Permo-Triassic mass extinction on the subsequent morphological evolution of the ammonoids. Morphological data from 322 Triassic ammonoid genera (322 species) were combined with previously published data for Late Paleozoic ammonoids. This data set of 601 specimens was subjected to PCA to assess (1) the effects of the Permo-Triassic taxonomic bottleneck on ammonoid morphological evolution, by comparing the strength and sign of correlations in the Paleozoic and in the Triassic, and (2) whether the Triassic ammonoids immediately shifted to Jurassic morphologies, retained Paleozoic morphologies, or evolved in a more "mosaic" fashion. The Triassic ammonoids recapitulate the late Paleozoic W-D distribution, but in S-D space their distribution closely foreshadows that of the Lower Jurassic ammonites. Given these findings it is clear that at even the level of shell geometry the Triassic ammonoids evolved in a mosaic fashion. The Triassic ammonoids reoccupy, and extend, the volume of morphospace occupied by the Paleozoic ammonoids. Overall, Triassic correlations between pairs of characters are weaker, but not significantly so. All seven of the generalized morphotypes were reinvented in less than 10 Myr. However, the relative frequencies of the morphotypes change, with a decline in benthic forms. Among Triassic ammonoids interpreted as benthic, much coarser ornamentation becomes prevalent. The Permo-Triassic mass extinction may have left Ceratidida as the sole ammonoid lineage, but it did little to remove the constraints that were responsible for the limited range of basic ammonoid coiling geometry throughout their history.
2400658|Discriminant function analysis is used to examine the role of within-species differentiation in macroevolution of four Miocene bivalve genera. According to the punctuational model, macroevolution is decoupled from microevolution; within-species trends may be unrelated to between-species differences. The reductionist alternative suggests that intraspecific (primarily geographic) differentiation is the basis of macroevolution. If macroevolution depends on within-species differentiation, discriminant function analysis should separate interspecific and intraspecific populations of a genus using the same set of characters. Chesapecten macroevolution apparently involved within-species differentiation. Shell length, height, and posterior auricle length differentiate geographic populations within species as well as interspecific populations. Results for Astarte, Anadara, and Eucrassatella are more consistent with the punctuational model. Characters which readily separate species of a genus are much less successful at differentiating intraspecific populations. Rank correlation techniques indicate that, for all three genera, the order of importance of characters in interspecific discrimination is not significantly related to their order in intraspecific discrimination. Decoupling of macroevolution from microevolution is implied for these taxa.
2400595|It has been shown in laboratory experiments that viruses can transfer DNA from the host cell to other cells and even to those of another species. In nature such transfers could facilitate convergent evolution. Studied cases of convergent evolution indicate that a gene might be successfully transferred to another species to produce a similar phenotypic effect as frequently as once per 1-10 ma and the effects of gene transfer on evolution in general are likely to be considerable. There are many constraints on the cases of convergent evolution that might be considered as possible examples of gene transfer. First, both co-occurrence in space and time of the taxa in question and presence of complete reproductive isolation must be assessed. Further, both the limited space available in a virus particle and the necessity that the transferred DNA functions well in both mitosis and meiosis in heterozygotic individuals indicate that only rather short pieces of DNA would be expected to be transferred. This limits the possible effects of any gene transfer. Examples of convergent evolution in five Siluro-Devonian conodont lineages are briefly presented and assessed in terms of possible mechanisms of convergence.
4096930|The principal conch parameters-whorl expansion rate, whorl overlap rate, umbilical width, and whorl thickness-of Early and Middle Devonian ammonoids have been extensively investigated. Stratophenetic analyses show long-term trends in the transformations of these characters over long periods of time, but sudden and rapid reversals can also be observed. On the basis of these four quantifiable conch parameters and supplementary qualitative characters, ten ammonoid morphs were distinguished. Reconstruction of the evolutionary history of these morphs reflects the existence of two major phylogenetic lineages, both already visible in Early Devonian faunas. The agoniatitid lineage is characterized by slow character development and leads to the Frasnian gephuroceratids; the anarcestid lineage displays rapid morphological evolution that leads to the late Givetian pharciceratids as well as the Middle and Late Devonian tornoceratids. Morphological evolution is interpreted as partly limited by geometrical and physical constraints.
41432163|Fossil specimens can be recovered easily only from exposed localities, so rock exposure area should represent a better proxy for rock availability than the frequently used outcrop (i.e., map) area. Data collected via remote sensing and GIS show that map area does not consistently correlate with exposure area in different regions. Proportional rock exposure is not geographically consistent and is influenced by a number of variables that are independent of outcrop area, including proximity to the coast, elevation, bedrock age, land use and lithology. These variables appear to be non-independent in their influence on rock exposure, and are not consistent in their effects across continents. The inconsistency in the correlation between outcrop and exposure area, and the variability in the influence of different factors on rock exposure, suggests that using outcrop area as a sampling proxy is poorly supported. The weaknesses in using outcrop area as a sampling proxy, highlighted by the lack of correlation with exposure area, suggest that a single accurate global sampling proxy may never be attained and it is premature to assume that paleodiversity curves can be corrected using such proxies. It is therefore preferable to work on a regional scale, comparing regional fossil collection data with a number of proxies representing all aspects of sampling. The lack of correlation between outcrop and exposure area suggests that the covariance detected between outcrop area and paleodiversity might be better explained by a common-cause model, and that geological megabiases may not have had as profound an effect on paleodiversity curves as previously thought.
25482673|Neutral theory in ecology is based on the symmetry assumption that ecologically similar species in a community can be treated as demographically equivalent on a per capita basis-equivalent in birth and death rates, in rates of dispersal, and even in the probability of speciating. Although only a first approximation, the symmetry assumption allows the development of a quantitative neutral theory of relative species abundance and dynamic null hypotheses for the assembly of communities in ecological time and for phylogeny and phylogeography in evolutionary time. Although Steve Gould was not a neutralist, he made use of ideas of symmetry and of null models in his science, both of which are fundamental to neutral theory in ecology. Here I give a brief overview of the current status of neural theory in ecology and phylogeny and, where relevant, connect these newer ideas to Gould's work. In particular, I focus on modes of speciation under neutrality, particularly peripheral isolate speciation, and their implications for relative species abundance and species life spans. Gould was one of the pioneers in the study of neutral models of phylogeny, but the modern theory suggests that at least some of the conclusions from these early neutral models were premature. Modern neutral theory is a remarkably rich source of new ideas to test in ecology and paleobiology, the potential of which has only begun to be realized.
40926786|Recent progresses in our knowledge of mouse odontogenesis have enhanced rodent tooth morphology as a model for Evo-Devo studies. Deciphering the connection between macroevolution and microevolution, however, especially in the case of mammalian teeth, requires examples to illustrate how morphological differences among species, or higher taxa, can stem from populationlevel processes. In this paper we use paleontological material to study intraspecific variation of tooth morphology in the late Miocene species Progonomys clauzoni, over a short span of geological time in a restricted area. Progonomys is of particular interest as a stem genus of all murine rodents (Old World rats and mice). We use morphometrical and statistical methods to illustrate how change in the amplitude in variation at the population level through geological time is associated with the emergence of new characters. Some of these new characters, including functional ones, become fixed in parallel in distinct murine lineages. Nine million years ago, Progonomys clauzoni displayed variational properties of the developmental system shared by the Murinae, which can also explain some singular tooth characteristics that now are scattered among the diverse lineages. Further morphometric studies, however, are necessary to explain how the variety of cusp patterns observed in Progonomys clauzoni can be explained by developmental properties.
2666030|We infer the absolute completeness of the mammalian fossil record of the Iberian Neogene, from a compiled database of preserved stratigraphic ranges for both species and genera and by means of the analytical tools developed by Foote and Raup (1996). We conclude that the mammalian fossil record from the Neogene of the Iberian Peninsula is very complete (more than 75% at the specific level, and more than 90% at the generic one), being a good indicator of how complete the record of terrestrial organisms can be at least under certain favorable conditions. Comparison with previously published results for well-known marine invertebrates indicates that the continental Iberian Neogene record is not significantly less complete, thus raising doubts about the importance of more episodic deposition in continental environments. It remains to be seen if continental faunas in general are as complete as the marine invertebrate record.
2400248|Previous descriptions and interpretations of the Cycadeoidea pollen organ are followed by a new interpretation based upon its presumed neotenous condition. The sexually mature pollen organ represents a juvenile morphological condition that persisted into the adult stage of the organism and was inherited ultimately from a seed fern ancestor. The neotenous organ is considered to have come into existence abruptly and the altered morphology to have been achieved without an intervening series of intermediates. Abrupt establishment of higher taxa by heterochrony constitutes a mechanism capable of decoupling microevolutionary processes from macroevolutionary differences and poses a distinct challenge to current evolutionary theory.
2400580|The warm-water planktonic foraminiferal Globorotalia tumida lineage has been studied in a 10-Myr-long stratigraphic sequence (Late Miocene through Recent) from the Indian Ocean to determine long-term evolutionary patterns through the lineage's history, and particularly to study in great detail the evolutionary transition from G. plesiotumida to G. tumida across the Miocene/Pliocene boundary. Sampling resolution was very good, between 5 xs 10
20445613|Questions related to dinosaur behavior can be difficult to answer conclusively by using morphological studies alone. As a complement to these approaches, carbon and oxygen isotope ratios of tooth enamel can provide insight into habitat and dietary preferences of herbivorous dinosaurs. This approach is based on the isotopic variability in plant material and in surface waters of the past, which is in turn reflected by carbon and oxygen isotope ratios of animals that ingested the organic matter or drank the water. Thus, it has the potential to identify and characterize dietary and habitat preferences for coexisting taxa. In this study, stable isotope ratios from coexisting hadrosaurian and ceratopsian dinosaurs of the Hell Creek Formation of North Dakota are compared for four different stratigraphic levels. Isotopic offsets between tooth enamel and tooth dentine, as well as taxonomic differences in means and in patterns of isotopic data among taxa, indicate that primary paleoecological information is preserved. The existence of taxonomic offsets also provides the first direct evidence for dietary niche partitioning among these herbivorous dinosaur taxa. Of particular interest is the observation that the nature of this partitioning changes over time: for some localities ceratopsian dinosaurs have higher carbon and oxygen isotope ratios than hadrosaurs, indicating a preference for plants living in open settings near the coast, whereas for other localities isotope ratios are lower, indicating a preference for plants in the understory of forests. In most cases the isotope ratios among hadrosaurs are similar and are interpreted to represent a dietary preference for plants of the forest canopy. The inferred differences in ceratopsian behavior are suggested to represent a change in vegetation cover and hence habitat availability in response to sea level change or to the position of river distributaries. Given our current lack of taxonomic resolution, it is not possible to determine if dietary and habitat preferences inferred from stable isotope data are associated with single, or multiple, species of hadrosaurian/ceratopsian dinosaurs.
4500169|Digitate shell morphologies have evolved repeatedly in planktonic foraminifera throughout the Cretaceous and Cenozoic. Digitate species are usually rare in fossil and modern assemblages but show increased abundance and diversity at times during the Cretaceous and middle Eocene. In this paper we discuss the morphology and stratigraphic distribution of digitate planktonic foraminifera and establish the isotopic depth ecology of fossil ones to draw parallels with modern counterparts. 
23014728|The evolutionary history of shell geometry of Early Jurassic ammonoids during the PliensbachianToarcian second-order mass extinction is explored at both adult and ontogenetic levels. The ontogenetic approach builds on the concept of allometric space to get insights into the developmental aspects of morphological evolution. Investigation of the deployment of taxa in adult morphospace and allometric space allows the appraisal of the temporal evolution of morphological and allometric disparities. Curves of taxonomic diversity, adult morphological disparity, allometric disparity, and average adult size are contrasted. Results show that during the PliensbachianToarcian interval, ammonoids underwent two successive and drastic declines in taxonomic diversity. Patterns of morphospace and allometric space occupancy suggest nonselective extinction at both morphological and developmental levels. Another measure of allometric disparity suggests the occurrence of two heterochronic trends, a peramorphocline followed by a paedomorphocline, during the Toarcian. These trends are concomitant with changes in average adult size that compensate for the heterochronic effects and explain the striking stability of morphological disparity despite changes in diversity. The results also emphasize the existence of two contrasted evolutionary dynamics in Pliensbachian and Toarcian ammonoids. Methodologically, the allometric disparity approach appears to be a fruitful tool to analyze the rather understudied clade-wide ontogenetic aspects of morphological evolution. Combining multiple approaches to describe clade morphological dynamics leads to a better characterization and understanding of the diversity-disparities relationships and a better distinction of the potential processes driving these macroevolutionary patterns.
2400617|C. M. Yonge's idea that differences in habitat distribution and species diversity between archaeogastropods and caenogastropods are caused by differences in their respective abilities to obtain oxygen in turbid water is tested experimentally for the first time. Of 11 species of marine prosobranchs studied-six archaeogastropods and five caenogastropods-three archaeogastropods and two caenogastropods show significant reductions of respiration in response to turbidity, as shown using one-way analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). Two-way nested ANCOVA, which goes beyond one-way ANCOVA by incorporating all data into a single analysis, was also unable to detect any significant difference between archaeogastropods and caenogastropods in their respiratory responses to turbidity. Though the number of species studied was limited, the data and statistical tests suggest that there may be no biologically important systematic difference between archaeogastropods and caenogastropods in their respiratory responses to turbid conditions. Results of this study cast doubt on the validity of Yonge's hypothesis and suggest the need for new research into the controls of gastropod distribution and species diversity.
4096961|For well over 50 years, the telome theory of Walter Zimmermann has been extremely influential in interpreting the evolutionary history of land plant architecture. Using the "telome/mesome" distinction, and the concept of universal "elementary processes" underlying the change in form in all plants, the theory was an ambitious synthesis based on the proposition that evolutionary change might be understood by a simple set of developmental or evolutionary rules. However, a major problem resides in deciding exactly how assertions of change are to span both developmental and evolutionary domains simultaneously, and, we argue, the theory critically fails testability as a scientific theory. Thus, despite continued popularity for the descriptive terms derived from the theory in evolutionary studies of early land plants, time has come to replace it with a more explicit, testable approach. Presented here is an attempt to clarify perhaps the most important issue raised by the telome theory-whether simple changes in basic developmental processes suffice to describe much of early land plant evolution. Considering the morphology of Silurian-Devonian fossil members, it is hypothesized that early land plants possessed a common set of developmental processes centered on primary growth of shoot apical meristems. Among these were (1) the capacity to monitor and act upon internal physiological status here modeled as "apex strength," (2) a mechanism for allocation of apex strength in a context-dependent way at each point of branching, (3) a rule for context-dependent apex angle for branches, (4) a largely invariant phyllotaxis unrelated to physiological status, and (5) a simple switch for terminating primary growth, based in part on genetics. Implemented as a set of developmental rules within a simple L-system model, these aspects of primary development in plants determine a sizable range of resultant morphologies, some of which are highly reminiscent of the early fossils. Thus, some support is found, perhaps, for Zimmermann's intuition. However, traditional concepts of growth patterns in plants, including the contrast between epidogenesis and apoxogenesis, require updating. In our reformulation, developmental processes, stated as rules of developmental dynamics, together constitute what we term the plant's developmental state. Using a hypothetico-deductive format, one may hypothesize intrinsic (or genetic) developmental processes that play out as realized developmental activity in specific spatial/temporal contexts, as modified by multiple context factors. The resultant plant morphology is highly dependent on multiple and simultaneous pathway ontogenetic trajectories. Within a likely set of developmental rules reasonably inferred from plant development, some of Zimmermann's elementary processes are perhaps recognizable whereas others are not. Progressively "overtopped" morphologies are easily produced by modifying intrinsic branch allocation. However, even so, the other developmental rules have a profound effect on final architectures. Planate architectures and circination vernation, often treated as special cases by plant morphologists, are perhaps better understood in terms of recurrent or iterative developmental relationships. Much analytic work remains before a completely specified system of rules will emerge. A well-articulated relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny remains fundamentally important in assessing evolutionary change. Fossil and living plants make it abundantly clear that current evolutionary concepts involving modification of a single ontogenetic trajectory from ancestor to descendant need to be greatly expanded into consideration of the entire logical geometry of causation in development. A mechanism for testing is also required that need not wait for complete elucidation at the molecular level. The relative simplicity of plant development, combined with an outstanding fossil record of early members, offers unique opportunities along these lines.
2400871|Patterns of bipolar or antitropical distributions occur in a diverse array of marine invertebrate, vertebrate, and plant groups in the eastern Pacific Ocean. Available geologic and paleontological evidence does not support vicariance as a process in the creation of these distributions but instead favors biotic interchange between hemispheres. Moreover, the timing of these events suggests several breaches (both northward and southward) of the tropics rather than a single event. The fossil record is extremely important in delimiting potential hypotheses and allowing correlation with vicariance events. The congruence of some interchanges with major regional tectonic activity and others with Pleistocene glaciations is not surprising and argues for a plurality of mechanisms. Extinction of endemic taxa following interchange among marine invertebrates is rare, and none of the antitropical distributions reviewed here suggests that the arrival of a taxon in the adjoining hemisphere resulted in the extinction of an endemic taxon. Instead, interchange and endemic taxa coexist. In contrast to the extinction patterns, the patterns of radiations are extremely diverse with some immigrant taxa undergoing remarkable radiations, whereas other taxa are represented by single species. Temperate nearshore rocky communities in both the northern and southern hemispheres appear to be mosaics of species that share common ancestry (because of interchange), are cosmopolitan, and have independent origins within the region. Although some communities appear to be organized around products of interchange (e.g., kelp forests of California and Chile), only the taxa have immigrated; linkages and interactions between species are independent and locally derived.
2401117|Principal components analysis of Upper Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian) ammonoids (all 117 genera), using 21 variables to measure shell geometry, sculpture and suture complexity, shows that following a sharp decline (30%) in generic diversity after the mid-Carboniferous boundary, seven morphotypes persisted throughout the Pennsylvanian (ca. 30 m.y.). Six of these were polyphyletically adopted at different times, while the seventh was monopolized by the prolecanitids, a group whose evolution accelerated during the Pennsylvanian and later gave rise to Mesozoic ammonoids. Innovations in suture geometry distinguished at least 17 of 39 (44%) Pennsylvanian ammonoid families. Average suture complexity increased almost threefold; this was achieved by various methods (lobe serration, insertion of umbilical elements, prong subdivision, lobe trifurcation, and secondary bifurcation), which were recurrent and crossed morphotype boundaries. The Pennsylvanian record supports suggestions that Paleozoic ammonoids were confined to a certain suite of basic shell geometries, showing preference for a limited number of sites in the spectrum of available morphospace. However, these morphic constraints did not, with one possible exception (the prolecanitids), control the emergence of increasing sutural complexity during the Pennsylvanian, which occurred among different lineages in all seven morphotypes.
2400545|Worn enamel surfaces of the cheek teeth in fossil and recent rhinoceroses are characterized by fine, parallel ridges aligned perpendicular to the enamel-dentin interface. We show that these ridges result from an unusual enamel ultrastructure in which a primitively horizontal layering of the prisms has become vertical. The new structure apparently appeared between early and middle Eocene, at the time when the superfamilies of perissodactyls were rapidly diverging. Similar modifications of the enamel structure occurred in certain parts of the cheek teeth in tapiroids, chalicotherioids and brontotherioids, but hardly at all in the equids. The modified enamel structure, where it occurs in groups other than rhinocerotoids, is associated with lophs but not cusps. Experimental evidence shows that the modified enamel is more resistant to wear than the unmodified enamel. The consistent association with thin lophs rather than cusps suggests that the modified enamel evolved to prolong the life of the lophs, where occlusal pressures are highest and attrition greatest. The dominance of modified enamel in rhinocerotoids correlates with the higher degree of compression of the cusps and extreme lophodonty in this group. The absence of modified enamel structure in the equids, even in the ectoloph, correlates with the lesser importance of the ectoloph in equids relative to brontotherioids, chalicotherioids and rhinocerotoids.
4097001|Attempts to use Fourier methods to quantify ammonoid suture shape have failed to yield robust, repeatable results because sutures are complex curves that violate the assumptions of Fourier mathematics. In particular, sampled sutures are artificially truncated such that the first and last sampled points are not equivalent, the folds are non-stationary, and a position along a horizontal reference axis may map to multiple amplitudes along the suture path. Here I introduce an alternative Fourier method-the windowed short-time Fourier transform (STFT)-that accommodates these characteristics of complex curves. For each suture, digitized landmarks were parameterized using a tangent angle function and then smoothed by convolving with an apodization function. Piece-wise Fourier transforms were then calculated and averaged, resulting in a robust, unique quantification of line morphology. STFT coefficients and estimated power spectra describing the relative weights of harmonics were generated for 576 Paleozoic-basal Triassic ammonoid genera, representative of the range of suture morphotypes. While insensitive to major episodes of taxonomic turnover (Frasnian/Famennian, end-Devonian, and Permian/Triassic extinctions), the summed power data support the previously observed trend toward increasing suture complexity through time. Moreover, partitioning the summed power statistic into harmonic ranges allows novel insight into Paleozoic suture evolution. In particular, the data show significant shifts in the dominant morphotypes during periods of rebound and radiation and suggest that basal Triassic ammonoids possessed unique suture morphotypes when compared with those of the Paleozoic.
2666071|Phylogenies provide a rich source of information that should be exploited in designing quantitative hypothesis tests in palcobiological contexts. Viewing such data analysis problems through the prism of phylogenetically structured comparisons can help add realism and depth to paleobiological data-analysis strategies. Two examples of the importance of adopting a phylogenetic perspective are discussed. In the first example, a phylogenetic-comparative approach is used to test correlations between ecological, morphological, and biological characteristics of planktonic foraminifera. Results suggest that the presence of spines and photosynthetic symbionts in Neogene-Recent species are not adaptations to living in shallow-intermediate planktonic depth habitats. In the second, a phylogenetic-comparative approach is used to reveal the presence of morphological correlations with locomotor function in a mammalian carnivore data set. Paleontologists can play an active role in improving comparative data analyses by (1) helping to develop improved phylogenies, especially those that provide better estimates of branch lengths, and (2) helping to resolve a number of outstanding issues surround the question of ancestral character-state specification.
2400782|Body shape and mode of swimming were major factors that affected the swimming capabilities of Mesozoic marine reptiles. By estimating the total drag and the amount of energy available through metabolism, the maximum sustained swimming speed was calculated for 115 marine reptile specimens. Calculated sustained swimming speeds range from 1.8 to 2.7 m/sec, but are probably too high by as much as a factor of two. Mesozoic marine reptiles were probably much slower than modern toothed whales. The diversification of fast, agile teleost fish in the Cretaceous may have therefore contributed to the decline of the marine reptiles. Long-bodied reptiles appear to have had slower sustained swimming speeds than deep-bodied forms of the same length. For a given length, ichthyosaurs were probably faster sustained swimmers than plesiosaurs, and plesiosaurs were probably faster sustained swimmers than crocodiles and mosasaurs. This suggests that the long-bodied forms probably used an ambush technique to capture prey, to maximize the range of possible prey and to minimize competition with the faster pursuit predators.
3595478|The Siwalik formations of northern Pakistan consist of deposits of ancient rivers that existed throughout the early Miocene through the late Pliocene. The formations are highly fossiliferous with a diverse array of terrestrial and freshwater vertebrates, which in combination with exceptional lateral exposure and good chronostratigraphic control allows a more detailed and temporally resolved study of the sediments and faunas than is typical in terrestrial deposits. Consequently the Siwaliks provide an opportunity to document temporal differences in species richness, turnover, and ecological structure in a terrestrial setting, and to investigate how such differences are related to changes in the fluvial system, vegetation, and climate. Here we focus on the interval between 10.7 and 5.7 Ma, a time of significant local tectonic and global climatic change. It is also the interval with the best temporal calibration of Siwalik faunas and most comprehensive data on species occurrences. A methodological focus of this paper is on controlling sampling biases that confound biological and ecological signals. Such biases include uneven sampling through time, differential preservation of larger animals and more durable skeletal elements, errors in age-dating imposed by uncertainties in correlation and paleomagnetic timescale calibrations, and uneven taxonomic treatment across groups. We attempt to control for them primarily by using a relative-abundance model to estimate limits for the first and last appearances from the occurrence data. This model also incorporates uncertainties in age estimates. Because of sampling limitations inherent in the terrestrial fossil record, our 100-Kyr temporal resolution may approach the finest possible level of resolution for studies of vertebrate faunal changes over periods of millions of years. Approximately 40,000 specimens from surface and screenwash collections made at 555 localities form the basis of our study. Sixty percent of the localities have maximum and minimum age estimates differing by 100 Kyr or less, 82% by 200 Kyr or less. The fossils represent 115 mammalian species or lineages of ten orders: Insectivora, Scandentia, Primates, Tubulidentata, Proboscidea, Pholidota, Lagomorpha, Perissodactyla, Artiodactyla, and Rodentia. Important taxa omitted from this study include Carnivora, Elephantoidea, and Rhinocerotidae. Because different collecting methods were used for large and small species, they are treated separately in analyses. Small species include insectivores, tree shrews, rodents, lagomorphs, and small primates. They generally weigh less than 5 kg. The sediments of the study interval were deposited by coexisting fluvial systems, with the larger emergent Nagri system being displaced between 10.1 and 9.0 Ma by an interfan Dhok Pathan system. In comparison to Nagri floodplains, Dhok Pathan floodplains were less well drained, with smaller rivers having more seasonally variable flow and more frequent avulsions. Paleosol sequences indicate reorganization of topography and drainage accompanying a transition to a more seasonal climate. A few paleosols may have formed under waterlogged, grassy woodlands, but most formed under drier conditions and more closed vegetation. The oxygen isotopic record also indicates significant change in the patterns of precipitation beginning at 9.2 Ma, in what may have been a shift to a drier and more seasonal climate. The carbon isotope record demonstrates that after 8.1 Ma significant amounts of C4 grasses began to appear and that by 6.8 Ma floodplain habitats included extensive C4 grasslands. Plant communities with predominantly C3 plants were greatly diminished after 7.0 Ma, and those with predominantly C4 plants, which would have been open woodlands or grassy woodlands, appeared as early as 7.4 Ma. Inferred first and last appearances show a constant, low level of faunal turnover throughout the interval 10.7-5.7-Ma, with three short periods of elevated turnover at 10.3, 7.8, and 7.3-7.0 Ma. The three pulses account for nearly 44% of all turnover. Throughout the late Miocene, species richness declined steadily, and diversity and richness indices together with data on body size imply that community ecological structure changed abruptly just after 10 Ma, and then again at 7.8 Ma. Between 10 and 7.8 Ma the large-mammal assemblages were strongly dominated by equids, with more balanced faunas before and after. The pattern of appearance and disappearance is selective with respect to inferred habits of the animals. Species appearing after 9.0 Ma are grazers or typical of more open habitats, whereas many species that disappear can be linked to more closed vegetation. We presume exceptions to this pattern were animals of the mixed C3/C4 communities or the wetter parts of the floodplain that did not persist into the latest Miocene. The pace of extinction accelerates once there is C4 vegetation on the floodplain. The 10.3 Ma event primarily comprises disappearance of taxa that were both common and of long duration. The event does not correlate to any obvious local environmental or climatic event, and the pattern of species disappearance and appearance suggests that biotic interactions may have been more important than environmental change. The 7.8 Ma event is characterized solely by appearances, and that at 7.3 Ma by a combination of appearances and disappearances. These two latest Miocene events include more taxa that were shorter ranging and less common, a difference of mode that developed between approximately 9.0 and 8.5 Ma when many short-ranging and rare species began to make appearances. Both events also show a close temporal correlation to changes in floodplain deposition and vegetation. The 7.8 Ma event follows the widespread appearance of C4 vegetation and is coincident with the shift from equid-dominated to more evenly balanced large-mammal assemblages. The 7.3 to 7.0 Ma event starts with the first occurrence of $C_{4}-dominated$ floras and ends with the last occurrence of $C_{3}-dominated$ vegetation. Absence of a consistent relationship between depositional facies and the composition of faunal assemblages leads us to reject fluvial system dynamics as a major cause of faunal change. The close correlation of latest Miocene species turnover and ecological change to expansion of C4 plants on the floodplain, in association with oxygen isotopic and sedimentological evidence for increasingly drier and more seasonal climates, causes us to favor explanations based on climatic change for both latest Miocene pulses. The Siwalik record supports neither "coordinated stasis" nor "turnover pulse" evolutionary models. The brief, irregularly spaced pulses of high turnover are characteristic of both the stasis and pulse models, but the high level of background turnover that eliminates 65-70% of the initial species shows there is no stasis in the Siwalik record. In addition, the steadily declining species richness and abrupt, uncoordinated changes in diversity do not fit either model.
2666092|Variance and taxonomic selectivity were studied as functions of time across the Phanerozoic for duration of genera and families in the fossil record and for habitat of fossil families. The variance of duration increases temporarily before mass extinctions but otherwise decreases across the Phanerozoic, and the variance of habitat increases to an asymptote. For both duration and habitat, the percentage of variance explained by differences among orders and classes shows no temporal trend, whereas the percentage of variance explained by differences among phyla decreases across the Phanerozoic. The latter decrease depends upon the time elapsed since the origination of classes within phyla in the early Paleozoic; a similar decrease appears in differences among classes if the analysis is restricted to orders that originate before the Silurian. The observed patterns can be described by bounded random walks that include some infrequent but large steps.
2401181|Analyses of non-avian dinosaur locomotion have been hampered by the lack of an appropriate locomotor analog among extant taxa. Birds, though members of the clade Dinosauria, have undergone significant modifications in hindlimb osteology and musculature. These changes have resulted in a uniquely developed system of limb kinematics (involving a more horizontal femoral posture and knee-dominated limb motion), which precludes the direct use of extant birds as models for non-avian dinosaur locomotion. Analyses of locomotor data from extant birds and mammals suggest a causal link between general hindlimb kinematics, bone strains, and limb bone morphology among these taxa. A model is proposed that relates the amount of torsional loading in femora to bone orientation, such that torsion is maximal in horizontal femora and minimal in vertical femora. Since bone safety factors are lower for torsional shear strains than for longitudinal axial strains, an increase in torsion can potentially affect bone morphology dramatically over evolutionary time. Interpreting the nearly identical limb bone dimensions and limb element proportions of non-avian dinosaurs and mammals in the light of this relationship supports the prediction of similar vertical femoral postures and hip-driven limb kinematics in these two groups. This information can be used to interpret patterns of locomotor evolution within Dinosauria. The evolution of quadrupedalism with large body size and the acquisition of cursorial or graviportal limb morphologies occurred repeatedly but did not affect the underlying uniformity of dinosaur locomotor morphology. Only derived coelurosaurian theropods (paravians) developed significant modifications of the basic dinosaurian patterns of limb use. Changes in theropod hindlimb kinematics and posture apparently began shortly prior to the origin of flight, but did not acquire a characteristically modern avian aspect until after the later acquisition of derived flight characteristics.
2400683|In cheilostome bryozoans with rigidly arborescent growth habits, resistance to breakage under forces generated by flowing water or collision with moving objects depends on the strength and design of supporting skeletal parts. To investigate the abilities of modern and Tertiary cheilostomes to resist breakage, we measured bending strength in fresh, preserved, and fossil material; measured drag on actual and model colonies; and calculated stress within colonies and breaking values under concentrated and uniform loads. Among nine modern, five Oligocene, and four Paleocene species, inferred live bending strength (24-85 MNm
2400181|Five generalizations derived from the shell form of prosobranch gastropods are developed. (1) A univalve of more than one volution whose aperture lies in a plane that passes through the axis of coiling does not live with the aperture parallel to the substrate. (2) A univalve of more than one volution whose aperture lies in a plane that is tangential to the body whorl does live with the plane of the aperture parallel to the substrate. (3) Gastropods with tangential apertures, when extended, support the shell so that the center of mass of the shell and its contents is over the midline of the cephalopedal mass; this balancing of the shell may be accomplished either by regulatory detorsion, by inclination or by a combination thereof, to keep the center of gravity of the shell as low as possible. (4) Angulations or re-entrants in the gastropod aperture are usually indicative of inhalent or exhalent areas; inhalent areas are directed as far anteriorly as possible. (5) Gastropods having elongated apertures possess only a single gill and develop a water current through the mantle cavity from anterior to posterior along the long axis of the aperture; this axis is subparallel to the anterior-posterior axis of the foot. These generalizations are then used as the basis for some deductive interpretations of behavioral modes of Paleozoic Gastropoda.
2666072|The association between mass extinction in the marine realm and eustatic sea-level change in the Mesozoic is well documented, but perplexing, because it seems implausible that sealevel change could actually cause a major extinction. However, large-scale cycles of sea-level change can and do alter the ratio of shallow to deep marine continental-shelf deposits preserved in the rock record both regionally and globally. This taphonomic megabias alone could be driving patterns of first and last occurrence and standing diversity because diversity and preservation potential both change predictably with water depth. We show that the Cenomanian/Turonian faunal event in western Europe has all the predicted signatures expected if taphonomic megabias was the cause. Grade taxa terminating in pseudoextinction and Lazarus taxa are predominantly found in the onshore facies that disappear for extended periods from the rock record. Before other mass extinctions are taken at face value, a much more careful analysis of biases in the rock record needs to be carried out, and faunal disappearances need to be analyzed within a phylogenetic framework.
2400897|Lunules have evolved independently in several groups of clypeasteroids, including the Rotulidae, Astriclypeidae, Mellitidae and Scutasteridae. In this paper, only the monophyletic assemblage Monophorasteridae plus Mellitidae is considered. Lunules result from modifications of the growth patterns of test plates which bring about changes in relative growth in specific directions. It is unnecessary to postulate resorption of the test. Ambulacral lunules, which are known to have hydrodynamic functions, originated as part of a series of changes: 1) bifurcation of food grooves, 2) formation of pressure drainage channels, 3) lobulation of the ambitus (as in Monophoraster), 4) complete lunule formation. The anal lunule shares the hydrodynamic function but arose separately, as a developmental aberration. The position of the periproct is highly variable but it is most commonly located at the junction of suture lines, at plate corners. In Scutella it is located between the first and second post-basicoronal plates. In Monophoraster the periproct is located further forward, between the first post-basicoronal plates, and the small anal lunule occupies the junction point between first and second post-basicoronals. It is hypothesized that the anal lunule originated as an all-or-nothing event following the forward migration of the periproct and failure to resume normal plate growth at the sutural junction point between first and second post-basicoronal plates. Its walls were derived from paired interambulacral supports. The hypothesis is discussed in connection with the ontogenetic formation of the anal lunule in living mellitid sand dollars.
1571660|Pelagic (open-ocean) species have enormous population sizes and broad, even global, distributions. These characteristics should damp rates of speciation in allopatric and vicariant evolutionary models since dispersal should swamp diverging populations and prevent divergence. Yet the fossil record suggests that rates of evolutionary turnover in pelagic organisms are often quite rapid, comparable to rates observed in much more highly fragmented terrestrial and shallow-marine environments. Furthermore, genetic and ecological studies increasingly suggest that species diversity is considerably higher in the pelagic realm than inferred from many morphological taxonomies. Zoogeographic evidence suggests that ranges of many pelagic groups are much more limited by their ability to maintain viable populations than by any inability to disperse past tectonic and hydrographic barriers to population exchange. Freely dispersing pelagic taxa resemble airborne spores or wind-dispersed seeds that can drift almost anywhere but complete the entire life cycle only in favorable habitats. It seems likely that vicariant and allopatric models for speciation are far less important in pelagic evolution than sympatric or parapatric speciation in which dispersal is not limiting. Nevertheless, speciation can be quite rapid and involve cladogenesis even in cases where morphological data suggest gradual species transitions. Indeed, recent paleoecological and molecular studies increasingly suggest that classic examples of "phyletic gradualism" involve multiple, cryptic speciation events. Paleoceanographic and climatic change seem to influence rates of turnover by modifying surface water masses and environmental gradients between them to create new habitats rather than by preventing dispersal. Changes in the vertical structure and seasonality of water masses may be particularly important since these can lead to changes in the depth and timing of reproduction. Long-distance dispersal may actually promote evolution by regularly carrying variants of a species across major oceanic fronts and exposing them to very different selection pressures than occur in their home range. High dispersal in pelagic taxa also implies that extinction should be difficult to achieve except though global perturbations that prevent populations from reestablishing themselves following local extinction. High rates of extinction in some pelagic groups suggests either that global perturbations are common, or that the species are much more narrowly adapted than we would infer from current taxonomies.
2400845|The living members of 113 families of bivalves and gastropods of the Californian Province include 698 species living at shelf depths, of which 538 or 77% are known as Pleistocene fossils from the same region; another 113 fossil species are extralimital, and 98 are extinct. Living species not found as fossils are chiefly rare today, and/or minute, fragile, and/or from deeper shelf habitats. Sampling of the Pleistocene record has been biased towards shallow-water assemblages. Fragile and minute forms are probably underrepresented in the record. Rare forms, however, are still appearing as new studies are conducted, and many rare species are yet to be discovered. At least 85% of durably skeletonized living species may have been captured in the record. It is probable that most durably skeletonized invertebrate species were represented in lithostratigraphic units throughout the Phanerozoic, but that this record is lost owing to erosion, burial, and destruction of skeletons in situ. The bulk of the marine invertebrate fossil record does not represent a series of unusual skeletal accumulations, but rather the preserved remnants of an excellent original record formed through ordinary though episodic processes.
2400980|The class Echinoidea apparently originated during the Ordovician Period and diversified slowly through the Paleozoic Era. The clade then mushroomed in diversity beginning in Late Triassic time and continued expanding into the present. Although this evolutionary history is generally accepted, the taphonomic overprint affecting it has not been explored. To gain a more accurate perception of the evolutionary history of the group, I have compared the diversity history of the family Cidaridae (Echinodermata: Echinoidea) with the preservational style of fossil type species using literature-derived data. The Cidaridae apparently originated in Middle Triassic time and diversified slowly through the Neocomian (Early Cretaceous). Diversity was maintained through the remainder of the Cretaceous and Tertiary Periods, reflecting the diversity history of the subclass. Characterization of the preservational style of type fossil material for the family revealed the following breakdown of preservational states: 60% of species were described on the basis of disarticulated skeletal material, primarily spines; 20% based on intact coronas denuded of spines, apical system, Aristotle's lantern and peristomial plates; 10% based on large coronal fragments; and 10% based on other skeletal elements. This distribution may represent the effect of a disarticulation threshold on the condition of echinoid carcasses before final burial and suggests that preservation of intact specimens may be very unlikely. For cidaroids, previous work has suggested that this threshold is likely to be reached after 7 days of decay. Comparison of the diversity history of the Cidaridae with the preservation data reveals that characteristic patterns of taphonomic overprint have affected the group since its origination in Middle Triassic time, and the nature of that overprint has changed over time: the early diversity history of the group is characterized by occurrences of fragmented fossil material, with spines predominant; further radiation of the group in mid-Jurassic time coincided with an increase in modes of preservation, ranging between exceptionally well-preserved material and disarticulated skeletal elements. Finally, type material is more rarely described from younger stratigraphic intervals (Miocene-Pleistocene) and consists predominantly of disarticulated skeletal elements and coronal fragments larger than an interambulacrum in size. Intact, denuded coronas are noticeably lacking. The number of type species of Cidaridae described in each stratigraphic interval has not been consistent during post-Paleozoic time. Middle Triassic, Malm (Upper Jurassic), Senonian (Upper Cretaceous) and Eocene series yielded significantly ( = .05) higher numbers of type specimens per million years, while the Lias (Lower Jurassic), Dogger (Mid-Jurassic), Lower Cretaceous and Paleocene yielded significantly ( = .05) lower numbers of type specimens per million years. This may be the result of a combination of taxonomic, sampling, and geographical biases.
2400377|Psychological evidence suggests that the visual outline of an object is the most important character for discriminating differences in external morphology. External morphology is an important taxonomic character in describing living and fossil species, for example, the blastoid Pentremites. Comparison of different views of the same specimen utilizing Fourier series suggests that the skeleton of Pentremites commonly is not rotationally symmetrical and that the asymmetry is not associated with any specific ray. Analysis of a growth series indicates that the amplitudes of the second and third harmonics are significantly correlated with growth, which is demonstrated to be anisometric. Definable changes in the lateral outline can be attributed to changes in harmonic amplitudes and a wide range of morphological forms comparable to known taxa can be generated by systematically varying the amplitudes of the first four harmonics. The population used in this study probably represents Pentremites robustus Lyon and is from Bangor Limestone in the abandoned Moulton Quarry, Lawrence County, Alabama.
2400446|Brinkmann (1929) argued that phyletic evolution in the Jurassic ammonite Kosmoceras is sufficiently linear that the amount of time missing at diastems can be estimated by the magnitude of morphologic jumps at those horizons. Brinkmann's unpublished raw data have been re-analyzed in order to evaluate the association between evolutionary jumps and physical breaks. All horizons in Brinkmann's 1400 centimeter stratigraphic section have been tested for morphological jumps. Up to 40 statistically significant morphological jumps exist in the section, the actual number depending on the sample interval used. A few of these correspond to the jumps found by Brinkmann and a few coincide with diastems. However, the correspondence between morphological jumps and physical breaks is not as consistent as was thought by Brinkmann. Furthermore, it is argued that the association between physical and biological discontinuities is not dependent on linear evolution but rather is the expected condition wherever phyletic evolution occurs. Due to the irregularity and unpredictability of evolutionary change in Kosmoceras, morphologic jumps cannot be used to assess the amount of time missing at diastems.
2400412|The fossil stickleback, Gasterosteus doryssus, is highly variable for pelvic girdle structure and the number of dorsal spines. Six "sampling pits" were dug at known stratigraphic positions within a continuous section which contains abundant G. doryssus, and the stratigraphic position of each specimen within each pit was determined. The deposit apparently is composed of annual layers (varves), allowing relatively precise conversion of stratigraphic distance to years. The temporal distribution of phenotypes is heterogeneous but can be grouped into two temporally contiguous, nonheterogeneous sets. However, absence of heterogeneity for pelvic phenotypes within the two groups of pits could be an artifact of small sample size. The number of sample pits was insufficient to determine whether the observed phenotypic heterogeneity among pits represents temporal trends. Differences also occurred between mean temporal distributions of stickleback phenotypes within one of the pits located within a nonheterogeneous set of pits. Thus, there is within-pit temporal heterogeneity that is unresolved by between-pit comparisons, although the sampling pits are separated by an average of only about thirty thousand years. Larger time intervals usually used in paleontology may seriously underestimate evolutionary rates because fine scale reversals of evolutionary trajectory are undetected. Temporal variation in G. doryssus provides a system in which most limitations of other fossil systems for measuring the rate of evolution can be circumvented. As in virtually all paleontological studies, spatial variation cannot be entirely eliminated as a potential cause of stratigraphic variation.
4096847|Anomodont therapsids were the most diverse and abundant group of terrestrial vertebrate herbivores during the Late Permian and much of the Triassic. Their success has been widely attributed to a complex mastication system that was based on a propalinal sliding of the lower jaw. Traditionally, anomodont phylogeny has been viewed as an essentially linear sequence of taxa, each with more specializations for propaliny, culminating in the radiation of the dicynodont anomodonts. However, recent phylogenetic work has shown that similar specializations for propaliny can be found in members of two distinct anomodont clades, the endemic Russian Venyukovioidea and the unnamed clade consisting of Galeops + Dicynodontia. These specializations have been inferred to be present in the common ancestor of the venyukovioids and dicynodonts, implying a single origin of propaliny in anomodonts. Here a reevaluation of the anomodont feeding system is presented, and the possibility that propaliny evolved twice within the group is specifically addressed. First, I examine current hypotheses regarding anomodont phylogeny, using a modified version of data sets presented by previous authors. Then I consider the evolution of four characters related to propaliny in the context of the resulting phylogeny. The results of this investigation suggest that a dual origin of propaliny within anomodonts is not unlikely, but it depends largely on the interpretation of equivocal or poorly preserved features in some critical taxa, especially Otsheria. Given that the power stroke of mastication in basal synapsids involved the application of a posterodorsally directed force on the lower jaw, the evolution of propaliny in basal synapsids may not have been difficult. Furthermore, the independent evolution of propaliny in several other nonmammalian synapsid clades (e.g., Edaphosauria, Gorgonopsia) suggests that homoplasy may be the rule rather than the exception for this feature. Finally, the possibility of a dual origin of propaliny in anomodonts has important implications for the more general problem of the evolution of herbivory in terrestrial vertebrates. In particular, it suggests that propaliny alone was not enough to guarantee success as a herbivore during the late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic.
2400769|Quantitative data on lycopsid and aquatic fern megaspore taxa recovered from Carboniferous, Mesozoic, and Tertiary strata have been compiled in order to analyze the changes in diversity of the two groups of fossil plants that produced them. Numbers of species of lycopsid megaspores are similar in the Carboniferous and Mesozoic, whereas the diversity of megafossils is much lower in post-Paleozoic deposits. Our data suggest that lycopsids were more diverse in the Mesozoic than previously thought and that there is a preservational bias against the megafossils, because the plants were probably mainly herbaceous. Heterosporous aquatic ferns first appeared in the Neocomian and gradually diversified until the early Late Cretaceous, after which their numbers remained relatively stable, whereas the variety of lycopsids declined dramatically during the Late Cretaceous. These changes occurred at a time of rapid angiosperm diversification. The reduced diversity of the lycopsids may have been caused by the invasion of their aquatic and damp forest-floor habitats by heterosporous ferns and by aquatic and herbaceous angiosperms. These diversity changes do not seem to be directly related to the global events at the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary, but the relatively few samples available and the resulting range truncation would make detection of such correlations difficult.
2400957|Using Sepkoski's compendium of fossil marine families (1982a, and updates), we have analyzed the changing pace of familial origination and extinction within 55 extinct and 44 extant higher taxa of marine organisms. Eight different metrics were calculated, and least-squares regression analysis was used to identify within-taxon trends in the data. All metrics and analyses gave essentially the same results. Origination metrics decline significantly with time during the histories of higher taxa, while extinction metrics increase significantly. The number of statistically significant declines of origination metric, however, substantially and invariably exceeds the number of statistically significant increases of extinction metric for each pair of corresponding metrics analyzed. It follows, therefore, that temporal trends in the pace of origination and extinction within higher taxa are highly asymmetrical. Further analysis shows that truncating data from temporal endpoints has little effect upon the intensity of origination trends, implying that declining pace of origination is a sustained property of the long term histories of taxa. Such truncation, however, reduces the intensity of extinction trends to statistical insignificance and confirms Van Valen's (1985a) suggestion that extinction behaves largely as a stationary process. If the histories of higher taxa are characterized by substantial declines in the pace of origination while the pace of extinction remains largely stationary, it follows that declining pace of origination is an important controlling factor in long term taxic evolution.
4500137|The late Neogene was a time of major environmental change in Tropical America. Global cooling and associated oceanographic reorganization and the onset and intensification of glaciation in the Northern Hemisphere during the past ten million years coincided with the uplift of the Central American isthmus and resulting changes in regional oceanographic conditions. Previous analyses of patterns of taxonomic turnover and the shifting abundances of major ecological guilds indicated that the regional shallow-water marine biota responded to these environmental changes through extinction and via a restructuring of local benthic food webs, but it is not clear whether this ecological response had an effect on the diversity of molluscan assemblages in the region. Changes in regional and local diversity are often used as proxies for similar ecological response to environmental change in large-scale paleontological studies, but a clear relationship between diversity and ecological function has rarely been demonstrated in marine systems dominated by mollusks. To explore this relationship, we have compiled a data set of the stratigraphic and environmental distribution of genera of mollusks in large new collections of fossil specimens from the late Neogene and Recent of the southwestern Caribbean. Analysis of a selection of ecological diversity measures indicates that within shelf depths, assemblages from deeper water (51-200 m) were more diverse than shallow-water (<50 m) assemblages in the Pliocene. Lower diversity for shallow-water assemblages is caused by increased dominance of a few superabundant taxa in each assemblage. This implies that studies of diversity of shelf benthos need to control for relatively fine scaled environmental conditions if they are to avoid interpreting artifacts of uneven sampling as true change of diversity. For shallow-water assemblages only, there was significant increase in local and regional diversity of bivalve assemblages after the late Pliocene. No parallel increase in gastropods could be detected, but this likely is because sample size was inadequate for documenting the diversity of gastropod assemblages following a steep post-Pliocene decline of average gastropod abundance. Both the increasing bivalve diversity and the decrease in average abundance of gastropod taxa correspond to an interval of increasing carbonate deposition and reef building in the region, and are likely a result of increased fine-scale habitat heterogeneity controlled by the local distribution of carbonate buildups. Each of these results demonstrates that documenting the ecological response of tropical marine ecosystems to regional environmental change requires a large volume of fine-scaled samples with detailed paleoenvironmental control. Such data sets are rarely available from the fossil record.
2400425|In the past decade paleobiologists have applied the techniques of both ecological and historical biogeography, although vicariance/cladistic approaches have as yet had minimal impact. The traditional focus of paleobiogeographic study has been the province, a statistical entity defined by clusters of range endpoints of individual taxa. The study of such provinces has been useful in inferring past continental positions (although ambiguities remain that must be resolved using independent geological criteria) and in understanding the role of past global geographies in regulating biotic diversity through changes in the numbers and extent of provinces. This approach can be complemented by the treatment of geographic ranges of taxa as irreducible or emergent traits with far-reaching evolutionary effects upward and downward within a genealogical hierarchy. Temperature tolerances in benthic marine organisms appear to be byproducts of selection for enzyme structures imparting favorable activity levels within the normal temperature range rather than direct products of selection for resistance to temperature extremes. Thus geographic range endpoints, which are also influenced by dispersal capability and the resulting scale of gene flow among disjunct populations, are not direct products of selection. However, the magnitudes of geographic ranges of species and clades behave as emergent properties and significantly influence taxonomic survivor-ship during background and mass extinctions in ways that are not extrapolations of effects at lower hierarchical levels. Biogeography shapes macroevolutionary patterns of origination and extinction during times of normal, background extinction and mass extinction. Preferential extinction among regions or among endemic rather than widespread clades can result in strong biases in the nature of the survivors of mass extinctions, with taxa being lost not because of selection against attributes of individual organisms but because of higher-order patterns of geographic selectivity.
2401230|The age of first occurrence of taxa remains an underutilized source of information in phylogenetic analysis. In this paper I develop a method whereby one can measure the fit of the stratigraphic record to an estimated phylogenetic tree. The method works as follows: (1) each of the internal nodes excluding the root node of a phylogenetic tree is visited, (2) the oldest age of first occurrence for the taxa above the node is compared to the oldest age of first occurrence for the sister node, and (3) if the age above the node is the same age or younger than the age below the node, then the node is stratigraphically consistent. A measure of the total fit of the stratigraphic record to the tree is the proportion of nodes that are stratigraphically consistent (expressed as the stratigraphic consistency index, SCI). This measure of stratigraphic fit is sensitive to errors in phylogenetic estimation as well as to missing lineages (or parts of lineages). The significance of the fit of the stratigraphic record to the tree can be determined through a permutation approach that generates the null distribution for SCI under the hypothesis that the stratigraphic fit is no better than would be expected at random. The method is applied to several studies taken from the literature. Almost all published trees had significant SCI values, meaning the trees fit the stratigraphic record quite well. Applications of stratigraphic consistency for determining the confidence that should be placed in a phylogenetic estimate, for determining the root of a tree, and as a modified optimality criterion for estimating phylogenetic trees are discussed.
2400579|Polycystine radiolarians are the most widely distributed (geographically and geologically) of the well-preserved microzooplankton. To correctly interpret the tempo and mode of radiolarian micro-evolution, speciation and macroevolution, the zoogeography and ecological niches of extant, and paleozoogeography and paleoecological niches of extinct subspecies, species and higher taxa of the studied lineages should be carefully considered. Such studies of the Stichocorys and Lamprocyrtis lineages suggest that allopatric speciation as peripheral isolates is important. Sympatric speciation is also a possible mode of evolution in these lineages. Hybridization may play a role in the evolution of one subspecies and one species. Allopatrically evolved subspecies and species require some time to inhabit their maximum geographical range after evolving in an isolated and peripheral part of that "environment," whereas the supposedly sympatrically evolved forms do not. Cooling trends and water mass reorganization may be related to the speciation events. Similar, but much less controlled, studies on a macroevolutionary scale (evolution above the species level, essentially the "family" level) suggest that there have been about half a dozen periods of major adaptive breakthroughs resulting in quantum, or macro, evolution. Global coolings and the initiations of "new" cold-water spheres and related water masses appear to have allowed these macroevolutionary steps during the Ordovician, Devonian-Carboniferous, Permian, and early Neogene. Ecological pressure from diatoms and planktonic foraminiferans appears to have been related to macroevolutionary events bounding the Cretaceous-Tertiary transition.
23014757|Colony-wide feeding currents are a common feature of many bryozoan colonies. These feeding currents are centered on excurrent macular chimneys that expel previously filtered water away from the colony surface. In some bryozoans these macular chimneys consist of a branching channel network that converges at a point in the center of the chimney. The bifurcating channels of the maculae are analogous to a stream channel network in a closed basin with centripetal drainage. The classical methods of stream channel network analysis from geomorphology are here used to quantitatively analyze the number and length of macular channels in bryozoans. This approach is applied to a giant branch of the trepostome bryozoan Tabulipora from the Early Permian Kim Fjelde Formation in North Greenland. Its large size allowed 18 serial tangential peels to be made through the 8-mm-thick exozone. The peels intersected two stellate maculae as defined by contiguous exilapores. The lengths of 1460 channels radiating from the maculae were measured and their Horton-Strahler stream order and Shreve magnitude scored. We hypothesize that if fossil bryozoan maculae function as excurrent water chimneys, then they should conform to Horton's laws of stream networks and behave like closed basins with centripetal drainage. Results indicate that the stellate maculae in this bryozoan behaved liked stream channel networks exhibiting landscape maturation and stream capture. They conformed to the Law of Stream Number. They have a Bifurcation Ratio that falls within the range of natural stream channel networks. They showed a pattern opposite that expected by the Law of Stream Lengths in response to behavior characteristic of a centripetal drainage pattern in a closed basin. Thus, the stellate maculae in this bryozoan probably functioned as excurrent water chimneys with the radiating channels serving to efficiently collect the previously filtered water, conducting it to the central chimney for expulsion away from the colony surface.
2400264|Experienced workers in a field are unlikely to change their assessment of basic philosophical issues. Einstein for example never accepted the indeterminacy required by the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, despite the urgings of Max Born and virtually all others. Similarly even earlier, some older workers had refused to accept the young Einstein's theories. Now if issues in physics are not open and shut, they are even less so in paleontology. Possibly it is useful to probe the underlying basic philosophical background to our discipline. The purpose of the present article is to indicate that the inductive, deterministic approaches which have been used almost exclusively in paleontology have stringent limitations. For some types of problems, deductive stochastic processes are more interesting. If we can make the distinction of `few' versus `many,' then it is quite easy to consider deterministic explanations for the individual cases (the movement of individual molecules) but to reserve stochastic explanations for the ensembles of events (the movement of molecules too numerous to count).
4096827|Existing methods for point and interval estimation of the endpoints of the stratigraphic range of a fossil taxon under continuous sampling assume that the mean density of finds is constant over the stratigraphic range. These methods can perform badly when this mean density is not constant. Most seriously, if mean density declines toward the endpoint of interest, then the true coverage of the confidence interval for the true endpoint can be far below its nominal level, giving a false impression of estimation precision. Simple point and interval estimates that are designed to avoid this problem are presented. These methods are illustrated with the fossil record of two species of the Caribbean bryozoan Metrarabdotos.
20445620|The end-Guadalupian extinction, at the end of the Middle Permian, is thought to have been one of the largest biotic crises in the Phanerozoic. Previous estimates suggest that the crisis eliminated 58% of marine invertebrate genera during the Capitanian stage and that its selectivity helped the Modern evolutionary fauna become more diverse than the Paleozoic fauna before the end-Permian mass extinction. However, a new sampling-standardized analysis of Permian diversity trends, based on 53731 marine invertebrate fossil occurrences from 9790 collections, indicates that the end-Guadalupian "extinction" was actually a prolonged but gradual decrease in diversity from the Wordian to the end of the Permian. There was no peak in extinction rates; reduced genus richness exhibited by all studied invertebrate groups and ecological guilds, and in different latitudinal belts, was instead driven by a sharp decrease in origination rates during the Capitanian and Wuchiapingian. The global diversity decrease was exacerbated by changes in beta diversity, most notably a reduction in provinciality due to the loss of marine habitat area and a pronounced decrease in geographic disparity over small distances. Disparity over moderate to large distances was unchanged, suggesting that small-scale beta diversity changes may have resulted from compression of bathymetric ranges and homogenization of onshore-offshore faunal gradients stemming from the spread of deep-water anoxia around the Guadalupian/Lopingian boundary. Although tropical invertebrate genera were no more likely than extratropical ones to become extinct, the marked reduction in origination rates during the Capitanian and Wuchiapingian is consistent with the effects of global cooling (the Kamura Event), but may also be consistent with other environmental stresses such as anoxia. However, a gradual reduction in diversity, rather than a sharp end-Guadalupian extinction, precludes the need to invoke drastic extinction mechanisms and indicates that taxonomic loss at the end of the Paleozoic was concentrated in the traditional end-Permian (end-Changhsingian) extinction, which eliminated 78% of all marine invertebrate genera.
2400312|Laboratory and field collected sediments were x-rayed to document the array of biogenic sedimentary structures produced by the burrowing and feeding behavior of six species of marine intertidal annelid (Glycera robusta, Nephtys caecoides, Pectinaria californiensis, Notomastus magnus, Eupolymnia crescentis, and Cirriformia spirabrancha). Polychaete burrows were found to vary greatly in structural complexity with both errant (N. magnus) and relatively sessile forms (C. spirabrancha) producing a variety of biogenic structures. Sediment mixing by the tentacle-feeding polychaete C. spirabrancha was observed by sequentially x-raying an experimental field enclosure stratified with an opaque substance. The experiment demonstrates that tentacle-feeding polychaetes can influence the topography of the sediment-water interface and transport substantial amounts of near surface material downward. Criteria by which fossil biogenic sedimentary structures, presumably produced by soft-bodied organisms, can be assigned a feeding function have been advanced by Walker (1972). Some of the assumptions inherent in feeding function analysis were applied, with varying degrees of success, to the biogenic structures of modern soft-sediment polychaetes.
2400218|True muscular articulations, as opposed to ligamentary ones, are reported here for the first time in the biserial arms of advanced inadunate crinoids (Poteriocrinina). The topography of biserial articular surfaces indicates clearly derivation from a uniserial muscular articulation with two muscle scars, a transverse ridge, and other structures considered typical of this articular mode. Biserial muscular articulations extend from the arm base to within a few brachials of the arm tip, although the articulations are more pronounced and better developed proximally. The inadunate facets are compared with those of the biserial arms of camerates, which are shown to be non-muscular and probably were capable of only limited movement. The arm movements of inadunate biserial arms are interpreted to have been ones where alternating muscle bundles on either side of the arm induced twisting motions of the arms so that a planar filtration fan mode of feeding was possible, in contrast to the parabolic feeding fan or other modes of feeding that were probably performed by other Paleozoic crinoids.
2401120|Size and shape are analyzed for Pliocene lineages of the rodent genus Stephanomys Schaub 1938. Previous phylogenetic studies were based mainly on size variation and descriptive comparisons, without any attempt to quantify shape changes. Hence, on the basis of regular size increase, Stephanomys has been considered a prime example of phyletic gradualism. In order to quantify morphological variation within the lineage, a method for analyzing complex outlines, the elliptic Fourier transform, was applied to tooth contour (upper and lower first molars). It was then possible to compare evolution in size, estimated by tooth area, as well as evolution of shape, represented by Fourier coefficients. While size seems to change gradually through time, morphology gives a rather discontinuous evolutionary pattern for both the upper and lower molar. Such a discrepancy between the evolution of size and shape of a single structure suggests that different genetic determinisms and mechanical constraints may act on size and shape. Hence it may be misleading to infer generalized evolutionary processes from either size or shape alone.
2401172|Theoretical and experimental biomechanical approaches are used to test the effect regular archaeocyathan central cavity diameter has on the generation of passive flow through the skeleton. These results are then used to predict a correspondence between gross morphology and paleoenvironmental occurrence. Previous work has demonstrated that regular archaeocyathan morphology generates passive flow, via Bernoulli and viscous entrainment effects, through its porous walls for suspension feeding, a phenomenon that occurs in modern sponges. Efficacy of entrainment depends upon the area of the excurrent pore (i.e., central cavity) over which the ambient flow is moving. Consequently, archaeocyaths should have maximized their central cavity diameters. Five-centimeter-long, conical and cylindrical acrylic pipes with varying end diameters were tested in a flume to document the relative effects of Bernoulli and viscous entrainment. Each pipe was oriented perpendicular to the flow direction in a uniform flow field, and fluorescein dye was injected at the pipe's mid-length for flow visualization. Models with different-sized apertures consistently exhibit dye movement to the larger opening and greater dye entrainment speeds than models with identically sized apertures, thereby suggesting that viscous entrainment effects are significant and operating in concert with Bernoulli effects. To test for similar effects in archaeocyaths, four brass models were constructed with varying central cavity diameters. Both volume flux and excurrent flow speed of the exiting water increased as the central cavity diameter increased. An analysis of the morphologies that occur in nature confirm these results. Regular archaeocyaths most commonly have central cavity diameters close to their outer wall diameter, thereby maximizing the excurrent pore area. These results have implications for archaeocyathan paleoecology. Environments with low-magnitude currents should support individuals with larger central cavity diameters than higher energy settings. Data on the occurrence of morphotypes within bioherms of varying flow energies from South Australia support this prediction.
2400321|Rarefaction is a method for comparing community diversities that has consistently been abused by paleoecologists: here its assumptions are clarified and advice given on its application. Rarefaction should be restricted to comparison of collections from communities that are taxonomically similar and from similar habitats: the collections should have been obtained by using standardised procedures. The rarefaction curve is a graph of the estimated species richness of sub-samples drawn from a collection, plotted against the size of sub-sample: it is a deterministic transform of the collection's species-abundance distribution. Although rarefaction curves can be compared statistically, it may be more efficient to compare the species-abundance distributions directly. Both types of comparison are discussed in detail.
2666060|The bulk of Neoproterozoic trace fossils can be interpreted as horizontal creeping trails produced by minute vermiform organisms moving on or just beneath the seafloor or under algal mats. We have investigated the formation of trails by living enidarians and platyhelminths that creep by cilia on mucus ribbons. These relatively simple metazoans produce trails that are similar in size and morphology to some Neoproterozoic traces, owing to the entrainment of sediment within their mucus trails. Thus a mucociliary locomotory system provides sufficient means to form some types of Neoproterozoic traces. It follows that the body architectures of the Neoproterozoic trace-makers may have been quite simple, though complex body plans are, of course, not ruled out. Thus, the use of Neoproterozoic trace fossils to constrain the time of origin of bilaterians or of any crown-group bilaterian taxon remains questionable.
4096830|Ecomorphological and biogeochemical (trace element, and carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen isotope ratios) analyses have been used for determining the dietary niches and habitat preferences of large mammals from lower Pleistocene deposits at Venta Micena (Guadix-Baza Basin, Spain). The combination of these two approaches takes advantage of the strengths and overcome the weakness of both approaches. The range of 
2666051|Fish eagles (genus Haliaeetus) potentially have contributed the bones of their prey to many late Cenozoic concentrations of vertebrate microfossils. To evaluate possible biases in the taxa and skeletal elements preserved in assemblages accumulated by fish eagles, which could affect paleoecological and evolutionary interpretations derived from Cenozoic microfaunal localities, a sample of 1883 bones accumulated by modern African fish eagles (H. vocifer) was collected from a roost near Lake Turkana, Kenya. Characteristics of the bone assemblage include (1) taxonomic composition dominated by fish; (2) diverse but small-sized and ecologically restricted animals including inshore fish, aquatic birds, very small nocturnal mammals (which may have been contributed by other raptors), and small reptiles (possible predators on the roost); (3) poor survivorship for specific categories of skeletal elements; (4) considerable bone breakage for all but the smallest animals; and (5) a distinctive pattern of postcranial fragmentation for bird and mammal elements. The fish eagle element profile has some similarities to those of other diurnal raptors, but its cumulative signature can be distinguished from those of other bone accumulators and includes characteristics that would also be manifest in fossil assemblages. Examination of fossil microfaunas from the Plio-Pleistocene localities of Kanapoi (Kenya), Inolelo (Tanzania), and Olduvai Gorge (Tanzania) shows that the patterns of element preservation for Kanapoi and Inolelo do not match those of the Lake Turkana fish eagle roost. Nonetheless, some aspects of the Olduvai Gorge FLKN assemblage show taxonomic and skeletal similarites. In light of the selective choices of prey by fish eagles, the fauna recovered from Olduvai Gorge FLKN might not accurately reflect faunal diversity or patterns of abundance at this locality during the Pleistocene. Because fish eagles of the genus Haliaeetus are found on three continents, have a fossil record extending to the Miocene, and deposit bones in a habitat conductive to preservation, the taxa preserved at many other late Cenozoic microfaunal sites also might be biased. Therefore, taphonomic profiles of late Cenozoic microfaunal assemblages should be compared against the taphonomic profiles typical of fish eagle roosts before faunal characterizations of sites are applied in analyses of paleoecological evolution.
2666076|Radiations are commonly believed to be linked to the evolutionary appearance of a novel morphology or ecology. Previous studies have demonstrated a close relationship between the evolutionary appearance of algal photosymbiosis in planktonic foraminifera and evolutionary diversification of Paleogene photosymbiotic clades. For example, the evolution of photosymbiosis was synchronous with the abrupt evolution of four major groups of Paleogene planktonic foraminifera including two clades within the genus Morozovella, as well as the genera Acarinina and Igorina. Our new isotopic and biogeographic data suggest that the acarininids evolved from a photosymbiotic ancestor (which we identify as Praemurica inconstans or early representatives of Praemurica uncinata), but also demonstrate that photosymbiosis did not trigger an immediate species-level radiation in this group. Instead, the acarininids remained a low-diversity taxon restricted to high latitudes for nearly 1.8 million years before radiating ecologically and taxonomically. The eventual radiation of the acarininids is tied to an expansion of their geographic range into the mid and low latitudes. Biogeographic analyses of modern plankton suggest that high-latitude environments may be less conductive to establishing radiations simply because there are fewer niches available to be filled than there are in the tropics. Accordingly, the acarininids may have initially failed to diversify because they started off in environments that presented few opportunities to sustain a large radiation. The high-latitude origin of the acarininids continued to retard their overall diversification until they were able to develop strategies that allowed them to expand into tropical environments and fully exploit their photosymbiotic ecology.
23014901|A modern Lesser Flamingo (Phoeniconaias minor) assemblage was collected along the shoreline of Lake Emakat, a saline-alkaline lake in northern Tanzania. Taphonomic analysis found the assemblage to be heavily weathered. This is likely due to the bone's heightened exposure to solar radiation and corrosive soil and water chemistries, as is expected to occur in such depositional environments. Analysis found that deep, wide, longitudinal cracks penetrate the medullar cavities of both weathered and unweathered long bones. The cause and taphonomic consequence of these cracks are addressed here, using data from Lake Emakat and from controlled studies. Results support repeated (episodic) submersion, followed by drying, as the causal mechanism behind these wet-dry cracks. Mineral salt uptake by bone may explain the early appearance and prevalence of these cracks in saline-alkaline lake settings, as compared to other depositional settings. The rate of weathering and incidence of wet-dry cracking varies significantly across limb elements. This difference correlates to element specific resistance properties to external loading forces. Heavy weathering weakens the structural integrity of bone and can accelerate its fragmentation. This can lead to bird bone loss in nearshore and ephemeral wetland settings, which may then affect resulting skeletal part, diversity, and richness profiles. Heavy weathering can therefore obscure important taphonomic and paleoecological information. The weathering data collected here are then applied to a fossil bird assemblage from the FLK Complex, (late Pliocene), Olduvai Gorge, in Tanzania. Results provide evidence for the effect of weathering on paleoecological and behavioral interpretations. Weathering should be considered when analyzing fossil bird assemblages.
4096888| Understanding the patterns, causes, and consequences of biotic interchange-the movement of species between neighboring biotas-is crucial for evaluating the effects of human-introduced species in the modern biosphere. Since at least the early Miocene, the tropical and subtropical western Atlantic has comprised two biogeographic provinces, the Gatunian (including the Caribbean) and the Caloosahatchian (North Carolina to Florida and the Yucatn peninsula). Although these adjacent provinces are not separated by a land barrier, exchange of species between them has been limited and intermittent. A synthesis of taxonomic, phylogenetic, stratigraphic, and biogeographic data on six gastropod and two bivalve groups reveals a dramatic shift in the pattern of interchange between these provinces. About 31% of early Miocene Caloosahatchian subgenus- and species-group-level taxa invaded the Gatunian Province by the late Miocene, but no taxa extended their ranges in the opposite direction. Beginning in the early Pliocene and continuing into the early Pleistocene, 40 taxa (roughly one-third of Gatunian diversity) invaded the Caloosahatchian Province from the Caribbean, whereas only four taxa extended their range from Florida into the Caribbean. Comparisons between the ranked percentage of Gatunian invaders in Florida and the magnitude of regional extinction there for each of four middle Pliocene to early Pleistocene intervals reveal no consistent relation between invasion and prior or concurrent extinction. During the Pliocene, invaders not only compensated for extinctions, but also accounted for almost all the observed increase in standing diversity in Florida. Only after the large extinction event at the end of the Pliocene did invaders from the Gatunian Province not fully compensate for the loss of species. Although the Miocene interaction between the Gatunian and Caloosahatchian biotas involved two fully tropical entities, the Plio-Pleistocene interaction exemplifies a general pattern in which tropical species often spread to higher latitudes during warm intervals, but warm-temperate or subtropical species rarely become established in the Tropics. Some evidence indicates that tropical Caribbean molluscs are exposed and adapted to more intense competition and predation than their subtropical counterparts in Florida, implying a role for individual-level biotic interactions in determining the predominant direction of interchange. Intensification of north-flowing currents in the western Atlantic may also contribute to the nearly one-way movement of taxa from the Caribbean to Florida during the Pliocene and early Pleistocene. The changing pattern of interchange from the Miocene to the Pliocene further reflects a change in the geography of species richness, with the richer province serving as the chief donor and the province with lower diversity acting as the main recipient of invaders. Diversity, ocean circulation, and the competitive environment thus account for the observed switch in the predominant direction of invasion in the western Atlantic during the Neogene. The fact that almost 90% of Gatunian immigrants to Florida differentiated taxonomically there indicates that invasion is intermittent. Long-term consequences of this and many other cases of interchange between provinces include enrichment of the regional and global species pool and the spread of adaptations reflecting intense competition and predation. 
23014754|We have devised a simple model for assessing the role of development in shaping the evolution of morphological disparity. Disparity of a clade at any given time is expressed in terms of the developmental dynamics that lead to the variety of adult morphotypes observed. We use assumed phenotypic manifestations of developmental processes, as they could be detected from allometric characterizations, to distinguish a few, nonexclusive types of evolutionary changes in ontogeny. On the basis of this formalization, we describe the diversification of hypothetical clades, using the standard curve of adult morphological disparity, the curve of juvenile disparity, and the curve of allometric disparity, the latter quantifying the diversification of clades in allometric space. Contrasts of these curves reflect the underlying developmental scheme that drives temporal changes in disparity. We then vary the parameters of the model to assess the expected signature of each metric under specific conditions: changes in the relative frequencies of the types of evolutionary developmental changes, changes in the transition magnitude attached to each of them, and effects of temporal variation in average adult size on disparity curves and patterns of morphospace occupation. Results emphasize the potential contribution of these proxies for developmental dynamicsjuvenile morphological disparity, allometric disparity, and average adult sizein enriching the interpretation of standard disparity curves and the description of clade histories, with possible process-oriented inferences.
2400180|Euproops danae, a xiphosuran from the Mazon Creek (Braidwood) Fauna, had two sets of spines-genal and ophthalmic-extending from the posterior margin of its prosoma. In young individuals, the genal spines were longer than the ophthalmic spines. During growth, the relative length of each type of spine increased, but the rate of increase was much greater for ophthalmic spines. In order to explain these morphological and ontogenetic features, I have studied the hydrodynamic behavior of whole-animal models representing the actual morphology of E. danae, and various modifications thereof, at different body sizes. It can be argued that passive settling, while in an enrolled posture, was probably the primary defensive reaction that a swimming individual would have exhibited in response to an encounter with a potential predator. Experiments show that the array of spines on E. danae was an important control on the style of settling experienced by an enrolled individual. Models of the actual morphology settle steadily, while models with either longer or shorter prosomal spines tend to undergo lateral oscillations induced by turbulence in the wake. Steady fall would have rendered the horseshoe crab less perceptible to either the visual or lateral line systems of contemporary aquatic vertebrates, and thus a morphology capable of producing it would have been an important adaptation for reducing the risk of predation. This minimization of oscillatory movement would actually obtain for a variety of conceivable spine morphologies, but actual morphologies represent those `solutions' which simultaneously optimize other aspects of spine function, such as mechanical protection. This optimum design changes during ontogeny because settling dynamics scale non-linearly with size. This work has both specific applications to the interpretation of similar structures in other arthropods and more general implications for the study of evolutionary functional morphology.
2400357|Pelagic marine mammals (cetaceans and pinnipeds) generally invaded the seas rapidly in response to new ecologic opportunities. After cetaceans initially appeared and radiated in the Eocene, they declined in the Oligocene, but radiated into many new adaptive types in the Miocene. Pinnipeds apparently evolved in the earliest Miocene, rapidly radiating into many adaptive types. We propose that the radiations, and declines, of species were responses to the availability of trophic resources in oceanic environments. These trophic resources are closely related to upwelling processes in the oceans. We suggest that increased upwelling intensity, due to climatic or tectonic events, permitted the initial invasions and radiations and that decreased intensity caused cetacean extinctions in the Oligocene.
2400233|Contours of whorl expansion rate (W), distance of the generating curve from the axis of coiling (D) and shape of the generating curve (S) were plotted from data on 988 Jurassic through Cretaceous ammonite species and 205 Jurassic through Tertiary nautilid species. The areas occupied by the ammonites and nautilids are largely nonoverlapping when plotted as WD and DS graphs. The almost complete absence of overlap in Juro-Cretaceous ammonite and nautilid shell shape distributions is consistent with the view that ammonites and nautilids were dissimilar ecologically, and evolved different shell shapes in response to different adaptational needs. The terminal Cretaceous extinction of the ammonites may have opened up new opportunities for nautilid evolution during the Tertiary, because Tertiary nautilids are dominanted by moderately compressed, hydrodynamically efficient shell shapes which were rarely present among Jurassic and Cretaceous nautilids, but common among ammonites. The restriction of nautilids to a far more limited portion (compared to ammonites) of the theoretically available spectrum of planispiral shell shapes may be due in part to fabricational constraints imposed by the simple nautilid septum and septal suture. Nautilid shell shapes were limited to globular or slightly compressed to depressed shells, which are inherently strong due to pronounced shell wall curvature, and would be strengthened to only a small extent by buttressing from internal septa. Strongly depressed or compressed shell shapes, commonly evolved among ammonoids, had flattened shell regions which are inherently weak, and would be strengthened to a considerable extent by numerous thick, or strongly folded and fluted septa and septal sutures.
2666118|Phylogenetic analysis of the metazoan evolutionary tree as a whole, and of trees of component major clades, indicates that marine herbivores, defined here as macrophagous consumers of living multicellular attached marine plants, always occupy terminal positions at several scales of analysis. Nearly all living benthic marine herbivores are derived from microphages, detritivores, or predators, and most have post-Paleozoic origins. The derived nature of herbivory in the sea parallels the evolutionary situation among land animals. Pre-Mesozoic marine benthic ecosystems, characterized by relatively low rates of flow of energy and nutrients, may have relied even more heavily on decomposers for the transfer of carbon from primary producers to animals than do living marine ecosystems in the photic zone.
2666101|Changes in genus diversity within higher taxa of marine animals on the temporal scale of a few million years are more strongly correlated with changes in extinction rate than with changes in origination rate during the Paleozoic. After the Paleozoic the relative roles of origination and extinction in diversity dynamics are reversed. Metazoa as well as individual higher taxa shift from one mode of diversity dynamics to the other. The magnitude of taxonomic rates, the relative variance of origination and extinction rates, and the presence or absence of a long-term secular increase in diversity all fail to account for the shift in importance of origination and extinction in diversity changes. Origination and extinction rates both tend to be diversity-dependent, but different modes of diversity-dependence may contribute to the change in diversity dynamics from the Paleozoic to the post-Paleozoic. During the Paleozoic, there is a weak tendency for extinction rates to be more diversity-dependent than origination rates, whereas after the Paleozoic the two rates are about equally diversity-dependent on average.
4096997|The Neoselachii are a monophyletic group including all of the extant sharks and rays. They underwent rapid diversification throughout the Jurassic and Cretaceous, going from low-diversity assemblages of members of extinct orders in the Late Triassic to diverse assemblages containing representatives of most extant clades by the end of the Cretaceous. The known fossil record of Mesozoic neoselachians is composed largely of isolated teeth, with articulated skeletal remains being known from a limited number of sites. The small tooth size of a large proportion of neoselachians, including almost all taxa in existence prior to the mid Cretaceous, led to very poor representation in older publications. Their state of knowledge has improved dramatically since 1970 with the increased use of bulk sampling for isolated dental remains. Despite this, the high proportion of Lazarus taxa from some stages suggests that the state of knowledge is still intermittent. Increase in assemblage diversity throughout the Jurassic and Cretaceous suggests that radiation events resulted in real and dramatic increases in diversity, and that the perceived diversification is not an artifact of poor knowledge. Cladogenesis inferred from the fossil record typically compares more favorably with divergence predicted from molecular analysis, where Batoidea form a discrete basal clade, than with divergence predicted from morphological analysis, where Batoidea are considered a derived crown group within the Squalea. The timing of diversification events is discussed in light of the known fossil record, cladistically generated divergence times, and the paleoenvironmental distribution of faunas.
4096809|The evolution of scutes in thyreophoran dinosaurs, based on Scutellosaurus, Scelidosaurus, Stegosaurus, and several ankylosaurs, began with small rounded or ovoid structures that typically had slight, anteroposteriorly oriented keels. These scutes were elaborated in two general and overlapping ways: they could flare laterally and asymmetrically beneath the keels that mark the anteroposterior axis, and they could be hypertrophied in their distal growth to produce plates, spikes, and other kinds of ornamentation. Stegosaurus plates and spikes are thus primarily hypertrophied keels of primitive thyreophoran scutes, sometimes with elaboration of dermal bone around their pustulate bases. Histologically, most thyreophoran scute tissues comprise secondary trabecular medullary bone that is sandwiched between layers of compact primary bone. Some scutes partly or mostly comprise anatomically metaplastic bone, that is, ossified fibrous tissue that shows incremental growth. The "plumbing" of Stegosaurus plates was not apparently built to support a "radiator" system of internal blood vessels that communicated with the outside of the plates and coursed along their external surfaces to return heated or cooled blood to the body core. Possibly a purely external system supported this function but there is no independent evidence for it. On the other hand, many of the vascular features in stegosaurian plates and spikes reflect bautechnisches artifacts of growth and production of bone. Surface vascular features likely supported bone growth and remodeling, as well as the blood supply to a keratinous covering. When the gross and microstructural features of the plates and spikes are viewed in phylogenetic context, no clear pattern of thermoregulatory function emerges, though an accessory role cannot be eliminated in certain individual species. It seems more likely, as in other groups of dinosaurs, that the variation of dermal armor form in stegosaurs was primarily linked to species individuation and recognition, perhaps secondarily to inter- and intraspecific display, and rarely to facultative thermoregulation.
2400149|Shotwell's method of paleoecological reconstruction attempts to define community membership of mammals represented within paleontological assemblages. Analysis of the measure of community membership upon which the method is based (relative skeletal completeness) shows this measure to be a function of sample size. A method for controlling for the effects of sample size upon measures of relative skeletal completeness is needed. A method is suggested which employs ratios of numbers of individuals to numbers of specimens, and a specific correction of Shotwell's method is proposed.
2400771|Cladistic analysis of osteological and dental characters in a monophyletic group of Miocene and younger tayassuids demonstrates a pattern of changes in the degree of sexual dimorphism in canine tooth diameter and zygomatic arch width, and in phenotypic correlations between these characters. Primitively, tayassuids have canine teeth that are sexually dimorphic and discretely bimodal in size, and zygomatic arches that are narrow in both sexes. Many late Miocene and Pliocene tayassuids have broad, winglike zygomatic processes. In some species, these processes are large in both sexes, but in others, those of females are much smaller than those of males. The presence of large processes in both sexes is primitive relative to the condition of strong sexual dimorphism. In five separate clades, the zygomatic processes of both sexes become reduced in size, and the degree of sexual dimorphism in canine size becomes reduced as well. The pattern is congruent with predictions derived from a theoretical model of the evolution of sexual dimorphism, and it further indicates the emergence of a new phenotypic correlation between two previously uncorrelated characters, canine size and zygoma size. The advent of this new correlation coincides with the advent of pronounced sexual dimorphism in zygomatic processes. Although such a pattern could be explained by genetically modifying phenotypic expression of homologous characters in one sex or the other, an epigenetic modification of expression is equally plausible: the evolution of sexual dimorphism in homologous characters could be accomplished by placing phenotypic expression of an originally monomorphic character under the control of steroid sex hormones. This hypothesis is consistent with evidence from many vertebrate groups, and it provides testable predictions.
2400626|Stratigraphic range data are used to derive time scales on which taxonomic survivorship curves for genera and families are as nearly as possible independent of their times of origin. These time scales correct for temporal variations in overall extinction rates caused by major extinctions and the pull of the Recent. Survivorship curves for genera and families on their respective time scales are well fit by Pareto distributions differing only in their scale parameter.
2400582|Changes in shape and in the pattern of the reticulate carapace ornament of 63 representative female ostracode specimens of the deep-sea genus Poseidonamicus from 28 Deep Sea Drilling Project Sites, extending over a geographic distance of 40,000 miles and a geologic age of 40 x 10
41684609|Evolutionary rates and selection intensities in eight cladistically defined species-level evolutionary sequences of the Middle and Upper Ordovician bryozoan genus Peronopora were calculated for comparison with values published for fossil and living taxa. Calculations were restricted to statistically significant unidirectional segments of anagenetic series to minimize the mixing of different modes, directions, and rates of evolutionary change. Rates and selection intensities ranged from 10 to 10 darwins and from 10 to 10 haldanes. Across characters, the weighted mean evolutionary rate equaled 5.86 X 10 darwins and the mean selection intensity was 6.44 X 10. Mean rates of 2.15 X 10, 4.31 X 10, and 8.61 X 10 haldanes, and corresponding mean selection intensities equaling 2.39 X 10, 4.78 X 10, and 9.56 X 10, were calculated for generation lengths of 0.5, 1, and 2 years, respectively. The magnitudes of positive and negative evolutionary rates and selection intensities do not differ statistically, individual characters display no consistent pattern of positive or negative values, and no character complexes were detectable. A mosaic pattern of change occurs across characters in evolutionary sequences. Eighty percent of analyzed evolutionary series were multispecies lineages. Both individual and mean values provide direct estimates of the rates of evolution within those lineages at the moment of speciation. Rates of anagenetic evolution in Peronopora were low and similar to published rates for a variety of fossil protists, invertebrates, and vertebrates. However, earlier rate calculations did not isolate the effect of unidirectional anagenesis from that of stasis, random walks, trend reversals, or rate variations. Eight percent of characters in Peronopora produced anagenetic series that were statistically significant, a percentage similar to the 5% calculated in a study of 251 sequences of evolving traits in 53 fossil lineages (Hunt 2007). Stasis and mutation-drift are the most common patterns detectable in the fossil record, although anagenesis remains a potentially important force in shaping the course of both micro-and macroevolution.
2400491|The European Plio-Pleistocene Mimomys (Hintonia) occitanus-ostramosensis lineage of arvicolid rodents appears to present a genuine case of gradual evolution. Analysis of numerous dental samples recorded from 3 to 1.5 ma by several biometrical methods led to the following conclusions: samples from the whole geographical area order into a morphological continuum (chronomorphocline); the successive populations in the trend show important overlap of their variation; and the absence of stasis or any interruption in the trend, combined with its unidirectionality, suggests genuine phyletic gradualism. The chronomorphocline is characterized by an important increase in tooth hypsodonty, by the progressive and continuous development of lateral enamel tracks. Four phases of evolution can be recognized in the lineage, the rates of morphological changes being variable and related to climatic fluctuations (Reuverian, Pretiglian, Tiglian, Eburonian). Morphological changes are initiated by environmental fluctuations, although the polarity of climatic change is not a determining factor. Environmental changes act as stimulus and release drift processes. Phyletic gradualism occurring over such a wide area implies extensive gene flow, and suggests that only general, not local, environmental components act to produce the observed morphological changes.
2400206|This paper proposes a simple, unorthodox model for use in the study of vertebrate jaw mechanics. Central to the new "bifulcral model" is the assumption that the bite point may be regarded as a distinct and independent "occlusal fulcrum" equal in status to the jaw articulation or "joint fulcrum" of more traditional biomechanical models. The bifulcral model allows all mechanical forces acting on the feeding system to be evaluated in terms of their purely rotational and purely translational components defined relative to the occlusal and joint fulcra. The major benefit of this analytical approach is that it permits a new and substantially different perspective on the functional consequences of morpho-geometric organization in feeding systems. The bifulcral model clearly establishes the dynamic relationships among muscle alignment, bite point and the resultant patterns of mechanical stress at the craniomandibular joint (CMJ). It also reveals potentially important modes of competitive interaction between otherwise seemingly synergistic jaw muscles. Further, the bifulcral model encourages preliminary investigations into the possible contribution of intramuscular dynamics to the overall operational plasticity of the feeding machinery. Specific application of the new model to structural and functional problems concerning the origin of the mammalian feeding complex lead to the following tentative conclusions. (1) Contrary to current opinion, the CMJ of most cynodont therapsids probably did not experience positive vertical loads (= compressive) when the cheek teeth were utilized for mastication. Instead, net CMJ loads were either neutral or somewhat negative (= tensile). (2) The development of a pronounced coronoid process in cynodonts was more directly related to promoting the differentiation of the masseter complex than to either improving the mechanical advantage or prehensile capacity of the temporalis muscle. (3) Differential motor activity within the complex temporalis musculature of cynodonts could have resulted in "derived lines of action" markedly different from the reconstructed lines of action employed in previous analyses of feeding mechanics in these reptiles. Such derived lines of action may have been optimal configurations for the integrated activity of the temporalis and masseter musculature. (4) Selection in cynodonts favored the evolution of a superficial masseter rather than the elaboration of the preexisting and geometrically similar pterygoideus musculature. This occurred because the masseter held the greater potential for improving bite force, motor control and facilitating the reduction of the postdentary bones of the mandible while still preserving the basic spatial economy of the cranial region. (5) The rearward growth of the condylar process of the dentary in cynodonts promoted the reduction of the postdentary unit primarily by shifting the point of load application between the dentary and postdentary units, thereby reducing bending stresses in the postdentary unit. (6) The enlarged squamosal sulcus of cynodonts was occupied mainly by a hypertrophied depressor mandibulae muscle; an auditory tube was also present in the sulcus deep to the muscle. (7) The depressor mandibulae played a major role in CMJ stabilization in therapsids; this was possibly its only function in later cynodonts. The peculiar downturned retroarticular process of the mandible in therapsids appears to have been related to this same function.
4500140|This paper takes an alternative approach to the problem of inferring patterns of phenotypic evolution in the fossil record. Reconstructing temporal biological signal from noisy stratophenetic data is an inverse problem analogous to subsurface reconstructions in geophysics, and similar methods apply. To increase the information content of stratophenetic series, available geological data on sample ages and environments are included as prior knowledge, and all inferences are conditioned on the uncertainty in these geological variables. This uncertainty, as well as data error and the stochasticity of fossil preservation and evolution, prevents any unique solution to the stratophenetic inverse problem. Instead, the solution is defined as a distribution of model parameter values that explain the data to varying degrees. This distribution is obtained by direct Monte Carlo sampling of the parameter space, and evaluated with Bayesian integrals. The Bayesian inversion is illustrated with Miocene stratigraphic data from the ODP Leg 174AX Bethany Beach bore-hole. A sample of the benthic foraminifer Pseudononion pizarrensis is used to obtain a phenotypic covariance matrix for outline shape, which constrains a model of multivariate shape evolution. The forward model combines this evolutionary model and stochastic models of fossil occurrence with the empirical sedimentary record to generate predicted stratophenetic series. A synthetic data set is inverted, using the Neighbourhood Algorithm to sample the parameter space and characterize the posterior probability distribution. Despite small sample sizes and noisy shape data, most of the generating parameter values are well resolved, and the underlying pattern of phenotypic evolution can be reconstructed, with quantitative measures of uncertainty. Inversion of a stratigraphic series into a time series can significantly improve our perception and interpretation of an evolutionary pattern.
2401131|The evolution of septal complexity in fossil ammonoids has been widely regarded as an adaptive response to mechanical stresses imposed on the shell by hydrostatic pressure. Thus, septal (and hence sutural) complexity has been used as a proxy for depth: for a given amount of septal material greater complexity permitted greater habitat depth. We show that the ultimate septum is the weakest part of the chambered shell. Additionally, finite element stress analyses of a variety of septal geometries exposed to pressure stresses show that any departure from a hemispherical shape actually yields higher, not lower, stresses in the septal surface. Further analyses show, however, that an increase in complexity is consistent with selective pressures of predation and buoyancy control. Regardless of the mechanisms that drove the evolution of septal complexity, our results clearly reject the assertion that complexly sutured ammonoids were able to inhabit deeper water than did ammonoids with simpler septa. We suggest that while more complexly sutured ammonoids were limited to shallower habitats, the accompanying more complex septal topograhies enhanced buoyancy regulation (chamber emptying and refilling), through increased surface tension effects.
40792295|New mid-Cretaceous stable isotope (O and C) records of multiple planktonic foraminiferal species and coexisting coccoliths from Blake Nose (western North Atlantic) document a major depth-ecology reorganization of planktonic foraminifera. Across the Albian/Cenomanian boundary, deep-dwelling Praeglobotruncana stephani and Rotalipora globotruncanoides adapted to living at a shallower depth, while, at the same time, the population of surface-dwelling Paracostellagerina libyca declined. Subsequently, the opportunistic species Hedbergella delrioensis shifted to a deep environment, and the deep-dwelling forms Rotalipora montsalvensis and Rotalipora reicheli first appeared. The primary paleoenvironmental cause of the observed changes in planktonic adaptive strategies is uncertain, yet their coincidence with an earliest Cenomanian cooling trend reported elsewhere implicates the importance of reduced upper-ocean stratification. Although there has been an implicit assumption that the species-specific depth habitats of fossil planktonic foraminifera were invariant through time, planktonic paleoecology is a potential variable. Accordingly, the possibility of evolutionary changes in planktonic foraminiferal depth ecology should be a primary consideration (along with other environmental parameters) in paleoceanographic interpretations of foraminiferal stable isotope data.
2665999|The stratigraphic distribution of graptoloid species within the upper Middle Ordovician strata of New York State represents a complex pattern of origination, extinction, faunal migration, and fluctuating relative abundances. In particular, the observed patterns of species turnover at graptolite biozone boundaries are apparently strongly correlated with lithofacies, sampling strategies, and the depositional effects of relative sea-level change. Vertical facies changes that occur within third-order depositional sequences and fourth- or fifth-order parasequences are mirrored by changes in the graptoloid faunal composition. Large-scale faunal turnovers at biozone boundaries tend to occur either at sequence boundaries or at flooding surfaces within sequences (e.g., the base of Highstand System Tracts). The base of the Corynoides americanus and Climacograptus (D.) spiniferus Zones coincide with major onlap events, and the Orthograptus ruedemanni Zone fauna appears just below a Lowstand Systems Tract. Within individual biozones, smaller-scale changes such as the fluctuating relative abundances of graptoloid species coincide with higher-order parasequence cyclicity. These distribution patterns resemble recent computer-generated models for the sequence stratigraphic distribution of hypothetical taxa. By combining good biogeographic control with a detailed sampling program, we are able to see through the patterns attributable to depositional cyclicity and identify the different components of faunal turnover (migration, speciation, and extinction).
2400941|The species-level properties of geographic range and geologic duration are often used as variables in evolutionary studies. However, estimates of species duration are not independent of estimates of geographic range. Before these properties are used in macroevolutionary hypotheses, error associated with these estimates must be quantified. This error may lead to spurious inferences of evolutionary processes. To assess the error associated with estimates of geographic range and geologic duration, we modeled various sampling regimes and calculated the bias associated with these estimates. We present three analyses which document the bias associated with estimates of geographic range and geologic duration. First, we find a positive correlation between local abundance and geographic range for a sample of 180 species of Recent prosobranch gastropods from the northeastern temperate Pacific Ocean. Therefore, geographically short-ranging species are less likely to be represented in the fossil record than geographically long-ranging species because of their local rarity. Second, we demonstrate that the chance of underestimating the geographic range of a species is acute for species with restricted spatial distributions, further compounding the problem of documenting their distribution in space and time. Third, we present a simulation which quantifies the degree of autocorrelation between geographic range and geologic duration for different levels of sampling resolution and spatial distributions of fossil localities.
2666012|A major new inventory of living marine Bivalvia (Mollusca) is based on 29 regional faunas. These again pick out strong latitudinal and longitudinal gradients in taxonomic diversity, but there are indications that the patterns are not so regular as previously thought. There are signs of asymmetry between the Northern and Southern Hemisphere latitudinal gradients, with the former tending to be more regular than the latter. Northern gradients are also characterized by a marked inflection at approximately 30$^\circ$N, and the three Australian provinces seem to form a distinct "hot-spot" in the Southern Hemisphere. The larger of the two tropical high-diversity foci (the southern China-Indonesia-NE Australia one) appears to be much more nearly arcuate in plan view than oval and is closely associated with the world's richest development of coral reefs. A taxonomic and stratigraphic analysis reveals that the steepest latitudinal gradients are associated with the youngest bivalve clades. The most striking pattern is that shown by the heteroconchs, an essentially infaunal taxon that radiated extensively throughout the Cenozoic era. Steep gradients are also characteristic of the relatively young anomalodesmatan and arcoid clades and, somewhat surprisingly, the predominantly epifaunal pteriomorphs. Although the latter taxon falls within an older (i.e., "late Paleozoic-Jurassic") group of clades, it is apparent that certain elements within it (and in particular the Pectinidae) radiated extensively in the latest Mesozoic-Cenozoic. A small but significant component of the later stages of the adaptive radiation of the Bivalvia comprised epifaunal taxa. The presence of the steepest latitudinal gradients in the youngest clades provides further evidence that the Tropics have served as a major center of evolutionary innovation. Even though some sort of retraction mechanism cannot be completely ruled out, these gradients are most likely the product of primary radiations. Clade history can be an important determinant of contemporary large-scale biodiversity patterns. The markedly lower diversity of some bivalve clades, such as the heteroconchs, in the high-latitude and polar regions may simply reflect the fact that they are not yet fully established there. In a way that is reminiscent of the onshore-offshore radiation of certain benthic marine invertebrate taxa, it may take periods of tens or even hundreds of millions of years for bivalve clades to disseminate fully across the earth's surface. The persistent spread of taxa from low- to high-latitude regions should perhaps come as no great surprise, as the tropical ocean is very much older than either of the polar ones. The late Cretaceous-Cenozoic evolutionary radiation of the Bivalvia was accompanied by a marked deterioration in global climates, and many new groups have yet to be fully assimilated into cool- and cold-water benthic ecosystems.
2400788|Organic preservation of non-mineralizing animals constitutes an important part of the paleontological record, yet the processes involved have not been investigated in detail. Organicwalled fossils are generally explicable as a coincidence of original, relatively recalcitrant, extracellular materials and more or less anti-biotic depositional circumstances. One of the most pervasive natural inhibitors of biodegradation results from substrate and enzyme adsorption onto, and within, clay minerals; such interactions are likely responsible for many of the organic-walled fossils preserved in clastic sediments. Close examination of the fossil Lagerstatte of the Burgess Shale (Middle Cambrian, British Columbia) reveals that most of its so-called soft-bodied fossils are composed of primary (although kerogenized) organic carbon. Their preservation can be attributed to pervasive clay-organic interactions as the organisms were transported in a moving sediment cloud and buried with all cavities and spaces permeated with fine grained clays. The organic-walled Burgess Shale fossils were studied both in petrographic thin section and isolated from the rock matrix, following careful acid maceration. Isotopic analysis of bulk organic and carbonate carbon yielded values consistent with a normal marine paleoenvironment. Anatomical and histological consideration of the enigmatic Burgess worm Amiskwia suggest that it may in fact be a chaetognath, while the putative chordate Pikaia appears not to be related to modern cephalochordates.
2400257|The kinetic model of taxonomic diversity predicts that the long-term diversification of taxa within any large and essentially closed ecological system should approximate a logistic process controlled by changes in origination and extinction rates with changing numbers of taxa. This model is tested with a new compilation of numbers of metazoan families known from Paleozoic stages (including stage-level subdivisions of the Cambrian). These data indicate the occurrence of two intervals of logistic diversification within the Paleozoic. The first interval, spanning the Vendian and Cambrian, includes an approximately exponential increase in families across the Precambrian-Cambrian Boundary and a "pseudoequilibrium" through the Middle and Late Cambrian, caused by diversity-dependent decrease in origination rate and increase in extinction rate. The second interval begins with a rapid re-diversification in the Ordovician, which leads to a tripling of familial diversity during a span of 50 Myr; by the end of the Ordovician diversity attains a new dynamic equilibrium that is maintained, except for several extinction events, for nearly 200 Myr until near the end of the Paleozoic. A "two-phase" kinetic model is constructed to describe this heterogeneous pattern of early Phanerozoic diversification. The model adequately describes the "multiple equilibria," the asymmetrical history of the "Cambrian fauna," the extremely slow initial diversification of the later "Paleozoic fauna," and the combined patterns of origination and extinction in both faunas. It is suggested that this entire pattern of diversification reflects the early success of ecologically generalized taxa and their later replacement by more specialized taxa.
2400217|Marine shelf lagoon deposits of Middle Ordovician age in Tennessee contain the record of repeated ecological successions which began on soft, azoic, terrigenous muds and progressed to a complex bryozoan-brachiopod community. The stages of succession formed a skeletal limestone bed. The process led to an interbedded shale-limestone stratigraphic sequence. The pioneer was the brachiopod Strophomena basilica which paved the soft mud with accumulated shells. Encrusting bryozoans colonized this shell pavement and were followed by ramose bryozoans. The final stages of succession included bryozoans, gastropods, pelecypods, and pelmatozoans but were dominated by the brachiopod Rostricellula rostrata. Measurements of total length, width, length to growth lines (Strophomena only), and thickness (Rostricellula only) were used to generate growth-rate, and survivorship curves for these two species. Strophomena shows low juvenile mortality, a moderate, linear growth-rate, and increased mortality in later ages. Rostricellula shows relatively higher juvenile mortality, a rapid non-linear growth rate, and nearly constant mortality. These attributes are contrary to expectations derived from theory, but can be understood in the light of autecological factors for each species. Adaptation to soft substrata was the primary factor controlling population dynamics in Strophomena, and crowding was the main factor in Rostricellula.
2400899|Seven taxa of raptorial birds were experimentally fed a controlled sample of 50 house mice (Mus musculus). Bones recovered from the pellets were examined for interspecies variability in preservation to assess the potential contribution of specific raptors to patterning in fossil assemblages. Quantitative analyses demonstrate that patterns in bone fragmentation may assist in the identification of particular raptor species as depositional agents in small mammal assemblages.
20445619|The mammal fauna of the Willwood Formation, central Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, is ideal for paleoecological analysis because it is extensive, well studied, and continuously distributed over sediments representing the first 3 Myr of the early Eocene. The geology of the Bighorn Basin is also well known, providing a precise temporal framework and climatic context for the Willwood mammals. Previous analysis identified three "biohorizons," based on simple counts of the first and last appearances of species. This study uses species diversity and appearance rates calculated from more extensive collections to approximate the ecological dynamic of the ancient fauna and assess whether the biohorizons were significant turnover events related to recently described climatic variation. Diversity and appearance data collected for this project are extensively corrected for uneven sampling, which varies by two orders of magnitude. Observed, standardized appearance and diversity estimates are subsequently compared with predicted background frequencies to identify significant variation. Important coincident shifts in the biotic parameters demonstrate that ecological change was concentrated in two discrete intervals 300 Kyr each that correspond with two of the original biohorizons. The intervals coincide with the onset and reversal of an episode of climate cooling identified directly from Bighorn Basin floras and sediments. Ecological changes inferred from the diversity and turnover patterns at and following the two biohorizons suggest short- and long-term faunal response to shifts in mean annual temperature on the order of 5-8C.
2666082|The degree of hierarchical structure of organisms-the number of levels of nesting of lower-level entities within higher-level individuals-has apparently increased a number of times in the history of life, notably in the origin of the eukaryotic cell from an association of prokaryotic cells, of multicellular organisms from clones of eukaryotic cells, and of integrated colonies from aggregates of multicellular individuals. Arranged in order of first occurrence, these three transitions suggest a trend, in particular a trend in the maximum, or an increase in the degree of hierarchical structure present in the hierarchically deepest organism on Earth. However, no rigorous documentation of such a trend-based on operational and consistent criteria for hierarchical levels-has been attempted. Also, the trajectory of increase has not been examined in any detail. One limitation is that no hierarchy scale has been developed with sufficient resolution to document more than these three major increases. Here, a higher-resolution scale is proposed in which hierarchical structure is decomposed into levels and sublevels, with levels reflecting number of layers of nestedness, and sublevels reflecting degree of individuation at the highest level. The scale is then used, together with the body-fossil record, to plot the trajectory of the maximum. Two alternative interpretations of the record are considered, and both reveal a long-term trend extending from the Archean through the early Phanerozoic. In one, the pattern of increase was incremental, with almost all sublevels arising precisely in order. The data also raise the possibility that waiting times for transitions between sublevels may have decreased with increasing hierarchical level (and with time). These last two findings-incremental increase in level and decreasing waiting times-are tentative, pending a study of possible biases in the fossil record.
2400378|Models of "ideal" orthoconic shells having simple concave septa with minimal weight and maximal strength and analysis of 72 species of fossil orthocones and cyrtocones yield important insights into the physical principles underlying cephalopod shell design. The ideal septum is a spherical cap weighing only 77% of a hemispherical septum of equal strength. The septa of most longicones approximate this ideal shape while those of brevicones are less curved, probably owing to buoyancy problems. Increase in septal strength leads to weight increase unless the shell becomes more logiconic or septal spacing increases or both. However, increased spacing requires more cameral liquid for septum formation, thus reducing buoyancy. In ideal longicones, septal spacing resembles the cone radius for thick, strong septa but declines to half of the cone radius for thin, weak septa. In ideal intermediates and brevicones, spacings are respectively reduced by factors of about 2 and 4, with similar additional dependence on septal thickness. Most real septa resemble these ideal models. The relative length of the body chamber to the phragmocone varies greatly between about 0.2 and 1.5, depending mainly on the wall thickness and to a lesser degree on the septal thickness, apical angle and body density. Removal of cameral liquid in the adult must be compensated for by additional growth to retain neutral buoyancy. The conditions for neutral equilibrium calculated for longicones with different "counterweights" indicate that: (1) cameral liquid only is least feasible; (2) half-and-half calcium carbonate and liquid results in one-third length and one-quarter volume reduction of the body chamber; (3) with calcium carbonate only, body chamber reduction is minimal. Real `counterweights' appear to be intermediate between (2) and (3), providing the animal with horizontal stability, which is missing in (3). Most uncalcified siphuncles reduce the body chamber only slightly although they improve horizontal stability. If the wall attains full thickness only at the apical end of body chamber, the liquid-only `counterweight' becomes feasible.
2400434|Biometric analyses of the ontogenies of 31 species of fossil echinoids support a hypothesized relationship between regulatory gene changes and environmental stability. In 15 of 17 pairs of related species, the larger species, undergoing slower (neotenic) and/or prolonged (hypermorphic) growth, apparently inhabited the stabler environment. If true, this relationship connects biological processes at a number of levels and explains or agrees with some important macroevolutionary observations, such as onshore evolutionary innovation and Cope's Rule.
2400810|Six drainage basins at the margins of Trinity Lake were analyzed to determine the relations of source vegetation (largely coniferous forest) to plant debris in deltaic deposits that represent high-energy depositional environments. Thirty-one samples containing an estimated 1,043,000 identifiable plant fragments were subjected to a multivariate statistical (correspondence) analysis; in the resulting ordination, samples from the more mesic side of the lake clustered separately from samples from the drier side of the lake. The distribution of a species in the source vegetation is generally paralleled by the distribution of the same species in the samples, and all major forest trees are present in the samples. However, relative abundances in the source vegetation have no direct relation to relative abundances in the samples. Plants growing far away from depositional sites are poorly represented, even if these plants produce organs suited to long-distance transport; this occurs by dilution by material derived from plants in proximity to depositional sites and suggests that megafossil assemblages that contain putative mixtures of high-altitude "temperate" and low-altitude "thermophilic" taxa represent true biotic associations. The information gained from the Trinity analysis is compared to information gained from analysis of plant debris in low-energy depositional environments; each environment contains different kinds of information that is significant in paleoecological reconstructions of regional vegetation. Whereas high-energy environments contain the best taxonomic representation of source vegetation, low-energy environments retain information on spatial distributions of taxa within source vegetation. High-energy environments typically also contain the best representation of different organs of a given taxon.
2400953|The occurrence of zooxanthellae in Recent scleractinian corals is strongly correlated with their growth form, corallite size, and degree of morphological integration of corallites. The great majority of zooxanthellate corals are multiserial with small, highly integrated corallites, whereas most corals lacking zooxanthellae are solitary or uniserial colonial forms with large, poorly integrated corallites. Beginning in the Jurassic, fossil scleractinian faunas are morphologically similar to Recent faunas dominated by zooxanthellate species, strongly implying that most scleractinians contained zooxanthellae by that time. Evidence for Siluro-Devonian tabulates and Triassic scleractinians is equivocal but still suggests the presence of zooxanthellae in these corals. In contrast, morphological evidence suggests that rugosan corals lacked zooxanthellae. Most populations of Recent zooxanthellate corals contribute to reef formation, but many do not. Similarly, fossil corals interpreted to contain zooxanthellae on morphological grounds did not always form reefs. Recent reef formation depends upon a host of environmental factors that have little to do with the possession of zooxanthellae per se. Coral morphology should be a better predictor of the presence of zooxanthellae in fossil corals than their association with reefs.
2400991|Taphonomic processes in deep-water environments differ markedly from those in shallow waters. These differences are illustrated by the preservational style of a large cetacean skeleton lying at the bottom of the Santa Catalina Basin in 1,240 m of water. The degree of skeletal articulation contrasts with that documented in the shallow North Sea where gas-filled, buoyant carcasses disarticulated during flotation. Increased hydrostatic pressure at greater depth is presumed to have prevented the whale carcass from floating and promoted increased levels of preservation. We present a model that relates gas evolution during decay to carcass buoyancy with depth. Application of this model may ultimately allow the degree of skeletal articulation to be used as a rough index of paleobathymetry.
2401087|Evolutionary paleoecology is the study of paleoecological patterns of organization over time. However, identification of such patterns within modern communities must be made before any study over time can be attempted. This research analyzes mammalian ecological diversity of 31 African localities classified into eight vegetation types: forests, closed woodlands, closed woodland/bushland transition, bushlands, open woodlands, shrublands, grasslands, and deserts. Ecological diversity is measured as the relative proportions of large mammal trophic and locomotor behaviors within communities. Trophic and locomotor adaptations are assigned on the basis of published observations and stomach contents of 184 African mammal species. Communities are accordingly described on the basis of total percentages of mammalian trophic and locomotor adaptations. Since many paleoecology studies have been made using taxonomic uniformitarianism, this study also examines taxonomic community structure to compare with ecologically derived patterns. Results indicate that particular types of vegetation have predictable percentages of arboreal, aquatic, frugivorous, grazing, etc. large mammals. Therefore, these adaptations, because they are predictable in extant assemblages, can be used to predict paleovegetation as well as to portray the community structure of fossil assemblages. Taxonomic groupings also can be used to predict vegetation in extant assemblages, and taxonomic patterns in communities are compared with ecological ones. The mammalian communities of the Pliocene fossil locality Makapansgat, South Africa, are interpreted using these ecological and taxonomic methodologies. Trophic and locomotor adaptations are assigned for Makapansgat fossil mammals through morphological examination of each taxon. Vegetation type is predicted for these fossil localities, but ecological and taxonomic differences in the assemblages differ from extant communities.
2666033|Recent works have suggested that the fossil record exhibits a fractal structure; i.e., that processes, such as extinction, follow a power-law size distribution and their time series show a 1/f power spectrum. This structure has been used as evidence that evolutionary dynamics are an example of a self-organized critical (SOC) process. We have reexamined this claim by analyzing a detailed record of marine genus-level extinctions and originations. Our results indicate that neither extinctions nor origination metrics show the power-law size distribution or a 1/f power spectrum characteristic of SOC and related models. We also believe that the underlying assumptions of SOC are incompatible with our understanding of the processes controlling macroevolutionary patterns. Statistical analyses of the data sets are compatible, however, with the presence of multifractal self-similarity in both records, consistent with a hierarchical and multiplicative generating process. This model assumes that multiple causal mechanisms, acting over many spatial and temporal scales, interact to promote or inhibit originations and extinctions. In this view, the same event can have quite different impacts depending on the state of the biotic or physical system at the time that it occurs. This may at least partially explain such phenomena as the imperfect correlation between eustatic sea-level changes and macroevolutionary processes and the apparent nonlinear response of biotic systems to bolide impacts.
2401028|Morphological evolution in the Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Contusotruncana lineage of planktonic foraminifera was studied at DSDP Sites 525 (South Atlantic) and 384 (North Atlantic). A multivariable approach was used to separate aspects of form controlled by geographical variation (size, spiral roundness of the test, percentage of kummerform specimens) from those due to changes that occurred simultaneously in geographically distant populations of the lineage (shell conicity, number of chambers in the last whorl). A gradual increase in mean shell conicity was observed over the last 3 million years of the Cretaceous. It arose from the combination of a rapid development of highly conical shells after 68.5 Ma and a long-term trend of progressive disappearance of the ancestral morphotype. Therefore, despite the gradual change in "mean form," the morphological evolution in the Contusotruncana lineage differs from the classical image of phyletic gradualism. The gradual increase in mean shell conicity in the lineage was accompanied by a remarkable decrease in its absolute abundance (shell accumulation rate), suggesting that the changes in shell morphology might not have been neutral with respect to natural selection. Apparently, gradual change in "mean form" of fossil lineages does not require an equally gradual development of morphological novelties. It may be caused by natural selection operating on a constant range of variation in populations living in environments without geographical barriers.
41432804|The late Mesozoic through early Cenozoic is an interval of significant biologic turnover and ecologic reorganization within marine assemblages, but the timing and causes of these changes remain poorly understood. Here, we quantify the pattern and timing of shifts in the diversity (richness and evenness) and ecology of local (i.e., sample level) mollusk-dominated assemblages during this critical interval using field-collected and published data sets from the U. S. Gulf Coastal Plain. We test whether the biologic and ecologic patterns observed primarily at the global level during this time are also expressed at the local level, and whether the end-Cretaceous (K/Pg) mass extinction and recovery moderated these trends. To explore whether environment had any effect on these patterns, we examine data from shallow subtidal and offshore settings. Assemblages from both settings recovered to pre-extinction diversity levels rapidly, in less than 7 million years. Following initial recovery, diversity remained unchanged in both settings. The trajectory of ecological restructuring was distinct for each setting in the wake of the K/Pg extinction. In offshore assemblages, the abundance and number of predatory carnivorous taxa dramatically increased, and surficial sessile suspension feeders were replaced by more active suspension feeders. In contrast, shallow subtidal assemblages did not experience ecological reorganization following the K/Pg extinction. The distinct ecological patterns displayed in each environment follow onshoreoffshore patterns of innovation, whereby evolutionary novelties first appear in onshore settings relative to offshore habitats. Increased predation pressure may explain the significant ecological restructuring of offshore assemblages, whereby the explosive radiation of predators drove changes in their prey. Habitat-specific ecological restructuring, and its occurrence solely during the recovery interval, implies that disturbance and incumbency were also key in mediating these ecological changes.
2400410|Studies of ontogenetic processes are fundamentally dependent on hypotheses of phylogeny. The model of Alberch et al. (1979) is reformulated in terms of phylogenetics and used to describe how heterochronic ontogenetic processes can be detected in nature. Heterochronic processes producing paedomorphosis can result in morphologies which resemble primitive (retained ancestral) traits; the conditions under which paedomorphic and primitive features can and cannot be distinguished are described. The utility of ontogeny for determination of evolutionary character transformations and character polarity and for detection of convergence and parallelism are considered. The ontogenetic criterion for assessing polarity is independent of hypotheses of phylogeny and may be as effective as outgroup comparison. Ontogenetic analysis may aid in the detection of convergence but not in the detection of parallelism.
2400420|For some higher taxa, species can be identified in the fossil record with a high degree of reliability. The great geological durations of species indicate that phyletic evolution is normally so slow that little change occurs within a lineage during 10<sup>5</sup>-10<sup>7</sup> generations. Failure to recognize sibling species in the fossil record has no bearing on this conclusion because they embody virtually no morphological change. Although slowness is the rule, we have no more precise assessment of morphological rates of phyletic evolution for any major taxon. Morphological data that have been assembled to assess rates of phyletic evolution have been meager, unrepresentative, and predominantly reflective of nothing more than body size. Net selection pressures within long segments of phylogeny-even ones that embrace large amounts of evolution-are infinitesimal and seemingly unsustainable against random fluctuations. This suggests that natural selection operates in a highly episodic fashion. Rates of adaptive radiation and extinction at the species level can be estimated for many taxa and, from them, rates of speciation in adaptive radiation. Species selection should universally tend to increase rate of speciation and decrease rate of extinction, yet these rates are positively correlated in the animal world, apparently because they are linked by common controls: both rate of speciation and rate of extinction seem to increase with level of stereotypical behavior and to decrease with dispersal ability. Only a few "supertaxa" have been able to combine high rates of speciation with moderate rates of extinction.
2400160|The data on the longevity of genera of articulate brachiopods for the Upper OrdovicianDevonian interval (Boucot 1975) are averaged for the taxa of each order. The generic longevity-frequency distributions form three significantly different clusters. The orthids have the highest mean generic longevity value and display a semi-log survivorship profile that is more convex than the other orders. The spiriferid and strophomenid orders have mean generic longevity values higher than and slopes in the survivorship curves less steep than the pentamerids, rhynchonellids and terebratulids. The appreciable differences in the inferred generic extinction rates for the clusters are attributed to the heterogeneity of the ecologies of the orders. The pentamerids had a proportionately higher number of genera concentrated in narrow-niched reefs wherein higher extinction rates depressed the mean generic longevity of this order relative to the orthids, strophomenids and spiriferids. Enhanced longevity of many offshore (non-reef) genera possibly explains the greater mean generic longevity of the orthids, spiriferids and strophomenids relative to the rhynchonellids and terebratulids which included a proportionately higher number of genera concentrated in nearshore habitats. Alternatively, the depressed mean generic longevity values for the rhynchonellids and terebratulids may reflect systematic oversplitting and temporal bias, i.e., origination and initial diversification of order.
2400997|The function of serrated teeth is analyzed by experimental comparison with the action of artificially made steel blades. Serrated blades cut compliant materials with a grip-and-rip mechanism, whereas smooth, sharp blades cut by concentrating a large downward force on a tiny area. Tyrannosaurid teeth from the Cretaceous Judith River Formation bear rows of serrations that have thick, rounded enamel caps, gripping slots between neighboring serrations, thick enamel bodies inside the teeth underneath the gripping slots, and a root beneath each serration. In contrast, the carnivorous dinosaur Troodon has teeth with exposed pointed serrations, thin enamel, and possibly serration roots. Serrations on the teeth of Troodon and the fossil shark Carcharodon, cut compliant materials in the same way as a serrated hacksaw blade. In contrast, the cutting action of tyrannosaurid teeth most closely resembles that of a dull smooth blade. The spaces between the serrations act as minute frictional vises that grip and hold meat fibers; chambers between neighboring serrations receive and retain small fragments of meat, and inevitably would have acted as havens where bacteria could be stored. These spaces may therefore have led to infections in wounds, analogous to those inflicted by the living Komodo dragon or ora. By analogy, the hunting and feeding behavior of tyrannosaurs may have resembled that of the ora. Serrations and slots are widely distributed among cutting devices in the natural world, and many of these deserve further study. For example, the carnassial teeth of mammalian carnivores cut by a combination of static force at the cutting edge, a crushing or scissoring action at the advancing junction between upper and lower teeth, and by lateral gripping and compression in a slot, like that seen on a much smaller scale in tyrannosaurid serrations. Mammalian teeth operate well only when deployed with sophisticated control over jaw movement, however, and the fine neural control necessary to operate them may have formed the basis for the later development of intelligence in mammals. Previously, being interested in mammals was largely a matter of being interested in teeth, whereas being interested in reptiles was largely a matter of being interested in everything but teeth. I suggest that the teeth of at least some reptiles are as rich in information as the teeth of any mammals.
2400856|Recent data from mollusks suggest that mode of larval development may have important consequences for rates of speciation and extinction of marine organisms. The present study examines two methods that may be used to infer mode of development in the tests of fossil and Recent echinoids: genital pore size and crystallographic patterns of apical plates. Extant species with known modes of development were examined, and the following hypotheses were tested. 1) Species that produce large eggs and have nonfeeding larval development have larger genital pores than species that produce small eggs and have feeding larval development. 2) Orientations of crystallographic axes (c-axes) of genital and ocular plates differ in species with differing modes of development and can be used to infer mode of development. Genital pore size was found to be strongly dependent on body size within a species. For some taxa, pairwise interspecific comparisons of the relationships between genital pore size and body size support the hypothesis of larger genital pores for species with nonfeeding larval development. However, in multiple comparisons of linear regressions, species with nonfeeding larval development always overlapped other species with feeding larval development. An examination of the allometry of genital pore growth showed some species with nonfeeding larval development differed from those with feeding larval development; other species with differing modes of development could not be distinguished on the basis of allometric growth parameters. Orientations of c-axes of genital plates were found to be accurate indicators of mode of development, but orientations of c-axes of ocular plates were not. Among regular echinoids, 71 of 72 species supported the hypothesis that orientation of c-axes of genital plates is indicative of mode of development. Among 19 spatangoid echinoids studied, orientations of c-axes of genital plates generally allowed separation of species with differing modes of development. This method cannot be used to infer modes of development in taxa with reduced numbers of genital plates such as some spatangoids, some cassiduloids, and all clypeasteroids. Taxonomic differences in c-axis orientations require that inferences be made from comparisons between species within families.
2400946|The logistic model provides a useful geometric description of coiling for larger Foraminifera. This model represents a spiral in polar coordinates by means of a logistic equation. The model describes the spires of the genera Alveolina, Nummulites, and Assilina very well. The logistic model is a consequence of allometric growth in these genera. The spires of Nummulites do not fit the logarithmic spiral model well, because the model does not accommodate ontogenetic change of form. Computer simulations using the logistic model also show the very different morphologies of the genus Alveolina. The model allows study of geometrical constraints on test form and of pathways followed by the evolution of the genus (or genera). The logistic model describes ontogenetic change in the organism's functional requirements. The main physiological requirements are nourishment, general exchanges of matter and energy with the environment, and light for the photosynthetic symbionts that live in the cytoplasm of these larger Foraminifera. All these functions require suitable area/volume ratios, that mandate changes of form during growth. The possible biological meaning of the parameters of the model is explored. The use of the more meaningful parameters is proposed in statistical multivariate studies.
2401171|The most widely cited explanation for the functional enigma of sutural complexity in ammonoids, the Buckland hypothesis, has related septal folding and fluting to buttressing, providing increased shell strength against implosion, along with increased efficiency and decreased weight in shell and septum construction. In Paleozoic ammonoids, sutures ranged from simple to extremely complex. Comparison of shell and septum thickness (in polished sections) with sutural complexity in 49 Paleozoic ammonoid genera (Middle Devonian-Upper Permian) indicates that no significant reduction in either septum thickness or shell thickness accompanied a one-hundred-fold increase in sutural complexity. These preliminary results fail to support the Buckland hypothesis, suggest there may have been alternative incentives for increasing sutural complexity, and add support to views that septal fluting may have been related to buoyancy control.
2401191|The compound eyes of trilobites provide the best examples of fossilized sensory organs for which the function in life can be worked out today because the optical array of their corneal lenses preserves the geometry with which the eye originally sampled the visual world. An analysis of trilobite vision is strengthened by the use of new mathematical approaches to compound eye design. In particular, the product of the facet diameter (D) and the interommatidial angle () gives the value of the eye parameter, D, which is a reliable indicator of the photic conditions in which the eye was used. In modern arthropods, D values range from 0.3 for animals active in bright sunlight to 20 or more for nocturnal or deep-sea animals. Two major types of compound eyes existed in trilobites: schizochroal and holochroal. In our previous work with schizochroal eyes in the phacopids Phacops rana crassituberculata and Phacops rana milleri, we found that eye parameter values ranged from 10 to >150. These values of the eye parameter are much greater than in any living arthropod, implying that modern compound eye theory does not apply to schizochroal eyes. We suggested that each ommatidium of the schizochroal eye served as a miniature lens eye. If so, phacopid vision must have been unique, with multiply overlapping visual fields. In the new work of this paper, we examined holochroal compound eyes in Asaphus cornutus, Isotelus gigas, and Homotelus sp. Holochroal eyes contain far more ommatidia than do schizochroal types, reducing both facet diameter (D) and interommatidial angle (). Thus, D values in these species fall into the same range as in modern nocturnal compound eyes. This implies that function of the holochroal eye was similar to that of modern arthropods, and that they were used in moderate to dim intensities of light.
2666029|Theoretical models of skeletal structures provide suitable frameworks to assess macro evolutionary patterns of form change. We discuss three theoretical approaches to account for morphological patterns of the pelvic girdle in archosaurs. Every approach targets a different level of organization within the concept of morphospace. First, we build a morphocline by applying a mathematical transformation to the outline of the hip of the theropod dinosaur Deinonychus antirrhopus, in order to look at theoretical paths of evolutionary change based on changes of proportion. Second, we analyze the variability of a sample of 86 hips within a theoretical construction that incorporates information about the spatial orientation of the three paired bones that build this skeletal compound. Finally, we look at boundary patterns within these hips as a basis for generating a formalism based on graph theory. Insights about the evolution and development of the archosaur triradiate pelvis and its morphological trends are suggested in the light of each theoretical approach, with a special focus on the convergent evolution of a retroverted pubis in ornithischians and birds.
2400990|Onshore-offshore patterns of faunal change occurred at many taxonomic scales during the Paleozoic Era, ranging from replacement of the Cambrian evolutionary fauna by the Paleozoic fauna to the environmental expansion of many orders and classes. A simple mathematical model is constructed to investigate such change. The environmental gradient across the marine shelf-slope is treated as a linear array of discrete habitats, each of which holds a set number of species, as observed in the fossil record. During any interval of time, some portion of the species in each habitat becomes extinct by background processes, with rates of extinction varying among both clades and habitats, as also observed in the record. After extinction, species are replaced from within the habitat and from immediately adjacent habitats, with proportions dependent on surviving species. This model leads to the prediction that extinction-resistant clades will always diversify at the expense of extinction-prone clades. But if extinction intensity is highest in nearshore habitats, extinction-resistant clades will expand preferentially in the onshore direction, build up diversity there, and then diversify outward toward the offshore. Thus, onshore-offshore patterns of diversification may be the expectation for faunal change quite independently of whether or not clades originate onshore. When the model is parameterized for Paleozoic trilobites and brachiopods, numerical solutions exhibit both a pattern of faunal change and a time span for diversification similar to that seen in the fossil record. They also generate structure similar to that seen in global diversification, including logistic patterns of growth, declining origination but constant extinction within clades through time, and declining overall extinction across clades through time.
2666049|The Cambrian Radiation marks the appearance of representatives of virtually all major skeletonized phyla in the fossil record and clearly represents a fundamental episode in the history of life. Furthermore, the tempo and mode of this evolutionary event have been the subject of intense debate. One area that has been debated is how so many phylum-level body plans can have evolved in such a geologically brief period. Some have argued that there was enhanced morphological flexibility and fewer evolutionary constraints at this time, leading to greater morphological disparity of Early Cambrian faunas. Others have claimed that this is not true because the evolution of most of the animal phyla significantly predates the radiation or because they failed to detect a signature of decreasing morphological disparity through time. At present, the higher-level patterns of diversification during this time period and the relevant implications for Early Cambrian uniqueness are areas of active research interest and debate. Recognizing this debate, we used both a phylogenetic and a morphometric framework to study whether there is a signature of increasing morphological constraint and decreasing flexibility through time within one of the clades that is a significant constituent of the Early Cambrian biota, specifically, the olenelloid trilobites. In this species-rich clade, we found no evidence that morphological changes were becoming either increasingly constrained or less flexible in one of the dominant Early Cambrian metazoan clades as it passed through the Cambrian Radiation.
2401014|Disparity is a measure of the range or significance of morphology in a given sample of organisms, as opposed to diversity, which is expressed in terms of the number (and sometimes ranking) of taxa. At present there is no agreed definition of disparity, much less any consensus on how to measure it. Two possible categories of metric are considered here, one independent of any hypothesis of relationship (phenetics), the other constrained within an evolutionary framework (cladistics). The Early Cambrian radiation was clearly a period of significant morphologic and taxonomic diversification. However, we question the interpretation of its first generation products as numerous body plans at the highest level. Four phenetic and two cladistic measures have been used to compare disparity among Cambrian arthropods with that in the living fauna. Phenetic methods assessing character-state variability and the amount of morphological attribute space occupied yield similar results for Cambrian and Recent arthropods. Assessments of disparity within a taxonomic framework rely on the identification of particular characters that delineate higher level body plans. This requires a phylogenetic interpretation, a cladistic investigation of hierarchical structure in the data. Both sets of arthropods fall within the same major clades, and within this cladistic framework the amount of character-state evolution in the two groups is comparable. None of these methods identifies markedly greater disparity among the Cambrian compared with the Recent taxa. Although measures of disparity are applied here to a consideration of the Cambrian radiation, the metrics clearly have a much wider potential for estimating macroevolutionary trends independently from existing taxonomic frameworks. Geometric morphometry is ideal for measuring morphological variety at lower taxonomic levels, but it requires the recognition of homologous landmarks in all the forms under comparison, or the identification of entire homologous structures. Conventional phenetics has much wider application as it can operate on data coded as discrete homologous character states (this facility is also a requirement of cladistics), which are a more appropriate basis for comparing disparity in markedly dissimilar forms.
2666109|Living crocodilians (Crocodylia) and birds (Neornithes) differ in many aspects of hind-limb anatomy and locomotor function. How did this disparity evolve? We integrate information from fossils with functional descriptions of locomotion in living crocodilians and birds, using a phylogenetic perspective. We then outline the major changes in three-dimensional control of the hip joint along the line from the ancestral archosaur to birds. Our analysis reveals that most aspects of hip morphology and function in Alligator are ancestral for Archosauria. Femoral protractors and retractors are located cranial and caudal to the hip, respectively. Similarly, femoral adductors and abductors are located ventral and dorsal to the hip. Transformations of this ancestral pattern on the line to birds involved modifications in osteology, myology, and neural control. In some cases, homologous muscles changed function by acquiring new activity patterns. In others, activity was conserved, but origins and/or insertions were altered. Fossil theropods document the stepwise evolution of a novel mechanism of limb adduction/abduction involving long-axis rotation of the femur. This mechanism accounts for the conspicuous absence of significant musculature ventral and dorsal to the hip joint in extant birds.
20445591|Sauropod dinosaurs were the largest terrestrial animals and their growth rates remain a subject of debate. By counting growth lines in histologic sections and relating bone length to body mass, it has been estimated that Apatosaurus attained its adult body mass of about 25,000 kg in as little as 15 years, with a maximum growth rate over 5000 kg/yr. This rate exceeds that projected for a precocial bird or eutherian mammal of comparable estimated body mass. An alternative method of estimating limb length and body mass for each growth line, and fitting the resulting age/mass data to the von Bertalanffy growth equation, yields a revised growth curve suggesting that Apatosaurus adult mass was reached by 70 years with a maximum growth rate of 520 kg/yr. This alternative method for growth rate determination can also be applied to histological studies of other sauropods. At only about half the mass of Apatosaurus, Janenschia took between 20 and 30 years to attain its adult size (over 14,000 kg). This result is supported by independent evidence of estimated bone apposition rates. Despite having an adult body mass greater than Apatosaurus, the titanosaurid Alamosaurus attained a mass over 32,000 kg within 45 years and a maximum growth rate of 1000 kg/yr. Titanosaurids may have been the fastest growing of all sauropods. Even so, sauropod growth rate estimates produced using the von Bertalanffy equation fall between those projected for reptiles and those for precocial birds of equivalent projected body mass. These results are comparable to those found for smaller dinosaurs, and suggest that sauropods grew at rates similar to other dinosaurs in spite of their great size.
41432803|Analysis of a global elevation database to measure changes in shallow-marine habitat area as a function of sea level reveals an unexpectedly complicated relationship. In contrast to prevailing views, sea level rise does not consistently generate an increase in shelf area, nor does sea level fall consistently reduce shelf area. Different depth-defined habitats on the same margin will experience different changes in area for the same sea level change, and different margins will likewise experience different changes in area for the same sea level change. Simple forward models incorporating a species-area relationship suggest that the diversity response to sea level change will be largely idiosyncratic. The change in habitat area is highly dependent on the starting position of sea level, the amount and direction of sea level change, and the habitat and region in question. Such an idiosyncratic relationship between diversity and sea level reconciles the widespread evidence from the fossil record for a link between diversity and sea level change with the lack of quantitative support for such a relationship throughout the Phanerozoic.
2400694|A simple theoretical argument shows that the evolutionary process will look gradual if it is considered on too fine or too coarse a time scale. There exists an intermediate time scale in which the distribution of evolutionary rates will appear as bimodal.
2401075|Scleractinian corals first appeared during Triassic time in tropical shallow water environments. Controversy surrounds the paleoecology of scleractinian corals of the Late Triassic. Were they like their living counterparts, capable of supporting reefs, or had they not yet coevolved the important association with zooxanthellae that facilitated reef growth and construction? Indirect evidence suggests that some Upper Triassic corals from the Tethys played important constructional roles as reef builders within tropical carbonate complexes of the Tethys. To evaluate this idea, we have employed a geochemical approach based on isotope fractionation to ascertain if Late Triassic corals once possessed zooxanthellae. We have determined evidence for the ancient presence of algal symbiosis in 13 species of Triassic scleratinians from reef complexes in Turkey and northern Italy. In contrast, two higher latitude Jurassic species used as a control group for isotope analysis, lacked isotopic indications of symbiosis. These findings, together with stratigraphic and paleoecologic criteria, support the contention that Late Triassic scleractinian corals inhabiting shallow-water carbonate complexes of the Tethys were predominantly zooxanthellate, like their living counterparts from present day reefs. We view the zooxanthellate condition in calcifying reef organisms as a necessary prerequisite for constructional reef development. Our results emphasize the power of stable isotope studies in helping to answer paleobiological questions.
1571661|We compare refined data sets for Atlantic benthic foraminiferal oxygen isotope ratios and for North American mammalian diversity, faunal turnover, and body mass distributions. Each data set spans the late Paleocene through Pleistocene and has temporal resolution of 1.0 m.y.; the mammal data are restricted to western North America. We use the isotope data to compute five separate time series: oxygen isotope ratios at the midpoint of each 1.0-m.y. bin; changes in these ratios across bins; absolute values of these changes (= isotopic volatility); standard deviations of multiple isotope measurements within each bin; and standard deviations that have been detrended and corrected for serial correlation. For the mammals, we compute 12 different variables: standing diversity at the start of each bin; per-lineage origination and extinction rates; total turnover; net diversification; the absolute value of net diversification (= diversification volatility); change in proportional representation of major orders, as measured by a simple index and by a G-statistic; and the mean, standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis of body mass. Simple and liberal statistical analyses fail to show any consistent relationship between any two isotope and mammalian time series, other than some unavoidable correlations between a few untransformed, highly autocorrelated time series like the raw isotope and mean body mass curves. Standard methods of detrending and differencing remove these correlations. Some of the major climate shifts indicated by oxygen isotope records do correspond to major ecological and evolutionary transitions in the mammalian biota, but the nature of these correspondences is unpredictable, and several other such transitions occur at times of relatively little global climate change. We conclude that given currently available climate records, we cannot show that the impact of climate change on the broad patterns of mammalian evolution involves linear forcings; instead, we see only the relatively unpredictable effects of a few major events. Over the scale of the whole Cenozoic, intrinsic, biotic factors like logistic diversity dynamics and within-lineage evolutionary trends seem to be far more important.
1571663|Functional analysis of fossils is and should remain a key component of paleobiological research. Despite recently expressed doubts, conceptual and methodological developments over the past 25 years indicate that robust and testable claims about function can be produced. Functional statements can be made in at least three different hierarchical contexts, corresponding to the degree of structural information available, the position in the phylogenetic hierarchy, and the degree of anatomical specificity. The paradigm approach, which dominated thinking about function in the 1960s and 1970s, has been supplanted with a methodology based on biomechanics. Paleobiomechanics does not assume optimality in organismal design, but determines whether structures were capable of carrying out a given function. The paradigm approach can best be viewed as a way of generating, rather than testing, functional hypotheses. Hypotheses about function can also be developed and supported by well-corroborated phylogenetic arguments. Additional functional evidence can be derived from studies of trace fossils and of taphonomy. New computer techniques, including "Artificial Life" studies, have the potential for producing far more detailed ideas about function and mode of life than have been previously possible. Functional analysis remains the basis for studies of the history of adaptation. It is also an essential component of many paleoecological and paleoenvironmental studies.
2400315|The hypothesis is proposed that mean level of heterozygosity is functionally related to rate of speciation in evolutionary phylads. Under this hypothesis, phylads which speciate more rapidly do so because of increased level of within-species genetic variability which is then available to conversion to species differences under appropriate ecological or environmental conditions. An important corollary is that rate of speciation could be limited in phylads with low genetic variability, irrespective of environmental considerations. This hypothesis has been tested with respect to electrophoretically detectable variation in products of structural genes in two families of North American fishes characterized by grossly different rates of speciation. Totals of 69 species of the highly speciose Cyprinidae, and 19 species of the relatively depauperate Centrarchidae, were assayed for mean level of heterozygosity at 11-24 genetic loci. Since Cyprinidae and Centrarchidae exhibit on the average nearly identical levels of genie variation (H = 0.052 \pm 0.004, and \hat{H] = 0.049  0.009, respectively), the hypothesis that level of heterozygosity affects rate of speciation in these fishes is not supported. Nonetheless, the amount of genie variability in both Cyprinidae and Centrarchidae is large, comparable to mean levels in previously studied vertebrates. The great wealth of genome variability, reflected in the electrophoretic variation present in virtually all outcrossing organisms, apparently can accommodate considerable flexibility in rate and pattern of evolutionary response to the various environmental regimes challenging organisms.
4096950|The emergence of shell forms in the growth of foraminifera is an essential problem in the morphogenesis of these microorganisms. We present a model of foraminiferal shells that applies a moving-reference system. Previous models have referred to fixed-reference axes and have neglected apertures. Our model focuses on real morphologic characteristics and follows stepwise natural biological processes. It introduces apertures based on minimization of the local communication path and applies three parameters, which are either predetermined or selected at random from given ranges. Expression of stochastic parameters mimics phenotypic variability of a shell. We also present a detailed description of the method with examples of simulated shells and the first step toward analyses of the theoretical morphospace. The morphospace is divided into certain regions (phases) separated by transitional planes (phase transitions). Further prospects for foraminiferal modeling, which should focus on more in-depth models based on realistic intracellular dynamics, are also presented.
2400928|The Quaternary ice ages were paced by astronomical cycles with periodicities of 20-100 k.y. (Milankovitch cycles). These cycles have been present throughout earth history. The Quaternary fossil record, marine and terrestrial, near to and remote from centers of glaciation, shows that communities of plants and animals are temporary, lasting only a few thousand years at the most. Response of populations to the climatic changes of Quaternary Milankovitch cycles can be taken as typical of the way populations have behaved throughout earth history. Milankovitch cycles thus force an instability of climate and other aspects of the biotic and abiotic environment on time scales much less than typical species durations (1-30 m.y.). Any microevolutionary change that accumulates on a time scale of thousands of years is likely to be lost as communities are reorganized following climatic changes. A four-tier hierarchy of time scales for evolutionary processes can be constructed as follows: ecological time (thousands of years), Milankovitch cycles (20-100 k.y.), geological time (millions of years), mass extinctions (approximately 26 m.y.). "Ecological time" and "geological time" are defined temporally as the intervals between events of the second and fourth tiers, respectively. Gould's (1985) "paradox of the first tier" can be resolved, at least in part, through the undoing of Darwinian natural selection at the first tier by Milankovitch cycles at the second tier.
2400389|Recent Nautilus pompilius from the Fiji Islands and N. macromaphalus from New Caledonia show decreasing cameral liquid volumes relative to total phragmocone volume during ontogeny. A maximal value of 32% of the phragmocone filled with cameral liquid was measured from a 190 g N. pompilius. No specimens of over 500 g total weight of either species exceeded 12%. These figures are in contrast to values derived for seven ammonoid species by Heptonstall (1970), who found values ranging between 19 and 52%. The relationship between cameral liquid volume and salinity within single chambers engaged in the emptying process are examined in N. pompilius and N. macromphalus. Both species start with newly formed chambers filled with cameral liquid isotonic to seawater. Ionic removal by the siphuncular epithelium rapidly reduces the cameral liquid osmolarity, producing osmotic movement of the cameral liquid into the blood spaces of the siphuncle. In both species the lowest cameral liquid salinities occur when the chamber is slightly over half emptied. After this point, which coincides with decoupling of the cameral liquid from the siphuncle, cameral liquid volume continues to decrease, but cameral liquid salinity increases, indicating that the rate of ionic removal slows relative to liquid removal. In N. macromphalus decoupled cameral liquid salinity rises until it is nearly isotonic to seawater when the chamber is nearly emptied. In N. pompilius, however, the rate of ion removal in decoupled cameral liquid is not slowed as much as in N. macromphalus, since it rarely exceeds 40% seawater osmolarity even when the chamber is nearly emptied. The differences in emptying methods demonstrated in these two species are probably related to their different habitat depths: N. pompilius from Fiji is found in much deeper water and must employ more physiologic work to empty chambers at greater depth.
2401227|Many areas of paleobiological research require reliable extinction metrics. Branching-and-extinction simulations and data on Phanerozoic marine families and genera are used to investigate the relationship between interval length and commonly used extinction metrics. Normalization of extinction metrics for interval length is problematic, even when interval length is known without error, because normalization implicitly assumes some model of variation in extinction risk within an interval. If extinction risk within an interval were constant, or if it varied but played no role in the definition of stratigraphic intervals, then Van Valen's time-normalized extinction metric would provide a measure of average extinction risk that is effectively unbiased by interval length. When extinction risk varies greatly within an interval and interval boundaries are drawn at times of heavy extinction, extinction metrics that normalize for interval length are negatively correlated with interval length. Despite its intuitive appeal, the per-taxon extinction rate (proportional extinction per million years) is biased by interval length under a wide range of extinction models. Empirically, time-normalized extinction metrics for Phanerozoic families and genera are negatively correlated with interval length. This is consistent with an extinction model in which many times of very low risk are punctuated by a few times of very high risk which in turn determine stage boundaries. Origination and extinction patterns are similar, but origination intensity varies less among stages than extinction intensity. This observation has at least two plausible explanations: that origination episodes are more protracted than extinction episodes, and that biologic groups do not respond in unison to origination opportunities the way they seem to respond during extinction events. For families and genera, there is enough variation in extinction intensity among stages that stage length can be ignored when studying certain extinction patterns over the entire Phanerozoic.
2400458|At present there are many animal phyla that contain only a few species. The existence of these small phyla can be used to test assumptions about speciation and extinction in multicellular animals. We first model the number of species in a monophyletic clade with a birth and death process that assumes rates of speciation and extinction are constant. If no new phyla have evolved since the Cambrian and speciation and extinction rates for minor phyla are similar to or greater than those estimated from fossils, then our model shows that the probabilities of minor phyla surviving to the present are small. Random variation in extinction and speciation rates does not improve the chances for persistence. If speciation rates exceed extinction rates at the initial radiation of the clade, but before the clade becomes large, speciation rates come to equal extinction rates and both are low, persistence from before the Ordovician up to the present becomes likely These models show that if speciation and extinction rates are independent of the number of species in a clade, then conditions before the Ordovician strongly influence today's distribution of species among taxa. We also discuss a model in which speciation and extinction rates depend on the number of species in a clade. This alternative model can account for the persistence of phyla with few species to the present and predicts a short duration for phyla that did not exceed a threshold number of species.
2400136|Taxonomic survivorship curves may reflect stratigraphic as well as biologic factors. The approximately lognormal distribution of lengths of Phanerozoic time intervals produces an error in the estimation of taxonomic durations that is also lognormally distributed. As demonstrated by several simulated examples, this error may cause concave taxonomic survivorship curves to appear linear, especially if the maximum durations involved are relatively short. The error of estimation also makes highly concave taxonomic survivorship curves virtually unrecognizable. Incomplete sampling of the fossil record, on the other hand, may not be a serious problem in survivorship analysis. Simulated paleontological sampling employing a simple model suggests that survivorship curves tend to retain their original shapes even when as few as 20% of the taxa have been discovered. However, concave taxonomic survivorship curves tend to lose their concavity as efficiency of sampling declines.
2400627|The effect of preservational quality on paleoecologic studies is evaluated quantitatively by using data from 83 fossil collections. These collections are from a restricted Cretaceous time interval (Haustator bilira Assemblage Zone) of Maestrichtian Age and are from the Eastern Gulf Coastal Plain Province. In all, 32,335 specimens were identified, resulting in recognition of 643 different taxa. Each collection was categorized into one of six preservational types, ranging from those in which both aragonite and calcite shells are well preserved to those having only calcite shells preserved. Statistical comparisons reveal that preservation affects the faunal makeup of these collections. Specifically, collections in which both aragonite and calcite are well preserved have more taxa than collections of poorer preservational quality and contain faunal elements not found in other collections. These two effects can confound paleoecologic studies of endemism, eurytopy vs. stenotopy, species longevity and other studies of the distribution of organisms in space and time. These effects are especially significant for studies based on presence/absence data, such as published faunal lists and selectively collected samples. In such studies, collections of good preservational quality may be interpreted to represent strata of high diversity, taxa having the more durable hard parts will appear to be widespread and long ranging, and taxa that are preserved only in collections of the best preservational quality will appear stenotopic, endemic, and rare.
4096966|Do mass extinctions grade continuously into the background extinctions occurring throughout the history of life, or are they a fundamentally distinct phenomenon that cannot be explained by processes responsible for background extinction? Various criteria have been proposed for addressing this question, including approaches based on physical mechanisms, ecological selectivity, and statistical characterizations of extinction intensities. Here I propose a framework defining three types of continuity of mass and background extinctions-continuity of cause, continuity of effect, and continuity of magnitude. I test the third type of continuity with a statistical method based on kernel density estimation. Previous statistical approaches typically have examined quantitative characteristics of mass extinctions (such as metrics of extinction intensity) and compared them with the distribution of such characteristics associated with background extinctions. If mass extinctions are outliers, or are separated by a gap from background extinctions, the distinctness of mass extinctions is supported. In this paper I apply Silverman's Critical Bandwidth Test to test for the continuity of mass extinctions by applying kernel density estimation and bootstrap modality testing. The method improves on existing work based on searching for gaps in histograms, in that it does not depend on arbitrary choices of parameters (such as bin widths for histograms), and provides a direct estimate of the significance of continuities or gaps in observed extinction intensities. I am thus able to test rigorously whether differences between mass extinctions and background extinctions are statistically significant. I apply the methodology to Sepkoski's database of Phanerozoic marine genera. I conclude that mass and background extinctions appear to be continuous at this third level-continuity of magnitude-even though evidence suggests that they are discontinuous at the first and second levels.
2400934|Fossil leaves and palynomorphs represent different phases of the plant life cycle, are studied as systematically independent entities, and are subject to different taphonomic, sampling, and recognition biases in the paleobotanical record. They thus provide parallel, and largely independent, documentation of long-term trends in land plant diversity, and the palynological record may be used as a comparative test of floristic trends inferred from macrofossil evidence. Analyses of relative "species" richness in 91 macrofossil and 860 palynomorph Cretaceous "floras" (assemblages) from between 25
2666003|The North African murine rodent Paraethomys evolved as an anagenetic lineage from the late Miocene until its extinction in the late-middle Pleistocene. A Fourier analysis of the outlines of the first upper and lower molars of this rodent was used to quantify the evolutionary patterns of this lineage and to compare evolutionary patterns to the climatic record. Morphological evolution and long-term environmental variations are strongly correlated. A change in molar shape, which may be related to the development of a more grass-eating diet, corresponds to the global cooling beginning around 3 Ma and the subsequent increase in aridity in North Africa. Concurrently, size increased, which may be related to increased masticatory efficiency or to metabolic adaptation to the cooler environmental conditions according to Bergmann's rule. This adaptive response to changing environmental conditions corresponds to an acceleration of evolutionary rates in the lineage. The modalities of the evolutionary response in size and shape are probably controlled by intrinsic factors such as different genetic determinisms for both characters.
2400639|Data on numbers of marine families within 91 metazoan classes known from the Phanerozoic fossil record are analyzed. The distribution of the 2800 fossil families among the classes is very uneven, with most belonging to a small minority of classes. Similarly, the stratigraphic distribution of the classes is very uneven, with most first appearing early in the Paleozoic and with many of the smaller classes becoming extinct before the end of that era. However, despite this unevenness, a Q-mode factor analysis indicates that the structure of these data is rather simple. Only three factors are needed to account for more than 90% of the data. These factors are interpreted as reflecting the three great "evolutionary faunas" of the Phanerozoic marine record: a trilobite-dominated Cambrian fauna, a brachiopod-dominated later Paleozoic fauna, and a mollusc-dominated Mesozoic-Cenozoic, or "modern," fauna. Lesser factors relate to slow taxonomic turnover within the major faunas through time and to unique aspects of particular taxa and times. Each of the three major faunas seems to have its own characteristic diversity so that its expansion or contraction appears as being intimately associated with a particular phase in the history of total marine diversity. The Cambrian fauna expands rapidly during the Early Cambrian radiations and maintains dominance during the Middle to Late Cambrian "equilibrium." The Paleozoic fauna then ascends to dominance during the Ordovician radiations, which increase diversity dramatically; this new fauna then maintains dominance throughout the long interval of apparent equilibrium that lasts until the end of the Paleozoic Era. The modern fauna, which slowly increases in importance during the Paleozoic Era, quickly rises to dominance with the Late Permian extinctions and maintains that status during the general rise in diversity to the apparent-maximum in the Neogene. The increase in diversity associated with the expansion of each new fauna appears to coincide with an approximately exponential decline of the previously dominant fauna, suggesting possible displacement of each evolutionary fauna by its successor.
2400198|A computer simulation was developed which estimates the effects of differential preservation on the value of taxonomic diversity in fossil assemblages. Taxonomic diversity was measured with the Shannon-Weaver index, H' and with evenness, J. Preservation markedly alters quantitative measurements of taxonomic diversity. The degree of alteration can, however, be predicted on the basis of the species-abundance distribution and on the distributions of species of varying preservability. The indices of diversity H' and J measure different aspects of diversity, but respond to differential preservation in a similar manner. Evenness, J, is recommended for paleoecologic use. The computer model can be used to revise fossil diversity data. A simple form of such a model has been used, and suggests that some previous interpretations of paleoecologic diversity may be in error.
2400712|Fine-scale sampling and analysis of fossiliferous sequences have been used in the debate over gradual vs. punctuated evolutionary transitions between species. The time scale and completeness of these studied sequences can be evaluated using criteria based on compilations of sedimentation rates over different time spans. A set of procedures, herein termed "resolution analysis," provides the means for estimating the time scale and quality of sequences from which evolutionary patterns are distilled. Seven such published studies are evaluated with these procedures. In general, most fossil sequences are too incomplete on fine time scales to show changes operating within a standing population. Short segments of some sequences have the potential to document nearly complete morphological histories on time scales approaching generation-to-generation processes. Resolution analysis is a necessary step in inferences regarding fossil evidence of evolutionary tempo and mode. Stratigraphic incompleteness necessarily results from the episodic nature of sedimentation. Many stratigraphic gaps result from minor, temporary shifts in sediment distribution, though other, more profound gaps result from changes in habitat conditions that must have had an effect on local biotic distribution. Analyzing paleontological patterns involves not only the positive evidence provided by fossiliferous strata, but also the negative evidence left as gaps by shifting habitat conditions. Thus, incomplete sequences may not be "flawed" records of continuous populations. Incomplete sequences may be a faithful, literal record of separate populations separated in time by local extinctions and re-invasions.
2400807|A computer model of background and mass extinctions in a taxonomic hierarchy has been used to study the effects of different extinction patterns in a search for clues as to the causes of actual extinction events. Model taxa at four levels were built up from speciation events in adaptive space according to rules of origination which seem plausible biologically. The frequency distribution of species among the three higher taxonomic levels in the model is similar to that in living marine taxa which have good fossil records. Three mass extinction patterns were imposed on the model after species diversity had attained equilibrium (i.e., when speciation = background extinction): random; bloc (contiguous niches were cleared); and clade (all members of selected higher taxa were removed). Effects on the taxonomic profile varied with pattern. Four of the five historical mass extinctions resemble the effects of the random pattern. End-Permian families were harder hit than those in the random model, but this may be a result of an extremely high species extinction level. It is concluded that the effect of extinctions on the taxonomic hierarchy provides a tool to help in understanding extinction causes.
2400826|New evidence from fossil plants at the Middle Miocene fossil quarry near Fort Ternan, Kenya, together with that from paleosols, allow reconstruction of a mosaic of early successional woodland (on Dhero paleosols), grassy woodland (on Chogo clay eroded phase and ferruginized nodule variant paleosols) and wooded grassland (on type Chogo and Onuria clay paleosols). This grassy open vegetation was on a high plateau of phonolite at the foot of a carbonatite-nephelinite stratovolcano, which probably supported dry Afromontane forest, alpine meadows, and marsh. This earliest savanna-mosaic vegetation yet documented from Africa, was probably recruited from dry lateritic soils elsewhere in Africa during climatic drying and cooling some 15 Ma. These early grassland ecosystems were very different from Early Miocene forest ecosystems of East Africa, but not altogether like modern grasslands either. Already present were grasses with dense growth and rich in silica bodies, and abundant antelope with moderately high crowned teeth and cursorial limb structure. These mammalian adaptations to grasslands, however, were not nearly so pronounced as they are in modern African grassland faunas, which include zebra and other Asiatic immigrants, as well as antelope. Grasses of the subfamily Chloridoideae and supertribe Panicanae were common in tropical Africa by Middle Miocene time, if not much earlier, but there is not yet evidence so far back in time for the grass supertribe Andropogonae which is now dominant in seasonally arid, overgrazed, and burned African grasslands.
4096819|The purpose of this paper is to explore the possibility and utility of estimating multivariate selection in fossil assemblages, using naticid gastropods as a case study. We used the presence or the absence of a naticid borehole as an index of survival with respect to drilling attacks, enabling us to estimate the multivariate selection gradient exerted by this predator on the shell length and shell thickness of two bivalve genera, Astarte and Spisula. We hypothesized that naticid selection pressure would favor the survival of large, thick-shelled bivalve prey throughout the Cenozoic. Differential survival of prey was recorded over geologic time using processed bulk assemblages from the Miocene, Pliocene, and Pleistocene Epochs. Multivariate logistic regressions were performed by time period to determine if length and thickness were important factors affecting survival. The direction and magnitude of selection on length and thickness for the two genera ranged from zero (no selection) to large positive or negative values. Only two selection coefficients were significant after sequential Bonferroni corrections: thin-shelled Astarte survived substantially better than thick-shelled Astarte during the Pleistocene
2400475|Shape measurements have been made on planktonic foraminifera from a South Pacific Late Miocene to Recent temperate evolutionary lineage (Globorotalia conoidea through intermediate forms to G. inflata in DSDP Site 284). The sampling interval is about 0.1 Myr over nearly 8 Myr. Gradual evolution (phyletic gradualism) clearly occurs in all but one measured parameter. No clear evidence exists for abrupt evolutionary steps (punctuated equilibria) within the bioseries. If they occur, they are the exception rather than the rule. The number of chambers in the final whorl decreases almost linearly, despite known paleoceanographic oscillations within the temperate water mass. Mean size and apertural shape variations seem to correlate with paleoceanographic change. It is speculated that certain major morphological changes that took place within this evolutionary bioseries (i.e. loss of keel, rounding of periphery) developed in response to a major latest Miocene cooling, associated with instability in the water column and resulting adjustments of the test structure to water density changes. Changes exhibited in shape measurements may offer a precise method of stratigraphic correlation between temperate South Pacific Late Cenozoic sequences. Four species and two subspecies, long recognized to form the basis of this lineage, are redefined biometrically.
2400411|The shape and arrangement of cusps and crests and the orientation of wear striations on the cheek teeth of fossil mammals can be used to reconstruct occlusal patterns. Occlusal patterns have been documented previously in a variety of therian mammals and also in triconodonts and docodonts among nontherians. This is the first detailed analysis of patterns of jaw movement and dental function in a member of the highly specialized nontherian order Multituberculata (Allotheria). Ptilodus, a Paleocene multituberculate, appears to have had two cycles of mastication that followed different paths of movement and utilized different sets of teeth. The first cycle, the slicing-crushing cycle, occurred as the large, laterally-compressed fourth lower premolar (P
2666047|We show that the decline in the extinction rate during the Phanerozoic can be accurately described by a logarithmic fit to the cumulative total extinction. This implies that extinction intensity is falling off approximately as the reciprocal of time. We demonstrate that this observation alone is sufficient to explain the existence of the proposed power-law forms in the distribution of the sizes of extinction events and in the power spectrum of Phanerozoic extinction, results that previously have been explained by appealing to self-organized critical theories of evolutionary dynamics.
2400879|After having been very abundant in the Early Maastrichtian Globotruncana gansseri zone, Inoceramus remains disappear from five stratigraphic sections in the Basque region of France and Spain in the lower Abathomphalus mayaroensis zone, 2.5 m.y. before the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary. Several lines of evidence demonstrate that these shell fragments are preserved in place and accurately record the pattern of the decline and disappearance of the group. The dominant taphonomic process seems to have been passive disaggregation of the shell as shell proteins decayed. The resulting shell fragments were dispersed only locally by burrowing organisms. Shell fragments decline in abundance over tens of meters of section and there are subtle differences between sections which suggests Inoceramus was eliminated by gradual changes in ecological conditions that affected the basin roughly simultaneously but with some geographic variability.
41684610|The Westermann Morphospace method displays fundamental morphotypes and hypothesized life modes of measured ammonoid fossils in a ternary diagram. It quantitatively describes shell shape, without assumption of theoretical coiling laws, in a single, easy-to-read diagram. This allows direct comparison between data sets presented in Westermann Morphospace, making it an ideal tool to communicate morphology. By linking measured shells to hypothesized life modes, the diagram estimates ecospace occupation of the water column. Application of this new method is demonstrated with Mesozoic data sets from monographs. Temporal variation, intraspecies variation, and ontogenetic variation are considered. This method can address hypothetical ecospace occupation in collections with tight stratigraphie, lithologie, and abundance control, even when taxonomy is in dispute.
40926785|All else being equal, species with short life spans are expected to be overrepresented in time-averaged death assemblages relative to their standing abundance in the living community, but the magnitude of the distortion of proportional abundance and assemblage evenness has received little attention. Here, information from 30 data sets on the living and dead abundances of marine bivalves in local habitats is combined with a global compilation of bivalve life spans to determine whether bias from mortality rate can explain observed differences in species proportional abundances. Although bivalve maximum life spans range from one to 75 years in these data sets, indicating annual mortality rates of 0.97 to 0.09, the "life span bias" (LB) of a speciesthe difference between its proportional abundance expected dead and that observed aliveis consistently small in magnitude (average change < 2%, maximum about 20%) and random in sign relative to observed discordance (OD = difference between that species' proportional abundance observed dead and that observed alive). The aggregate result for 413 living species occurrences is a significantly positive but weak correlation of OD to LB, with only 10% of variation in OD explained. The model performs better among longer-lived species than among shorter-lived species, probably because longer-lived species conform better to the model assumption that species maintain a constant proportional abundance in the living assemblage over time. Among individual data sets, only seven exhibit significant positive correlations between OD and LB. The model also under-predicts the cases where a death assemblage is dominated by a species that is shorter lived than the dominant species in the living assemblage, indicating that some factor(s) other than or in addition to mortality rate is responsible for OD. We can find no evidence of preservational bias linked to life span, for example through body size. This negative outcome reflects a weak biological relationship between life span and living abundance among bivalves in local habitats, contrary to the terrestrial paradigm, and points toward a simpler model of time-averaged death assemblage formation where higher abundances reflect (undersampled) past populations. Contrary to long-held expectations, variation in population turnover among species is not a major source of taphonomic bias in time-averaged death assemblages among bivalves and perhaps among other marine groups: bias must arise largely from other factors.
2400956|The unique holotype of the Triassic reptile Sharovipteryx (initially Podopteryx) mirabilis has been reexamined and redescribed, correcting the original account. It is a small lizard-like reptile with an elongate head and densely tubular femur and tibia each longer than the (estimated) intergirdle distance. (Part of the pectoral region has been lost and the remnants remain encased in the matrix.) The matrix retains the impression of portions of the integument, including a patagium that reached from the hindlimbs to the base of the tail. Unlike the original account, the patagium did not extend to the pectoral limbs. Experiments with models indicate that Sharovipteryx could have maintained a shallow glide if the femora were held at a shallow angle to the vertebral column and the tibia and feet extended out at right angles to it, thus stretching the integument. The pectoral limbs (with or without a fringing membrane) might have produced a variable canard; alternatively vertical bending of the tail could have applied drag, each making the glide more stable.
23014731|Species selection has received a great deal of theoretical attention but it has rarely been empirically tested. It is important to determine the level of selection that operated during a particular extinction event because it can help distinguish between traits that were actually responsible for extinction and those that were merely correlated with it. Here, we present a test that can help distinguish between organismal and species-level selection, which we demonstrate using the high-resolution fossil record of planktonic foraminifera species recorded in deep-sea sediment cores. Our test examines the fate of survivors and victims during the Cretaceous/Paleogene (K/Pg) mass extinction within single geographic regions, where all individuals experience the same selection pressures. Selection at the organismal level implies that individual members of surviving species are more fit than those of victimized species, and therefore should be more likely to survive in affected areas; conversely, selection at the species level implies individuals will suffer equally within an affected area. We find that survivors of the mass extinction suffered very high extirpation rates in cores where the overall extinction rate was high, indicating that individual members of the surviving species were generally no more fit than individual members of extinct species. Rather, these species were able to survive because they possessed advantageous species-level traits, such as larger geographic ranges and greater abundances than victimized species. This geographic pattern of extirpation suggests that selection operated at the species, rather than organismal, level during the K/Pg mass extinction of planktonic foraminifera.
40926780|When assessing the timing of branching events in a phylogeny, the most important tools currently recognized are a reliable molecular phylogeny and a continuous, relatively complete fossil record. Coralline algae (Rhodophyta, Corallinales, and Sporolithales) constitute an ideal group for this endeavor because of their excellent fossil record and their consistent phylogenetic reconstructions. We present the evolutionary history of the corallines following a novel, combined approach using their fossil record, molecular phylogeny (based on the 18S rDNA gene sequences of 39 coralline species), and molecular clocks. The order of appearance of the major monophyletic taxa of corallines in the fossil record perfectly matches the sequence of branching events in the phylogeny. We were able to demonstrate the robustness of the node ages in the phylogeny based on molecular clocks by performing an analysis of confidence intervals and maximum temporal ranges of three monophyletic groups of corallines (the families Sporolithaceae and Hapalidiaceae, as well as the subfamily Lithophylloideae). The results demonstrate that their first occurrences are close to their observed appearances, a clear indicator of a very complete stratigraphie record. These chronological data are used to confidently constrain the ages of the remaining branching events in the phylogeny using molecular clocks.
2400450|The distribution of species abundance (number of individuals per species) is well documented. The distribution of species occurrence (number of localities per species), however, has received little attention. This study investigates the distribution of species occurrence for five large data sets. For modern benthic foraminifera, species occurrence is examined from the Atlantic continental margin of North America, where 875 species were recorded 10,017 times at 542 localities, the Gulf of Mexico, where 848 species were recorded 18,007 times at 426 localities, and the Caribbean, where 1149 species were recorded 6684 times at 268 localities. For Late Cretaceous molluscs, species occurrence is examined from the Gulf Coast where 716 species were recorded 6236 times at 166 localities and a subset of this data consisting of 643 species recorded 3851 times at 86 localities. Logseries and lognormal distributions were fitted to these data sets. In most instances the logseries best predicts the distribution of species occurrence. The lognormal, however, also fits the data fairly well, and, in one instance, better. The use of these distributions allows the prediction of the number of species occurring once, twice, ..., n times. Species abundance data are also available for the molluscan data sets. They indicate that the most abundant species (greatest number of individuals) usually occur most frequently. In all data sets approximately half the species occur four or less times. The probability of noting the presence of rarely occurring species is small, and, consequently, such species must be used with extreme caution in studies requiring knowledge of the distribution of species in space and time.
2400581|A preliminary report is presented documenting the evolution of the Globorotalia crassaformis (Galloway and Wissler) lineage from the Early Pliocene G. cibaoensis (Bermudez) in Hydraulic Piston Core 72/516 on the Rio Grande Rise (western South Atlantic). A new technique, eigenshape analysis, is used to describe the gross changes in morphology, and the use of "Raupian" analysis of expansion rates, angular displacement, position relative to coiling axis, and translation rates of chambers is suggested as a useful vehicle for inferring the geometric causes of observed evolutionary changes. These changes include size increase, decrease in the number of chambers per whorl, inflation, reduction of relative height of aperture, and increase in the peripheral angle. The sequence is judged to be an example of phyletic gradualism.
2400355|A scanning electron microscope survey of the regular echinoid test reveals that the outer surface of its component coronal plates may be sculptured with a fine-relief ornament that is species-characteristic for those species presently surveyed. Structural resemblances in surface ornamentation are more marked in species living in similar habitats than in those species that are apparently phyletically related. Plate ornament is related to skeletal magnesium levels. It is tentatively suggested that low growth rate echinoids that inhabit "low-energy" environments (and exhibit low total skeletal magnesium levels) and "high-energy" habitat-exploiting species with high growth rates (and relatively high skeletal magnesium levels) may have differential patterns of plate growth that can be distinguished by the degree of ornamentation of the plate surface.
4096955|Short-term fluctuations in the diversification rate of Paleozoic marine animal genera are more strongly correlated with extinction-rate variation than with origination-rate variation. Diversity dynamics are strikingly different in the Mesozoic and Cenozoic, when variation in origination is more important than extinction. Data on the lithologic context of taxonomic occurrences in the Paleobiology Database are used to assess the substrate affinities of Paleozoic genera. The greater role of extinction-rate variation in the Paleozoic is found to characterize genera with an affinity for carbonate substrates but not those that prefer terrigenous clastic substrates. It is therefore plausible that the Paleozoic to post-Paleozoic shift in diversity dynamics is underlain in part by the secular decline in the relative areal extent of carbonate environments, and the concomitant decline in the relative diversity of carbonate- versus clastic-loving taxa.
2401194|Zooids of cheilostome bryozoans are on average substantially more robust than are zooids of cyclostome bryozoans. The differences include greater number, length, and cross-sectional area of tentacles, plus a more extensively developed funiculus. Median values for mouth size and ciliagenerated feeding current velocity are greater for cheilostomes than for cyclostomes so that cheilostomes have the potential for greater intake of nutrient energy per unit time, which may explain their apparently higher growth rates. For unit area of substrate occupied, the Cheilostomata (Class Gymnolaemata; members of the post-Paleozoic fauna) contain greater biomass and apparently generate greater energy flow than do the Cyclostomata, which are the only extant order of the Class Stenolaemata (characteristic of the Paleozoic fauna).
2400877|This analysis examines the evolution of the greater diversity of species with non-planktonic larval types relative to species with planktonic larval types in the turritellid gastropods. This sort of trend has been documented in both the fossil and recent biota of several gastropod families. Two mechanisms for generating diversity gradients in larval types have been proposed in the literature. The first, species selection, focuses on the population biology of larval types. The second proposes that factors in development that are mediated by organismal adaptation are responsible. Turritellids have been cited as a classic example of species selection. In order to examine the relevance of these two proposed mechanisms, a phylogenetic analysis of the turritellids using molecular sequence data was performed to determine the evolution of larval types in this clade. The resultant phylogeny suggests that species selection is not the only process driving the trend toward increasing numbers of non-planktonic species through time. Developmental processes, apart from those involving organismal adaptation (except in the trivial sense), are implicated as playing a role in this trend. In particular, these processes may involve changes in the timing of germ-line sequestration in organisms. Germ-line sequestration governs how accessible organisms are to heritable variation during ontogeny. Embryological evidence from gastropods suggests that non-planktonic species have early germ-line sequestration relative to planktonic species, making them more resistant to developmental change. Thus, non-planktonic lineages will only rarely revert to a planktonic larval mode.
2400593|A range of specialized burrowing sculptures evolved convergently in at least one lingulid and in several obolid and lingulasmatid genera. The sculptures in Lingula punctata (Ordovician) indicate a burrowing process with the pedicle trailing behind the shell, similar to that of Recent Lingulidae. In the Obolidae and Lingulasmatidae, the orientation of the sculptures indicates a burrowing process with the pedicle oriented downward in the sediment. A burrowing mechanism in which the valves alternated in functioning as anchors, without active participation of the pedicle, is proposed for these forms. Infaunal life habits for several obolid genera are further indicated by the shell morphology and by the distribution of repaired shell damage. The burrowing Obolidae are likely to have been adapted to relatively high-energy environments, which required frequent reburrowing in addition to escape (upward) burrowing. The increase in bioturbation in these environments in the Middle Paleozoic may have contributed to their extinction. The Lingulidae, instead, being mostly adapted to extreme environmental conditions, could survive in marginal niches which were not intensively exploited by actively burrowing organisms.
4096986|Multivariate analysis of shell characters and quantification of morphological diversity (morphospace occupation and disparity) are used here to investigate the modes of morphological diversification of ammonites. We define five events in early cardioceratid history that connect geographical changes causing emigration or immigration phases with biodiversity dynamics: (1) the initial colonization of the Arctic Basin by the Cardioceratidae at the end of the Bajocian, Middle Jurassic; (2) the first appearance of the Kosmoceratidae clade in the Boreal Realm during the Bathonian; (3) the ensuing expansion phase of this clade in the Boreal Realm; (4) the first phase of migration of the Cardioceratidae (early Callovian) through Eastern Europe, Western Britain and the Yukon corridor; and (5) the second unrelated migration phase in the Western Interior only. Analysis of spatial occupation shows that acquisition of this field occurs essentially by replacement or subdivision of preexisting peaks of occupation. These replacements seem to follow different patterns: progressive trend, saturation, iteration, and apparent preferential extinction. We describe these patterns and suggest different factors that may have shaped them, including a morphological differentiation that has been interpreted by various authors as sexual dimorphism. Another factor that could cause disparity modification is fluctuations in the ammonites' proximal environment. The effect of immigrating faunas is a third (and preponderant) factor that is prominent in the studied example: immigration phases of the Cardioceratidae lead to increased morphological diversity, whereas the spread of nonindigenous species reduces it and is contemporaneous with a morphological shift in the native clade. We thus demonstrate here that geographical constraints play a significant role in the expression of innovation and may be seen as a major factor in macroevolutionary dynamics.
2400851|Application of multivariate statistical techniques, especially correspondence analysis, results in the recognition of four major communities for the Creede plant assemblages: fir-spruce forest, fir-pine forest, pine-juniper forest or woodland, and mountain mahogany chaparral. Physiognomy of the Creede assemblages indicates a mean annual temperature of <2.5
2400790|Differences in zooid skeletal ontogeny are strongly linked to the distribution of bryozoan species, even along such large-scale environmental gradients as depth and latitude. Three growth patterns broadly characterize zooid formation for encrusting cheilostome bryozoans: zooidal and intrazooidal budding, which facilitate growth in two dimensions at colony margins; and frontal budding, which also permits upward growth in the third dimension. Analyses of skeletal growth patterns of encrusting species present in 230 Recent assemblages from the North Atlantic, Mediterranean, North Sea, and Gulf of Mexico show that species with zooidal budding dominate over-whelmingly at lower latitudes and in shallower water, as assessed by percentages of species within assemblages. In contrast, patterns within moderately diverse fossil assemblages from North America indicate that within the geographic and environmental limits sampled, species with intrazooidal budding once dominated and probably originated in shallow, warm water environments. Intrazooidal budding now occurs with greater relative frequency among species from deeper and higher latitude assemblages. Patterns for frontal budding suggest a slight decrease with increasing depth, but no consistent relationship with latitude. These paleoenvironmental trends occur withn a putatively monophyletic clade and are markedly similar to onshore/offshore trends recognized in other groups of marine benthos, based on patterns of occurrence of supra-specific taxa and novel morphotypes. Results presented here are based on relative dominance of species within assemblages and thus provide a novel comparative test of these previously reported trends.
2400759|Nonparametric randomization tests were used to determine whether fossil marine families classified in different higher taxa are significantly different in their durations, their rates of origination and extinction, and their proportion of originations. For each of these properties, significant differences among orders and classes were found that could not be explained by differences at other taxonomic ranks, but no such differences were found among phyla. Thus, orders and classes appear to possess an evolutionary coherence that phyla lack.
4096843|The siliciclastic succession of the late Neoproterozoic Venetian Group in the White Sea area demonstrates a wide range of lithofacies, some recurring in a vertical succession. Significantly, each lithofacies contains a distinct assemblage of Ediacaran fossils that represents in situ benthic paleocommunities smothered in life position. These lithofacies define (1) a monospecific Inaria assemblage, restricted to the lower-shoreface muds; (2) a Charnia assemblage, within the middle-shoreface graded siltstone-shale couplets; (3) a Dickinsonia-Kimberella assemblage, confined to the interstratified sandstone and shale of prodelta; and (4) a Onegia-Rangea assemblage, preserved within channelized sandstone beds of the distributary-mouth bar. In the White Sea area a strong correlation exists between taxonomic composition, biostratinomic features, and paleoecological context of the Ediacaran fossil assemblages. Facies-controlled distribution is also evident in other Ediacaran localities, demonstrating the recurrence of similar facies relationships on a global scale. This pattern is interpreted as representing Ediacaran biofacies with Avalon-type biotas distributed in deep marine habitats, Ediacara-type biotas inhabiting microbial biofilms in shallow marine prodeltaic settings, and infaunal Nama-type biotas found in distributary-mouth bar shoals. This in turn reveals a marked degree of environmental sensitivity and ecological specialization. Correspondence between depositional environment and taxonomic composition speaks against any obvious biogeographic provinciality of the Ediacaran biotas, and also casts doubt on claims of substantial evolutionary change.
41432165|There is growing evidence that changes in deep-sea benthic ecosystems are modulated by climate changes, but most evidence to date comes from the North Atlantic Ocean. Here we analyze new ostracod and published foraminiferal records for the last 250,000 years on Shatsky Rise in the North Pacific Ocean. Using linear models, we evaluate statistically the ability of environmental drivers (temperature, productivity, and seasonality of productivity) to predict changes in faunal diversity, abundance, and composition. These microfossil data show glacial-interglacial shifts in overall abundances and species diversities that are low during glacial intervals and high during interglacials. These patterns replicate those previously documented in the North Atlantic Ocean, suggesting that the climatic forcing of the deep-sea ecosystem is widespread, and possibly global in nature. However, these results also reveal differences with prior studies that probably reflect the isolated nature of Shatsky Rise as a remote oceanic plateau. Ostracod assemblages on Shatsky Rise are highly endemic but of low diversity, consistent with the limited dispersal potential of these animals. Benthic foraminifera, by contrast, have much greater dispersal ability and their assemblages at Shatsky Rise show diversities typical for deep-sea faunas in other regions. Statistical analyses also reveal ostracod-foraminferal differences in relationships between environmental drivers and biotic change. Rarefied diversity is best explained as a hump-shaped function of surface productivity in ostracods, but as having a weak and positive relationship with temperature in foraminifera. Abundance shows a positive relationship with both productivity and seasonality of productivity in foraminifera, and a hump-shaped relationship with productivity in ostracods. Finally, species composition in ostracods is influenced by both temperature and productivity, but only a temperature effect is evident in foraminifera. Though complex in detail, the global-scale link between deep-sea ecosystems and Quaternary climate changes underscores the importance of the interaction between the physical and biological components of paleoceanographical research for better understanding the history of the biosphere.
2400827|Ecologists attempt to explain species diversity within Recent seabird communities in terms of Recent oceanographic and ecological phenomena. However, many of the principal oceanographic processes that are thought to structure Recent seabird systems are functions of geological processes operating at many temporal and spatial scales. For example, major oceanic currents, such as the North Pacific Gyre, are functions of the relative positions of continents and Antarctic glaciation, whereas regional air masses, submarine topography, and coastline shape affect local processes such as upwelling. I hypothesize that the long-term development of these abiotic processes has influenced the relative diversity and community composition of North Pacific seabirds. To explore this hypothesis, I divided the history of North Pacific seabirds into seven intervals of time. Using published descriptions, I summarized the tectonic and oceanographic events that occurred during each of these time intervals, and related changes in species diversity to changes in the physical environment. Over the past 95 years, at least 94 species of fossil seabirds have been described from marine deposits of the North Pacific. Most of these species are from Middle Miocene through Pliocene (16.0-1.6 Ma) sediments of southern California, although species from Eocene to Early Miocene (52.0-22.0 Ma) deposits are from Japan, British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon. During the history of the North Pacific seabirds, thee were many widespread (global) and local (California Current) oceanographic events, but the underlying physical processes that affected the diversity of seabirds throughout the North Pacific were tectonic changes that led to sequential stages of thermal isolation and refrigeration of Antarctica. Besides these broad-scale phenomena, the uplift of the Isthmus of Panama and the initiation and intensification of coastal upwelling in the California Current directly affected the diversity of seabirds in southern California. For the most part, Middle to Late Miocene and Pliocene seabird faunas from California resembled Recent communities, but with several exceptions: (1) the extreme diversity and abundance, but subsequent extinction of gannets (Morus) and flightless alcids (mancallids); (2) the comparatively low abundance and diversity of cormorants and shags (Phalacrocoracidae) until the Late Pliocene; and (3) the absence of marine Laridae until the Late Pliocene. By affecting both the physical and biological environments, geological factors such as Antarctic glaciation, eustatic changes in sea levels, and local tectonic activities influenced and will continue to influence the structure of seabird systems in the North Pacific.
20445622|Biophysical modeling and morphologic data from the fossil record were used to investigate the functional significance of changes in thallus morphology during the early evolutionary history of dasycladalean algae (dasyclads), a clade of benthic marine macroalgae. Modeling results indicate that the addition of cylindrical appendages (laterals) to an upright main axis, a key morphological innovation in the evolution of dasyclad thallus form, can provide for large gains in light interception efficiency, near-maximum gains in this regard being achieved when the ratio of total lateral surface area to main axis surface area is 4 or greater. Among the 13 early Paleozoic study taxa, all but one was found to exceed this value. Modeling of surface area to volume ratios for early Paleozoic dasyclads indicates that laterals for these forms conveyed only modest gains in this regard and, therefore, likely played little role in improving nutrient uptake. For survivorship, it appears that increasing thallus complexity by developing laterals conveyed important benefits by imparting both compartmentalization and redundancy, thereby increasing the likelihood that lateral-bearing forms would survive attacks by early mesograzers. Trends and patterns in the fossil record support such a survival-enhancing role for laterals and are consistent with the initial evolution of these structures as an early manifestation of an evolutionary arms race between macroalgae and herbivores initiated near the Proterozoic/Phanerozoic boundary.
1558097|Recently, there has been much interest in detecting and measuring patterns of change in disparity. Although most studies have used one or two measures of disparity to quantify and characterize the occupation of morphospace, multiple measures may be necessary to fully detect changes in patterns of morphospace occupation. Also, the ability to detect morphological trends and occupation patterns within morphospace depends on using the appropriate measure(s) of disparity. In this study, seven measures were used to determine and characterize sensitivity to sample size of the data, number of morphological characters, percentage of missing data, and changes in morphospace occupation pattern. These consist of five distance measures-sum of univariate variances, total range, mean distance, principal coordinate analysis volume, average pairwise dissimilarity-and two non-distance measures-participation ratio and number of unique pairwise character combinations. Evaluation of each measure with respect to sensitivity to sample size, number of morphological characters, and percentage of missing data was accomplished by using both simulated and Ordovician crinoid data. For simulated data, each measure of disparity was evaluated for its response to changes of morphospace occupation pattern, and with respect to simulated random and nonrandom extinction events. Changes in disparity were also measured within the Crinoidea across the Permian extinction event. Although all measures vary in sensitivity with respect to species sample size, number of morphological characters, and percentage of missing data, the non-distance measures overall produce the lowest estimates of variance (in bootstrap analyses). The non-distance measures appear to be relatively insensitive to changes in morphospace occupation pattern. All measures, except average pairwise dissimilarity, detect changes in occupation pattern in simulated nonrandom extinction events, but all measures, except number of unique pairwise character combinations and principal coordinate analysis volume, are relatively insensitive to changes in pattern in simulated random extinction events. The distance measures report similar changes in disparity over the Permian extinction event, whereas the non-distance measures differ. This study suggests that each measure of disparity is designed for different purposes, and that by using a combination of techniques a clearer picture of disparity should emerge.
23014903|Persistence in the structure of ecological communities can be predicted both by deterministic and by stochastic theory. Evaluating ecological patterns against the neutral theory of biodiversity provides an appropriate methodology for differentiating between these alternatives. We traced the history of benthic foraminiferal communities from the Huon Peninsula, Papua New Guinea. From the well-preserved uplifted reef terrace at Bonah River we reconstructed the benthic foraminiferal communities during a 2200-year period (90006800 yr B.P.) of reef building during the Holocene transgressive sea-level rise. We found that the similarity of foraminiferal communities was consistently above 60%, even when comparing communities on either side of a massive volcanic eruption that smothered the existing reef system with ash. Similarly, species diversity and rank dominance were unchanged through time. However, similarity dropped dramatically in the final stages of reef growth, when accommodation space was reduced as sea-level rise slowed. We compared the community inertia index (CII) computed from the observed species abundances with that predicted from neutral theory. Despite the differences in foraminiferal community composition in the younger part of the reef sequence, we found an overall greater degree of community inertia with less variance in observed communities than was predicted from neutral theory, regardless of foraminiferal community size or species migration rate. Thus, persistent species assemblages could not be ascribed to neutral predictions. Ecological incumbency of established foraminiferal species likely prevented stochastic increases in both migrant and rare taxa at the Bonah River site. Regardless of the structuring mechanisms, our reconstruction of Holocene foraminiferal assemblages provides historical context for the management and potential restoration of degraded species assemblages.
2400541|A general model of taxonomic diversity, incorporating diversity-dependent rates of origination and extinction, is constructed to examine the dynamic responses of diversity to perturbation. The model predicts that the trajectories of diversification increase and decrease are substantially different. The trajectories of diversity during disequilibrium conditions are displayed in phase diagrams to permit a simple graphical analysis of stability. A positive displacement of diversity from equilibrium results in a rapid decline in diversity and may involve an initial overshoot of the equilibrium condition. A negative displacement of equal magnitude results in a gradual increase in diversity. The model is expressed as a nonlinear difference equation to incorporate intrinsically a delay time due to the characteristic noninstantaneous response of origination and extinction. The model initially assumes a parabolic curve expressing total taxon origination rate as a function of diversity. A second model, constructed assuming a sigmoidal total taxon origination rate derived from considerations of allopatric speciation, enhances the asymmetry of the diversity response. The delayed recovery of the Triassic fauna is shown to be characteristic of return to equilibrium from an undersaturated condition, whereas the more rapid "catastrophic" decline in the Late Permian fauna is shown to be characteristic of return to equilibrium from the oversaturated condition. It is proposed, although not assumed, that perturbation may include a degree of selectivity related to the dispersal abilities of organisms, thereby enhancing the observed asymmetry.
25609444|A growing body of work has quantitatively linked many macroevolutionary patterns, including short- and long-term changes in biodiversity, rates of taxonomic extinction and origination, and patterns of extinction selectivity, to temporal variability in the sedimentary rock record. Here we establish a new framework for more rigorously testing alternative hypotheses for these and many other results by documenting the large-scale spatiotemporal intersection of the North American sedimentary rock and fossil records. To do this, we combined 30,387 fossil collections in the spatially explicit Paleobiology Database with a comprehensive macrostratigraphic database consisting of 18,815 sedimentary lithostratigraphic units compiled from 814 geographic regions distributed across the United States and Canada. The geological completeness of paleontological sampling, here defined as the proportion of the available sedimentary rock record that has been documented to have at least one fossil occurrence, irrespective of taxonomy or environment, is measured at four different levels of stratigraphic resolution: (1) lithostratigraphic rock units, (2) hiatus-bound rock packages, (3) regional stratigraphic columns, and (4) sediment coverage area (km). Mean completeness estimates for 86 Phanerozoic time intervals (approximately stages; median duration 5.3 Myr) range from 0.18 per interval in the case of lithostratigraphic rock units to 0.23 per interval for stratigraphic columns and sediment coverage area. Completeness estimates at all four levels of stratigraphic resolution exhibit similar temporal variation, including a significant long-term increase during the Phanerozoic that is accentuated by an abrupt Campanian-Maastrichtian peak. This Late Cretaceous peak in completeness is approximately five times greater than the least complete Phanerozoic time intervals (Early Cambrian, Early Devonian, late Permian, and Early Cretaceous). Geological completeness in the Cenozoic is, on average, approximately 40% greater than in the Paleozoic. Temporal patterns of geological completeness do not appear to be controlled exclusively by variation in the frequency of subsurface rock units or an increase over time in the proportion of terrestrial rock, but instead may be general features of both the marine and terrestrial fossil records.
2401025|The Ordovician saw the transformation of marine benthic communities from the trilobite-based Cambrian Fauna to the brachiopod-dominated Paleozoic Fauna. An evaluation of the changing importance of trilobites during the Ordovician can be made from accurate assessments of taxonomic richness in various habitats. Here we present a new compilation of trilobite alpha diversity based on field collections and survey of the literature. The data indicate that trilobite species richness within nearshore, shallow subtidal, carbonate buildup and deep subtidal shelf environments was essentially constant between the Late Cambrian and the Late Ordovician. The alpha diversity patterns do not support the notion that trilobites became displaced from inner shelf environments during the Ordovician. Rather, the data are consistent with a decline in relative importance of the group through dilution as newly radiating invertebrate groups entered Ordovician paleocommunities. They also imply that direct interactions between elements of the Cambrian and Paleozoic faunas were not involved in the Ordovician reorganization of paleocommunities. Like many other major faunal transitions during the Phanerozoic, the Ordovician radiations appear to have been essentially non-competitive in nature.
4500142|Tectonic deformation is an important part of the taphonomic histories of many fossils. Although the effects of deformation, and methods to remove those effects, have been a subject of inquiry for over a century, systematic testing under known parameters has never been used to determine how the effects of deformation and the performance of retrodeformation techniques might vary. Comparative studies of morphology depend on the accurate estimation of variance-covariance structure, so an understanding of the effects of retrodeformation on covariance structure is important in assessing the utility of these methods. Here we address these issues by using geometric morphometric simulations. Nondeformed data sets were generated from specimens of the extant turtle Emys marmorata, which were known by definition to be nondeformed, and which possess a known ontogenetic signal. Deformation was simulated by applying a combination of uniform shear and uniform compression/dilation to the data. Data were retrodeformed by reflection and averaging of bilaterally symmetric landmarks, use of a principal components analysis to identify a deformation component of shape variation, and removal of the affine component of shape variation among specimens. Deformation increased the amount of variance in the data, as well as altering the variance structure. However, low to moderate levels of deformation did not prevent the confident recovery of the known ontogenetic signal in some cases. The tested retrodeformation techniques did not work well. They either removed too little or too much variance from the data, and provided little improvement in variance structure. Retrodeformation often did not improve our ability to extract the ontogenetic signal from the data, and in some cases introduced an artifactual relationship between size and shape. All of the scrutinized methods showed some properties, such as reducing variance or producing visually appealing images of specimens, that could make them appear to be working in cases where the correct biological signal is not known. This emphasizes the need for simulation testing in the development and evaluation of retrodeformation techniques.
20445587|Biodiversity patterns in the fossil record are often interpreted as functions of only origination and extinction whereas the migration of taxa among regions or paleocontinents is rarely considered. A null biogeographic model is presented that evaluates the role of migration in shaping global biodiversity patterns across evolutionary time scales. As taxa are allowed to originate, go extinct, and migrate among continents, the model keeps track of global richness and differentiation diversity (the diversity gained by pooling continents). The model's results highlight the difference between global-scale and continental-scale origination and extinction rates. Intuitively, origination and extinction have opposite effects on global richness at the global scale, but they interact with migration at the continental scale to influence differentiation diversity and global richness in surprising ways. The model shows that the migration of taxa among paleocontinents can facilitate an increase in global richness, even when continental extinction is greater than continental origination. Additionally, the model shows that differentiation diversity reaches a dynamic equilibrium that is dictated by the combination of migration, origination, and extinction rates. A test of the model with Ordovician macroinvertebrate data indicates that migration rates were low during the Ordovician and that differentiation diversity was high and varied little. Overall, the Ordovician was an interval of high provinciality. It also shown that widespread genera were less prone to global extinction, even though extinction of genera on individual paleocontinents was common.
2401222|We report on the bone microstructure of the Late Cretaceous birds Patagopteryx deferrariisi and members of the Enantiornithes. These birds represent the most primitive birds ever studied histologically. The occurrence of growth rings indicating alternating periods of slowed and fast growth suggests that these basal birds had slower growth rates, and differed physiologically from their modern relatives. Our findings also call into question previous ideas suggesting that nonavian theropods developed a full avian degree of homeothermic endothermy, which was later inherited by birds. On the contrary, our findings suggest that birds developed classic endothermy relatively late in their phylogenetic history.
2401026|Phenotypic variation within species provides the raw material acted upon by natural selection and other evolutionary mechanisms. As such, the range and variation of morphology within a species can play an important role in determining the tempo of evolution. The range and variance of aspects of cranidial morphology for nine lower Paleozoic trilobites were measured to identify microevolutionary correlates of macroevolutionary patterns. Comparisons were made among sets of homologous landmarks or upon partial warp vector matrices containing similar proportions of variance. Rarefaction and bootstrap analyses helped estimate the effects of sampling. Levels of variance and range of morphology differed considerably within and among time periods. There is no significant temporal decline in the variance or range of morphology, suggesting that developmental or genomic constraints may not have been the primary factors controlling the tempo of trilobite macroevolution. The spatial distribution of cranidial variance differed considerably among taxa, suggesting that a complex set of developmental processes governed the morphogenesis of cranidia within trilobites.
1558096|This paper assesses the reliability with which fossil reefs record the diversity and community structure of adjacent Recent reefs. The diversity and taxonomic composition of Holocene raised fossil reefs was compared with those of modern reef coral life and death assemblages in adjacent moderate and low-energy shallow reef habitats of Madang Lagoon, Papua New Guinea. Species richness per sample area and Shannon-Wiener diversity (H') were highest in the fossil reefs, intermediate in the life assemblages, and lowest in the death assemblages. The taxonomic composition of the fossil reefs was most similar to the combination of the life and death assemblages from the modern reefs adjacent to the two fossil reefs. Depth zonation was recorded accurately in the fossil reefs. The Madang fossil reefs represent time-averaged composites of the combined life and death assemblages as they existed at the time the reef was uplifted. Because fossil reefs include overlapping cohorts from the life and death assemblages, lagoonal facies of fossil reefs are dominated by the dominant sediment-producing taxa, which are not necessarily the most abundant in the life assemblage. Rare or slow-growing taxa accumulate more slowly than the encasing sediments and are underrepresented in fossil reef lagoons. Time-averaging dilutes the contribution of rare taxa, rather than concentrating their contribution. Consequently, fidelity indices developed for mollusks in sediments yield low values in coral reef death and fossil assemblages. Branching corals dominate lagoonal facies of fossil reefs because they are abundant, they grow and produce sediment rapidly, and most of the sediment they produce is not exported. Fossil reefs distinguished kilometer-scale variations in community structure more clearly than did the modern life assemblages. This difference implies that fossil reefs may provide a better long-term record of community structure than modern reefs. This difference also suggests that modern kilometer-scale variation in coral reef community structure may have been reduced by anthropogenic degradation, even in the relatively unimpacted reefs of Madang Lagoon. Holocene and Pleistocene fossil reefs provide a time-integrated historical record of community composition and may be used as long-term benchmarks for comparison with modern, degraded, nearshore reefs. Comparisons between fossil reefs and degraded modern reefs display gross changes in community structure more effectively than they demonstrate local extinction of rare taxa.
25482668|One of the enduring puzzles to Stephen Jay Gould about life on Earth was the cause or causes of the fantastic diversity of animals that exploded in the fossil record starting around 530 Ma-the Cambrian explosion. In this contribution, we first review recent phylogenetic and molecular clock studies that estimate dates for high-level metazoan diversifications, in particular the origin of the major lineages of the bilaterally-symmetrical animals (Bilateria) including cnidarians. We next review possible "internal" triggers for the Cambrian explosion, and argue that pattern formation, those processes that delay the specification of cells and thereby allow for growth, was one major innovation that allowed for the evolution of distinct macroscopic body plans by the end of the Precambrian. Of potential "external" triggers there is no lack of candidates, including snowball earth episodes and a general increase in the oxygenation state of the world's oceans; the former could affect animal evolution by a mass extinction followed by ecological recovery, whereas the latter could affect the evolution of benthic animals through the transfer of reduced carbon from the pelagos to the benthos via fecal pellets. We argue that the most likely cause of the Cambrian explosion was the evolution of macrophagy, which resulted in the evolution of larger body sizes and eventually skeletons in response to increased benthic predation pressures. Benthic predation pressures also resulted in the evolution of mesozooplankton, which irrevocably linked the pelagos with the benthos, effectively establishing the Phanerozoic ocean. Hence, we suggest that the Cambrian explosion was the inevitable outcome of the evolution of macrophagy near the end of the Marinoan glacial interval.
2401105|Paleontological completeness and stratigraphic ranges depend on extinction rate, origination rate, preservation rate, and the length of the interval of time over which observations can be made. I derive expressions for completeness and the distribution of durations and ranges as functions of these parameters, considering both continuous- and discrete-time models. Previous work has shown that, if stratigraphic ranges can be followed indefinitely forward, and if extinction and preservation occur at stochastically constant rates, then extinction rate and preservability can be estimated from (1) discrete (binned) stratigraphic ranges even if data on occurrences within ranges are unknown, and (2) continuous ranges if the number of occurrences within each range is known. I show that, regardless of whether the window of observation is finite or infinite, extinction and preservation rates can also be estimated from (3) continuous ranges when the number of occurrences is not known, and (4) discrete ranges when the number of occurrences is not known. One previous estimation method for binned data involves a sample-size bias. This is circumvented by using maximum likelihood parameter estimation. It is worth exploiting data on occurrences within ranges when these are available, since they allow preservation rate to be estimated with less variance. The various methods yield comparable parameter estimates when applied to Cambro-Ordovician trilobite species and Cenozoic mammal species. Stratigraphic gaps and variable preservation affect stratigraphic ranges predictably. In many cases, accurate parameter estimation is possible even in the face of these complications. The distribution of stratigraphic ranges can be used to estimate the sizes of gaps if their existence is known.
2401173|The unique manner in which molars from members of the family Elephantidae erupt in the jaw and wear obliquely and sequentially has profound effects upon dental function and phylogenetic change within the group. Three-dimensional modeling using a "molar matrix" of elephantid dentition, and application of such models to systematic and functional studies, allows a more refined description of dental morphology. A method of examining variation within elephantid teeth is presented based on successive staging of worn molars. Results indicate that individual plates exhibit increasingly derived features with wear (relative to the systematic analysis used here), while successively worn plates exhibit successively more plesiomorphic features apically and posteriorly. Further, results indicate that the patterns developed by wear on the surface of elephantid molars are conserved throughout life despite their unique successive replacement pattern. The cheek teeth in a molar series act as a single, continuous masticating unit, here termed a "cheek tooth battery." Overall, the tools developed here, wear staging and molar matrices, allow for a more refined understanding of morphological variation within and between elephantids, with application to more conservative elephantoid taxa.
2400479|It has been suggested that certain fossil assemblages consisting of disarticulated and broken remains of small to medium-sized vertebrates ("microvertebrate concentrations") may be accumulations of incompletely digested material defecated by crocodilians. Experiments on crocodilian digestion show, however, that these reptiles demineralize calcified tissues, frequently leaving intact organic matrices of dentine, cementum, and bones in their feces. Such matrices, even if preserved as fossils, would not resemble most specimens in microvertebrate concentrations. Therefore, crocodilian digestion does not appear to have been an important factor in the formation of these fossil assemblages. Teeth similar to those defecated by crocodilians nevertheless do occur in the fossil record. Such teeth, lacking enamel but often complete in other respects, are interpreted here as having been digested by crocodilians, defecated as demineralized organic matrices, and subsequently remineralized. Enamel, with its extremely low organic content, does not yield a demineralized matrix susceptible to remineralization. A number of recently recognized occurrences of enamel-less teeth attest to the significance of crocodilian digestion as a factor in the taphonomic history of many Mesozoic and Cenozoic fossil vertebrate assemblages.
4096901|Distributional patterns of eye lens variation in different morphs of the phacopine trilobite Acuticryphops acuticeps (Kayser 1889) are investigated. The specimens were collected from the latest Frasnian preceding the Upper Kellwasser (UKW) global extinction event in the Frasnian-Famennian (Late Devonian) stratotype section at Coumiac, southern France. In six successive populations a gradual reduction in the mean number of lenses occurs within the short time span of a single conodont Zone. This morphological change cannot be imputed either to the size of individual specimens or to variation in cephalic morphology. Thus morphs with different numbers of eye lenses are considered intraspecific. However, the intrapopulational percentage relation between morphs does not remain constant, as the coefficient of variation in lens number continuously increases from one population to the next. Cases of individuals with asymmetric eyes appear in the two latest assemblages prior to the UKW level. The fact that the total variation of the shape of the cephalon is not affected in these assemblages suggests that the morphological changes observed in the visual complex may account for the relaxation of selective pressures on this trait. Such a change in the regime of selection would have been accompanied by a lessening of the processes that control the development of this trait. As the phenomenon of eye reduction is not restrained by local conditions at Coumiac (Montagne Noire) but occurs contemporaneously to various extents in other crustal blocks such as Rhenish Slate Mountains (Avalonia), Thuringia (Armorica), and Morocco (Northern Gondwana), it is considered as constituting an adaptation to global eustatic deepening that occurred in the terminal Frasnian just before the global extinction event.
2400385|The conductance of water vapor and respiratory gases by diffusion through the eggshells of Upper Cretaceous dinosaurs has been estimated from measurements of shell and pore geometry in fossil specimens. When compared to recent reptile and bird eggs for which nest environments are known, the highly porous eggshells of three dinosaur species indicate that the dinosaur nests were high in humidity and probably low in oxygen and high in carbon dioxide. Such conditions most likely occurred under-ground or within an incubation mound. By isolating the eggs from the atmosphere, however, some large sauropods may have been forced to limit their clutch size to numbers small enough to prevent depletion of oxygen and elevation of carbon dioxide to intolerable levels in the nest. Fossil evidence supports this and suggests that one sauropod actually divided her large eggs into several clutches. Each small clutch probably had a metabolic rate similar to those of clutches produced by recent reptiles and mound nesting birds.
2400830|A biomechanical study of archaeocyathan (phylum Archaeocyatha) skeletal construction was undertaken in order to compare its function with that of poriferans. Flume experiments were conducted on three cylindrical, brass models of regular archaeocyathans. Two of these, the porousseptate and aporous-septate models (i.e., possessing septa either with or without pores), represent an ontogenetic series; regular archaeocyathans (class Regulares) typically exhibit a reduction in septal porosity as they grow and many have aporous septa as adults. The third model is aseptate and represents a morphology that is not found in the fossil record. All models exhibit passive entrainment of flow during flume testing, a phenomenon on which modern sponges depend for suspension feeding. Flow direction through the models is consistent with predictions of the spongiomorph-affinity hypothesis. The three models behave quite differently, however. The aseptate model is least effective at passive entrainment. Although some fluid exits the top of the central cavity (or osculum), a great deal of fluid is entrained out the top of the intervallum and also leaks out the outer wall. Flow induction from the oscula of the septate models is augmented when compared to the aseptate model. The porous-septate model exhibits slight leakage from the outer wall, and a dye-rich plume exits the top of the intervallum. Alternatively, the aporous-septate model exhibits no outer-wall leakage and no entrainment from the intervallum. These differences in flow pattern between the porous- and aporous-septate models suggest a hitherto unknown function for septa. Imperforate septa prohibit the migration of fluid through the intervallum to the low-pressure, downstream side where leakage occurs. The ontogenetic shift in septal porosity, common to many archaeocyathan species, may be a mechanism by which outer-wall leakage is avoided later in life. Archaeocyathans would have encountered progressively higher ambient current velocities as their height increased through growth. Outer-wall leakage is not a problem at low velocities or small sizes, but leakage becomes serious at higher velocities when tall, adult morphologies are attained.
2666073|Evolutionary interpretation of paleontological patterns requires a hypothesis of phylogeny, but our phylogenetic hypotheses may not perfectly mirror organismal phylogeny. Tree summary methods less conservative than strict consensus may increase resolution, but these methods may present a biased summary of the full set of most parsimonious trees. When we fail to acknowledge all equally optimal topologies, we risk disregarding trees that are closer to the correct phylogeny. We discuss a case where two subsets of trees were recovered in the set of most parsimonious trees, each with a profoundly different interpretation of character evolution near the root of Echinodermata. This was caused by the presence of a bimodally labile taxon in the matrix with two different topological subsets, each equally parsimonious but differing in the number of consistent trees. Majority-rule consensus favors the subset with the largest number of trees consistent with the placement of the rogue taxon. This bias favors clusters not because of the biological implications of the tree, but on the basis of great inequality in the sizes of the islands of parsimony. We thus recommend that majority-rule consensus trees not be used to summarize the results of a phylogenetic analysis.
1571656|As paleobiology continues to address an ever broader array of questions, it becomes increasingly important to interpret confidently the meaning of the pattern of fossil occurrences as found in outcrop. To this end, sequence stratigraphy is an important tool for paleobiologists because it predicts the distribution of unconformities, facies changes, and changes in sedimentation rate, all factors known from numerous previous studies to affect the quality of the fossil record. Computer simulations now make it possible not only to model sequence architecture within sedimentary basins, but also to model the occurrence of fossils within those basins. These models generate predictions regarding the stratigraphic distribution of first and last occurrences, changes in species abundance, changes in species morphology, and the distribution of gaps in fossil ranges. Although confirmation of some of these predictions has been found in field studies, the extent to which these predictions describe the fossil record in general is still unknown. If the predicted patterns of fossil occurrences are found to be widespread, it will suggest that a relatively simple model of fossil occurrences in outcrops could become a new tool for solving a wide array of paleobiologic and biostratigraphic problems. With such models, paleobiologists and biostratigraphers will be able to use model data to test the accuracy of newly developed methods of analysis.
4096958|Most studies of extinction selectivity have focused on mass extinctions. Here we analyze the patterns of susceptibility to extinction during the late Pliocene and Pleistocene of California in the family Pectinidae. The Pectinidae declined in diversity from a high of 32 species in the late Pliocene to the current level of 11 species living in the California region, indicating that the composition of the living fauna has been shaped primarily by extinction in the last several million years. Extinction appears to have occurred in one large pulse, but because of uneven sampling we were unable to resolve the timing further and have analyzed the patterns of extinction treating the late Pliocene through middle Pleistocene as a single period of elevated extinction. Extinctions were not random with regard to taxonomic relationships. Species-level extinctions were higher in more speciose genera, but these genera were buffered against genus-level extinctions. This resulted in a disproportionately large number of monospecific genera in the living fauna. In addition, extinctions were not random with regard to body size, with large species preferentially surviving. This selectivity pattern is evident only when clade membership is taken into account; when analyzed across the entire family, no pattern of size selectivity was apparent. Our results suggest that (1) patterns of extinction selectivity at the genus level may be a poor proxy for species-level patterns, and (2) whole-fauna analyses may not uncover strong selectivity within lineages.
2400235|Nautilus pompilius at Fiji lives abundantly to about 600 m depth while the shell implodes between 730-900 m when sunk in a cage. From this, and the average parameters of the septum, its tensile strength is calculated to 110-140 MPa. This is markedly higher than the latest value from direct tensile tests (78 MPa). In recent pressure tests by Saunders and Wehman with dry shells from the Philippines, implosion occurred at pressure equivalents to 310-680 m depth, without significant correlation with septal thickness. We attribute this excessive range and non-correlation to structural damage by postnecrotic processes. The recalculated tensile strength from their original data is 56-137 MPa; the higher values are compatible with our values for septal nacre of Nautilus and Spirula (c. 155 MPa). Septal curvature and thickness in orthocones thus remain useful guides to bathymetry.
41684300|We investigate potential microevolutionary mechanisms of phenotypic change in a lineage of brackish-water gastropods from Lake Pannon. The lineage exhibits a threefold increase in body size and a pronounced increase in shell shouldering over a roughly 2.5-Myr interval. We use the stable oxygen isotope profiles of 13 shells to address the question of whether large size is due to more rapid growth or to greater longevity. Results indicate that larger individuals have significantly greater longevity. Growth rates in large snails are comparable to those of their smaller-bodied ancestors. Potentially relevant selective advantages of large size include escape from predators, avoidance of resource competition, and increased fecundity. We argue that the first two advantages may have accrued to larger individuals but are not likely to have driven the trend because selection for them would favor more rapid growth rates. Fecundity selection, on the other hand, is readily envisioned in a stable, predictable environment in which the need for early reproduction is relaxed. The evolution of large body size in Lake Pannon molluscs may be comparable to evolution on many islands, where reduced pressure from competition and prdation lead to characteristic changes in body size.
2400319|Late Cretaceous dinosaur eggshells from southern France and the Spanish Pyrenees, presumably belonging to the sauropod Hypselosaurus priscus Matheron, are almost exclusively composed of primary calcite. Besides normal development of these eggshells, there appear two kinds of pathologic tendencies: bi- or multi-shells (infrequent), and shells with a reduced thickness (increasing in frequency until, in the uppermost horizon, they represent more than 90% of the sample). The extinction of the species is attributed primarily to the consequences of thinning of the eggshells. The physiological mechanisms producing pathologic dinosaur eggshells are evaluated in the light of homologous phenomena occurring in living birds and reptiles. On this basis, it is concluded that in the late Maastrichtian populations of "Hypselosaurus," pathologic eggshells were caused by hormonal imbalances of the vasotocin and of the estrogen levels. On the same basis it is postulated that the teratological shell repetition led to embryo suffocation and that the pathological reduction in shell thickness caused shell breakage and dehydration of the embryo. The lethal results are evident from the frequent absence of "resorption craters" in the mammillary knobs of pathologic shells, a fact which indicates either lack of fertilization of the eggs or the perishing of the embryo prior to the calcification of its skeletal bones. A change in environmental conditions is the ultimate factor which caused hormonal imbalances and extinction. Such a change is indicated by a shift of the mean oxygen isotopic composition (
2400211|Applications of the species-area equation to studies of fluctuations in Phanerozoic diversity have great promise but can involve questionable assumptions. Sepkoski's (1976) analysis of marine diversity throughout the Phanerozoic record assumes that total rock volume is a sufficient measure of sampling efficiency and that an isomorphous equation is appropriate for all of Phanerozoic time. The area of marine sedimentary rock and the area of continental seas are not independent variables. Residual variation in diversity (that which remains after subtracting the effects of rock volume) might be explained by either the species-area relationship or by another component of sampling efficiency. A species-area equation in which the slope (z) and intercept (k) are assumed constant receives mixed support from arguments based on Recent terrestrial and aquatic organisms. Observed z-values cluster near a value of 0.30 despite a wide taxonomic range, but are generally below those found for the Phanerozoic record. Temporal fluctuations in k values, in response to changes in the area of continental seas, may produce elevated estimates of z.
2400286|Arcoid bivalves occupy an intermediate position, in terms both of morphology and of adaptive range between the Pterioida and the Veneroida. The range and limits of arcoid adaptations are related to the growth patterns of their shells. Both the arcoid hinge and ligament grow by the serial repetition of simple structures, in contrast with the development of more specialized, complex structures in other groups. These simple growth patterns place significant mechanical constraints on the range of possible shell forms. Most arcoids live in moderately unstable environments, where they are liable to be excavated or detached from their substrates. Many employ recovery strategies, being adapted to regain their life positions. However, a variety of specialized forms, convergent on other groups of bivalves, have become adapted to avoid being dislodged in the first place. Thus, intrinsic growth patterns and substrate relationships have been the major factors in the evolution of the Arcoida.
2400889|Modern ruminant species have traditionally been placed in three broad dietary categories (browsers, grazers and intermediates) based on their observed feeding habits. Shape analysis of premaxillary outlines of 31 species of ruminants shows that their premaxillae differ according to their dietary category. Browsers have pointed premaxillae and grazers square ones. Intermediate feeders have intermediate outlines. The Miocene giraffid Samotherium boissieri has always been viewed as a specialized browser similar to the modern okapi, Okapia johnstoni. However, the premaxillary shape of S. boissieri falls very close to the mean of the grazers and is most similar to that of the African buffalo (Syncerus caffer), a committed grazer. Quantitative analyses of the microscopic wear patterns on the molars reveal significant differences between three modern species from the three dietary groups. S. boissieri has more microscopic scratches on its teeth than either the modern giraffe Giraffa camelopardalis (a browser) or Grant's gazelle Gazella granti (an intermediate feeder). In this respect, it is indistinguishable from the wildebeest Connochaetes taurinus which is a committed grazer. Both of these analyses suggest that this extinct giraffid was a grazer, although we cannot rule out the possibility that it was an intermediate feeder. It was definitely not a specialized browser as are both living members of the Giraffidae.
2401145|We offer an alternative interpretation of the Kingdom Vendobionta as a monophyletic sister group to the Eumetazoa. We hypothesize that the Vendobionta are cnidarian-like organisms that lacked cnidae. Cnidarians are held to have arisen by acquisition of cnidae by symbiosis with a microsporidian. Our analysis differs from existing interpretations of the Ediacaran fossils as ancestors of extant cnidarians in that we do not regard any of these forms as either polypoid or medusoid. This interpretation requires the erection of a new metazoan phylum, the Vendobionta.
25609436|Abundance is one of the primary factors believed to influence extinction yet little is known about its relationship to extinction rates over geologic time. Using data from the Paleobiology Database we show that abundance was an important factor in the extinction dynamics of marine bivalve genera over the post-Paleozoic. Contrary to expectations, our analyses reveal a nonlinear relationship between abundance and extinction rates, with rare and abundant genera exhibiting rates elevated over those of genera of moderate abundance. This U-shaped pattern is a persistent feature of the post-Paleozoic history of marine bivalves and provides one possible explanation for why we find strong support for heterogeneous extinction rates among genera grouped by similarity in abundance yet effectively no net relationship among these rates when using models of directional selection on abundance.
2400221|Late Eocene to middle Oligocene floras from the area of the present Rio Grande depression represent a time sequence from the upper part of mixed subtropical forest (Bernalillo flora), to an ecotone between broadleaved sclerophyll and mixed conifer forest (Red Rock Ranch flora), to subalpine conifer forest (Hillsboro and Hermosa floras). The implied difference in mean annual temperature of  11
2401062|Two methods are discussed for assessing the contributions of subgroups to the morphological disparity of the larger group containing them. (1) Given an ordination of points representing specimens or species in morphological space, morphological disparity of the entire group is measured as the average squared distance of points from the centroid. The contribution that a subgroup makes to morphological disparity is measured as the average squared distance of its points from the overall centroid (not the subgroup centroid), weighted by the subgroup sample size relative to the total group sample size. Thus, morphological disparity of a group can be additively partitioned into the disparity components of its subgroups, and the relative contributions of these subgroups can be assessed quantitatively. (2) An alternative approach is to compare morphological disparity of a group to the disparity it would have if a certain subgroup were omitted. If the resulting disparity differs substantially from the original disparity, then the subgroup in question is considered to have a significant effect on morphological disparity. Because some subgroups are very centralized in morphological space, omitting them can cause an increase in morphological disparity when disparity is measured as the average dissimilarity among species. In general, relatively large subgroups that are located peripherally in morphospace make the greatest contributions to morphological disparity, and failure to sample smaller groups often has little effect on disparity estimates. The two methods are applied to morphological disparity in trilobites, partitioned at different levels in the taxonomic hierarchy. Results of the two methods are intuitively reasonable and largely in agreement, and point to the predominance of Early Cambrian olenelloids, Cambro-Ordovician Libristoma, Ordovician Asaphina and Cheirurina, Siluro-Devonian Phacopida and Phacopina, and Devonian Proetida.
2400516|The geometric regularity of oblique sculptures in pectinids and some other bivalves was examined both theoretically and empirically. Camptonectes microsculpture occurs exclusively on the external surface of foliated calcite, and is well characterized by an invariably orthogonal relation to growth increments and almost uniform density over the surface. It is genetically unrelated to radial and other sculpturing. According to our SEM observations, its divergent orientation seems to be controlled primarily by the growth of calcite laths. In contrast, the shagreen microsculpture of pectinids is characterized by a quincunx arrangement of scales on the diagonal network. Shagreen microsculpture can be regarded as a variant of diagonal sculpture together with the simple oblique, divaricate, V-shaped, and zigzag patterns that are widespread in other bivalves. The geometric regularity of these variations as well as their mutual relationship can be readily recognized by computer simulations. All of these diagonal sculptures may result from interference between radial and commarginal elements. The formation of diagonal sculptures seems to occur by the periodic activation of regularly arranged sculpture-producing cells on the mantle margin.
2666000|Twelve different bones from the skeleton of the holotype specimen of the hadrosaurian dinosaur Hypacrosaurus stebingeri were thin-sectioned to evaluate the significance of lines of arrested growth (LAGs) in age assessments. The presence of an external fundamental system (EFS) at the external surface of the cortex and mature epiphyses indicate that the Hypacrosaurus specimen had reached adulthood and growth had slowed considerably from earlier stages. The number of LAGs varied from none in the pedal phalanx to as many as eight in the tibia and femur. Most elements had experienced considerable Haversian reconstruction that had most likely obliterated many LAGs. The tibia was found to have experienced the least amount of reconstruction, but was still not optimal for skeletochronology because the LAGs were difficult to count near the periosteal surface. Additionally, the numbers of LAGs within the EFS vary considerably around the circumference of a single element and among elements. Counting LAGs from a single bone to assess skeletochronology appears to be unreliable, particularly when a fundamental system exists. Because LAGs are plesiomorphic for tetrapods, and because they are present in over a dozen orders of mammals, they have no particular physiological meaning that can be generalized to particular amniote groups without independent physiological evidence. Descriptions of dinosaur physiology as "intermediate" between the physiology of living reptiles and that of living birds and mammals may or may not be valid, but cannot be based reliably on the presence of LAGs.
2400210|Shells of 375 sexed specimens of Nautilus of. N. pompilius trapped at 300-700 ft (90-215 m) depth off Mutremdiu Point and Ngemelis Island, Palau, exhibit distinctive dimorphism in shell proportion and overall size. Of 221 mature animals, males have larger shells (mean diameter = 209 mm), a broader aperture (mean maximum width = 99 mm; mean width at apertural salient = 92 mm) and greater weight (mean shell + body weight = 1426 gm). Female shells are smaller (mean diameter = 198 mm), narrower (mean maximum width = 91 mm; mean apertural salient width = 81 mm) and the overall weight is less (mean = 1157 gm). Dimorphic differences are not apparent in young shells (less than 180 mm diameter), but develop during the final 1/2 to 1/4 whorl. This is accompanied by development of the spadix in males, indicating that shell dimorphism reflects sexual maturity. Of 375 animals trapped, 28% were female; no depth segregation was apparent. Traditional identification of larger fossil dimorphic cephalopods as females and smaller forms as males is the reverse of observed dimorphism in Nautilus and should be discontinued in favor of macroconch and microconch designations.
2400170|The schizochroal eye of trilobites bears lenses of high optical quality. Cooperation between adjacent lenses, which must have had retinas rather than rhabdomeres, might have allowed the trilobite stereoscopic vision throughout its visual field. We propose a simple neurophysiological model for the schizochroal eye in which neural connections between lenses on vertical "visual strips" could have provided the integration necessary for stereoscopic vision. Simple neural signals could have coded information on the position, size, speed and nature of an object in the field of view. The model of stereoscopic vision is consistent with data on the shape of the eye, the arrangement of lenses on its surface, and with current views on the origin and early evolution of the schizochroal eye. It implies that the lens arrangement, neural network and shape of the eye surface were a coadapted morphological complex, and it is consistent with accepted ideas of the Phacopina as living in benthic habitats in the photic zone.
2400835|Astogenetic trajectories have constrained evolutionary changes in bryozoans. Rates and timing of astogenetic differentiation have been modified for characters defining the morphology of zooids, subcolonies, and colonies. This paper catalogs 46 examples of bryozoan heterochrony, representing all five skeletonized orders. Heterochrony is inferred to have been a pervasive phenomenon in the evolution of Paleozoic stenolaemates, illustrated by 40 examples, 19 of which produced paedomorphosis and 21 peramorphosis. As a consequence, a restricted range of morphologic states has reappeared repetitively as homeomorphies and evolutionary reversals. Large-scale patterns developed across both geologic time and geographic space reflect variation in heterochronic products irrespective of the developmental processes by which they were achieved. Available evidence indicates that smaller, paedomorphic, and more plastic species inhabited onshore, low-diversity areas. Nonheritable plasticity is inferred to be a correlate of early growth stages and paedomorphosis. Taller, generally peramorphic species with damped plasticity are found in higher diversity, offshore regions. Seven key innovations, which first appeared during the early diversification of bryozoan clades, are peramorphic, and recapitulation was a predominant pattern during their Ordovician radiation. Trends in later phylogeny, on the other hand, have favored paedomorphic derived morphologies, as illustrated by 19 of the 32 examples. Recurrent reverse recapitulation suggests that offshore ancestors frequently gave rise to onshore paedomorphs.
2401231|Morphologic discrimination of species of scleractinian reef corals has long been plagued by a shortage of independent characters and by high ecophenotypic plasticity. Because of these two factors, many species appear to intergrade morphologically. We outline a newly developed protocol for the morphometric recognition of species, which uses size and shape coordinates derived from landmark data. The landmarks consist of spatially homologous points digitized in three dimensions on upper calical surfaces. The approach is more powerful than linear measurements at detecting subtle distinctions among species; and the distinctions are easy to visualize and interpret biologically, which increases the accuracy and resolution of subsequent phylogenetic and large-scale faunal analyses. As an example, we distinguish morphospecies in collections of Porites made at three Caribbean locations. Size and shape coordinates are analyzed using principal component analysis, average linkage cluster analysis, and a series of iterative discriminant analyses. Positions of different corallites from the same colonies are examined on cluster dendrograms to determine cutoffs for group recognition, and discriminant classifications for different corallites from the same colonies are compared to maximize group assignments. The results yield seven morphospecies, which are generally in 90% agreement with classification of the same animals using allozyme electrophoresis. Measures of corallite size and the relative heights and locations of the pali and septal denticles all reveal unique patterns of variation among morphospecies.
2400391|The mathematical relationship between species survivorship and duration curves is derived using standard demographic arguments. The result, when applied to the late Cenozoic mammals, suggests that there was an inhomogeneity in the mammalian radiation just before the Wurm, or that the mammalian speciation process has not yet attained the stable-age distribution.
4097000|Distinguishing the differential roles of hardpart-input rates and burial rates in the formation of shell beds is important in paleobiologic and sedimentologic studies, because high shelliness can reflect either high population density of shell producers or lack of sediment. The modeling in this paper shows that differences in the relative importance of burial rates and hardpart-input rates lead to distinct patterns with respect to the degree of shelliness and taphonomic alteration in shell beds. Our approach substantially complements other models because it allows computation of both shelliness and assemblage-level alteration. To estimate shelliness, we dissected hardpart-input rates into dead-shell production and shell destruction rates. To estimate assemblage-level alteration, we computed an alteration rate that describes how rapidly shells accrue post-mortem damage. Under decreasing burial rates but constant hardpart-input rates, a positive correlation between alteration and shelliness is expected (Kidwell's R-sediment model). In contrast, under decreased destruction rates and/or increased dead-shell production rates and constant burial rates (Kidwell's R-hardpart model), a negative correlation between shelliness and alteration is expected. The contrasting predictions thus provide a theoretical basis for distinguishing whether high shell density in shell beds reflects passive shell accumulation due to a lack of sediment dilution or whether it instead reflects high shell input from a life assemblage. This approach should be applicable for any fossil assemblages that vary in shell density and assemblage-level alteration. An example from the Lower Jurassic of Morocco, which has shell-rich samples less altered than shell-poor samples, suggests that the higher shelliness correlates with higher community-level abundance and lower proportion of juveniles of the main shell producer, supporting the driving role of hardpart-input rates in the origin of the shell-rich samples in this case. This is of significance in paleoecologic analyses because variations in shelliness can directly reflect fluctuations in population density of shell producers.
2400347|Elongate canines evolved independently at least four times among mammalian carnivores, and each time skulls were modified in similar ways. We have compared the cranial morphology of sabertooths to that of their non-sabertoothed relatives, living and extinct, and applied simple biomechanical models to elucidate the functional significance of the morphological differences. Our analysis suggests that (1) sabertooth morphology represents modification for wider gape with retention of a powerful bite force at the carnassial; (2) sabertooths probably used a throat or ventral neck slash to kill prey; and (3) elongate canines and retractile claws may have facilitated the exploitation of relatively larger prey by sabertooths compared to non-sabertooth carnivores.
2400517|Standard techniques of energy exchange analysis are applied to modelling the thermal regimes of several species of sailback pelycosaurs. Of particular interest is the role played by the sail in thermoregulation. Although the sail did increase the rate at which the model could warm up in the morning, its effectiveness fell short of previous estimates. The sail increased the daytime internal temperature by typically 3
2400793|The origin of ammonite sutures is one of the most interesting open problems in paleontology. Present theories of suture formation deal with function rather than morphogenesis. Here we present a study showing that sutures are scale-invariant. In each of ten different ammonite genera, the ontogenetic sequence of the suture can be characterized by the same fractal dimension. We propose a morphogenetic theory for ammonite sutures that is based on the similarity between sutures and the Saffman-Taylor instability in both fractal characters and physical mechanism.
2400886|The Late Devonian extinction event was not geologically "instantaneous," in that extinctions during the epoch are not concentrated into a single sharp pulse at the end of the Frasnian. Extinction rates are elevated for a period of at least 2 to 4 m.y. during the middle and late phases of the Frasnian, with maximum rates occurring generally 2 m.y. before the terminal Frasnian. Neither was the Late Devonian biotic crisis a "gradual" event. In the analysis of the evolution of ecosystems, it is misleading to consider the pattern of extinction rates alone. Frasnian marine ecosystems flourished during the same time interval characterized by elevated extinction rates because origination rates of new species are higher, per time interval, than corresponding extinction rates. This pattern of relative origination/extinction rates abruptly reversed during the latest Frasnian-precipitating a rapid loss of species diversity. Within limits of current stratigraphic correlation, the ecosystem collapse appears to have occurred simultaneously in such widespread geographic regions as New York State (U.S.A.) and the southern Urals (U.S.S.R.). In viewing the Late Devonian event from an ecological perspective, the most important question is not "What triggered the elevated extinction rates?", but rather "What was the inhibiting factor that caused the cessation of new species originations?"
2400695|A theoretical approach to the analysis of historical factors (Raup 1972) in evolutionary morphology is presented which addresses transformational hypotheses about structural systems. This (structural) approach to testing historical hypotheses about phylogenetic constraints on form and function and structural and functional versatility involves (1) the reconstruction of nested sets of structural features in monophyletic taxa, (2) the use of general or emergent organizational properties of structural and functional systems (as opposed to uniquely derived morphological features), and (3) the comparative examination of the consequences for structural and functional diversity of these general features in related monophyletic taxa. Three examples of emergent organizational properties are considered: structural complexity, repetition of parts, and the decoupling of primitively constrained systems. Two classes of hypotheses about the evolution of design are proposed. Transformational hypotheses concern historical pathways of change in form as a consequence of general organizational features which are primitive for a lineage. Relational hypotheses involve correlations between structure-function networks primitive for a clade and morphological diversity both between and within terminal taxa. To the extent that transformational and relational hypotheses about form are corroborated, they provide evidence of underlying regularity in the transformation of organic design that may be a consequence of the hierarchical organization of structural and functional patterns in organisms.
2400667|The theoretical framework developed here delineates the biological and paleontological circumstances under which the observed durations and diversities of fossil taxa will be significantly affected by three time-dependent sampling biases. The pull of the Recent and the loss of fossiliferous sediments shorten the observed durations of ancient taxa, as compared to the observed durations of Recent taxa. By contrast, the duration truncation mechanism lengthens the observed durations of ancient, as compared to more recent, taxa. Both the pull of the Recent and loss of fossiliferous sediments decrease the observed diversity of ancient, as compared to contemporary, communities. This theoretical framework is built on four parameters: the extinction and origination rates q and p; the fossilization rate, v; and the fossil loss rate, h. I derive formulas for the observed durations and diversities of fossil taxa in terms of these parameters and develop a method of estimating these parameters. The estimation procedure is applied to the bivalve families, and I provide statistical evidence for the conclusion that
4500161|The end-Permian mass extinction is commonly portrayed not only as a massive biodiversity crisis but also as the time when marine benthic faunas changed from the Paleozoic Fauna, dominated by rhynchonelliform brachiopod taxa, to the Modern Fauna, dominated by gastropod and bivalve taxa. After the end-Permian mass extinction, scenarios involving the Mesozoic Marine Revolution portray a steady increase in numerical dominance by these benthic molluscs as largely due to the evolutionary effects of an "arms race." We report here a new global paleoecological database from study of shell beds that shows a dramatic geologically sudden earliest Triassic takeover by bivalves as numerical dominants in level-bottom benthic marine communities, which continued through the Early Triassic. Three bivalve genera were responsible for this switch, none of which has any particular morphological features to distinguish it from many typical Paleozoic bivalve genera. The numerical success of these Early Triassic bivalves cannot be attributed to any of the well-known morphological evolutionary innovations of post-Paleozoic bivalves that characterize the Mesozoic Marine Revolution. Rather, their ability to mount this takeover most likely was due to the large extinction of rhynchonelliform brachiopods during the end-Permian mass extinction and aided by their environmental distribution and physiological characteristics that enabled them to thrive during periods of oceanic and atmospheric stress during the Permian/Triassic transition.
2666089|Lipids found associated with skeletons represent an important avenue of study in molecular paleontology, because the chemical nature of these compounds means they are often biogenically specific and can survive in the geologic record over millions of years. Though it is clear that these skeletal compounds originate from the mineralizing organism, our understanding of the distributions and nutritional sources of lipids among invertebrates is still limited, requiring that baseline studies of modern taxa be completed to evaluate the potential of skeletal lipids in paleoecological studies. In this study, skeletal lipids from nine modern invertebrate taxa (five mollusks, a brachiopod, an echinoid, a coral, and a barnacle) were extracted and analyzed. Though the major classes of lipids found in the skeletons are remarkably consistent, the sterol profiles from these organisms contain both dietary and environmental information. The skeletons of filter feeders generally have two to three times the variety of sterols as compared with carnivores and grazers. In addition, specific steroidal contributions from several plant and algal groups (including dinosterol, 22-dehydrocholesterol, and $\beta$- and $\gamma$-sitosterol) can be identified. The limited nature and distribution of sterols in the carnivore skeleton implies that both sterol-recycling and some degree of molecular selectivity may be occurring in this taxon. Taxa living in nearshore shallow marine habitats have significant sterol contributions from higher plants, while deepwater organisms have relatively little. Since the geologically stable form of sterols often retains the three-dimensional structure necessary to recognize the biological precursor, these compounds may be used for determining the ecology of fossil invertebrates.
20445573|Deep-sea submersible observations made in the Bahamas revealed interactions between the stalked crinoid Endoxocrinus parrae and the cidaroid sea urchin Calocidaris micans. The in situ observations include occurrence of cidaroids within "meadows" of sea lilies, close proximity of cidaroids to several upended isocrinids, a cidaroid perched over the distal end of the stalk of an upended isocrinid, and disarticulated crinoid cirri and columnals directly underneath a specimen of C. micans. Guts of two C. micans collected from the crinoid meadow contain up to 70% crinoid material. Two of three large museum specimens of another cidaroid species, Histocidaris nuttingi, contain 14-99% crinoid material. A comparison of cidaroid gut contents with local sediment revealed significant differences: sediment-derived material consists of single crinoid ossicles often abraded and lacking soft tissue, whereas crinoid columnals, cirrals, brachials, and pinnulars found in the cidaroids are often articulated, linked by soft tissue, and unabraded. Furthermore, articulated, multi-element fragments often show a mode of fracture characteristic of fresh crinoid material. Taken together, these data suggest that cidaroids prey on live isocrinids. We argue that isocrinid stalk-shedding, whose purpose has remained a puzzle, and the recently documented rapid crawling of isocrinids are used in escaping benthic predators: isocrinids sacrifice and shed the distal stalk portion when attacked by cidaroids and crawl away, reducing the chance of a subsequent encounter. If such predation occurred throughout the Mesozoic and Cenozoic (possibly since the mid-Paleozoic), several evolutionary trends among crinoids might represent strategies to escape predation by slow-moving benthic predators.
2400237|Using a geometric model of shell morphology, it is demonstrated that biconvex brachiopods occupy only a small region of the potential geometric space available to organisms with planispiral exoskeletons composed of two articulated valves. Measurements taken for a sample of 324 genera of the articulate orders Pentamerida, Rhynchonellida, Spiriferida, and Terebratulida were analyzed using a simple geometric model of shell form and ontogeny. The frequency distribution of brachiopod shell morphologies exhibited by the four orders represents the biological optimization of the spatial relationships between area and volume. Biconvex brachiopods develop shells which are designed to minimize shell surface area while maximizing internal shell volume. The means by which optimization is achieved is related directly to the effects of increase in absolute size during ontogeny. The boundaries upon shell geometries utilizable by biconvex brachiopods are determined by (1) limitations of articulation, and (2) limitations of surface and volume.
4096884|The late Albian (Early Cretaceous) lineage of Actinoceramus sulcatus (Parkinson 1819) is a remarkable example of macro- and microevolution within the Bivalvia. Immediately following cladogenesis from ancestral A. concentricus, the lineage displays a conspicuous, short-term excursion through morphospace followed by a return to the ancestral form. This excursion is marked by the acquisition, and subsequent loss, of large radial folds affecting some part or all of the shell. The pattern is noteworthy because of the gross scale and rate of morphological evolution, the relatively short life span of an "extreme" morphology, an apparent evolutionary reversal, the presence of phenotypic clines through time, the extent of phenotypic variation within populations and abundance of morphological intermediates between disparate end-member types, the wide geographic distributions of phenotypic clines and variants, and the subtle asymmetry of morphological transitions bounding the evolutionary excursion. From census and biometric analyses of stratigraphically constrained samples, we conclude that morphological change was not focused at speciation and the pattern of evolution does not conform to the classical paradigm of punctuated equilibrium. Instead, we infer that observed patterns are best explained by phyletic evolution, at widely varying rates, combined with ecophenotypic plasticity. Evolution targeted the potential to form radial folds; the expression of those in any individual was determined, in part at least, by environmental cues. Ecophenotypic plasticity in A. sulcatus was itself probably an evolutionary response favored by the presence of long-lived planktotrophic larvae and wide dispersal of the species. In A. sulcatus, there is a continuum of pattern between intrapopulational, ecophenotypic variation that can be observed on bedding planes, interregional variation, and phyletic change through time. We argue that this continuity of pattern is most easily explained by continuity of process: in the case of the visually striking radial folds in A. sulcatus, there is no reason to invoke distinct hierarchies of macro- and microevolution; instead, these seem to be parts of a continuum.
40926783|Ecological ordination can reveal gradients in the species composition of fossil assemblages that can be correlated with paleoenvironmental gradients. Ordinations of simulated data sets suggest that nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) generally produces less distorted results than detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). We ordinated 113 brachiopod-dominated samples from the Frasnian (Late Devonian) Brallier, Scherr, and lower Foreknobs Formations of southwest Virginia, which represent a range of siliciclastic marine paleoenvironments. A clear environmental signal in the ordination results was obscured by (apparently) opportunistic species that occurred at high abundance in multiple environments; samples dominated by these species aggregated in ordination space regardless of paleoenvironmental provenance. After the opportunist-dominated samples were removed, NMDS revealed a gradient in species composition that was highly correlated with substrate (grain size); a second, orthogonal gradient likely reflects variation in disturbance intensity or frequency within grainsize regimes. Additional environmental or ecological factors, such as oxygnation, may also be related to the gradients. These two gradients, plus the environmental factors that controlled the occurrence of opportunistic species, explain much of the variation in assemblage composition in the fauna. In general, the composition of fossil assemblages is probably influenced by multiple paleoecological and paleoenvironmental factors, but many of these can be decomposed and analyzed.
2400144|Both intensive analysis of Gryphaea and an extensive survey of Jurassic bivalves in Europe supports the punctuated equilibria model of speciation, with the exception of phyletic size increase, which appears within the limits of the data to be gradualistic and affects at least a significant minority of species. The size increase takes place both within species and between successive species in a lineage. In Liassic Gryphaea, a combination of allometry in the ontogenetic development of the ancestral species and paedomorphosis led also to changes of shape up the sequence. The production of evolutionary trends by species selection is not supported. The favoured interpretation of phyletic size increase is a gradual delay in maturation time consequent upon a change in the organisms' adaptive strategy from the r-selected to the K-selected mode and is backed up by evidence on changing population numbers and distribution. An extinction/speciation model is proposed for neritic organisms based on fluctuating sea levels. Times of low sea level or regression correspond with times of high stress and hence high extinction among stenotopic organisms and increased rates of allopatric speciation, with r-selection as the dominant mode. Times of high sea level or transgression correspond with low extinction and speciation rates and increased freedom of migration. K-selection is the dominant mode and often leads to phyletic size increase provided the environment remains stable for a sufficiently long period.
2400564|Barstovian (medial Miocene) mammalian faunas from the Texas Gulf Coastal Plain contained four apparently sympatric species of rhinoceroses: the common forms Aphelops megalodus and Teleoceras medicornutus, a dwarf Teleoceras, and a dwarf Peraceras. Previous work has suggested positive allometry in tooth area with respect to body size in several groups of mammals, i.e., larger mammals have relatively more tooth area. However, dwarfing lineages were shown to have relatively more tooth area for their body size. Our data show no significant allometry in post-canine tooth area of either artiodactyls or ceratomorphs. Similarly, dwarf rhinoceroses and hippopotami show no more tooth area than would be predicted for their size. Limbs are proportionately longer and more robust in larger living ceratomorphs (rhinos and tapirs) than predicted by previous authors. Limb proportions of both dwarf rhinoceroses and dwarf hippopotami are even more robust than in their living relatives. The high rhinoceros diversity reflects the overall high diversity of Barstovian faunas from the Texas Gulf Coastal Plain. The first appearance of several High Plains mammals in these faunas indicates "ecotone"-like conditions as faunal composition changed. Study of living continental dwarfs shows that there is commonly an ecological separation between browsing forest dwarfs and their larger forebears, which are frequently savannah grazers. This suggests that the dwarf rhinoceroses might have been forest browsers which were sympatric with the larger grazing rhinos of the High Plains during the Barstovian invasion. The continental dwarf model also suggests that insular dwarfism may be explained by the browsing food resources that predominate on islands.
2400346|Evolutionary paleontologists seek explanations of form and pattern in a diversity of contexts. A review of this diversity is presented to underscore the difficulty of producing a general model of the factors controlling the morphology of real organisms. A model specific to the marine prosobranch gastropod radula identifies seven factors contributing to form and pattern: (1) phylogenetic, (2) mechanical, (3) ecological, (4) programmatic, (5) maturational, (6) degenerative, and (7) constructional. Aspects of radular morphology attributable to each factor are illustrated in scanning electron micrographs of radulae of marine prosobranch gastropods. Applications of and extrapolations from the radular model are made to promote recognition of a broader range of interacting factors in other systems. Some aspects of form and pattern convey important information about non-evolutionary processes and phenomena and are best examined outside of the evolutionary framework.
4096833|Accurate reconstruction of the biomass, structure, and productivity of ancient forests from their fossilized remnants remains an interesting challenge in paleoecology. In well-preserved Tertiary fossil Metasequoia forests of Canada's Arctic, in situ stumps and fragments of stems, treetops, and branches contain substantial information about tree dimensions that can be used to determine tree height, stand biomass, and other characteristics such as canopy depth and structure, and the history of stand development. To validate a method for reconstructing the biomass of the Eocene floodplain Metasequoia forests of Axel Heiberg Island, we measured stump diameters and spacing, and stem, branch, and treetop characteristics in living Metasequoia glyptostroboides and Chamaecyparis thyoides stands in ways that simulate the limited measurements that can be made in well-preserved fossil forests in Canada and probably elsewhere. We used those limited measurements to estimate tree height and volume, branch and foliar dry weights, and tree biomass. The estimates derived from the limited data set are usually within 15% of the estimates derived from the methods currently used in forest ecology for determining those metrics in modern forests. Under appropriate conditions, the biomass of ancient forests can be estimated with reasonable confidence.
2401038|The use of clade-shape statistics, particularly center of gravity, on paraphyletic groups has been questioned since the introduction of these descriptive statistics. In addition, previous studies have found that early-arising groups of organisms are bottom-heavy in center of gravity relative to later-arising groups, leading to macroevolutionary hypotheses about the nature of diversification. Paraphyletic groups have been asserted to be inherently bottom-heavy because of preconceived ideas as to how paraphyletic group formation affects center of gravity. In turn, early-arising groups of organisms have been asserted to be bottom-heavy because they also tend to be paraphyletic, thus calling into question the biological significance of the bottom-heaviness of early-arising groups. In this study, both computer simulations and the evolutionary history of families of mammals show that paraphyletic groups are inherently top-heavy. Simulated monophyletic clades and monophyletic families of mammals have centers of gravity near their expected positions at the midpoint of clade duration, while paraphyletic groups are significantly top-heavy. Early-arising families of mammals are found to be inherently top-heavy, rather than bottom-heavy as found by earlier studies. This new result is likely to be due to the use of updated stratigraphic range data and different taxonomic assignments rather than to bias due to inclusion of paraphyletic groups or bias due to unequal time-unit lengths in the Cenozoic time scale.
2400478|Lambeosaurine dinosaur crests are judged to have been conducive to resonation on the basis of an acoustic analysis of the structure of the nasal cavity. Size and shape of the nasal cavity suggest low vocal frequencies in adults, as does information on potential auditory acuity in these animals. Lateral diverticula (present in all but juvenile specimens) acted to suppress portions of the vocal spectrum. Juveniles vocalized at higher frequencies than adults and potential auditory sensitivity at high frequencies in adults suggests a high degree of parent-offspring vocal communication. Sexual variation and causes of selection for low frequency vocalization are also examined.
4096968|Shell growth and morphogenesis were studied in nine species of Bivalvia from the viewpoint of theoretical morphology. The aperture map, or pattern of relative rate of shell accretion for each point around the aperture, received particular attention. Morphometric analyses indicate that the basic pattern of the aperture map is generally maintained throughout ontogeny, whereas both shell convexity and aperture shape commonly change with growth. Computer simulations show that posterior elongation of the aperture with growth cancels the effect of ontogenetic shell inflation to move the maximal growth point anteriorly. In the species examined, the coiling axis is generally inclined to the hinge axis toward the anterodorsal direction and is plunging to the dextral side of the valve. This condition allows ontogenetic shell inflation without modification of the basic pattern of the aperture map. The result indicates that ontogenetic change of shell form is architecturally constrained by a basic pattern of the aperture map, which is kept throughout ontogeny.
41684304|One of the best-recognized patterns in the evolution of organismal size is the tendency for mean and maximum size within a clade to decrease following a major extinction event and to increase during the subsequent recovery interval. Because larger organisms are typically thought to be at higher extinction risk than their smaller relatives, it has commonly been assumed that size reduction mostly reflects the selective extinction of larger species. However, to our knowledge the relative importance of within-and among-lineage processes in driving overall trends in body size has never been compared quantitatively In this study, we use a global, specimen-level database of foraminifera to study size evolution from the Late Permian through Late Triassic. We explicitly decompose size evolution into within-and among-genus components. We find that size reduction following the end-Permian mass extinction was driven more by size reduction within surviving species and genera than by the selective extinction of larger taxa. Similarly, we find that increase in mean size across taxa during Early Triassic biotic recovery was a product primarily of size increase within survivors and the extinction of unusually small taxa, rather than the origination of new, larger taxa. During background intervals we find no strong or consistent tendency for extinction, origination, or within-lineage change to move the overall size distribution toward larger or smaller sizes. Thus, size stasis during background intervals appears to result from small and inconsistent effects of within-and among-lineage processes rather than from large but offsetting effects of within-and among-taxon components. These observations are compatible with existing data for other taxa and extinction events, implying that mass extinctions do not influence size evolution by simply selecting against larger organisms. Instead, they appear to create conditions favorable to smaller organisms.
2401220|Concavo-convex brachiopods are generally assumed to have lived with their convex valves against the sediment. This orientation is based primarily on the a priori assumption that the upturned commissure would prevent fouling of the brachiopods' mantle cavity. Here, I present epibiontic and taphonomic evidence from orthids and nonproductid strophomenids that concavoconvex brachiopods lived in the reverse life orientation, with the convex valve on top. Ten testable epibiontic and taphonomic criteria are proposed to establish the uppermost valve during encrustation and whether epibionts encrusted primarily live or dead hosts. The criteria are evaluated for 11 collections of Ordovician and Devonian nonproductid concavo-convex brachiopods that contain a total of over 500 brachiopods and 4000 epibionts. In all cases, the results support a convex-up orientation and the encrustation of live hosts. Five criteria concern epibiont growth patterns and show that (1) epibionts predominate on convex valves, (2) epibionts are not restricted to shell margins, (3) distinct exposed and cryptic faunas, as predicted theoretically and described in previous studies, exist on convex and concave valves respectively, (4) epibiont colonies were often truncated by the commissures and hinges of live hosts, and (5) growth patterns of some epibionts indicate live hosts. Five taphonomic criteria show that (1) concavo-convex shells have greater epibiont cover than other morphologies, (2) internal surfaces of disarticulated specimens are rarely encrusted, (3) interiors of articulated specimens are rarely mud-filled, (4) standard taphofacies indicators suggest little postmortem exposure, and (5) sedimentological reconstructions suggest rapid burial. Convex-up brachiopods suggest that the Paleozoic mud bottoms they lived on were probably firmer than usually assumed and that a more complex functional interpretation of concavo-convexity is required. Hydrodynamic stability was important to many concavo-convex, plano-convex, and unequally bi-convex brachiopods. Brachiopods with these morphologies probably lived in the more stable orientation on their concave or flat valve. Productid brachiopods, although also concavo-convex, lived convex valve down and are ecologically distinct from earlier concavo-convex taxa. Productids were anchored, semi-infaunally, by spines and were more similar to Mesozoic oysters in orientation and shell function.
25609443|Did organisms diversify in different ways on land and in the marine realm over the Phanerozoic, or do the different diversification curves of continental and marine organisms reflect primarily methodological artifacts? To answer this question, a quantitative assessment of the completeness of the global continental fossil record is indispensable. We used comparisons between continental and marine fossil diversity and between past and present-day patterns of continental diversity to assess the absolute and relative completeness of the continental fossil record. Collector's curves of the number of described families over the past 200 years suggest that the global continental fossil record, and even that of European and North American tetrapods, is still highly incomplete. Nevertheless, relative proportions of major continental and marine taxa, patterns of tetrapod endemism, and familial durations suggest that the family-level continental fossil record is reasonably representative. We found that, although continental fossil richness is correlated with the amount of terrestrial clastic sediment available for sampling, the exponential diversification curve of continental metazoans is unlikely to be an artifact of this rock bias. Diversification of the continental fauna appears to have been essentially exponential since the Devonian, with little evidence of major extinction events.
1558082|The ontogeny of arthropod exoskeletons is punctuated by short periods of growth following each molt, separated by longer stages of unchanging morphology called instars. The recognition of instar clusters in size distributions has been important in understanding the growth and evolution of fossil arthropods. Generally, these clusters have been identified by inspection, but this approach has been criticized for its subjectivity. In this paper, we describe a statistical framework for evaluating hypotheses of clustering based on maximum likelihood analysis of mixture models. The approach assumes that individuals are normally distributed within instars; thus an arthropod size distribution can be considered a mixture of normal distributions. This methodology provides an objective framework to compare various plausible hypotheses of grouping, including the possibility that there is no significant grouping at all. We apply this method to evaluate clustering in two trilobite species, Ampyxina bellatula and Piochaspis sellata. Both of these data sets show statistically significant evidence of clustering, a phenomenon rarely documented for holaspid-stage trilobites. After consideration of alternative causes of clustering, we argue that the observed groupings are best explained as instar groups. In these two species, growth increments between molts were similar throughout the observed portion of ontogeny, although subtle yet significant variation can be seen within the ontogeny of Ampyxina bellatula.
23014727|Although morphological variation is known to influence the evolutionary fates of species, the relationship between morphological variation and survivorship in the face of extinction-inducing perturbations is poorly understood. Here, we investigate this relationship for veneroid bivalves in association with the Plio-Pleistocene extinction in Florida. Fourteen pairs of related species were selected for analysis, with each pair including one species that survived the Plio-Pleistocene extinction and another that became extinct during the interval. Morphological landmark data were acquired for more than 1500 museum specimens, representing 19 localities that encompass four well-known Plio-Pleistocene units in the study region. Procrustes superimposition was applied to each sample, and overall multivariate variation was calculated as the mean squared partial Procrustes distance between specimens and their mean form. Morphological variation was calculated at three geographic scales for each species, and differences in variation between survivors and victims were examined within each species pair. Results indicate that species surviving the Plio-Pleistocene extinction were significantly more variable morphologically than victims. Greater morphological variation may promote survivorship by directly enhancing species adaptations to changing conditions or by permitting the occupation of a larger geographic range. Alternatively, high morphological variation and survivorship may both be mediated by a third variable, such as large geographic range.
23014896|The Burgess Shale-type Lagersttten of the Early Cambrian Maotianshan Shale record an apparently sudden conquest of pelagic niches by ten phyla of metazoans. One of these phyla is Chaetognatha, a group of predatory marine worms. Given their role as major predators in modern planktonic ecosystems, the chaetognaths discovered in the Maotianshan Shale (Yunnan Province, South China) suggest that the pelagos at the time was already quite complex. Modern chaetognaths, however, can be divided into benthic and pelagic forms; the pelagic nature of Eognathacantha ercainella should therefore be validated by strong morphological evidence. Knowing that planktonic animals present morphological adaptations that increase their buoyancy, we studied the drag produced during the active phase of chaetognath locomotion for the modern forms Paraspadella gotoi (benthic) and Sagitta elegans (pelagic). By using a motion model developed by Jordan in 1992, we could calculate the resistive force produced by the undulatory movement of chaetognaths' bodies. This mechanistic approach evaluates the effect of three motion parameters (relative speed, total length, and tail ratio) on the drag force produced during locomotion. Our results show that the increase of size contributes to higher drag while the shorter tail of the pelagic form balances this effect by reducing the wetted surface subject to friction. For chaetognaths, therefore, a bigger body (both in length and width) and a shorter tail indicate a pelagic lifestyle, a finding that can be applied to the study of the fossil Eognathacantha ercainella. A discriminant analysis can confirm that the Early Cambrian chaetognath presents a pelagic morphology with similarities to modern bathypelagic and mesopelagic species.
2400739|Discovery of several new specimens of the gigantic Eocene ground bird Diatryma gigantea from the Willwood Formation of northwestern Wyoming, has prompted an analysis of its feeding apparatus and an assessment of the mode of life of this unusual bird. Diatryma exhibits many of the features predicted by biomechanical models to occur in animals delivering large dorsoventral bite forces. Similarly, the mandible of Diatryma, which was modeled as a curved beam, appears well equipped to withstand such forces, especially if they were applied asymmetrically. Interpretation of these size-independent biomechanical properties in light of the large absolute skull size of Diatryma suggests a formidable feeding apparatus. The absence of modern analogues complicates the determination of just how this unique skull morphology correlates with diet. Suggestions that Diatryma was an herbivore seem improbable in that they require the postulation of excessively high safety factors in the construction of the skull. The traditional hypothesis of Diatryma as a carnivorous bird accords as well or better with the data at hand. Carnivory raises the probability of "accidental" encounter with bones, thus explaining the high safety factors. In fact, the skull and mandible of Diatryma are so massive that bone crushing may have been an important behavior. Diatryma could have been a scavenger. However, limb allometry and phylogenetic interpretation of limb proportions call into question the picture of Diatryma as a slow, plodding graviportal animal, suggesting that active predation was within its behavioral repertoire.
2400888|Nipponites, a Late Cretaceous nostoceratid ammonite, shows a peculiar meandering shell growth in the middle-late stage. Assuming neutral buoyancy, and a constant aperture angle relative to the sea bottom, meandering growth of this ammonite was modeled by computer simulation. In this model, the meandering shell growth is controlled by regulation of life orientation. The remarkable similarity in the coiling modes and rib obliquity patterns between the computer-simulated and actual specimens strongly suggests a free living mode of life in Nipponites with an approximately neutral buoyancy. The simulation also suggests that morphological saltation from a simple helicoid form like Eubostrychoceras japonicum to a meandering shell form like Nipponites occurred abruptly without any intermediate form by minor change of the upper and lower limits of growth direction.
2400530|A nonparametric analysis of the extinction patterns of 10 major marine invertebrate groups at the five most profound mass extinction events leads to five observations: (1) At each event some taxonomic groups were affected much more than others. (2) There is little consistency among events in terms of which taxonomic groups were most or least affected; however, adaptive groupings do exhibit consistency: benthic, mobile organisms suffered significantly fewer extinctions than sessile suspension feeders, while the pelagic organisms apparently suffered the most. (3) There are no convincing patterns of interrelated extinctions among taxonomic groups. (4) No group exhibits a persistent tendency through time for a relative increase or decrease in their extinction rate at the events. (5) Some relationships are seen between the extinction patterns of three pairs of events; the Late Ordovician and Late Devonian events exhibit a significantly similar pattern (the same taxonomic groups suffered the most extinction in both cases) as do the Late Triassic and Late Cretaceous events. The Late Permian and Late Cretaceous events show a significantly inverse pattern (the most affected groups in the former were among the least affected in the latter). Upon examination, these observations, notably 1, 2, and 5, are consonant with current scenarios of the effects of catastrophic bolide impacts on marine fauna.
2401073|Two intervals of the Phanerozoic stand out as times of biosphere-scale revolution in the sense that biogeochemical cycles came under increased control by organisms. These are the early Paleozoic (extending from just before the Cambrian to the Middle Ordovician, a duration of about 100 m.y.), characterized by the appearance of predators, burrowers, and mineralized skeletons, and by the subsequent diversification of planktonic animals and suspension-feeders; and the later Mesozoic (latest Triassic to mid-Cretaceous, a duration of somewhat more than 100 m.y.), marked by a great diversification of predators and burrowers and by the rise of mineralized planktonic protists. This paper explores the economic conditions that make such revolutions possible. I argue that opportunities for innovation and diversification are enhanced when raw materials and energy are supplied at increasing rates, or when organisms gain greater access to these commodities through rising temperatures and higher metabolic rates. Greater per capita availability of resources enables populations to grow; lessens or alters ecological constraints on functional improvement; makes possible the evolution of high metabolic rates (large incomes), which in turn permit improvement in each of several otherwise incompatible functions; and favors the establishment and spread of daughter species arising through founder speciation. Reductions in productivity reinforce adaptational constraints and may bring about extinctions. Massive submarine volcanism, together with its associated phenomena of warming, sea-level rise, and widening of warm-weather zones, is proposed to be the chief extrinsic trigger for the Phanerozoic revolutions. The later Mesozoic was characterized by continental rifting, which accompanied massive submarine volcanic eruptions that produced large quantities of nutrients and carbon dioxide. This activity began in the Late Triassic and peaked in the mid- to Late Cretaceous. The Early Cambrian was also a time of rifting and may likewise have been marked by large-scale submarine volcanism. Continental and explosive volcanism, weathering, and upwelling are other potential means for increasing evolutionary opportunity, but their effects are either local or linked directly or indirectly with cooling. Intense chemical weathering in the Early Cambrian, however, may have contributed to the early Paleozoic revolution. The extrinsic stimulus was greatly amplified through positive feedback by the evolution of higher metabolic rates and other means for acquiring, trading, retaining, and recycling resources more rapidly and from a wider range of environments. Because these novelties usually require a high and predictable supply of resources, their evolution is more likely when extrinsically controlled supplies increase rather than when per capita availability is low. In the view adopted here, the microevolutionary and microeconomic market forces of competition and natural selection operate against a backdrop of macroeconomic supply and demand. Resources are under both extrinsic and intrinsic control. Positive and negative feedbacks link processes at the micro- and macroeconomic levels. This view complements the genealogical and hierarchical conception of evolution by emphasizing that the pattern of descent is influenced by resources and by market forces operating at all scales of space and time.
2400773|Immature specimens of the Late Cretaceous pterosaur Pteranodon were identified using three size-independent criteria: (1) fusion of various cranial and postcranial elements; (2) degree of epiphyseal ossification; and (3) bone grain or degree of ossification of limb-bone shafts. Immature individuals make up 15% of available specimens of Pteranodon and do not differ significantly in size from mature individuals. This and the extensive fusion of the mature skeleton suggest that Pteranodon had determinate growth. The bone of limb-bone shafts of immature individuals is fibro-lamellar bone, which suggests that they grew rapidly to adult size. The size-independent criteria can also be used to identify immature and mature individuals of other pterosaur taxa, and other large pterodactyloids also probably exhibited rapid determinate growth.
41684607|The carbon stable isotope (C) composition of the calcitic tests of planktonic foraminifera has an important role as a geochemical tracer of ocean carbon system changes associated with the Cretaceous/Paleogene (K/Pg) mass extinction event and its aftermath. Questions remain, however, about the extent of C isotopic disequilibrium effects and the impact of depth habitat evolution on test calcite C among rapidly evolving Paleocene species, and the influence this has on reconstructed surface-to-deep ocean dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) gradients. A synthesis of new and existing multispecies data, on the relationship between C and O and test size, sheds light on these issues. Results suggest that early Paleocene species quickly radiated into a range of depths habitats in a thermally stratified water column. Negative O gradients with increasing test size in some species of Praemurica suggest either ontogenetic or ecotypic dependence on calcification temperature that may reflect depth/light controlled variability in symbiont photosynthetic activity. The pattern of positive C test-size correlations allows us to (1) identify metabolic disequilibrium C effects in small foraminifera tests, as occur in the immediate aftermath of the K/Pg event, (2) constrain the timing of evolution of foraminiferal photosymbiosis to 63.5 Ma, ~0.9 Myr earlier than previously suggested, and (3) identify the apparent loss of symbiosis in a late-ranging morphotype of Praemurica. These findings have implications for interpreting C DIC gradients at a resolution appropriate for incoming highly resolved K/Pg core records.
2401118|The morphologic radiation of Early Jurassic ammonites following the near extinction at the end of the Triassic is analyzed from 436 species of 156 genera that form a representative sample of morphs occurring worldwide in the first three stages of the Jurassic (Hettangian, Sinemurian, Pliensbachian: 36 subzones, 24 m.y.). Morphologic diversity is analyzed independently of taxonomy by processing 18 shape parameters using multivariate analysis and clustering techniques. The morphospace thus defined indicates that morphs fall readily into two groups made up of four and five adjacent morpho-subsets. The temporal pattern of morphospace occupation in the 36 Lower Jurassic subzones displays diversification, depletion (sometimes total), and displacement of successive parts of the morphospace, reflecting a complex history in which morphologic radiation appears to be more than a process of diffusion. The history of the morphologic evolution is tentatively related to sea-level changes and there is a suggestion that morphologic diversity increases during second-order transgressive periods.
2400299|In the fossil record, biogeographic data at the species level are normally not adequately preserved to be utilized in the reconstruction of marine paleoprovinces; consequently, higher taxa are employed. Thus it is cogent to question whether modern marine provinces, which are generally recognized by their species content, are still distinctive at higher taxonomic levels. Similarity coefficients computed from the bivalve and gastropod faunas of six contiguous and five spatially separated modern provinces indicate that the present-day marine provinces are in fact recognizable at the generic and in most cases at the familial level. The deficiencies and biases of the fossil record obscure the distinctiveness and reduce the precision with which ancient provinces can be delimited. Nevertheless, paleoprovinces that are recognized from the distribution patterns of genera and families are clearly comparable to modern provinces that are determined by species distributions.
2400194|Consideration of the physics of sinking of hollow, rigid bodies leads to equations of motion for sinking cephalopod shells. We have derived equations of motion for three postmortem sinking situations: sinking with a fixed amount of water in the phragmocone; rapid phragmocone filling (no siphuncular tube); and slow phragmocone filling (siphuncular tube intact). In all three cases sinking speed can be closely approximated by the terminal velocity calculated from the total weight, buoyancy, and drag parameters of the shell. Experiments on modern Nautilus shells yield sinking velocities in agreement with calculated values. The experiments also show that orientation of a sinking Nautilus shell varies as the phragmocone fills with water. With small negative buoyancy the shell sinks with its plane of symmetry upright, but as it fills, it begins to rock from side to side and leans over and sinks with its plane of symmetry horizontal when the camerae are about 55% full. The maximum sinking speed of upright adult Nautilus shells is approximately 30 cm/sec, which appears to be too small for embedding in the bottom upon impact. The maximum depth to which Nautilus sinks in the upright position ranges from about 7 m for rapidly filling shells to as much as 600 m for slowly filling shells. In the latter case, the shell will continue to fill after coming to rest on the bottom, and the stability of the vertical orientation will be removed within 1 or 2 days. Thus, primary vertical preservation of cephalopod shells indicates water depths less than about 10 m.
2666102|Geometric properties of the shells of 123 species of extant Bivalvia were analyzed from the viewpoint of theoretical morphology. The effects of shell form and the structure of ligament on the interumbonal space and the maximum shell opening received particular attention. The results of computer simulation and morphospace analysis indicate that possessing both prosogyrous shell form and an extended hinge without the parivincular ligament tends to cause space conflict between umbones or dorsal shell margins of right and left valves. To a large degree, a prosogyrous shell form with a long parivincular ligament helps shell opening without umbonal conflict, if the shell is flat enough to avoid the mutual interference between dorsal shell margins of closed valves. Extension of the ligament and plunging of the anterior part of the coiling axis into the ventral side provide enough space along the dorsal shell margins in which a parivincular ligament and its substrata are developed.
25482672|Stephen Jay Gould made impressive contributions to macroevolutionary theory; one of the topics in this area that particularly interested him was how to define and recognize species selection. Here we explore how and why Gould's ideas on concepts related to species selection evolved over 30 years, from the punctuated equilibria paper of 1972 to his "Structure of Evolutionary Theory" magnum opus published in 2002. Throughout his career his ideas on species selection shifted between three phases. Initially, Gould favored a definition of species selection that was more descriptive. Later, he came to distinguish between species sorting, which he called species selection in the broad sense, and true species selection, which is tied to the concept of species-level aptations. Finally, he came to view species selection in a broader, more inclusive way, effectively merging the two earlier viewpoints. His ideas on species selection changed over the years because he was trying to square his views on complex concepts like adaptation, natural selection, emergence, and the independence of macroevolutionary theory. Gould's thoughts on species selection not only help to define the history of debate on the concept but also help set a course for the future.
2400988|A kill curve for Phanerozoic species is developed from an analysis of the stratigraphic ranges of 17,621 genera, as compiled by Sepkoski. The kill curve shows that a typical species' risk of extinction varies greatly, with most time intervals being characterized by very low risk. The mean extinction rate of 0.25/m.y. is thus a mixture of long periods of negligible extinction and occasional pulses of much higher rate. Because the kill curve is merely a description of the fossil record, it does not speak directly to the causes of extinction. The kill curve may be useful, however, to limit choices of extinction mechanisms.
2400163|A paradoxical relationship exists between the genetic and morphologic adaptive strategies of benthic marine invertebrates; morphologically variable species from unstable environments have been shown to possess less genetic variability than species with more constant phenotypes from stable habitats. The mode of growth of Ordovician bryozoans provides an insight into this paradox. These bryozoans exhibit morphologic gradients within zooidal subcolonies that change throughout colony development. Entire clusters of zooids begin and cease growth as a function of their spatial position with respect to neighboring clusters. A comparison of the within-colony and among-colony components of developmental and morphologic variability was made from populations inhabiting Ordovician environments of differing stability. In four stratigraphically persistent species, the level of developmental variability is homogeneous within species, but varies significantly across taxa. The two species with the highest levels of developmental variability (less canalized development) fit the concept of r-selected opportunistic species and are most abundant in communities of lowest diversity. The other two species have much lower levels of variability (more canalized development), fit the concept of K-selected equilibrium species, and are most abundant in the communities of highest diversity. Within-colony morphologic variability is also higher in the opportunistic rather than the equilibrium species, indicating that the higher morphologic variability observed in unstable environments is the product of within-genotype deregulation, and not the result of higher genetic polymorphism. The equilibrium species in stable environments have lower levels of morphologic deregulation and correspondingly greater variation among genotypes than within genotypes in fossil populations
4096807|Coiled cephalopods constitute a major part of the Paleozoic nekton. They emerged in the Early Ordovician but nearly vanished in the Silurian. The Emsian appearance of ammonoids started a story of evolutionary success of coiled cephalopods, which lasted until the end-Permian extinction event. This story is investigated by using a taxonomic database of 1346 species of 253 genera of coiled nautiloids and 1114 genera of ammonoids. The per capita sampling diversities, the Van Valen metrics of origination and extinction, and the probabilities of origination and extinction were calculated at stage intervals. The outcome of these estimations largely reflects the known biotic events of the Paleozoic. The polyphyletic, iterative appearance of coiled cephalopods within this time frame is interpreted to be a process of adaptation to shell-crushing predatory pressure. The evolution of the diversity of coiled nautiloids and ammonoids is strongly correlated within the time intervals. Once established, assemblages of coiled cephalopods are related to changes in sea level. The general trends of decreasing mean (or background) origination and extinction rates during the Paleozoic are interpreted to reflect a successive stabilization of the coiled cephalopod assemblages. Different reproduction strategies in ammonoids and nautiloids apparently resulted in different modes of competition and morphological trends. Significant morphological trends toward a stronger ornamentation and a centrally positioned siphuncle characterize the evolution of Paleozoic nautiloids.
2401114|Three homogeneous models of species origination and extinction are used to assess the probability that ancestor-descendant pairs are preserved in the fossil record. In the model of cladogenetic budding, a species can persist after it branches and can therefore have multiple direct descendants. In the bifurcation model, a species branches to give rise to two distinct direct descendants, itself terminating in the process. In the model of phyletic transformation, a species gives rise to a single direct descendant without branching, itself terminating in the process. Assuming homogeneous preservation, even under pessimistic assumptions regarding the completeness of the fossil record, the probability of finding fossil ancestor-descendant pairs is not negligible. Even if all species of Phanerozoic marine invertebrates in the paleontologically important taxa had the same probability of preservation, on the order of 1%-10% or more of the known fossil species would be directly ancestral to other known fossil species. However, this is likely to be an underestimate, since the probability of finding ancestor-descendant pairs is enhanced by taxonomic, temporal, and spatial heterogeneities in preservation probability. Moreover, indirect genealogical relationships substantially increase the probability of finding ancestor-descendant pairs. The model of budding, the only one in which an ancestor can persist after a branching event, predicts that half or more of extant species have ancestors that are also extant. Thus, the question of how to recognize ancestor-descendant pairs must be carefully considered.
2400187|The origin and evolutionary histories of the two most abundant and diverse genera of invertebrates (Prosserella: Brachiopoda and Syringostroma: Stromatoporoidea) in the Detroit River Group and associated rocks in the vicinity of the Michigan Basin appear to support the models of either allopatric speciation and punctuated equilibria (Eldredge and Gould, 1972) or quantum evolution (Simpson, 1944; 1953). Four morphotypes of Prosserella arose almost simultaneously (a "burst") just below the base of the Detroit River in sandstone deposited near the axis of the Findlay Arch and persisted without evidence of significant progressive evolutionary change (a "trend") until their almost simultaneous extinction by lineage termination near the top of the Detroit River. Neither ancestors nor descendants of Prosserella have been recognized and even the familial placement of the genus is uncertain. The genus, its species and morphotypes probably arose by means of very profound genetic or chromosomal "revolutions" that probably took place in small allopatric populations; each population quickly increased in abundance and geographic range and persisted without further significant morphologic modification until its extinction. S. ristigouchense from the Lower Devonian of New Brunswick is the probable ancestor to six (or seven) species of Syringostroma that appear almost simultaneously (another "burst") in lower Detroit River carbonate rocks deposited near the eastern margin of the Michigan Basin. Two of these new species are known only from reefs of early Detroit River age (a "crash"), four species persist without significant morphological change to at least the end of Detroit River deposition, and one of these was the probable ancestor to yet another newly evolved species that is abundantly represented in the conformably overlying Columbus Limestone. The "founding fathers" of chronostratigraphy were pre-Darwinian and based their concepts and methods on assemblages of co-occurring taxa of unknown phylogenetic relations (assemblage-zones, concurrent range-zones and Oppel-zones) rather than on the range-zones of successional species in the same phylogenetic lineage (lineage-zones). Assumptions of these early biostratigraphers concerning the temporal relations of taxa are in close accord with the premises of punctuated equilibria and quantum evolution. The development of the chronostratigraphic system during the 19th century attests to the success of these early methods which depend for their precision on the number of taxa used and determination of the significance of morphologic differences among these taxa and their geographic and stratigraphic distributions.
2400220|The American interchange of land mammals reached its acme during the late Blancan and early Irvingtonian in North America and during the Chapadmalalan and Uquian in South America. It lasted about two million years and included taxa adapted to diverse habitats. It was preceded in the early Hemphillian in North America and the Huayquerian in South America by the interchange of a few heralding genera. The MacArthur-Wilson faunal equilibrium hypothesis correctly predicts a marked increase in originations, number of genera, and turnover rate for the South American fauna during the peak of the interchange. Subsequent further increases were not so predicted but closely resemble patterns also observed in late Pleistocene land mammals of Europe and North America. The continued increase in South American land mammal genera after the interchange had largely ceased resulted principally from autochthonous evolution of northern immigrant stocks. A marked decrease in South American ungulate genera (from thirteen to three) coincided with the appearance of fourteen northern ungulate genera and therefore appears to be a replacement phenomenon. The area/diversity relationship predicts no important change in generic diversity if a maximum of only nine percent of North America is occupied by the interamerican mingled fauna. At the family level, however, diversity is seriously overestimated due to the nomenclatural artifact of increased relative diversity by filtering.
2400601|Some statistical methods are described for the detection and estimation of variability in the rate of evolution, from biometrical data on single characters in fossil lineages. The methods were applied to some published examples of protistan and mammalian lineages, extending between 0.8 and 6.4 Myr in duration. Of six cases examined, only one failed to show evidence for significant variation in the rate of evolution, and only four deviated significantly from a random walk pattern, despite significant net evolutionary change in all cases but one.
2401084|A fractal geometry of clast size within the test wall in the Antarctic agglutinated foraminifera Hormosina mortenseni Cushman, 1910 and Cyclammina cancellata Brady, 1879 has been identified with the use of Scanning Electron Microscopic techniques. External surface and internal clast distributions in H. mortenseni display a self-similar distribution. C. cancellata has an internal self-similar grain arrangement, whereas the exterior surface shows an alternative grain distribution. Power law relationships between particle density and grain diameter enable values of fractal dimension (D) to be calculated; these "D-values" represent the absolute gradient of the power law relationship. The dimensions acquired from the foraminiferal study correspond well with those previously obtained from natural fractal geological structures and ideal fractals. The self-similar grain arrangement within walls of the foraminifera exists over three orders of magnitude, after which alternative methods of test wall construction are evident. This suggests that a limit exists where grain selection terminates. A self-similar grain distribution limits the amount of biologically produced adhesive material required by the foraminifera for constructing their tests.
2400309|More than 500 undistorted, unfragmented pedicle valves of Ambocoelia umbonata (Conrad) (Spiriferida, Brachiopoda) were recovered from each of four levels within a Middle Devonian fossil cluster. The fossil cluster, an ellipsoidal shell accumulation measuring one meter in diameter and 2 cm in thickness, was exhumed from an exposure of the Ludlowville Shale (Hamilton Group) of western New York. Size frequency histograms indicate that the brachiopod experienced very high levels of juvenile mortality, due, probably, to the effects of high bottom turbidity. Sedimentological and paleontological evidence indicates that the cluster represents a sequence of in situ benthic associations. Size-independent variation was estimated by calculating the eigenvalue of the minor axis on a log-transformed plot of pedicle valve lengths and widths. The eigenvalue technique eliminates the effect of allometrically induced shape changes and is applicable to multicharacter analyses of morphological variability. Size-independent variability among the larger individuals of Ambocoelia decreases in successively younger cluster populations. The decrease is not correlated with any observed or inferred change in substratum, diversity, equitability or turbidity.
4096891|Muscle moment arms are important determinants of muscle function; however, it is challenging to determine moment arms by inspecting bone specimens alone, as muscles have curvilinear paths that change as joints rotate. The goals of this study were to (1) develop a three-dimensional graphics-based model of the musculoskeletal system of the Cretaceous theropod dinosaur Tyrannosaurus rex that predicts muscle-tendon unit paths, lengths, and moment arms for a range of limb positions; (2) use the model to determine how the T. rex hindlimb muscle moment arms varied between crouched and upright poses; (3) compare the predicted moment arms with previous assessments of muscle function in dinosaurs; (4) evaluate how the magnitudes of these moment arms compare with those in other animals; and (5) integrate these findings with previous biomechanical studies to produce a revised appraisal of stance, gait, and speed in T. rex. The musculoskeletal model includes ten degrees of joint freedom (flexion/extension, ab/adduction, or medial/lateral rotation) and 33 main muscle groups crossing the hip, knee, ankle, and toe joints of each hindlimb. The model was developed by acquiring and processing bone geometric data, defining joint rotation axes, justifying muscle attachment sites, and specifying muscle-tendon geometry and paths. Flexor and extensor muscle moment arms about all of the main limb joints were estimated, and limb orientation was statically varied to characterize how the muscle moment arms changed. We used sensitivity analysis of uncertain parameters, such as muscle origin and insertion centroids, to deterimine how much our conclusions depend on the muscle reconstruction we adopted. This shows that a specific amount of error in the reconstruction (e.g., position of muscle origins) can have a greater, lesser, similar, or no effect on the moment arms, depending on complex interactions between components of the musculoskeletal geometry. We found that more upright poses would have improved mechanical advantage of the muscles considerably. Our analysis shows that previously assumed moment arm values were generally conservatively high. Our results for muscle moment arms are generally lower than the values predicted by scaling data from extant taxa, suggesting that T. rex did not have the allometrically large muscle moment arms that might be expected in a proficient runner. The information provided by the model is important for determining how T. rex stood and walked, and how the muscles of a 4000-7000 kg biped might have worked in comparison with extant bipeds such as birds and humans. Our model thus strengthens the conclusion that T. rex was not an exceptionally fast runner, and supports the inference that more upright (although not completely columnar) poses are more plausible for T. rex. These results confirm general principles about the relationship between size, limb orientation, and locomotor mechanics: exceptionally big animals have a more limited range of locomotor abilities and tend to adopt more upright poses that improve extensor muscle effective mechanical advantage. This model builds on previous phylogenetically based muscle reconstructions and so moves closer to a fully dynamic, three-dimensional model of stance, gait, and speed in T. rex.
2401067|The incidences of selected features of dicotyledonous wood that are believed to be of ecologic and/or phylogenetic significance (distinct growth rings, narrow and wide vessel diameter, high and low vessel frequencies, scalariform perforations, tangential vessel arrangement, ring porosity, and helical wall thickenings) were plotted through time (Cretaceous-Recent). There are marked differences between the Cretaceous and Tertiary in the frequency of all wood anatomical features. Incidences of features that are associated with markedly seasonal climates in extant floras do not approach modern levels until the Neogene. Correlations of wood anatomical features with ecology do not appear to have been constant through time, because in the Cretaceous different features provide conflicting information about the climate. Throughout the Tertiary the southern hemisphere/tropical and the northern hemisphere/temperate regions differed in the incidences of ecologically significant features and these differences are similar to those in the Recent flora. Possibilities for reliably using dicotyledonous wood for climatic reconstructions appear restricted to the Tertiary and Quaternary. However, at present the fossil wood record for most epochs and regions is too limited to permit detailed reconstructions of their past climate.
23014721|Fossil species of the family Hyaenidae represent a wide range of ecomorphological diversity not observed in living representatives of this carnivoran group. Among them, the cursorial meat-and-bone specialists are of particular interest not only because they were the most cursorial of the hyaenids, but also because they were the only members of this family to spread into the New World. Here we conduct a functional morphological analysis of the cranium of the cursorial meat-and-bone specialist Chasmaporthetes lunensis by using finite element modeling to compare it with the living Crocuta crocuta, a well-known bone-cracking carnivoran. As found with previous finite element studies on hyaenid crania, the cranium of C. lunensis is not differentially adapted for stress dissipation between the bone-cracking and meat-shearing teeth. A smaller occlusal surface on the more slender P3 cusp of C. lunensis allowed this species to use less bite force to crack a comparably-sized bone relative to C. crocuta, but higher muscle masses in the latter probably allow it to process larger food items. We use two indices, the stress slope and the bone-cracking index, to show that C. lunensis has a well-adapted cranium for stress dissipation given its size, but the main stresses placed on its cranium might have been more from subduing prey and less from cracking bones. Throughout the Cenozoic, other carnivores besides hyaenids convergently evolved similar morphologies, including domed frontal regions, suggesting an adaptive value for a repetitive mosaic of features. Our analyses add support to the hypothesis that bone-cracking adaptations are a complex model that has evolved convergently several times across different carnivoran families, and these predictable morphologies may evolve along a common gradient of functionality that is likely to be under strong adaptive control.
2400499|Available data on the stratigraphic ranges of latest Silurian and Devonian vascular plant macrofossils (sporophytes) and spores provide insights into the tempo and mode of early tracheophyte evolution. Patterns of diversification, origination, and extinction conform in general to the predictions of Sepkoski's kinetic model of diversification. Rates of generic origination and extinction vary not only through time but also between organ systems for a single time interval. This fact, coupled with data on longevity and turnover and comparative morphological observations, can be used to document mosaic evolution in early vascular plant history. Mosaic evolution is an important theme in plant evolution; indeed, what we recognize as macroevolutionary events often correlate with brief periods of pronounced mosaicism. Such evolutionary patterns reflect the developmental biology of tracheophytes in which individual organs often have life spans that are considerably shorter than the life of the whole plant. Under these conditions, individual organs or organ systems can respond to different sets of evolutionary pressures. The major period of early vascular plant diversification occurred during the late Early and early Middle Devonian Period, 30 Myr or more after the origin of the group. Such lags in diversification are not uncommon in the fossil record. Sometimes they reflect extrinsic controls on diversification, but in other cases they appear to be a consequence of intrinsic rates of origination and extinction.
4096885|Mass extinctions can play a role in shaping macroevolutionary trends through time, but the contribution of recoveries to this process has yet to be examined in detail. This study focuses on the effects of three extinction events, the end-Cretaceous (K/T), mid-Eocene (mid-E), and end-Eocene (E/O), on long-term patterns of body size in veneroid bivalves. Systematic data were collected for 719 species and 140 subgenera of veneroids from the Late Cretaceous through Oligocene of North America and Europe. Centroid size measures were calculated for 101 subgenera and global stratigraphic ranges were used to assess extinction selectivity and preferential recovery. Veneroids underwent a substantial extinction at the K/T boundary, although diversity recovered to pre-extinction levels by the early Eocene. The mid-E and E/O events were considerably smaller and their recovery intervals much shorter. None of these events were characterized by significant extinction selectivity according to body size at the subgenus level; however, all three recoveries were strongly size biased. The K/T recovery was biased toward smaller veneroids, whereas both the mid-E and E/O recoveries were biased toward larger ones. The decrease in veneroid size across the K/T recovery actually reinforced a Late Cretaceous trend toward smaller sizes, whereas the increase in size resulting from the Eocene recoveries was relatively short-lived. Early Cenozoic changes in predation, temperature, and/or productivity may explain these shifts.
3595486|Traditionally, the distinction between meraspis and holaspis among trilobites has been based on the achievement of the full adult complement of thoracic segments. Using a large sample (over 700 specimens collected from a single bed) we explore the utility of employing the ontogenetic trajectory of the cranidium as an alternative means to differentiate trilobite growth stages. This method is particularly useful for species represented solely by exuviae and disarticulated individuals. We use geometric morphometrics to examine shape change among cranidia ranging in size from 0.9 mm to 11.6 mm in cephalic length. The 114 measured specimens exhibit a rather continuous gradation in size in which no distinct instars are evident. The meraspid and holaspid specimens exhibit allometry when partial warp scores and uniform components of shape derived from thin-plate spline analysis are regressed onto log centroid size. To describe allometric shape change, deformation vectors from the smallest to the largest specimen in both ontogenetic stages are presented in three different superimposition settings by using a new software program. We have concluded that a new superimposition method (the Sliding Baseline Registration) is a useful tool for visualizing allometry in organisms that contain an axis of symmetry. As a result, we conclude that allometry is evident in meraspides and holaspides, but the degree of allometry in holaspides is very small relative to that in meraspides. The boundary between meraspis and holaspis in Triarthrus becki appears to correspond to a large change in the rate of ontogenetic change, but neither to a change in the direction of that trajectory nor to a cessation of ontogenetic change. This boundary also corresponds to a cranidium centroid size that matches well previous determinations that holaspis begins at about 2.8 mm in cephalic length.
2401130|The extreme morphological simplicity of lingulide brachiopod shells makes them particularly useful for investigating the species-level taxonomic resolution of the fossil record as well as the relationships between taxonomy, morphological complexity, and evolutionary rates. Lingulides have undergone little change in shell morphology and have had low taxonomic diversity since the Paleozoic. Is this pattern an evolutionary phenomenon or an artifact of the shell's simplicity? Multivariate methods were used to establish morphogroups among seven populations of four extant species of Glottidia. Six characters (three shell dimensions and three internal septa) were measured for 162 specimens from field and museum collections. All populations follow similar allometric trajectories: internal septa display positive allometry and shell dimensions display negative allometry. The allometric pattern may reflect D'Arcy Thompson's Principle of Similitude. Principal component analysis does not reveal any distinct clusters in Glottidia morphospace but suggests that some differences independent from ontogeny exist among the populations. Size-free canonical variate analysis indicates the presence of five size-invariant groups that are statistically distinct. Bootstrap-corrected error rates indicate that four specimens are enough to classify a sample correctly at  = 0.05 and eight specimens at  = 0.01. The groups are consistent with neontological classification with the exception of two populations of G. pyramidata identified by discriminant analysis as two distinct groups. The size-free morphogroups reflect geographic separation rather than ontogenetic or substrate differences among the populations. Despite the morphological simplicity of the shell, size-free multivariate analysis of Glottidia delineates groups that offer taxonomic resolution comparable with the neontological classification. The method offers a promising tool for identifying natural morphogroups on the basis of few morphological characters. Moreover, the agreement between neontological taxonomy and the morphogroups suggests that the size-free approach can be applicable for evaluating the reality of the low diversity and turnover rates observed in the fossil record of lingulide brachiopods (= Family Lingulidae). Assuming that the neontological species of Glottidia are biologically meaningful, this study shows that morphological simplicity of lingulides does not necessarily result in taxonomic underresolution. Our analysis, as well as several previous case studies, suggests that taxonomic diversity and turnover rates do not have to be dependent on the morphological complexity of preservable parts. In many cases, when rigorous quantitative methods are employed, the differences in the rates of morphological evolution may be a real evolutionary phenomenon and not artifacts of morphological complexity.
4096878|The euphractine Macroeuphractus outesi, from the late Pliocene Chapadmalalan SALMA of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, is one of the largest dasypodids known. Its skull preserves features remarkable for an armadillo. Its complete dental arcade and large caniniform teeth have received attention in the literature as indicative of scavenging behavior. This report considers the degree of carnivory within the context of the generally omnivorous feeding behavior of euphractine armadillos through morphological and biomechanical analyses. Morphological analyses reveal that the main differences between M. outesi and other euphractines are the enlargement of the cranium, particularly of the temporal fossa; more prominent muscular scars for origin of the temporalis muscle; a more expanded rostrum, particularly in dorsoventral height; a more powerful anterior dentition, especially in the great enlargement and caniniform modification of M2; and a deeper and more robust zygomatic arch. Biomechanical analyses indicate that the moment arm of the temporalis musculature is greater than that recorded for other armadillos. These analyses indicate that the temporalis was probably larger and played a more important role in Macroeuphractus than in other euphractines, a pattern that is more usual for carnivorous mammals. Combined with the second upper molariform, which is caniniform, the features suggest that Macroeuphractus occupied an extreme position in the carnivorous-omnivorous feeding behavior of euphractines. Its large size indicates that it could have easily preyed on hare-sized vertebrates.
25609442|Fundamental to the interpretation of bone-bearing faunal deposits is an understanding of the taphonomic processes that have modified the once living fossil community. An often neglected source of bias is that of climate-averaging, which occurs when the duration of bone accumulation exceeds the duration of an individual climatic episode. Tropical and subtropical climate change is dominated by precessional cyclicity (21,000 year cycle), which controls monsoon rainfall intensity and thus plant communities over time. Under a climate-averaging scenario, the paleoecological characteristics of a faunal deposit represent an amalgamation of more than one phase of the precessional cycle. We investigate the degree of climate-averaging in Plio-Pleistocene bone breccias from South Africa by comparing stable isotope measurements of fossil enamel with the evidence from high-resolution speleothem paleoclimate proxies. We conclude that each of the four faunal assemblages studied are climate-averaged, having formed over a time period in excess of one-third of a precessional cycle (7000 years). This has implications for the reconstruction of hominin paleoenvironments and estimates of Plio-Pleistocene biodiversity. We hypothesize that climate-averaging may be a common feature of tropical terrestrial vertebrate assemblages throughout the Cenozoic and Mesozoic.
2401239|To a first approximation, the logarithmic spiral is a close fit to the biconvex lateral outline of three terebratellid genera from Australasia. Investigation of spiral parameters confirms the value of the biconvex morphospace of McGhee (1980), but not the method for estimating the spiral itself. Deviations from the estimated spiral are episodic and consistent with Rudwick's (1959) observations of allometry in brachiopod growth. Morphospace location is postulated to be indicative of a species' substrate and lifestyle. The logarithmic spiral offers much opportunity for gaining better understanding of external shape and its cause in articulate brachiopods.
2400931|Convincing hypotheses of the origin of major invertebrate groups are difficult to make in the absence of phylogenetic analyses. In spite of this, several scenarios exist for the origin of the unusual echinoid order Clypeasteroida. I expand upon the most probable of these models by performing a phylogenetic analysis on three clypeasteroid suborders, the enigmatic fossil genus Togocyamus, and the extinct Oligopygoida. This analysis shows that the oligopygoids are the sister group of the Clypeasteroida plus Togocyamus. The latter is here considered a plesion (extinct sister group) to the crown group Clypeasteroida. Within that order, the suborder Clypeasterina is the sister group to the Laganina plus Scutellina. A new classification of all these taxa is presented. The phylogeny is based on 47 characters and incorporates data on external appendages, Aristotle's lantern anatomy, and test structure of irregular echinoids, as well as new information on the morphology of Togocyamus. The earliest clypeasteroids had a lantern similar to that of adult oligopygoids, which in turn inherited their lantern from a cassiduloid-like ancestor that retained the lantern into adulthood. This lantern is absent in adult cassiduloids. Subsequent changes, including modification of the lantern into a crushing mill, extreme flattening of the test, and proliferation of food-gathering tube feet have allowed clypeasteroids to become epifaunal inhabitants of environments characterized by fine, shifting substrates, a habitat previously inaccessible to most other irregular echinoids.
40926788|Paleoecological analyses that test for spatial or temporal variation in diversity must consider not only sampling and preservation bias, but also the effects of temporal scale (i.e., timeaveraging). The species-time relationship (STR) describes how species diversity increases with the elapsed time of observation, but its consequences for assessing the effects of time-averaging on diversity of fossil assemblages remain poorly explored. Here, we use a neutral, dispersal-limited model of metacommunity dynamics, with parameters estimated from living assemblages of 31 molluscan data sets, to model the effects of within-habitat time-averaging on the mean composition and multivariate dispersion of assemblages, on diversity at point (single station) and habitat scales (pooled multiple stations), and on beta diversity. We hold sample size constant in STRs to isolate the effects of time-averaging from sampling effects. With increasing within-habitat time-averaging, stochastic switching in the identity of species in living (dispersal-limited) assemblages (1) decreases the proportional abundance of abundant species, reducing the steepness of the rank-abundance distribution, and (2) increases the proportional richness of rare, temporally short-lived species that immigrate from the neutral metacommunity with many rare species. These two effects together (1) can shift the mean composition away from the non-averaged (dispersal-limited) assemblages toward averaged assemblages that are less limited by dispersal, resembling that of the metacommunity; (2) allow the point and habitat diversity to increase toward metacommunity diversity under a given sample size (i. e., the diversity in averaged assemblages is inflated relative to non-averaged assemblages); and (3) reduce beta diversity because species unique to individual stations become shared by other stations when limited by a larger but static species pool. Surprisingly, these scaledependent changes occur at fixed sample sizes and can become significant after only a few decades or centuries of time-averaging, and are accomplished without invoking ecological succession, environmental changes, or selective postmortem preservation. Time-averaging results in less inflation of diversity at habitat than at point scales; paleoecological studies should thus analyze data at multiple spatial scales, including that of the habitat where multiple bulk samples have been pooled in order to minimize time-averaging effects. The diversity of assemblages that have accumulated over 1000 years at point and habitat scales is expected to be inflated by an average of 2.1 and 1.6, respectively. This degree of inflation is slightly higher than that observed in molluscan death assemblages at these same spatial scales (1.8 and 1.3). Thus, neutral metacommunity models provide useful quantitative constraints on directional but predictable effects of time-averaging. They provide minimal estimates for the rate of increase in diversity with time-averaging because they assume no change in environmental conditions and in the composition of the metacommunity within the window of averaging.
2400903|In studies of heterochrony, timing of development is generally measured relative to some intrinsic dimension, usually size, which serves as a proxy for time. A complementary approach is to measure timing relative to chronological time, an extrinsic dimension. Here, colony growth of a marine hydroid, Hydractinia echinata, is used to compare size- and age-based approaches to rate heterochronies. Colonies consist of feeding polyps; a basal, encrusting mat; and, in some cases, stolons which extend from the mat. Size is measured by the area covered by the mat and, if present, the stolons. Rate of polyp production was compared between colonies using clonal replicates grown in a common environment. Age-based comparisons employed polyp specific growth rates calculated over the same ontogenetic time interval for each replicate. Specific growth rates for colony area were also calculated; rates-ratios (polyp/area) provided size-based measures of polyp growth, analogous to allometric coefficients commonly used in studies of rate heterochronies. These comparisons show that size can be a misleading referent for between-colony comparisons because the rate of areal growth is not constant among colonies. Size-based measures of changes in developmental rates may provide insight into patterns, but not necessarily processes, of heterochrony. The implications of the pattern-oriented framework of size-based heterochrony should be considered in paleontological studies.
2401203|Steneofiber, an early Miocene European beaver, showed evidence of a K-strategy model of reproduction and important morphological modifications for better adaptation to a semiaquatic way of life. At the same time, a North American branch of Castoridae developed not only a parental care system but also a series of cranial and postcranial osteological adaptations to a burrowing way of life. As the North American and the European Castoridae evolved independently from each other for at least fifteen m.y., these behavioral trends seem to have been inherent in the family for a long time and have apparently promoted, up to the present time, the spread of semiaquatic forms on the two continents; on the contrary, the burrowing branch of the Castoridae rapidly vanished.
2666077|Populations of planktic foraminifera display "proportionate" coiling (approximately 50% sinistral and dextral individuals given the data at hand) or may have "biased" coiling, in which populations are dominated by either sinistral or dextral individuals. The major radiations of planktic foraminifera in the Late Cretaceous, the Paleocene to early Eocene, the middle Eocene, and the Neogene were each initiated by clades with proportionate coiling but subsequently accumulated sinistral and dextral species over time. Upper Maastrichtian foraminifera were predominantly dextral, but only the small number of species with proportionate coiling actually survived the Cretaceous/Paleogene mass extinction. The first Paleocene species with biased coiling appeared about four million years after the extinction and gradually came to represent as much as 50-60% of the tropical species diversity by the latest Paleocene. Tropical taxa with biased coiling suffered a second extinction in the late early Eocene and renewed a trend toward an increased abundance of species with biased coiling in the middle Eocene. Our results for the Paleogene reflect a recurring theme in foraminifer evolution. In each radiation, once the founding species of a clade developed a biased-coiling mode, the descendants tended to maintain biased coiling until the extinction of the clade. The iterative evolution of biased coiling appears to represent an example in which a fundamental feature of development becomes fixed in a clade and inhibits reversion to an ancestral state. Apparently, coiling patterns are heritable in contrast with previous interpretations that coiling is environmentally controlled. On evolutionary timescales, species with proportionate coiling are less susceptible to extinction than species dominated by sinistral or dextral forms. Differential survivorship ensures that each radiation is initiated from founders with proportionate coiling following mass extinction. Hence, coiling preferences represent a case where the establishment of an evolutionary trend is caused by drift away from a "limiting boundary," much like the evolution of large body size from ubiquitous small ancestors.
4096834|Abundant fossil plant remains are preserved in the high-latitude middle Eocene deposits of the Buchanan Lake Formation on Axel Heiberg Island, Nunavut Territory, Canada. Intact leaf litter, logs, and stumps preserved in situ as mummified remains offer an opportunity to determine the structure, biomass, and productivity of two Taxodiaceae-dominated forests that grew north of the Arctic Circle (paleolatitude
2400855|Posterior eccentricity has evolved independently in three lineages of northern Pacific sand dollars; it is best known in the genus Dendraster. In these forms, the anterior areas of the aboral surface are much more highly developed than the posterior areas; consequently, the apical system is located posteriorly, rather than centrally. This morphology is linked to an unusual and highly successful mode of suspension-feeding. The evolution of eccentricity appears to be related to regulatory mechanisms found in many non-eccentric sand dollars, such as Echinarachnius parma. During the ontogeny of this form, the growth rates of the ambulacra and interambulacra are correlated with their position along the longitudinal axis. Early in ontogeny, the anterior areas develop at a faster rate than the posterior areas; later in ontogeny, this relationship is completely reversed. Normally, these two phases of unequal growth counterbalance each other, and the mature test appears symmetrical. However, if the balance between the two phases were upset, eccentricity would naturally ensue. In fact, aberrant Recent and fossil Echinarachnius with the predicted anteriorly- and posteriorly-eccentric morphologies actually do exist. Posterior eccentricity is apparently produced by retention of the earlier unequal growth pattern, which favors anterior development. This represents trait neoteny; however, since the retained trait is a regulatory mechanism that controls growth rates over the entire aboral surface, the morphological effects are particularly profound. Thus, the seemingly bizarre morphology of Dendraster can be derived by a change in the timing of an existing regulatory mechanism. This may help to explain the sudden appearance of Dendraster in the fossil record and the absence of transitional forms. The unusual suspension-feeding behavior of Dendraster may have been derived from a righting response that is common among other sand dollars.
2400959|Periodicity has recently been reported in the extinction rates of fossil marine families since the Permian. The analysis used appears particularly sensitive to parameter estimation techniques, particularly in the definition of mass extinctions. It also fails to incorporate autocorrelation in the fossil record into its null hypothesis and rests on an inappropriate a posteriori comparison to the null hypothesis. An alternative analysis, examining the time-lags between periods of high extinction rates, produces no evidence of a cycle.
2400161|The organic matrix components of a fossil ammonoid shell from the Upper Cretaceous, can be separated into sub-fractions which are generally comparable to those found in extant Nautilus, using ion exchange chromatography. This suggests that at least portions of these components are sufficiently well preserved to interact characteristically with the ion exchange resin. Amino acid compositions of these sub-fractions, however, do not resemble Nautilus organic matrix sub-fractions, indicating that considerable diagenetic alteration of this material has taken place.
4500172|The magnitude and pace of terrestrial plant extinction and macroecological change associated with the Triassic/Jurassic (Tr/J) mass extinction boundary have not been quantified using paleoecological data. However, tracking the diversity and ecology of primary producers provides an ideal surrogate with which to explore patterns of ecosystem stability, collapse, and recovery and to explicitly test for gradual versus catastrophic causal mechanisms of extinction. We present an analysis of the vegetation dynamics in the Jameson Land Basin, East Greenland, spanning the Tr/J extinction event, from a census collected paleoecological data set of 4303 fossil leaf specimens, in an attempt to better constrain our understanding of the causes and consequences of the fourth greatest extinction event in earth history. Our analyses reveal (1) regional turnover of ecological dominants between Triassic and Jurassic plant communities, (2) marked structural changes in the vegetation as reflected by potential loss of a mid-canopy habit, and (3) decline in generic-level richness and evenness and change in ecological composition prior to the Tr/J boundary; all of these findings argue against a single catastrophic causal mechanism, such as a meteorite impact for Tr/J extinctions. We identify various key ecological and biological traits that increased extinction risk at the Tr/J boundary and corroborate predictions of meta-population theory or plant ecophysiological models. These include ecological rarity, complex reproductive biology, and large leaf size. Recovery in terms of generic-level richness was quite rapid following Tr/J extinctions; however, species-level turnover in earliest Jurassic plant communities remained an order of magnitude higher than observed for the Triassic. We hypothesize, on the basis of evidence for geographically extensive macrofossil and palynological turnover across the entire Jameson Land Basin, that the nature and magnitude of paleoecological changes recorded in this study reflect wider vegetation change across the whole region. How exactly these changes in dominance patterns of plant primary production affected the entire ecosystem remains an important avenue of future research.
2666070|Heterochrony is considered to be an important and ubiquitous mechanism of evolutionary change. Three components are necessary to describe heterochrony: phylogenetic relationships, size and shape change, and timing of developmental events. Patterns and processes of heterochrony are all too often invoked before all three components have been investigated. Phylogenetic hypotheses affect the interpretation of heterochrony in three ways: rooting of a clade, topology of a clade, and character polarity. To study these effects we examined the distribution of shell microstructure, lophophore support structures, and body size in four different phylogenetic hypotheses of thecideide brachiopods (Triassic to Recent), a group of minute, cryptic, benthic marine invertebrates. Thecideides are consistently monophyletic in experiments using terebratulide, strophomenate, and spire-bearing outgroups together and separately, varying ingroup membership, and experimentally withholding certain character complexes. Thecideide monophyly is also supported by bootstrap analysis. Hypotheses of heterochrony in thecideide origins and evolution are therefore not merely artifacts of classification and can be pursued further. Using either strophomenate or spire-bearing outgroups, Triassic Thecospira is the most primitive thecideide. Trees constructed using terebratulide outgroups are rooted instead at Eudesella, a taxon derived in every other phylogenetic reconstruction, and the Triassic thecideides occupy derived rather than primitive positions. Our phylogenetic results support the traditional interpretation of the reduction or loss of the secondary fibrous shell layer as a paedomorphic pattern, whereas the evolution of lophophore support structures suggests a peramorphic pattern. Reduction in thecideide adult body size is gradual, phylogenetically, and results in an overall paedomorphic pattern. Heterochrony in these three character suites may play a role in the subsequent evolution of the clade, but apparently not in the origin of the clade, as is commonly thought. Heterotopy, rather than-or in addition to-heterochrony, may account for both the origin and evolution of the lophophore support structures and in the reduction and loss of the secondary shell layer. These phylogenetic hypotheses suggest that heterochrony can result from a complex mosaic of processes and provide specific, testable predictions about the processes responsible for producing the patterns, whether heterochronic or not. Categorizing an entire clade (such as thecideides), rather than individual characters, as globally paedomorphic may allow interesting peramorphic patterns in individual characters to be overlooked.
3595497|It has been contended that Reif's odontode regulation theory is a rival and alternative to Stensi and rvig's lepidomorial theory as means of explaining the evolution of development of the vertebrate dermal and oral skeleton. The lepidomorial theory is a pattern-based theory that provides a homological framework that goes further than the odontode regulation theory in comparing dental papillae and their products, and it provides an explanatory mechanism for such relationships a posteriori. In contrast, the odontode regulation theory is process-based and observes only developmental similarity, providing no means of identifying homologies beyond this. The lepidomorial theory is superior to the odontode regulation theory in its ability to trace homology through the evolution of development of the dermal and oral skeleton. The criteria proposed to identify homology between scales-either within a given individual or taxon, or between different individuals or taxa-are, primarily, vascular architecture and, secondarily, external morphology. External morphology may be excluded on Reif's argument for the overarching principle of differentiation, a hypothesis supported by recent advances in the understanding of dental morphogenesis. Vascular architecture is potentially useful but appears to be determined by tooth/scale morphology rather than reflecting historical (phylogenetic) constraint. Data on the development of epithelial appendages, including teeth, scales, and feathers, indicate that individual primordia develop through progressive differentiation of originally larger, homogenous morphogenetic fields. Thus, there is no mechanism of ontogenetic developmental concrescence, just differentiation. Phylogenetic patterns of concrescence and differentiation are similarly achieved through ontogenetic developmental differentiation, or a lack thereof. In practice, however, it is not possible to distinguish between patterns of phylogenetic concrescence and differentiation because there is no means of identifying homology between individual elements within a squamation, or a dentition (in almost all instances). Thus, phylogenetic patterns of increase and decrease in the numbers of elements constituting dentitions or dermal elements are best described as such; further attempts to constrain precise underlying patterns remain without constraint and outside the realms of scientific enquiry. The application of the homology concept in the dermal and visceral skeletons is explored and it is determined that odontodes are serial homologs, conform only to the biological homology concept at this level of observation, and are devoid of phylogenetic meaning. It is concluded that Reif's theory is close to a universal theory of the evolution of development for the dermoskeleton and dentition, and additional components of theory, including the regulatory basis of temporal and spatial patterning, are tested and extended in light of data on the development of the chick feather array. Finally, the dermoskeleton is identified as an exemplary system for examining the regulatory basis of patterning and morphogenesis as it encompasses and surpasses the repertoire of established model organ systems.
2401238|A new hypothesis concerning the evolutionary origin of pentameral symmetry in echinoderms is presented. The BA-A-BA pattern of Loven's law in echinoids and the 2-1-2 symmetry of the edrioasteroid Stromatocystites appear to be morphogenetically related, and this pattern appears to be locked into development. This pattern may have originated from a unirayed 0-1-0, -A-, ancestor. I propose that a duplication of the uniray occurred and resulted in the addition of a pair of rays that followed Bateson's rules of symmetry to form a three-rayed 0-1-2, -A-BA, construction. This change occurred on the side that corresponds to the left side of the organism. This event made the individual asymmetric with respect to its anterior-posterior axis. Therefore I propose that morphogenetic regulation of bilaterality of the organism then led to homeotic expression of a mirror-image pair of rays on the opposite side. These two morphogenetic steps achieved the 2-1-2, BA-A-BA pattern. "Appendage status" of rays is assumed necessary to invoke the Batesonian mirror-image duplications of the model. Three robust morphological characters emerge from the "rays-as-appendages" model: (1) 2-1-2, BAo-A-BA, organization; (2) "locked-in" pentamerism; and (3) a 2-3 pattern of right and left rays. Results based on ray homology research are presented for echinoids, asteroids, ophiuroids, edrioasteroids, ophiocistioids, and holothurians. I speculate that helicoplacoids may have 0-1-2 triradiate construction, and that solutes may have 0-1-0 uniray construction. The model has limits; it does not explain 1-1, or 2-1, or 2-2 or 1-1-1 organization of ambulacra.
2400887|Cohort analysis is used to investigate survivorship of trilobites originating during the Cambrian and Ordovician. Using a time-homogeneous branching model, it is estimated that trilobite genera and species originating during the Ordovician survived three times longer than Cambrian genera and species. Monte Carlo simulation of survivorship is used to show that (1) Cambrian and Ordovician survivorship are significantly different, (2) Ordovician cohorts conform more closely to the time-homogeneous model than do Cambrian cohorts, and (3) deviations from temporal homogeneity are more often produced by extraordinary extinction than by unusually slow turnover. When Early Ordovician cohorts are decomposed into genera within families that originated in the Cambrian versus the Ordovician, no evidence that Cambrian and Ordovician survivorship differences are clade-specific can be found. Ordovician genera of Cambrian affinity and of Ordovician affinity become extinct at similar rates. Some of the ultimate causes of these differences in survivorship include (1) taxonomic inconsistency, (2) greater environmental stability in the Ordovician, and (3) more highly structured ecosystems in the Ordovician that may have led to the weeding out of extinction-prone taxa.
2400367|Quantitative systems for describing naticid borehole position in bivalve and gastropod prey are presented. Pleistocene nassariid prey were bored at 53% of the distance up the shell and 8
4500173|Leaf mass per area (M
4500139|We present a new three-dimensional theoretical ecospace for the ecological classification of marine animals based on vertical tiering, motility level, and feeding mechanism. In this context, analyses of a database of level-bottom fossil assemblages with abundance counts demonstrate fundamental changes in marine animal ecosystems between the mid-Paleozoic (461-359 Ma) and late Cenozoic (23-0.01 Ma). The average local relative abundance of infaunal burrowers, facultatively motile animals, and predators increased, whereas surface dwellers and completely non-motile animals decreased in abundance. Considering tiering, motility, and feeding together, more modes of life had high to moderate average relative abundance in the Cenozoic than in the Paleozoic. These results are robust to the biasing effects of aragonite dissolution in Paleozoic sediments and to heterogeneities in the latitudinal and environmental distributions of collections. Theoretical ecospace provides a unified system for future analyses of the utilization of ecologic opportunities by marine metazoa.
4096923|The effects of specialization on subsequent morphological evolution are poorly understood. Specialization has been implicated in both adaptive radiations that result from key innovations and evolutionary "dead ends," where specialized characteristics appear to limit subsequent evolutionary options. Despite much theoretical debate, however, empirical studies remain infrequent. In this paper, we use sister-group comparisons to evaluate the effect of morphological specialization to a particular ecological niche, hypercarnivory, on subsequent taxonomic and morphological diversity. Six sets of sister groups are identified in which one clade exhibits hypercarnivorous characteristics and the sister clade does not. Comparison results are summed across the categories "hypercarnivore" and "sister group." We also evaluate whether increasing degrees of specialization are correlated with decreasing phenotypic variation. Results presented here indicate that specialization to hypercarnivory has no effect on taxonomic diversity, but a strong effect on subsequent morphological diversity related to the jaws and dentition, and that increasing specialization does not correlate with morphological diversity except in the most specialized sabertoothed taxa, which exhibit higher variance than less specialized morphs, possibly due to selection on other characteristics.
20445592|The three dimensional structure of vegetation is an important component of ecosystems, yet it is difficult to reconstruct from the fossil record. Forests or woodlands prevailed at mid-latitudes in North America during the early Eocene but tree spacing and canopy structure are uncertain. Here we use stable carbon isotope values (C) in early Eocene mammalian faunas to infer canopy structure. We compare C values in two diverse fossil assemblages from the central Big-horn Basin to values predicted for mammals in a variety of open and closed habitats, based on modern floras and faunas. We conclude that these early Eocene faunas occupied an open canopy forest. We also use carbon and oxygen isotopes to infer diet and microhabitat. Three higher level taxa have significantly different mean C values, and values are negatively correlated with body mass. The pattern suggests diets high in leaves for larger mammals, and fruit or other non-foliar plant organs for small ones. A preference in the larger mammals for wetter habitats with high water availability to plants may also have contributed to the pattern.
2666063|Bivalve death assemblages from subtidal environments within the tropical Bocas del Toro embayment of Caribbean Panama permit a test of the extent to which levels of damage are determined by the intrinsic nature of shell supply (proportion of epifaunal species, thick shells, calcitic shells, low-organic microstructures), as opposed to the extrinsic postmortem environment that shells experience. Only damage to interior surfaces of shells was used, to ensure that damage was unambiguously postmortem in origin. We find that facies-level differences in patterns of damage (the rank order importance of postmortem encrustation, boring, edge-rounding, fine-scale surface degradation) are overwhelmingly controlled by environmental conditions: in each environment, all subsets of the death assemblage present the same damage profile. The composition of shell supply affects only the intensity of the taphonomic signature (i.e., percentage of shells affected), and only in environments containing hard substrata (patch reefs, Halimeda gravelly sand, mud among patch reefs). In these environments, epifauna, whether aragonitic or calcitic and whether thin or thick, exhibit significantly higher damage than co-occurring infauna, probably due to the initial period of seafloor exposure they typically experience after death. Thick shells (>0.5 mm), regardless of life habit or mineralogy, are damaged more frequently than thin shells, probably because of selective colonization by fouling organisms. Calcitic shells show no consistently greater frequency of damage than aragonitic shells, and high-organic microstructures yield mixed patterns. Taphofacies surveys in such depositional systems could thus be confidently based on any subset of the fauna, including diagenetically residual assemblages of calcitic shells and thick-shelled molds. Further tests are needed to determine whether the higher levels of damage observed on some subsets of shells are a consequence of greater time-averaging (thus lower temporal resolution), greater exposure time, preferential attack (potential bias in relative abundance), or some combination of these. Paleobiologically, however, the implication is that ecological subsets of bivalve assemblages are not isotaphonomic, either in tangible damage or in probable bias, within hard-substrate environments, although they may be within soft-sediment environments. In actualistic studies, targeting broad classes of taxa for comparison across environments maximizes our ability to extrapolate taphonomic guidelines into the fossil record, where life habits, skeletal types, and shallow subtidal habitats have dramatically different patterns of abundance and deployment.
2401229|The equations for calculating classical confidence intervals on the end points of stratigraphic ranges are based on the restrictive assumption of randomly distributed fossil finds. Herein, a method is presented for calculating confidence intervals on the end-points of stratigraphic ranges that partially relaxes this assumption: the method will work for any continuous distribution of gap sizes, not just those generated by random processes. The price paid for the generality of the new approach is twofold: (1) there are uncertainties associated with the sizes of the confidence intervals, and (2) for large confidence values (e.g., 95%) a rich fossil record is required to place upper bounds on the corresponding confidence intervals. This new method is not universal; like the method for calculating classical confidence intervals it is based on the assumption that there is no correlation between gap size and stratigraphic position. The fossil record of the Neogene Caribbean bryozoan Metrarabdotos is analyzed with the new approach. The equations developed here, like those for classical confidence intervals, should not be applied to stratigraphic ranges based on discrete sampling regimes, such as those typically established from deep-sea drilling cores, though there are exceptions to this rule.
2400173|Small mammal species distribution, density, and composition of modern and Pleistocene faunas from the eastern United States provide information about environmental gradients. Higher summer temperatures and less effective moisture along a transect from the northeast to the southwest can be correlated with the distribution of small mammals as well as decreases in the total number of shrew and vole species. Relative frequencies of "boreal", "deciduous", and "steppe" species are more equal in late Wisconsin than modern faunas which are predommantly composed of only one group. A higher vole species density is prevalent in each late Wisconsin fauna and eleven of twelve of these faunas have a higher shrew species density than the corresponding modern fauna. Many shrew and vole species that are today endemic to the boreal provinces were cosmopolitan during the late Wisconsin. Moderate environmental gradients of the equable late Wisconsin climates allowed integration of boreal species with resident species in the south.
3595485|Despite substantial advances in plate tectonic modeling in the last three decades, the postulated position of terranes in the Paleozoic has seldom been validated by faunal data. Fewer studies still have attempted a quantitative approach to distance based on explicit data sets. As a test case, we examine the position of Avalonia in the Ordovician (Arenig, Llanvirn, early Caradoc, and Ashgill) to mid-Silurian (Wenlock) with respect to Laurentia, Baltica, and West Gondwana. Using synoptic lists of 623 trilobite genera and 622 brachiopod genera for these four plates, summarized as Venn diagrams, we have devised proportional indices of mean endemism (ME, normalized by individual plate faunas to eliminate area biogeographic effects) and complementarity (C) for objective paleobiogeographic comparisons. These can discriminate the relative position of Avalonia by assessing the optimal arrangement of inter-centroid distances (measured as great circles) between relevant pairs of continental masses. The proportional indices are used to estimate the "goodness-of-fit" of the faunal data to two widely used dynamic plate tectonic models for these time slices, those of Smith and Rush (1998) and Ross and Scotese (1997). Our faunal data are more consistent with the latter model, which we use to suggest relationships between faunal indices for the five time slices and new rescaled inter-centroid distances between all six plate pairs. We have examined linear and exponential models in relation to continental separation for these indices. For our generic data, the linear model fits distinctly better overall. The fits of indices generated by using independent trilobite and brachiopod lists are mostly similar to each other at each time slice and for a given plate, reflecting a common biogeographic signal; however, the indices vary across the time slices. Combining groups into the same matrix in a "total evidence" analysis performs better still as a measure of distance for mean endemism in the "Scotese" plate model. Four-plate mean endemism performs much better than complementarity as an indicator of pairwise distance for either plate model in the test case.
2666022|The record of fossil mammals from the Shungura Formation, lower Omo Valley of southern Ethiopia, represents one of the largest and most carefully controlled samples for deciphering the responses of land faunas to global-scale climatic change. We use the abundant and continuous fossil record of the family Buvidae to analyze the effects of a late Pliocene climatic shift toward increased aridity in Africa beginning at 2.8 Ma and intensifying at about 2.4 Ma. A database consisting of 4233 specimen-based records collected under well-defined procedures is used to define patterns through time in bovid abundances while also controlling for taphonomic and other potential biases. Univariate and multidimensional (correspondence analysis) methods are used to study changes in bovid abundances through time. Our results indicate that bovids experienced an increase in species richness and a rapid episode of change in taxonomic abundances at 2.8 $\pm$ 0.1 Ma (between Members B and C), and that this shift was followed by gradual and prolonged changes in abundance between 2.8 and 2.0 Ma (between Member C and upper Member G). An analysis of skeletal-element abundances through the Shungura sequence shows that only moderate changes in taphonomic conditions occurred between 3.0 and 2.1 Ma, when the lower Omo Valley was dominated by a large, meandering river, but that significant changes in the mode of preservation accompanied the onset of lacustrine depositional environments at 2.1 Ma (between lower and upper Member G). A juxtaposition of taxonomic with taphonomic patterns shows that the shift in taxonomic abundances at 2.8 Ma occurred in the absence of significant changes in taphonomic conditions. The main changes in bovid relative abundances and diversity appear to have been driven by broad environmental and climatic changes in Africa. As environmental indicators, bovids show a transition in the Omo at about 2.8 Ma from closed and wet environments in Member B to closed but dry environments in Member C. This drying trend intensified in Members D, E, and F, between about 2.5 and 2.3 Ma. In lower Member G, between 2.3 and 2.1 Ma, there was an increase in bovid abundance and diversity, which may be a result of greater environmental heterogeneity. The pattern of environmental change depicted by Shungura bovids is consistent with independently derived evidence of Omo paleoenvironments (from paleosols, paleoflora, and micromammals), and with regional and global evidence of climatic changes, especially acute between 2.8 and 2.3 Ma, that caused the initiation of glacial cycles in the north and drier climate in the tropics of Africa. Even though the Omo bovids showed distinct responses to large-scale climatic and environmental change, the Omo bovid community also had important attributes of long-term stability: two species, Aepyceros shungurae and Tragelaphus nakuae, dominated the community for nearly one million years. This study highlights the importance of carefully controlled collection procedures of fossil vertebrates and provides an important demonstration of the potential complexity in mode and rate of responses of land faunas to climatic change.
2401193|This paper presents scaling equations relating suspension-feeding rates to body size for articulate brachiopods and bivalve molluscs, two classes which represent a significant component of the fossil record of marine benthic communities. Clearance (feeding) rates of five species of living articulate brachiopods and three species of epifaunal suspension-feeding bivalve molluscs collected from mid-latitude fjords of Newfoundland and New Zealand were measured in similar experimental conditions. In comparisons within and between the two classes, we found that both plectolophous and spirolophous brachiopods had significantly lower feeding rates than mytilids, which are filibranchs, but that a sympatric primitive eulamellibranch veneroid bivalve had rates comparable to the brachiopods. Articulate brachiopods do not appear to feed effectively at the high algal concentrations which bivalves can exploit. The data on comparative suspension-feeding rates support the hypothesis that past changes in diversity and distribution of bivalves and brachiopods may be related to an overall increase in energy flux and escalation of metabolic rates during the Phanerozoic.
3595510|The dichotomy between short-necked, large-headed "pliosaurs" and long-necked, small-headed "plesiosaurs" has formed the basis of plesiosaur taxonomy for over one hundred years. Recent work has cast doubt on the taxonomic validity of this dichotomy, suggesting that the pliosaur morphotype may have evolved independently in more than one clade. This paper quantifies the variation in body proportion in the clade Plesiosauria using principal component analysis and demonstrates that the traditional plesiosaur/pliosaur dichotomy is an oversimplified view of the range of morphologies present in the group. The topology of the clade is mapped into the morphospace, demonstrating that the pliosaur morphotype evolved three times from two different regions of morphospace. Both the range of body morphologies displayed by plesiosaurs and the evolutionary history of those morphologies, are more complex than previously supposed.
2400815|The genus Homo evolved its pronounced encephalization through postnatal extension of the high rate of brain growth that characterizes all primates in utero. Linked to this extension was delayed development, which represented an enormous ecological sacrifice because it produced the longest postnatal interval of physical helplessness in the Mammalia and forced mothers to carry infants. Graphs relating brain growth to body growth indicate a pongid pattern of development for gracile australopithecines, implying that infants could cling to mothers whose forelimbs were occupied with climbing. Also present were several postcranial traits that would have made the adults more adept climbers than modern humans. Habitual use of these inherited traits is suggested by the fact that evolution failed to eliminate certain ones, such as short legs and long pedal phalanges, that impeded terrestrial locomotion. Moreover, the intensity of predation by large, swift, social carnivores must have compelled australopithecines to use trees as refuges, in the manner of chimpanzees and baboons; australopithecines probably also gathered some of their food in trees. Gracile australopithecines failed to expand their brain size, experiencing general evolutionary stasis for more than 1.5 m.y. I propose that this stability resulted from these animals' semiarboreal mode of life: First, their postcranial morphology remained compromised by selection pressures to maintain both terrestrial and arboreal adaptations. Second, by requiring that neonates be mature enough to cling to mothers, obligate arboreal activity precluded encephalization of the kind that characterizes Homo; this evolutionary constraint has previously been overlooked. In contrast to australopithecines, early Homo approached H. erectus in pelvic configuration and brain size. A new brain-body growth curve for early Homo indicates extension of the fetal pattern well into the postnatal interval, implying that neonates were highly immature so that adults had to be fully terrestrial. Homo evolved shortly after the onset of the modern ice age about 2.5 Ma. Fossil pollen and carbon isotopes in paleosols record a contraction of forests in Africa at this time. I propose that this represented a crisis that led to the evolution of Homo by compelling some australopithecine populations to adopt a fully terrestrial existence. Although ecologically difficult, this behavioral restriction finally made possible encephalization through the evolution of delayed development. During the ecological crisis, a large brain evolved in at least one population of gracile australopithecines. An advanced tool industry and cunning behavior were of such great adaptive value for avoiding predators and expanding food resources on the ground that selection for encephalization soon overrode the problems imposed by helpless infants. The fossil record of antelopes and micromammals provides a test of the idea that environmental forcing opened the way for the evolution of Homo: both of these groups experienced heavy extinction of forest-adapted species about 2.5-2.4 Ma and a rapid proliferation of species adapted to unforested habitats. The transformation of the hominid clade during Plio-Pleistocene time did not follow a simple pattern. Homo may have arisen either by anagenetic transformation of a "bottlenecked" species or by speciation, and it may not have evolved immediately with the onset of climatic change. Furthermore, just as a few forest-adapted antelope species survived the biotic crisis, a small-brained gracile taxon with arboreal adaptations may have persisted to the start of the Pleistocene. Robust australopithecines survived into the Pleistocene, perhaps because a broad vegetarian diet reduced their need to migrate frequently between home bases. With their extinction in mid-Pleistocene time, about the time that savannahs became widespread, only Homo remained.
25609432|The fossil record has been used to show that in some geologic intervals certain traits of taxa may increase their survivability, and therefore that the risk of extinction is not randomly distributed among taxa. It has also been suggested that traits that buffer against extinction in background times do not confer the same resistance during mass extinction events. An open question is whether at any time in geologic history extinction probabilities were randomly distributed among taxa. Here we use a method for detecting random extinction to demonstrate that during both background and mass extinction times, extinction of marine invertebrate genera has been nonrandom with respect to species richness categories of genera. A possible cause for this nonrandom extinction is selective clustering of extinctions in genera consisting of species which possess extinction-biasing traits. Other potential causes considered here include geographic selectivity, increased extinction susceptibility for species in species-rich genera, or biases related to taxonomic practice and/or sampling heterogeneity. An important theoretical result is that extinction selectivity at the species level cannot be smoothly extrapolated upward to genera; the appearance of random genus extinction with respect to species richness of genera results when extinction has been highly selective at the species level.
2400406|Using computer simulations and a quantitative method for describing bifurcating structures, the morphology of branching patterns seen in early land plants is analyzed. Four types or models of random branching (regular, geometric, binomial, and poisson) are shown to adequately describe the range of observed branching in most early land plants. Approximately 57% of all randomly generated computer patterns show reiterative branching events (=three successive identical modes of branching). Artificial canalization of reiterative events results in branching patterns structurally analogous with that of ancient fossil plants. Simulated phylogenetic changes among early land plant lineages, based on parsimonious transitions in branching patterns, indicate that most observed trends can be related directly to those seen in randomly generating branching patterns in which "size" is increased. The trimerophyte to progymnosperm trend in changing branching patterns is an exception, since the binomial model describing the progymnosperms has not been simulated by random processes. While the apparent phylogenetic changes among early land plant groups do not require deterministic explanations, the transition from regular to geometric branching and the "canalization" of reiterative branching patterns may represent a grade level response to selective pressures related to mechanical design and vegetative reproduction.
2401064|We studied mammal and bird track formation at the northern edge of Lake Manyara, Tanzania, to develop models for interpreting fossil tracks and trackways. Lake Manyara is a closed-basin, alkaline lake in the East African Rift System. The area has a high vertebrate diversity, allowing us to investigate tracks in an environment similar to that of many ancient track-bearing sequences. Three study sites, two on mud flats adjacent to the lake margin and a third on a delta floodplain, provided contrasting environments in which to assess the types of biological data that can potentially be extracted from fossil trackways. Our censuses of mammals and their tracks revealed that most species that occur within the study area leave a track record, and that common species leave abundant tracks, although numbers of trackways are not proportional to numbers of individuals. Logarithmic increases in track sampling area yield a linear increase in the proportion of both the medium and large-sized local mammals represented in a track record. Transect vs. area mapping methods produced different censusing results, probably because of differences in monitoring periods and areal coverage. We developed a model of expected track production rates that incorporates activity budget and stride length data in addition to abundance data. By using these additional variables in a study of diurnal birds, we obtained a much better estimator relating track abundance to trackmaker abundance than that provided by census data alone. Proportions of different types of tracks predicted by the model differ significantly from the observed proportions, almost certainly because of microenvironmental differences between the censusing and track counting localities. Censuses of fossil tracks will be biased toward greater numbers of depositional-environment generalists and away from habitat-specific species. Trackways of migratory animals were dominantly shoreline-parallel, whereas trackways of sedentary species were more variable. A strong shoreline-parallel environmental zonation at the Alkaline Flats site exerted an influence on trackmaker distribution patterns, initial track formation, and track preservation. Variations in habitat usage by different species, as well as species abundance and directionality of movement, were all important in determining the number of preservable tracks a species produced within a given environmental zone. Fossil trackways are time-averaged, although over entirely different temporal scales than are bones. Unlike bones, tracks are not space-averaged. Therefore, wherever possible, fossil track and bone studies should be used to complement each other, as they provide fundamentally different pictures of paleocommunities. Tracks provide "snapshot" views of localized assemblages of organisms useful in reconstructing autecological relationships, whereas bones yield a broader image of a local fauna in which seasonal and microenvironmental variation are more commonly smoothed out.
2400878|The 18 m.y. history of the subfamily Equinae (exclusive of Archaeohippus and "Parahippus") in North America consisted of a 3-m.y. radiation phase, a 9-m.y. steady-state diversity phase, and a 6-m.y. reduction phase. During the steady-state phase, species richness varied between 14 and 20, with two maxima at about 13.5 and 6.5 Ma. Species richness of the tribes Hipparionini and Equini was about equal through the middle Miocene, but hipparionines consistently had more species in the late Miocene and early Pliocene. Overall mean species duration was 3.2 m.y. (n =50), or an average extinction rate of 0.31 m.y.-1 During the radiation phase, speciation rates were very high (0.5 to 1.4 m.y.
20445602|Sabertooths exhibit one of the most extreme feeding adaptations seen in mammals. The functional consequences of accommodating extremely elongate upper canine teeth are severe, resulting in a well-documented suite of cranial modifications. We used geometric morphometric methods to study the evolution of overall shape in the skulls of extant and extinct feline and machairodontine felids, as well as extinct nimravids. Trends in skull evolution were evaluated by using relative warps analysis and tested for association with body size and canine tooth length. Primitive sabertooths from all lineages exhibit cranial shapes more similar to conical-toothed cats, despite the presence of moderately developed saberteeth. More-derived forms in both nimravids and felids diverge in skull morphospace to form two distinct sabertooth types (dirk-toothed and scimitar-toothed) that differ in canine shape. Skull shape in conical-toothed cats is strongly associated with body size, but not canine length. However, within each sabertooth lineage, skull shape is significantly correlated with canine length, suggesting that gape-related demands drove the evolution of sabertooth skull morphology.
20445574|Evolutionary trends observed over large clades have the potential to mask underlying trends that occur within their constituent subclades. A recent study of encephalization in the Caniformia (Carnivora, Mammalia) found evidence for an abrupt increase in median log-encephalization quotients (logEQs), indicating higher brain volume relative to body mass, at the end-Miocene, but gradual increase in the variance of logEQs. In this study, new endocranial volume estimates for fossil taxa in the well-sampled caniform subclade Canidae are reported. Using the encephalization data for the Canidae, hypotheses of evolution in encephalization allometries were tested with respect to canid phylogeny. The Akaike Information Criterion and likelihood ratios recovered support for a preferred hypothesis of the evolution of canid encephalization, which proposed two distinct allometric relationships: (1) a plesiomorphic grade of encephalization in the subfamilies Hesperocyoninae and Borophaginae and the paraphyletic canine genus Leptocyon, and (2) an apomorphic grade in the crown radiation of Caninae. This defines a shift in to higher encephalization, but without an associated change in the variance around the allometry. Increased canid encephalization coincides with a reorganization of the brain and the observed trend may reflect the evolution of complex social behavior in this clade.
2400510|Recent theoretical results demonstrate that a phenotypic version of Wright's shifting balance theory generates the dynamical pattern of punctuated equilibria. Thus, classical mechanisms of random genetic drift and selection for multiple adaptive peaks produce geologically long periods of relative stasis interrupted occasionally by very brief intervals of rapid change. A simple extension of this theory is made here to encompass developmental constraints between quantitative characters, manifested as phenotypic and genetic correlations between characters. Developmental constraints do not qualitatively alter the dynamical pattern of phenotypic evolution produced by selection and random genetic drift. A quantitative definition of stasis is proposed, based on a common taxonomic practice for recognizing subspecies. From this it is concluded that stasis is not the rule for quantitative measurements of detailed sequences for fossil species throughout most of their existence. Instead, periods of relative stasis are interspersed with gradual fluctuating trends, short intervals of rapid change, and discontinuities of subspecific magnitude.
2400436|Specific conductance was calculated for secondary xylem in seven Carboniferous stem taxa utilizing an equation derived from the Hagen-Poiseuille relation. Arborescent and lianoid representatives of major pteridophytic (Calamitaceae, Lepidodenraceae, Sphenophyllaceae) and gymnospermous (Cordaitaceae, Medullosaceae) groups were examined. In the calamite Arthropitys communis and the seed plant Cordaites (Cordaixylon sp. and Mesoxylon sp.), conductance corresponded approximately to the low end of the range for both extant conifers and angiosperms. A substantially higher conductance was determined for the wood of Arthropitys deltoides, conforming to the high end of the range for conifers and the low-middle part of the range for angiosperms. The highest conductance values were found in Sphenophyllum plurifoliatum, Medullosa noei, and Paralycopodites brevifolius and corresponded to the middle-high portion of the range for vessel-containing angiosperms. This outcome is particularly significant in light of the fact that tracheary elements in the fossils are imperforate. The results indicate that conductance in secondary xylem of some of the most ancient, woody groups was comparable to that in extant plants and that highly effective conducting tissue developed relatively early in plant evolution. Moreover, it is suggested that the general relationship between wood anatomy, growth habit, and ecology demonstrated for living plants can also be extended back in time to include fossil plants.
4500155|Many authors have proposed scenarios for mass extinctions that consist of multiple pulses or stages, but little work has been done on accounting for the Signor-Lipps effect in such extinction scenarios. Here we introduce a method for computing confidence intervals for the time or stratigraphic distance separating two extinction pulses in a pulsed extinction event, taking into account the incompleteness of the fossil record. We base our method on a flexible likelihood ratio test framework that is able to test whether the fossil record is consistent with any extinction scenario, whether simultaneous, pulsed, or otherwise. As an illustration, we apply our method to a data set on marine invertebrates from the Permo-Triassic boundary of Meishan, China. Using this data set, we show that the fossil record of ostracodes and that of brachiopods are each consistent with simultaneous extinction, and that these two extinction pulses are separated by 720,000 to 1.2 million years with 95% confidence. With appropriate data, our method could also be applied in other situations, such as tests of origination patterns, coordinated stasis, and recovery after a mass extinction.
4096994|Recent molecular phylogenetic and molecular clock data both suggest a pre-Mesozoic age for the divergence of the angiosperm lineage from other seed plants, greatly predating the confirmed fossil record of the angiosperm crown group. In addition, molecular phylogenetic studies have not supported the morphologically based conclusion that gnetophytes are the extant sister group to angiosperms. We examine these relationships and divergence ages by using a novel approach of examining the presence of oleanane. This includes the development of methods using zeolites to preferentially reduce hopanes that can co-elute with oleanane. The presence of this molecular fossil strongly correlates with angiosperm diversification; in its functionalized form, along with its triterpenoid precursors, it is found in many living angiosperms. Our data show that among non-angiosperm seed plants examined thus far, oleanane is found only in fossil Cretaceous Bennettitales and Permian Gigantopteridales, both of which share characteristics with angiosperms. Previous morphological phylogenetic results indicate Bennettitales could be a sister group to or member of the angiosperm stem lineage, and results of our preliminary phylogenetic analysis including the Gigantopteridales suggests the same. Our data, based on a new pyrolysis method to treat living species, support previous research indicating that oleanane and its precursors are absent in living gnetophytes. If oleanane originated once in seed plants then the angiosperm stem lineage would have diverged from other seed plant lineages by the late Paleozoic.
2400618|Bottom site remote camera photosequences at depths of 73-538 m on forereef slopes in Palau show that Nautilus belauensis is a highly mobile, chemosensitive, epibenthic scavenger and opportunistic predator. The overall depth range of this species is ca. 70-500 m, but photosequences indicate a preferred range of 150-300 m. Nautilus is active both nocturnally and diurnally, locating bait sites within 1-2 h. Associated macrofauna includes caridean shrimps, crabs, and eels; teleosts are rare below 100 m, but sharks are recorded in most photosequences below 250 m. Summarily, Nautilus exhibits a combination of characters that typify deep-sea strategy, including reproductive tactics, growth rate, and population dynamics. This and other evidence suggest that fossil Nautilidae may have been deep-water forms, in contrast to the typically shallower water ammonoids, and that Nautilus is a normal component of the deep forereef rather than a late Cretaceous refugee from shallow water.
2401168|Documenting past environmental disturbances will provide a very incomplete explanation of extinctions until more data on intrinsic (e.g., phylogenetic) responses to disturbances are collected. Taxonomic selectivity can be used to infer phylogenetic inheritance of extinction-biasing traits. Selectivity patterns among higher taxa, such as between mammals and bivalves, are well documented. Selectivity patterns among lower taxa (genus, species) have great potential for understanding the dynamics underlying higher taxic turnover. Two echinoid data sets, of fossil and living taxa, indicate that species extinctions do not occur randomly within genera. Reverse rarefaction estimates of past species extinction rates assume random species extinction within higher taxa, so these widely cited extinction estimates may be inaccurate. Revised estimates based on a simulated curve imply that past species extinctions rates may be 6%-15% lower than previously cited. Possible causes for the observed selectivity patterns are discussed. These include nonrandom phylogenetic nesting of species with traits often cited as enhancing extinction vulnerability, into certain taxa. Such traits include low abundance, large body size, narrow niche breadth, and many others. Phylogenetic nesting of extinction-biasing traits at many taxonomic levels does not predict that a dichotomy of mass-background selectivity based on a few traits will occur. Instead, it predicts patterns of selectivity at many taxonomic levels, and at many spatio-temporal scales.
4096962|The analysis of morphological disparity and of morphospace occupation through the macroevolutionary history of clades is now a major research program in paleobiology, and increasingly so in organismal and comparative biology. Most studies have focused on the relationship between taxonomic diversity and morphological disparity, and on ecological or developmental controls. However, the geographic context of diversification has remained understudied. Here we address geography quantitatively. Diversity, disparity, and paleogeographic dispersion are used to describe the evolutionary history of an extinct echinoderm clade, the class Stylophora (cornutes, mitrates), from the Middle Cambrian to the Middle Devonian (about 128 Myr subdivided into 12 stratigraphic intervals). Taxonomic diversity is estimated from a representative sample including 73.3% of described species and 92.4% of described genera. Stylophoran morphology is quantified on the basis of seven morphometric parameters derived from image analysis of homologous skeletal regions. Three separate principal coordinates analyses (PCO) are performed for thecal outlines, plates from the lower thecal surface, and plates from the upper thecal surface, respectively. PCO scores from these three separate analyses are then used as variables for a single, global, meta-PCO. For each time interval, disparity is calculated as the sum of variance in the multidimensional morphospace defined by the meta-PCO axes. For each time interval, a semiquantitative index of paleogeographic dispersion is calculated, reflecting both global (continental) and local (regional) aspects of dispersion. Morphospace occupation of cornutes and mitrates is partly overlapping, suggesting some morphologic convergences between the two main stylophoran clades, probably correlated to similar modes of life (e.g., symmetrical cornutes and primitive mitrocystitids). Hierarchical clustering allowed the identification of three main morphological sets (subdivided into 11 subsets) within the global stylophoran morphospace. These morphological sets are used to analyze the spatiotemporal variations of disparity. The initial radiation of stylophorans is characterized by a low diversity and a rapid increase in disparity (Middle Cambrian-Tremadocian). The subsequent diversification involved filling and little expansion of morphospace (Arenig-Middle Ordovician). Finally, both stylophoran diversity and disparity decreased relatively steadily from the Late Ordovician to the Middle Devonian, with the exception of a second (lower) peak in the Early Devonian. Such a pattern is comparable to that of other Paleozoic marine invertebrates such as blastozoans and orthid brachiopods. During the Lower to Middle Ordovician, the most dramatic diversification of stylophorans took place with a paleogeographic dispersion essentially limited to the periphery of Gondwana. In the Late Ordovician, stylophorans steadily extended toward lower paleolatitudes, and new environmental conditions, where some of them radiated, and finally survived the end-Ordovician mass extinction (e.g., anomalocystitids). This pattern of paleobiogeographic dispersion is comparable to that of other examples of Paleozoic groups of marine invertebrates, such as bivalve mollusks.
2400413|During the middle Cretaceous, exceptional ecologic conditions developed in the Tarfayan Basin (SW Morocco) marked by the deposition of marls and limestones, rich in organic matter. The ostracod fauna of the Cenomanian to Coniacian consisted of a few ornamentally stable species. Towards the close of the Turonian, Oertliella? tarfayaensis became dimorphic at the top of its range, the new morph with smooth lateral zones being the undoubted ancestor of Oertliella? chouberti. The multivariate morphometric evolutionary pattern for O.? tarfayaensis fluctuates about a stationary value in a manner which could reflect evolutionary stasis. The passage from the ancestral to the descendant species took between 1  10
2400735|In both jaw geometry and molar morphology, eutherian carnivores (order Carnivora) as a whole display greater diversity (plasticity in evolution from the primitive type) than marsupial carnivores (order Dasyurida). This is related to the difference in tooth replacement between the two taxa. In Carnivora, the permanent carnassial is preceded by a deciduous carnassial; the permanent tooth can erupt in its (geometrically) permanent position, and the post-carnassial molars are free to evolve for specialized functions or be reduced. In Dasyurida, there is relative molar progression, each erupting molar in turn functioning as a carnassial, and subsequently being pushed forwards in the jaw by the next erupting molar. Thus, all molars have carnassiform morphology, and none are free to develop for other functions. The greater plasticity of Carnivora has led to their adaptive zone being broader (as a group they are relatively more eurytopic than Dasyurida), which in turn has led to greater taxonomic diversity within Carnivora than Dasyurida. The resulting pattern from a macroevolutionary point of view is that, even in the absence of direct competition, Carnivora have had greater evolutionary "success" than Dasyurida.
2400525|Recent ideas about the role of competition in the ecology and evolution of acorn barnacles are based partly on relationships between morphology and the outcome of competition for space. One hypothesis is that present distributions and patterns of evolutionary diversification and decline among acorn barnacles reflect the competitive exclusion and replacement of solid-walled forms by those with tubiferous skeletal structure. An alternate view is that large barnacles generally outcompete smaller ones, independent of differences in skeletal structure, with predation and disturbance favoring the ecological and evolutionary success of small barnacles. Field experiments and observations in the Gulf of California suggested that the small, solid-walled species, Chthamalus anisopoma, competitively exlcudes the larger, tubiferous Tetraclita stalactifera confinis on the lower part of the shore. Greater tolerance to aerial exposure appears to allow Tetraclita to occupy a high intertidal refuge above Chthamalus. A common denominator among several cases of competitive exclusion in acorn barnacles is the greater settlement density of the competitive dominant, not its morphology. Morphological considerations alone are insufficient to predict or explain the outcome of competition between barnacle species.
2401033|The shells of gastropods and cephalopods grow by production of new material, by the mantle, at the lip of the shell. I derive a model of shell form that allows us to describe the morphology of a shell in terms of independently definable biological parameters. These are (1) the relative rates of shell production at different points around the aperture, (2) the total amount of shell produced per time interval, (3) the growth rate of the aperture, (4) aperture shape, and (5) the orientation of the animal within the shell. Describing shell form in these terms allows us to see what biological changes must occur in development in order to change one shell morphology into another and what constraints are associated with particular morphological transformations. The model shows that it is developmentally easy to derive a slightly coiled limpet shell from that of a high-spired ancestor, but difficult to take the next step to a fully conical limpet. Many, if not most, real gastropod shells are not conical but rather have a convex or concave profile. I show that these forms result from a decoupling of shell production rates from the growth rate of the animal within the shell. The model also shows how truly different forms, such as vermetid snails and heteromorph ammonites, escaped the confines of spiral growth-sometimes by rotating the body within the shell, and sometimes by taking up a growth strategy that does not constrain them to coil. This model is compatible with shell morphometric models that have been widely discussed in the literature but strives toward a different goal: understanding the relationships between the various biological processes involved in shell development.
2400182|Silurian crinoids reached maximum abundance on shallow shelf bottoms of skeletal-rich carbonate. In-place crinoid preservation in the Wenlock Limestone of Dudley, England, provides a community model for these occurrences, showing a pattern among crinoids of high taxonomic diversity, conspecific clustering, relatively robust morphology, and numerical dominance of other invertebrates. Densities of about 40 crinoid individuals per m
40792299|The variation in time-averaging between different types of marine skeletal accumulations within a depositional system is not well understood. Here we provide quantitative data on the magnitude of time-averaging and the age structure of the sub-fossil record of two species with divergent physical and ecological characteristics, the brachiopod Bouchardia rosea and the bivalve Semeie casali. Material was collected from two sites on a mixed carbonate-siliciclastic shelf off the coast of Brazil where both species are dominant components of the local fauna. Individual shells (n = 178) were dated using amino acid racemization (aspartic acid) calibrated with 24 AMS radiocarbon dates. Shell ages range from modern to 8118 years B.P. for brachiopods, and modern to 4437 years for bivalves. Significant differences in the shape and central tendency of agefrequency distributions are apparent between each sample. Such differences in time-averaging magnitude confirm the assumption that taphonomic processes are subject to stochastic variation at all spatial and temporal scales. Despite these differences, each sample is temporally incomplete at centennial resolution and three of the four samples have similar right-skewed age-frequency distributions. Simulations of temporal completeness indicate that samples of both species from the shallow site are consistent with a more strongly right-skewed and less-complete age-frequency distribution than those from the deep site. We conclude that intrinsic characteristics of each species exert less control on the time-averaging signature of these samples than do extrinsic factors such as variation in rates of sedimentation and taphonomic destruction. This suggests that brachiopod-dominated and bivalve-dominated shell accumulations may be more similar in temporal resolution than previously thought, and that the temporal resolution of multi-taxic shell accumulations may depend more on site-to-site differences than on the intrinsic properties of the constituent organisms.
2666122|In this paper, I survey hindlimb and pelvic anatomy across non-avian dinosaurs and analyze these within a cladistic framework to quantify patterns of change within the locomotor apparatus. Specifically, I attempt to identify where homoplasy constitutes parallelism and may thereby be used to infer similar selective pressures on hindlimb function. Traditional methods of discrete character optimization are used along with two methods for evaluating changes in continuous characters in a phylogenetic context (squared-change parsimony and clade rank correlation). Resultant patterns are evaluated in light of the biomechanics of locomotion and the relationship between form and function in extant terrestrial vertebrates. Although non-avian dinosaurian locomotor morphology is strikingly uniform, these analyses reveal the repeated derivations of several morphological features that have potential relevance for hindlimb locomotor function. Anterior and posterior iliac expansion, a medially oriented femoral head, and an elevated femoral lesser trochanter each evolved independently multiple times within Dinosauria. These changes probably reflect enlargement of several hindlimb muscles as well as a general switch in their predominant function from abduction-adduction (characteristic of "sprawling" limb postures) to protraction-retraction (characteristic of parasagittal, or "erect," limb postures). Several "avian" characteristics are shared with more basal theropods, and many were acquired convergently in other dinosaurian lineages. The evolution of the avian hindlimb therefore represents a cumulative acquisition of characters, many of which were quite far removed in time and function from the origin of flight.
4096890|This paper investigates trends in the evolution of body size and shape in the Plesiosauria, a diverse clade of Mesozoic marine reptiles. Using measures from well-preserved plesiosaur specimens, we document and interpret evolutionary patterns in relative head size, body size, and locomotor variables. Size increase is a significant trend in the clade as a whole, and in constituent clades. The trend in relative head size is of variance increase; observed head sizes are both smaller and larger than ancestral values. In the locomotor system, changes in propodial and girdle proportions appear concomitant with body size increase and are interpreted as allometric responses to the physical constraints of large body size. Other trends in the locomotor system are significantly correlated with both body size and relative head size. These locomotor trends evolved convergently in several clades of plesiosaurs, and may have had an ecomorphological basis, although data are lacking to constrain speculation on this point. The evolution of the locomotor system in plesiosaurs sheds new light on the response of aquatic tetrapods to the physical constraints of foraging at large body size.
25609434|The subfamily Equinae in the Great Plains region of North America underwent a dramatic radiation and subsequent decline as climate changed from warm and humid in the middle Miocene to cooler and more arid conditions during the late Miocene. Here we use ecological niche modeling (ENM), specifically the GARP (Genetic Algorithm using Rule-set Prediction) modeling system, to reconstruct the geographic distribution of individual species during two time slices from the middle Miocene through early Pliocene. This method combines known species occurrence points with environmental parameters inferred from sedimentological variables to model each species' fundamental niche. The geographic range of each species is then predicted to occupy the geographic area within the study region wherever the set of environmental parameters that constrain the fundamental niche occurs. We analyze changes in the predicted distributions of individual species between time slices in relation to Miocene/Pliocene climate change. Specifically, we examine and compare distribution patterns for two time slices that span the period from the mid-Miocene (Barstovian) Climatic Optimum into the early Pliocene (Blancan) to determine whether habitat fragmentation led to speciation within the clade and whether species survival was related to geographic range size. Patchy geographic distributions were more common in the middle Miocene when speciation rates were high. During the late Miocene, when speciation rates were lower, continuous geographic ranges were more common. Equid species tracked their preferred habitat within the Great Plains region as well as regionally throughout North America. Species with larger predicted ranges preferentially survived the initial cooling event better than species with small geographic ranges. As climate continued to deteriorate in the late Miocene, however, range size became irrelevant to survival, and extinction rates increased for species of all range sizes. This is the first use of ENM and GARP in the continental fossil record. This powerful quantitative biogeographic method offers great promise for studies of other taxa and geologic intervals.
3595521|The late Paleocene-early Eocene transition was characterized by a long period of global warming that culminated with the highest temperatures of the Cenozoic. This interval is associated with a significant increase in plant diversity in temperate latitudes. However, data from tropical regions remain largely unknown. The record of pollen and spore diversity across the late Paleocene to the early middle Eocene of eight sections in central and eastern Colombia was analyzed. Several techniques, including range-through method, rarefaction, bootstrap, detrended correspondence analysis, and Shannon index, were used to assess the significance of the observed diversity pattern. The palynofloral record indicates that the lower to middle Eocene contains a significantly higher palynofloral diversity than the underlying upper Paleocene strata. This pattern is maintained after accounting for sample size, number of samples/time unit, lithofacies, and depositional systems. Eocene palynofloras have higher alpha and beta diversities and a higher equitability than Paleocene palynofloras. This increase in diversity is the product of a gradual increase in the rate of first appearances and a gradual decrease in the rate of last appearances. The early to middle Eocene increase in diversity, as well as the increase in spore abundance and diversity, suggests that tropical (equatorial) climate became wetter during the early to middle Eocene. This interpretation favors causes for early Eocene warming that do not involve significant increases in greenhouse gases. Samples from strata associated with the Paleocene/Eocene thermal maximum were barren for palynomorphs, and the effects of this climatic event on tropical vegetation remains uncertain.
2400273|Analysis of several thousand mammalian fossils from late Pleistocene sediments in California provide data on sampling in mammalian paleoecology. Recovery of bones and teeth from the screenwashed bulk sediment sample residue is considered nearly total. Neither surface collecting alone, nor small bulk samples provide satisfactory quantitative data on original community structure or postmortem alterations in community organization. Minimum sample size for the analysis of diversity is discussed. Diversity and size-trophic ratios of the total identifiable mammalian component of this fauna (N = 1222) are similar to those expected in living communities, and therefore suggest adequate sampling, and minimally biased samples.
2401082|This paper concerns paleontological phylogenies that have a "budding" configuration, wherein "ancestral" species persist through branching events to coexist with their "descendants." Two principal tests are proposed for detecting patterns within such trees. The first test, called the "ancestor-descendant extinction test," compares the number of cases in which, after a split, the ancestral species became extinct before its descendant with the number of cases in which the descendant became extinct before its ancestor. The second test, called the "ancestor-descendant speciation test," compares the number of cases in which, after a split, the ancestral species gave rise to a further species with the number of cases in which the descendant species gave rise to a further species. The null hypothesis in each case is that the frequencies are equal, as predicted by a random Markovian branching model of evolution. Five stratophenetic species-level phylogenies of three taxonomic groups, planktonic foraminifera, nannofossils, and graptoloids, are examined using these tests, including one (Paleogene planktonic foraminifera) that is presented for the first time. In all cases, the phylogenetic trees are found to be strongly nonrandom. The general pattern, although by no means expressed perfectly in every case, corresponds to a Simpsonian "step-series," in which ancestor taxa are simultaneously more likely to become extinct and less likely to speciate than their coexisting descendants. It is shown that this pattern cannot simply be the result of simple age-dependent factors such as an increasing extinction risk in older taxa. Instead, the very fact that a species has given rise to another appears to increase its future extinction risk and decrease its likelihood of further speciation. Many possible biases may affect the shape of paleontological phylogenies, which are as yet poorly understood and unquantified. One potentially important effect follows from the taxonomic subdivision of gradual chronoclines into artificial morphospecies, such as might conceivably induce a step-series pattern in the phylogeny. Even if this is the partial or entire reason for the observed patterns, it would appear to imply directional evolution in phyletic gradualism. Other possible artifacts are discussed, but they are regarded as probably too weak to produce the observed patterns. If the pattern is not artificial, the fact that three of the best known fossil groups exhibit substantial asymmetries in speciation and extinction argues against the currently popular "nonprogressive" view of evolution. Instead, the evolutionary step-series pattern is consistent with the classical Darwinian concept of the general competitive superiority of newly evolved species over their ancestors and supports the idea of evolutionary progress.
2400641|Cheilostome bryozoans that grew as rigidly erect arborescent colonies dominate many bryozoan-rich assemblages of Tertiary age, in which they are found most commonly as small dissociated fragments. The regularity with which branching and branch thickening occur in intact colonies of living species provides a basis for quantitative reconstruction of these growth processes in fossils. We propose models to describe branch thickening, develop methods to extend both thickening and branching models to fossils, investigate the thickening and branching properties of four Paleocene and five Oligocene species and compare the properties of these fossils to those of nine living species. The properties investigated are largely mutually independent and species specific irrespective of geologic age and have similar numerical ranges among different assemblages of coeval species. Species are evenly distributed across the range of possible morphologies between observed extremes, without obvious gaps. Statistically significant trends through time are identified in gradients of branch thickening, which have implications for the resistance of colonies to mechanical stress, and in angles of bifurcation, that are important in the way growing colonies occupy space.
4500160|By digitally imaging colonies with more than a hundred cells, the distributions of cell size and shape are determined for four examples of 2-Ga microfossils: bacillus-shaped Eosynechococcus moorei and three dyads or diplococci (Sphaerophycus parvum and two forms of Eoentophysalis belcherensis). By assuming that each colony obeys steady-state growth, the measured distributions can be inverted to infer the time evolution of the individual cell shape. The time evolution can also be predicted analytically from rate-based models of cell growth, permitting the data to distinguish among different postulates for the physical principles governing growth. The cell cycles are found to be best described by the exponential growth of cell volume, although linear volume growth is not ruled out. However, the measured dyad cycles are inconsistent with several growth models based on surface area or the behavior of the septum at the division plane. Where they have been measured, modern bacilli obey exponential growth whereas eukaryotics obey linear growth, which implies that these 2-Ga microfossils are likely prokaryotic.
2400768|During the latest Cretaceous and the Paleocene in western North America, disappearance rates for mammalian genera track appearance rates, both reaching their peak in the early Paleocene (Puercan) following the extinction of non-avian dinosaurs. Some of the disappearances during this time were pseudoextinctions that resulted when ancestral species disappeared during speciation. Species-level cladistic analyses and a well-constrained biostratigraphic framework are required to study this form of pseudoextinction. Cladistic analyses show that monophyly cannot be established or rejected for some species because these species lack autapomorphies (uniquely derived character states) that unite their constituent members. Such taxa, termed metaspecies, are potential ancestors to species and higher clades with which they share a node in the cladogram. A hypothetical species-level cladistic analysis coupled with three different hypothetical biostratigraphies shows how different models of speciation (bifurcation, budding, or anagenesis) result in very different patterns of true versus pseudoextinction. Depending on the speciation model, true extinction can be overestimated by as much as a factor of four, raising the specter of mass extinction. Species-level studies for three early Tertiary mammalian taxa-taeniodont eutherians, taeniolabidid multituberculates, and periptychid ungulates-use the same procedures. They show that almost 25% of disappearances during the early Paleocene (Puercan) for species in the analysis were pseudoextinctions of metaspecies. Budding and anagenetic-like peripatric speciation, but not bifurcation, are seen in the three examples. Equating disappearance to true extinction can profoundly affect interpretations of faunal turnover, especially during mass extinctions or major faunal reorganizations. Some authors use pseudoextinction to describe the taxonomic rather than evolutionary disappearance of nonmonophyletic groups. Pseudoextinction, as used here refers only to the evolutionary disappearance of metaspecies via speciation. Both usages seem appropriate but should not be confounded.
2400423|Problems of taphonomy and sampling adequacy hinder direct evolutionary interpretations of pattern in the Precambrian paleontological record; however, molecular studies of microbial phylogeny and comparative physiological and ecological investigations of living microorganisms can be combined with geological research to establish patterns of early evolution. The Late Proterozoic record of planktonic algae resembles those of Phanerozoic plants, animals, and microplankton in its patterns of diversification and turnover, as well as in the importance of major extinction events in shaping the course of evolution. Late Proterozoic eukaryotes thus appear to be discussable in terms of the macroevolutionary issues that have become central to Phanerozoic paleobiology. In contrast, evolutionary patterns in Precambrian prokaryotes appear to be different from those of plants and animals, a possible consequence of their differing systems of genetic organization and recombination.
20445624|Despite extensive paleoecological analyses of spatial and temporal turnover in species composition, the fidelity with which time-averaged death assemblages capture variation in species composition and diversity partitioning of living communities remains unexplored. Do death assemblages vary in composition between sites to a lesser degree than do living assemblages, as would be predicted from time-averaging? And is the higher number of species observed in death relative to living assemblages reduced with increasing spatial scale? We quantify the preservation of spatial and temporal variation in species composition using 11 regional data sets based on samples of living molluscan communities and their co-occurring time-averaged death assemblages. (1) Compositional dissimilarities among living assemblages (LA) within data sets are significantly positively rank-correlated to dissimilarities among counterpart pairs of death assemblages (DA), demonstrating that pairwise dissimilarity within a study area has a good preservation potential in the fossil record. Dissimilarity indices that downplay the abundance of dominant species return the highest live-dead agreement of variation in species composition. (2) The average variation in species composition (average dissimilarity) is consistently smaller in DAs than in LAs (9 of 11 data sets). This damping of variation might arise from DAs generally having a larger sample size, but the reduction by 10-20% mostly persists even in size-standardized analyses (4 to 7 of 11 data sets, depending on metric). Beta diversity expressed by the number of compositionally distinct communities is also significantly reduced in death assemblages in size-standardized analyses (by 25%). This damping of variation and reduction in beta diversity is in accord with the loss of temporal resolution expected from time-averaging, without invoking taphonomic bias (from differential preservation or postmortem transportation) or sample-size effects. The loss of temporal resolution should directly reduce temporal variation, and assuming time-for-space substitution owing to random walk within one habitat and/or temporal habitat shifting, it also decreases spatial variation in species composition. (3) DAs are more diverse than LAs at the alpha scale, but the difference is reduced at gamma scales because partitioning of alpha and beta components differs significantly between LAs and DAs. This indicates that the effects of time-averaging are reduced with increasing spatial scale. Thus, overall, time-averaged molluscan DAs do capture variation among samples of the living assemblage, but they tend to damp the magnitude of variation, making them a conservative means of inferring change over time or variation among regions in species composition and diversity. Rates of temporal and spatial species turnover documented in the fossil record are thus expected to be depressed relative to the turnover rates that are predicted by models of community dynamics, which assume higher temporal resolution. Finally, the capture by DAs of underlying variation in the LA implies little variation in the net preservation potential of death assemblages across environments, despite the different taphonomic pathways suggested by taphofacies studies.
40792303|The flux ratio method is a simple method for estimating the rate of synonymy within a group based on variations over time in the status of species names. Here, we correct an error in this method.
2400861|Using queueing theory and the fast Fourier transform, we develop a new approach to analyzing the diversity paths of fossil taxa. The methods employed focus on calculating the probabilities, for each taxonomic group, of arriving at particular values of the diversity at particular times, assuming that diversity paths are random walks. These probabilities, which are represented in probability matrices, allow us to establish a number of null hypotheses that can be used to test for randomness in the diversity paths of the taxonomic groups themselves. As the model employed here is conceptually similar to that employed by Gilinsky and Bambach (1986) in bootstrapping, one consequence of the approach is, in effect, an analytic solution of the bootstrap. A comparison of bootstrapping and analytic results in 15 taxa of marine invertebrates gives nearly identical results. The analytic approach is more general, however, and allows for the calculation of probability matrices under other model assumptions not treated here. We have also applied the probability matrices to a series of tests for nonrandomness as a whole, in contrast to the more usual method of testing particular clade statistics. The familial diversity paths of all 36 extinct orders of marine invertebrates with ten or more families were analyzed. In no case was the null hypothesis of randomness rejected at the 0.05 level. Given the model, and assuming that extinct taxa are representative of all taxa, the familial diversity paths of marine orders appear to behave as random walks.
2400859|High-resolution stratigraphic analysis of 18 sections spanning the Cenomanian-Turonian Stage boundary in the western interior of the United States has allowed determination of the magnitude and pattern of molluscan extinction and disruption. Composite range data from all sections show that the faunal turnover across the stage boundary occurs in a series of narrow stratigraphic zones, defined by multiple first and last occurrences, separated by intervals displaying little or no taxonomic turnover. Two of the apparent extinction steps (bottom and top of the Neocardioceras juddii Zone) may be intercontinentally developed. The additional steps apparently reflect cyclic changes in water mass and substrate characteristics in the western interior basin produced in response to orbital forcing of climate. An interval (ca. 10-100 k.y. duration) of changing community structure and general biotic deterioration is found below each of the two potentially intercontinentally developed extinction steps. The most affected mollusks were those having intercontinental distributions (ammonites and inoceramid bivalves), suggesting that disruption of planktotrophic larval dispersal may have played a role in increasing extinction and speciation rates near the C-T boundary. The nekto-benthic ammonites were affected earlier and to a greater degree than the pelagic forms, implying progressive upward expansion of the oxygen minimum zone preceding the stage boundary.
2400501|Surprisingly, there is a relationship between rates of sediment accumulation and the time spans for which they have been calculated. This relationship can be used to estimate expected rates for specific sedimentary environments and time spans. The most probable completeness of a given sedimentary section at a given short time span can be calculated by the ratio of the measured long-term rate of sediment accumulation to the expected short-term rate. Although the measured time span is usually based on radiometric and paleomagnetic data, the cumulative time of formation estimated from fossil soils in a sequence may also be used to calculate rates and may be useful in comparing the completeness and rate of accumulation of different sequences. By both kinds of estimates, terrestrial sedimentary successions are disappointingly incomplete. Some reasons for incompleteness are illustrated with a simple model of episodic flooding, exceeding a threshold for destruction and sedimentation over a particular kind of vegetation, and thus initiating a new cycle of soil formation. In such a model, rock record is lost to erosion during cutting and filling cycles, to overprinting of weakly developed soils by later, better-developed soils, and to continued development, near steady state, of the soils preserved. Because fossil soils are evidence of ancient environments and ecosystems independent of the fossil record, they may provide evidence of expected kinds of fossils, such as silica phytoliths, calcareous phytoliths, pollen, leaves, fruits, seeds, charcoal, land snails, coprolites, and bones. The degree to which the kinds of fossils actually found fail to meet these expectations is a crude measure of the completeness of representation of a former ecosystem in the fossil record. Some of the discrepancy between expected and actual occurrence of fossils can be related to the original Eh and pH of a fossil soil, as approximated by the oxidation state of iron in its minerals (for Eh) and by carbonate or zeolite content (for pH). Different kinds of fossils can be envisaged as having a characteristic Eh-pH stability field within which they can be expected to have been preserved if originally present. Even under ideal conditions of preservation, it takes some time for fossils to accumulate in soils to levels at which representative collections can be made. Estimates of this temporal control on preservation can be gained by comparing fossil occurrences with the degree of development of fossil soils. Neither these chemical nor temporal factors account fully for the degree of incompleteness observed because original abundance, trampling, predation and many other factors are also important determinants of fossil occurrence. These considerations can be used as guidelines for choosing stratigraphic sections appropriate for particular paleobiological and geological problems. For example, a study of speciation of terrestrial vertebrates would best be in a sequence of weakly developed, calcareous fossil soils (Entisols and Inceptisols), of near-uniform texture and yellow to brown color, formed under an extraordinarily high long-term rate of sediment accumulation. On the other hand, a study of coevolution of vertebrates and plants would best be based on a sequence of weakly to moderately developed, calcareous fossil soils of predominantly drab (gray, green, and blue) color, with interbedded carbonaceous shales.
2400174|The beginnings of biospheric evolution had far-reaching biogeochemical consequences for the related evolutions of atmosphere, hydrosphere, and lithosphere. Feedback to the sedimentary record from these several simultaneously interacting aspects of crustal evolution provides the evidence from which historical biogeology is reconstructed. The interpretation of that evidence, however, is beset with pitfalls. Both biogenicity and a primary origin need to be demonstrated, or confidence limits established for each supposed morphological and biochemical fossil. Relevance to biospheric or related evolutions must be critically evaluated for every geochemical and sedimentological anomaly. Indirect evidence suggests primitive, oxygen-generating autotrophy by  3.8 x 10
4500154| Four independent lines of evidence, (1) the quality of specimen preservation, (2) taxonomic collection curves, (3) molecular divergence estimates, and (4) ghost lineage analysis of a genus-level cladogram, point to echinoids having a much poorer fossil record in the Triassic than in the Lower Jurassic. Furthermore, preservational differences between Triassic and Lower Jurassic echinoids have remained a consistent feature over 160 years of discovery. Differences exist in how effectively paleontologists have collected the fauna from available outcrops in the Triassic and Lower Jurassic. Collection curves suggest that rocks have been more efficiently searched for their fossils in Europe than elsewhere in the world, and that Lower Jurassic faunas are better sampled from available outcrop than Triassic faunas. The discovery of Triassic taxa has quickened in pace over the past 4 decades (though largely driven by a single Lagersttte-the St. Cassian beds) while discoveries of new taxa from the Lower Jurassic have slowed. Molecular analysis of extant families and ghost lineage analysis of Triassic and Lower Jurassic genera both point to poorer sampling of Triassic faunas. This difference in the quality of the fossil record may be partially explained by differences in rock outcrop area, as marine sedimentary rocks are much less common in the Triassic than in the Lower Jurassic. However, improving biomechanical design of the echinoid test over this critical time interval was probably as important, and better explains observed preservational trends. Changes in the quality of the echinoid fossil record were thus driven as much by intrinsic biological factors as by sampling patterns. 
2401055|Most modern marine ecology is ultimately based on unicellular phytoplankton, yet most large animals are unable to graze directly on even relatively large net phytoplankton; the repackaging effected by herbivorous mesozooplankton thus represents a key link in marine metazoan food chains. Despite the deep taphonomic biases affecting plankton fossilization, there is a clear record of phytoplankton from at least 1800 m.y ago. Proterozoic plankton are represented by small- to medium-sized sphaeromorphic acritarchs and probably do not include many/most of the unusually large acritarchs that characterize the Neoproterozoic. The first significant shift in phytoplankton diversity was therefore the rapid radiation of small acanthomorphic acritarchs in the Early Cambrian. The coincidence of phytoplankton diversification with the Cambrian radiation of large animals points compellingly to an ecological linkage between the two, particularly in light of recently discovered filter-feeding mesozooplankton in the Early Cambrian. The introduction of planktic filter feeders would have established the second tier of the Eltonian pyramid, potentially setting off the "self-propagating mutual feedback system of diversification" now recognized as the Cambrian explosion (Stanley 1973, 1976). By consuming significant percentages of net phytoplankton and suspending it as animal biomass and non-aggregating fecal pellets, mesozooplankton cause a net reduction in export production; a general introduction of zooplankton would therefore have reduced carbon burial and moderated the bloom and bust cycle that must have characterized Proterozoic populations of net phytoplankton. The effect of added trophic levels in Early Cambrian ecosystems can be viewed as a serial application of the trophic cascade process observed in modern lakes, whereby the introduction of higher trophic levels determines the accumulation of plant biomass at the base of the system. As such, the major biogeochemical perturbations that mark the onset of the Phanerozoic might be considered a consequence, rather than a cause, of the Cambrian explosion; reduced C export due to zooplankton expansion explains the otherwise anomalous drop in <sup>13</sup>C at the base of the Tommotian. Cambrian acanthomorphic acritarchs likely derived from planktic leiosphaerids exposed to mesozooplanktic grazing pressure, the ornamentation effectively increasing vesicle size without compromising buoyancy or surface-area:volume ratios. Alternatively, they may represent an escape into the plankton through a miniaturization of the much larger Neoproterozoic acanthomorphs. An invasion of small benthic herbivores into the water column to exploit the phytoplankton accounts for the origin of the mesozooplankton and may have been the key innovation in the Cambrian explosion.
2400374|Tertiary and Recent marine gastropods include in their ranks a complement of mechanically sturdy forms unknown in earlier epochs. Open coiling, planispiral coiling, and umbilici detract from shell sturdiness, and were commoner among Paleozoic and Early Mesozoic gastropods than among younger forms. Strong external sculpture, narrow elongate apertures, and apertural dentition promote resistance to crushing predation and are primarily associated with post-Jurassic mesogastropods, neogastropods, and neritaceans. The ability to remodel the interior of the shell, developed primarily in gastropods with a non-nacreous shell structure, has contributed greatly to the acquisition of these antipredatory features. The substantial increase of snail-shell sturdiness beginning in the Early Cretaceous has accompanied, and was perhaps in response to, the evolution of powerful, relatively small, shell-destroying predators such as teleosts, stomatopods, and decapod crustaceans. A simultaneous intensification of grazing, also involving skeletal destruction, brought with it other fundamental changes in benthic community structure in the Late Mesozoic, including a trend toward infaunalization and the disappearance or environmental restriction of sessile animals which cannot reattach once they are dislodged. The rise and diversification of angiosperms and the animals dependent on them for food coincides with these and other Mesozoic events in the marine benthos and plankton. The new predators and prey which evolved in conjunction with the Mesozoic reorganization persisted through episodes of extinction and biological crisis. Possibly, continental breakup and the wide extent of climatic belts during the Late Mesozoic contributed to the conditions favorable to the evolution of skeleton-destroying consumers. This tendency may have been exaggerated by an increase in shelled food supply resulting from the occupation of new adaptive zones by infaunal bivalves and by shell-inhabiting hermit crabs. Marine communities have not remained in equilibrium over their entire geological history. Biotic revolutions made certain modes of life obsolete and resulted in other adaptive zones becoming newly occupied.
2401170|Interior chamber walls of ammonites range from smoothly undulating surfaces in some taxa to complex surfaces, corrugated on many scales, in others. The ammonite suture, which is the expression of the intersection of these walls on the exterior of the shell, has been used to assess anatomical complexity. We used the fractal dimension to measure sutural complexity and to investigate complexity over evolutionary time and showed that the range of variation in sutural complexity increased through time. In this paper we extend our analyses and consider two new parameters that measure the range of scales over which fractal geometry is a satisfactory metric of a suture. We use a principal components analysis of these parameters and the fractal dimension to establish a two-dimensional morphospace in which the shapes of sutures can be plotted and in which variations and evolution of suture morphology can be investigated. Our results show that morphospace coordinates of ammonitic sutures correspond to visually perceptible differences in suture shape. However, three main classes of sutures (goniatitic, ceratitic, and ammonitic) are not unambiguously discriminated in this morphospace. Interestingly, ammonitic sutures occupy a smaller morphospace than other suture types (roughly one-half of the morphospace of goniatitic and ceratitic sutures combined), and the space they occupied did not change dimensions from the Jurassic to the late Cretaceous. We also compare two methods commonly used to measure the fractal dimension of linear features: the Box method and the Richardson (or divider) method. Both methods yield comparable results for ammonitic sutures but the Richardson method yields more precise results for less complex sutures.
20445625|Although only a few studies have explicitly evaluated live-dead agreement of species and community responses to environmental and spatial gradients, paleoecological analyses implicitly assume that death assemblages capture these gradients accurately. We use nine data sets from modern, relatively undisturbed coastal study areas to evaluate how the response of living molluscan assemblages to environmental gradients (water depth and seafloor type; "environmental component" of a gradient) and geographic separation ("spatial component") is captured by their death assemblages. We find that: 1. Living assemblages vary in composition either in response to environmental gradients alone (consistent with a species-sorting model) or in response to a combination of environmental and spatial gradients (mass-effect model). None of the living assemblages support the neutral model (or the patch-dynamic model), in which variation in species abundance is related to the spatial configuration of stations alone. These findings also support assumptions that mollusk species consistently differ in responses to environmental gradients, and suggest that in the absence of postmortem bias, environmental gradients might be accurately captured by variation in species composition among death assemblages. Death assemblages do in fact respond uniquely to environmental gradients, and show a stronger response when abundances are square-root transformed to downplay the impact of numerically abundant species and increase the effect of rare species. 2. Species' niche positions (position of maximum abundance) along bathymetric and sedimentary gradients in death assemblages show significantly positive rank correlations to species positions in living assemblages in seven of nine data sets (both square-root-transformed and presence-absence data). 3. The proportion of compositional variation explained by environmental gradients in death assemblages is similar to that of counterpart living assemblages. Death assemblages thus show the same ability to capture environmental gradients as do living assemblages. In some instances compositional dissimilarities in death assemblages show higher rank correlation with spatial distances than with environmental gradients, but spatial structure in community composition is mainly driven by spatially structured environmental gradients. 4. Death assemblages correctly identify the dominance of niche metacommunity models in mollusk communities, as revealed by counterpart living assemblages. This analysis of the environmental resolution of death assemblages thus supports fine-scale niche and paleoenvironmental analyses using molluscan fossil records. In spite of taphonomic processes and time-averaging effects that modify community composition, death assemblages largely capture the response of living communities to environmental gradients, partly because of redundancy in community structure that is inherently associated with multispecies assemblages. The molluscan data sets show some degree of redundancy as evidenced by the presence of at least two mutually exclusive subsets of species that replicate the community structure, and simple simulations show that between-sample relationships can be preserved and remain significant even when a large proportion of species is randomly removed from data sets.
2400857|Growth of the colony is a basic element of morphological evolution and life history in cheilostome bryozoans. Here we consider the occurrence of different modes of growth in encrusting cheilostomes through geologic time and in well-studied living associations. We assess patterns of zooid formation by direct examination of skeletal characters in species from nearly all diverse fossil assemblages reported from North America and quantify within-assemblage diversities and abundance rankings for fossil encrusting species with different modes of growth. These data document macroevolutionary trends showing a transition from dominance of an apparently primitive mode of budding in the Early Cretaceous to derived modes through the Tertiary. The trends are characterized by their long duration and apparent convergence among systematic subgroups within the Cheilostomata. We then consider the validity of our observations as adaptive trends. Patterns of ecological dominance among living and fossil species indicate that different patterns of zooid formation are important determinants of success of colonies as reflected by their abundance, competitive ability, survivorship, and recovery from injury or predation. The consistency of the long-term trends and evidence for the existence of ecological mechanisms in fossil assemblages suggest a major evolutionary role for biotic interactions.
2400171|We investigated the hydrodynamic properties of cephalopod shell sculpture in two ways: 1) flow visualization experiments with sculptured shells; and 2) application of drag coefficient data for simple geometric bodies to cephalopod shells. Results of this work suggest: 1) the hydrodynamic effect of shell sculpture depends primarily on the size of the sculptural elements relative to the size of the shell and on the positions of sculpture elements on the shell and relative to each other. 2) sculpture is detrimental to swimming (reduces hydrodynamic efficiency) if it exceeds the height of the lower part of the shell's boundary layer. 3) sculpture is advantageous to swimming (mcreases efficiency) if it remains immersed in the boundary layer and induces premature conversion to turbulent boundary layer flow. To be hydrodynamically optimal, small shells (diam  10 cm) must have rough (sculptured) surfaces, whereas large shells (diam  100 cm) require smooth surfaces. Thus, in order to maintain maximum efficiency throughout life, the ontogeny of small mdividuals, or species, should be characterized by progressive roughening of the shell, while large forms should become increasingly smooth. Such allometries are observed among many ammonoids. 4) sculpture always has an effect on the flow around a cephalopod shell. In some species this effect was probably negligible, while in others, those with compressed shells especially, it was probably of major importance. In these species, sculpture appears to have functioned primarily to mcrease swimming ability.
23014715|Abstract.C 4 grasses form the foundation of warm-climate grasslands and savannas and provide important food crops such as corn, but their Neogene rise to dominance is still not fully understood. Carbon isotope ratios of tooth enamel, soil carbonate, carbonate cements, and plant lipids indicate a late MiocenePliocene (8-2 Ma) transition from C 3 vegetation to dominantly C 4 grasses at many sites around the world. However, these isotopic proxies cannot identify whether the C 4 grasses replaced woody vegetation (trees and shrubs) or C 3 grasses. Here we propose a method for reconstructing the carbon isotope ratio of Neogene grasses using the carbon isotope ratio of organic matter trapped in plant silica bodies (phytoliths). Although a wide range of plants produce phytoliths, we hypothesize that in grass-dominated ecosystems the majority of phytoliths will be derived from grasses, and will yield a grass carbon isotope signature. Phytolith extracts can be contaminated by non-phytolith silica (e.g., volcanic ash). To test the feasibility of the method given these potential problems, we examined sample purity (phytolith versus non-phytolith silica), abundance of grass versus non-grass phytoliths, and carbon isotope ratios of phytolith extracts from late MiocenePliocene paleosols of the central Great Plains. Isotope results from the purest samples are compared with phytolith assemblage analysis of these same extracts. The dual record spans the interval of focus (ca. 12-2 Ma), allowing us, for the first time, to investigate how isotopic shifts correlate with floral change. We found that many samples contained high abundances of non-biogenic silica; therefore, only a small subset of ``pure'' samples (>50% of phytoliths by volume) with good preservation were considered to provide reliable carbon isotope ratios. All phytolith assemblages contained high proportions (on average 85%) of grass phytoliths, supporting our hypothesis for grass-dominated communities. Therefore, the carbon isotope ratio of pure, well-preserved samples that are dominated by grass biosilica is considered a reliable measure of the proportion of C 3 and C 4 grasses in the Neogene. The carbon isotope ratios of the pure fossil phytolith samples indicate a transition from predominantly C3 grasses to mixed C 3 -C 4 grasses by 5.5 Ma and then a shift to more than 80% C4 grasses by 3-2 Ma. With the exception of the Pliocene sample, these isotopic data are broadly concordant with phytolith assemblages that show a general increase in C 4 grasses in the late Miocene. However, phytolith assemblage analysis indicates lower relative abundance of C 4 grasses in overall vegetation than do the carbon isotopes from the same phytolith assemblages. The discrepancy may relate to either (1) incomplete identification of (C 4 ) PACMAD phytoliths, (2) higher production of non-diagnostic phytoliths in C 4 grasses compared to C 3 grasses, or (3) biases in the isotope record toward grasses rather than overall vegetation. The impact of potential incomplete characterization of (C 4 ) PACMAD phytoliths on assemblage estimates of proportion of C4, though important, cannot reconcile discrepancies between the methods. We explore hypothesis (2) by analyzing a previously published data set of silica content in grasses and a small data set of modern grass leaf assemblage composition using analysis of variance, independent contrasts, and sign tests. These tests suggest that C 4 grasses do not have more silica than C 3 grasses; there is also no difference with regard to production of non-diagnostic phytoliths. Thus, it is most likely that the discrepancy between phytolith assemblages and isotope ratios is a consequence of hypothesis (3), that the isotope signature is influenced by the contribution of non-diagnostic grass phytoliths, whereas the assemblage composition is not. Assemblage-based estimates of % C 4 within grasses, rather than overall vegetation, are in considerably better agreement with the isotope-based estimates. These results support the idea that, in grass-dominated assemblages, the phytolith carbon isotope method predominantly records shifts in dominant photosynthetic pathways among grasses, whereas phytolith assemblage analysis detects changes in overall vegetation. Carbon isotope ratios of fossil phytoliths in conjunction with phytolith assemblage analysis suggest that the late Neogene expansion of C 4 grasses was largely at the expense of C 3 grasses rather than C 3 shrubs/trees. Stable isotopic analysis of phytoliths can therefore provide unique information about grass community changes during the Neogene, as well as help test how grass phytolith morphology relates to photosynthetic pathway.
4096875| One of the central goals in paleoecology is to understand the nature and consequences of biotic interactions. In marine systems, it has been argued that one of the major steps in the escalation of biotic interactions was marked by the origins of grazing fishes in the Cenozoic. Here I investigate the origins of herbivory and grazing in marine fishes using analyses of functional morphospace. Closing and opening lever ratios and relative length of the lower jaw are used to construct a plot of functional morphospace, a quantitative description of the potential feeding modes of fishes. Four fish faunas were examined, spanning the Mesozoic and Cenozoic (Triassic, Jurassic, Eocene and Recent). All three fossil faunas are from conservation Lagersttten in the central Tethys, in the vicinity of coral reefs or coral-bearing hardgrounds. Changes in functional morphospace occupation reveal a marked shift in the Cenozoic, with the appearance of fishes with relatively small forceful jaws. In Recent faunas, this functional morphospace is occupied almost exclusively by grazing herbivores. This taxon-independent morphological signal of herbivory was lacking in the Mesozoic faunas, was first recorded in the Eocene, and persisted throughout the Cenozoic. This suggests that the Cenozoic did indeed witness the appearance and proliferation of herbivory and grazing by marine fishes. The arrival of these piscine herbivores had the potential to fundamentally alter the dynamics of benthic marine communities. 
2401123|It has long been suspected that trends in global marine biodiversity calibrated for the Phanerozoic may be affected by sampling problems. However, this possibility has not been evaluated definitively, and raw diversity trends are generally accepted at face value in macroevolutionary investigations. Here, we analyze a global-scale sample of fossil occurrences that allows us to determine directly the effects of sample size on the calibration of what is generally thought to be among the most significant global biodiversity increases in the history of life: the Ordovician Radiation. Utilizing a composite database that includes trilobites, brachiopods, and three classes of molluscs, we conduct rarefaction analyses to demonstrate that the diversification trajectory for the Radiation was considerably different than suggested by raw diversity time-series. Our analyses suggest that a substantial portion of the increase recognized in raw diversity depictions for the last three Ordovician epochs (the Llandeilian, Caradocian, and Ashgillian) is a consequence of increased sample size of the preserved and catalogued fossil record. We also use biometric data for a global sample of Ordovician trilobites, along with methods of measuring morphological diversity that are not biased by sample size, to show that morphological diversification in this major clade had leveled off by the Llanvirnian. The discordance between raw diversity depictions and more robust taxonomic and morphological diversity metrics suggests that sampling effects may strongly influence our perception of biodiversity trends throughout the Phanerozoic.
2400947|Recovery of trilobite faunas following a mass extinction during the Upper Cambrian Sunwaptan Stage (equal to the "Ptychaspid Biomere") involved increases in both within-habitat (alpha) diversity and in levels of biofacies differentiation. This pattern parallels, at a lower hierarchical level, the global increase in Phanerozoic marine invertebrate species richness (Sepkoski et al. 1981), which was influenced by changes in provinciality and in alpha diversity. Diversification slowed markedly in subtidal shelf carbonate habitats in the upper half of the stage, but continued in carbonate shelf margin environments, possibly due to higher rates of immigration from off-shelf sites. Trilobite clades appearing early in the stage have low centers of gravity, reflecting high immigration rates during and shortly after an interval of mass extinction. Expansion of shallow-water carbonate deposition in the upper half of the stage was accompanied by the spread of carbonate bank biofacies. Families occurring in these biofacies gradually increased in species richness and tended to have high centers of gravity.
2666004|The origin of the Neogene planktonic foraminifer Globorotalia (Globoconella) pliozea in the subtropical southwest Pacific has been attributed to its isolation resulting from intensification of the Subtropical Divergence (Tasman Front). Oxygen isotopic analyses suggest that, although the Subtropical Divergence may have played a role, the evolution of Gr. (G.) pliozea was facilitated by depth segregation of Gr. (G.) conomiozea morphotypes (low and high conical) during an interval of near-surface warming and increasing thermal gradient. Oxygen isotopic analyses suggest that low conical morphotypes of Gr. (G.) conomiozea inhabited greater depths than high conical morphotypes. Low conical forms of Gr. (G.) conomiozea are considered ancestral to the low conical species, Gr. (G.) pliozea. Oxygen isotopes indicate that Gr. (G.) pliozea inhabited greater depths than its ancestor, Gr. (G.) conomiozea. These data are consistent with depth-parapatric and depth-allopatric models, but not with a sympatric model of speciation. In the allopatric model, reproduction at different water depths acts as a barrier between morphotypes. In the parapatric model, clinal variation along a depth gradient acts as a barrier between morphotypes living at the limits of the gradient. Depth segregation in both models results in genetic isolation and evolutionary divergence. Our data support a correlation between morphological evolution and habitat changes in the Globoconella clade, implying separation of populations as a driving force for morphological evolution. Ecological segregation of morphotypes and species may be related to morphology (height of the conical angle), based on the data from Gr. (G.) conomiozea and Gr. (G.) pliozea. However, morphological differences alone do not necessarily produce depth differences. Large morphological differences between Gr. (G.) pliozea and closely related Gr. (G.) puncticulata did not result in isotopic and therefore depth differences between these species. These species coexisted at the same water depths for nearly 1 m.y. Thus, it is unlikely that the extinction of Gr. (G.) pliozea in the middle Pliocene resulted from competition with Gr. (G.) puncticulata. as previously suggested.
41684301|Large-scale trends in planktonic foraminiferal diversity have so far been based on utilization of synoptic biostratigraphic range charts. Although this approach ensures the taxonomic consistency and quality of the data being used, it takes no formal account of any sampling biases that might exist in the fossil record. We demonstrate that the occurrence data of planktonic foraminifera, as recorded in the primary literature, are strongly biased by sampling. We do this by demonstrating that raw diversity curves derived from the land-based and deep-sea records are strikingly different, but that they each correlate with the intensity of sampling in their respective environments, and thus are ultimately controlled by the structure of the geological record in each setting. Because sampling of the Mesozoic record is best in our land record whereas sampling of the Cenozoic is best in our deep-sea record, we combine the two to generate the best-supported estimates of species and genus diversity over time from these data. We correct for sampling bias using shareholder quorum subsampling and a modeling approach. The data are then transformed to generate a range-through plot of species richness that is compared with two earlier estimates of the diversity history where comparable species-in-bin data can be recovered. No robust statistical correlation is found among the three estimates. Although differences in amplitude are to be expected, differences in the actual shape of the curve are surprising. We conclude that these differences stem from the nature of the data themselves, namely the taxonomic scheme adopted and the taxonomic coverage used.
1558101|The estimation and interpretation of temporal patterns in origination and extinction rates is a major goal of paleobiology. However, the possibility of coincident variation in the quality and completeness of the fossil record makes the identification of such patterns particularly difficult. Previously, Nichols and Pollock (1983) proposed that capture-mark-recapture (CMR) models be adapted to address this problem. These models can be used to estimate both sampling and turnover rates, reducing the risk of confounding the two quantities. Since that time, theoretical advances have made possible the application of these tools to a much broader range of problems. This paper reviews those advances likely to be of greatest relevance in paleobiological studies. They include (1) joint estimation of per-taxon origination and extinction rates, (2) modeling sampling or turnover rates as explicit functions of causal variables, (3) ranking of alternative models according to their fit to the data, and (4) estimation of parameter values using multiple models. These are illustrated by application to an Ordovician database of benthic marine genera from key higher taxa. Robustness of these methods to violation of assumptions likely to be suspect in paleobiological studies further suggests that these models can make an important contribution to the quantitative study of macroevolutionary dynamics.
2666119|Paleobiologists frequently hypothesize that a taxon's duration (i.e., the true span from origination to extinction) exceeds its stratigraphic range (i.e., the span from first appearance to last appearance in the fossil record). One can test hypothesized duration by assessing the plausibility of the implicitly hypothesized gaps between origination and first appearance and/or between last appearance and extinction. Several tests assess the probability of not finding a taxon over some stratigraphic gap. Because the likelihood of a hypothesis given data reflects the probability of the data given that hypothesis, these probabilities also give the likelihood of a hypothesized duration. However, many probability/likelihood tests require simplifying assumptions about unknown sampling parameters such as the consistency of sampling over time, sampling intensities for unknown ancestors, and actual sampling intensities themselves. This paper examines the effects of sampling parameters on probability/likelihood tests and presents methods for testing hypotheses about these unknowns while testing hypotheses about true durations. Two data sets are used here as examples. One analysis tests the origination times among Paleozoic gastropods implied by phylogenetic inferences. The other analysis tests the extinction times among Maastrichtian ammonites implied by different numbers of extinction events. In both cases, hypotheses positing many gaps in the fossil record become more likely after accommodating uncertainty about sampling. However, the increased likelihoods are insufficient to prevent these hypotheses from being rejected in favor of hypotheses positing fewer gaps. In both cases, the conclusions are identical to those derived by simple methods using simple models for unknown sampling parameters. Although numerous factors can exaggerate the implausibility of gaps, making these factors parts of testable hypotheses is possible. Thus, excessive assumptions about sampling parameters need not hinder empirical testing of hypothesized durations.
20445588|Fossil marine lineages are generally expected to exhibit long-term trends of increasing body size because of inherent fitness advantages or secular changes in environmental conditions. Because empirical documentation of this trend during the Paleozoic has been lacking for most taxonomic groups, the magnitude, timing, and taxonomic breadth of the trend have remained elusive. This study uses the largest existing database of fossil invertebrate sizes from four faunally important phyla to document ecosystem-wide size trends in well-preserved biotas from deep-subtidal, soft-substrate assemblages during the Cambrian through Devonian. Size of type specimens was measured along standard body axes from monographic plates and converted to body volume by using a broadly applicable empirical regression. Results demonstrate that mean body size (herein volume) of individual genera doubles during this interval, especially from the Late Ordovician through Early Devonian. The timing is gradual in spite of major radiations and extinctions, and the increase is primarily attributable to a net increase in the three-dimensionality of genera. The overall increase is not caused by replacement among clades because increases are widespread among arthropods, brachiopods, and echinoderms, at the phylum and class levels; in contrast, mollusks do not display a net size change at either taxonomic level. The increase is also more pronounced in microbivores than in carnivores. Combined with known environmental changes during this interval, and especially records of carbon dioxide, these trends provide support for the claim that primary productivity increased during the early to mid Paleozoic.
25609409|Biomechanical models illustrate how the principles of physics and physiology determine function in organisms, allowing ecological inferences and functional predictions to be based on morphology. Dynamic lever and linkage models of the mechanisms of the jaw and skull during feeding in fishes predict function from morphology and have been used to compare the feeding biomechanics of diverse fish groups, including fossil taxa, and to test ideas in ecological morphology. Here we perform detailed computational modeling of the four-bar linkage mechanism in the skull and jaw systems of Dunkleosteus terrelli, using software that accepts landmark morphological data to simulate the movements and mechanics of the skull and jaws during prey capture. The linkage system is based on the quadrate and cranio-thoracic joints: Cranial elevation around the cranio-thoracic joint forces the quadrate joint forward, which, coupled with a jaw depressor muscle connecting the jaw to the thoracic shield, causes the jaw to rotate downward during skull expansion. Results show a high speed transmission for jaw opening, producing a rapid expansion phase similar to that in modern fishes that use suction during prey capture. During jaw closing, the model computes jaw and skull rotation and a series of mechanical metrics including effective mechanical advantage of the jaw lever and kinematic transmission of the skull linkage system. Estimates of muscle cross-sectional area based on the largest of five specimens analyzed allow the bite force and strike speed to be estimated. Jaw-closing muscles of Dunkleosteus powered an extraordinarily strong bite, with an estimated maximal bite force of over 6000 N at the jaw tip and more than 7400 N at the rear dental plates, for a large individual (10 m total length). This bite force capability is among the most powerful bites in animals. The combination of rapid gape expansion and powerful bite meant that Dunkleosteus terrelli could both catch elusive prey and penetrate protective armor, allowing this apex predator to potentially eat anything in its ecosystem, including other placoderms.
2401083|A simple mathematical model to examine the relationships between environmental instability and long-term macroevolutionary trends is presented. The model investigates the evolutionary changes that occur in certain population characters in an environment with physical disturbance. These quantitative genetic characters are related to intrinsic growth rates and mean carrying capacity. The model assumes that individual fitness is determined by these characters. I examine the likelihood of extinction under different degrees of environmental instability and for rapid change of environmental instability. The model suggests that characters that promote a high intrinsic growth rate and a low carrying capacity tend to evolve in the most unstable environments. This suggests that small body size, high fecundity, and simple forms evolve in unstable environments. The extinction probability of a population is the lowest for taxa possessing K-selected characters in the most stable environment. However, the extinction probability of a species (metapopulation) becomes lowest for r-selected species living in the most unstable environment and for the K-selected species living in the most stable environment, and it becomes the highest for taxa living in a moderately unstable environment. Increasing environmental instability changes the extinction probabilities of different taxa in different ways, due to differences in phenotypes and environments. The effect of environmental change is most serious for the K-selected taxa in the most stable environment. This also suggests that a continuously stable environment increases the extinction probability of taxa when environmental change occurs. Although catastrophic changes in environments are not presumed, these results are consistent with the existence of two "macroevolutionary regimes" in which a taxon's extinction rate and its characters differ for mass extinction and normal extinction. Mass extinction can occur as a result of long-term adaptation to a stable environment following a minor change of environment without catastrophes.
2400448|Alleles, individuals, and species are all examples of entities possessing variation in the properties that underlie natural selection: branching (reproduction), persistence (survivorship), and heritability of characters. This suggests that the logic embodied in the theory of natural selection can be abstracted from its usual application to the level of individuals to encompass selection operating among any biological entities for which these essential properties can be meaningfully defined. This approach leads to a unified perspective of adaptation, selection, and fitness at all levels. Expanded versions of the Price covariance selection equations provide a convenient and useful conceptual vehicle for this discussion. The advantages of a hierarchical approach are twofold: it permits exploration of concepts and ideas across levels by analogy, and it focuses attention upon the mechanisms that account for different evolutionary dynamics at each level rather than obscuring these biologically unique properties with argument by extension from a single "special" level. We point out that the choice of a single measure of evolutionary change restricts the context in which "other level" processes will be perceived. We illustrate the limited forms in which higher and lower level selection can be recognized from the unique perspective provided by any given level through extensions of Price's formula. An exploration of the implications of such an approach leads us to the assertion that the development of a unified theory of evolution demands the recognition and incorporation of hierarchical structure as a conceptual foundation.
2400685|We have investigated whether changes in marine faunal diversity during the Pleistocene would have been affected by changes in sea level. Our estimate of changes in area of shallow marine seas between low stand and high stand of sea level (approximately 200 m) leads to a prediction of approximately a 25% change in species diversity, 10% change in generic diversity and less than a 5% change in familial diversity. This agrees with the observation that large scale generic or familial changes have not been widely noted for the Pleistocene. As in other intervals of geologic time, changes in the sizes of faunal provinces owing to changes in sea level are less likely to be the significant factor in changing marine diversity than are changes in the number of faunal provinces.
2401086|The eutatines are a group of fossil armadillos traditionally regarded as herbivorous due to the particular morphology of the skull and teeth. Nevertheless, they have never been the subject of a detailed morpho-functional analysis. The masticatory apparatus of Eutatus (late Pliocene-early Holocene) is analyzed and compared with other eutatines (Proeutatus and Stenotatus from the Miocene, and Doellotatus and Ringueletia from the Pliocene) and with living armadillos (Euphractus and Dasypus). The masticatory muscles were reconstructed from origin and insertion scars; the occlusal pattern and mandibular movements were determined through the study of the craniomandibular joint, the shape and arrangement of the teeth and the symphysis, and the moment arms of the lines of action of the masseter and temporalis muscles were estimated. Skull and mandible shapes were compared using the Procrustean method Resistant-Fit Theta-Rho-Analysis (RFTRA). The analysis of the masticatory apparatus of the eutatines allows us to state that Eutatus and Proeutatus exhibit the most specialized morphology known for an herbivore with an armadillo-like skull pattern. Additionally, we can identify a morphological group from the Miocene Stenotatus to the Pleistocene Eutatus, including the Pliocene Doellotatus and Ringueletia as intermediate stages of a morphological line; Proeutatus deviates from this pattern. This morphological separation may reflect an early dichotomy within the well-defined clade of eutatines.
4096957|Short-term variations in rates of taxonomic extinction and origination in the fossil record may be the result of true changes in rates of turnover, variable rates of fossil preservation, or some combination of the two. Here, positive extinction and origination rate excursions among Phanerozoic marine animal genera are reexpressed in terms of the amount of normal, background time they represent. In addition to providing a background-adjusted calibration of rate intensities, this reexpression determines the durations of sampling gaps that would be required to explain entirely all observed rate excursions as sampling artifacts. This possibility is explored by analyzing a new compilation of the timing and duration of sedimentary hiatuses in North America. Hiatuses spanning more than approximately one million years (Myr) in the marine sedimentary rock record have a mean duration of 73 Myr. There are two major hiatus types-those that form in response to long-duration tectonic cycles and that bound the major Sloss-scale sequences (mean duration 200 Myr), and those that form in response to shorter-duration changes in sediment accommodation space and that occur within major Sloss-scale sequences (mean duration less than 23 Myr). The latter are approximately exponentially distributed and have a mean duration that is comparable to the mean duration of intervening sedimentary rock packages. Although sedimentary hiatuses are generally long enough in duration to accommodate the hypothesis that short-term variations in rates of genus origination and extinction are artifacts of sampling failures at major unconformities ("Unconformity Bias" hypothesis), the observed evolutionary rates are not correlated with hiatus durations. Moreover, hiatuses that follow the major mass extinctions are not long in comparison to most other non-mass extinction intervals. These results do not support the hypothesis that hiatuses at major unconformities alone have artificially clustered genus first and last occurrences, thereby causing many of the documented statistical similarities between the temporal structure of the sedimentary rock record and macroevolutionary patterns. Instead, environmental changes related to the expansion and contraction of marine environments may have been the primary forcers of both biological turnover and the spatio-temporal pattern of sediment accumulation. Fully testing this "Common Cause" hypothesis requires quantifying and overcoming lingering taxonomic, biostratigraphic, facies, and numerous other biases that are both inherent in geologic data and imposed by imperfect knowledge of the fossil record.
3595525|Understanding of evolutionary changes in the vertebrate skull is greatly influenced by the knowledge of ontogeny. Extant amphibians are an outstanding example in this field, because their life cycles are complex and have been intensively studied. At the same time, fossil material of Paleozoic amphibians has become available that sheds light on the ontogeny of a long-extinct clade, prompting comparison with recent forms. In this paper, the formation of the skull of a Paleozoic amphibian (the branchiosaurid temnospondyl Apateon) is analyzed in comparison with that of an extant salamander (the hynobiid Ranodon). Both temporal patterns (sequence of ossification) and spatial patterns (morphological changes) are described. The general results are that (1) the sequence of ossification is similar in many aspects, and (2) most dermal bones share fundamental similarities in morphogenesis, although sometimes the morphological result in adults may differ conspicuously. The comparison reveals that the parasphenoid, premaxillae, maxillae, frontals, parietals, squamosals, and prefrontals are strikingly similar in their mode of growth. In particular, the appearance of the earliest primordia and the subsequent stages of morphological transformation are almost identical. The development of the pterygoids and nasals is different in the earliest stages, but the ontogenetic trajectories converge in later stages. In Ranodon and other transforming urodeles, the pterygoids and vomers experience extensive resorption during metamorphic climax, whereas in branchiosaurids the morphology of this region remains stable throughout ontogeny. In the sequence of cranial ossifications, the early appearance of the premaxilla and tooth-bearing elements of the palate characterize both genera, but the maxilla forms much later in Ranodon. The ectopterygoid, absent in all salamanders, is the last palatal element to appear in branchiosaurids. In the skull roof, the parietals, frontals, and squamosals are the first bones to form in both groups. Conversely, the circumorbital elements and tabular are among the last ossifications in branchiosaurids, and the prefrontal and lacrimal (the only circumorbital bones present in salamanders) form within the same interval in urodele ontogeny. The septomaxilla is the last dermal element to ossify in both groups. Comparison with caecilians and anurans indicates that salamanders are much more similar to Paleozoic branchiosaurids than to other extant lissamphibians. A major difference between salamanders and branchiosaurids is that the morphology of the latter is much less affected by developmental perturbations, such as larval specializations and metamorphosis.
4096934|Accurate estimates of body mass in fossil taxa are fundamental to paleobiological reconstruction. Predictive equations derived from correlation with craniodental and body mass data in extant taxa are the most commonly used, but they can be unreliable for species whose morphology departs widely from that of living relatives. Estimates based on proximal limb-bone circumference data are more accurate but are inapplicable where postcranial remains are unknown. In this study we assess the efficacy of predicting body mass in Australian fossil marsupials by using an alternative correlate, endocranial volume. Body mass estimates for a species with highly unusual craniodental anatomy, the Pleistocene marsupial lion (Thylacoleo carnifex), fall within the range determined on the basis of proximal limb-bone circumference data, whereas estimates based on dental data are highly dubious. For all marsupial taxa considered, allometric relationships have small confidence intervals, and percent prediction errors are comparable to those of the best predictors using craniodental data. Although application is limited in some respects, this method may provide a useful means of estimating body mass for species with atypical craniodental or postcranial morphologies and taxa unrepresented by postcranial remains. A trend toward increased encephalization may constrain the method's predictive power with respect to many, but not all, placental clades.
2666087|We have known since Trueman's classic work of 1922 that the Lower Jurassic Gryphaea of Britain exhibit phyletic size increase and heterochronic change in shape. Since Hallam's revisionary work in the 1960s, we have recognized that pronounced and generalized juvenilization of form accompanied this increasing size. This extensive literature provides invertebrate paleontology's most famous example of a biometrically documented, continuous anagenetic trend within a discrete lineage. But Gryphaea has also provoked great frustration because a key datum, required for a full solution, had been theoretically recognized but practically unavailable. We could identify the evolution of shape as paedomorphic, but could not specify the mode of heterochrony for this paedomorphic result because we could not standardize samples by common age or developmental stage. In this paper, we provide sclerochronological data on sizes and shapes at specified ages marked by annual growth bands in two Jurassic sequences of Gryphaea: the classic Lower Jurassic series showing phyletic size increase with paedomorphosis, and an independent Middle-Upper Jurassic series illustrating neither size increase nor heterochrony. We prove that size increase in the classic series occurs entirely by faster growth (larger descendant sizes at the same ages as ancestors), and not by extended age (for descendants lived no longer than ancestors). The well-marked paedomorphosis of form probably arose as a correlated consequence of growing larger by extending and maintaining rapid juvenile growth rates-thus marking the heterochronic mode as a case of neoteny. The independent upper sequence, acting as a different replicate in a natural experiment, shows neither size increase nor heterochrony but does exhibit (in contrast with the classic sequence) evolution toward greater longevity. Hallam's flow tank experiments indicated a strong adaptive advantage in shell stability for both larger size and paedomorphic form. Neotenous development provides an evolutionary pathway to the simultaneous acquisition of both favored traits-thus showing that "constraints" due to "correlations of growth" (Darwin's own phrase for the phenomenon) may be positive in promoting joint evolutionary advantages, and not only neutral (in carrying spandrels along with primary adaptations), or negative (by imposing inadaptive "baggage" upon trends in form through developmental correlation with selected traits).
4096859|We describe three giant palaeobatrachid fossil tadpoles of the genus Palaeobatrachus (Nieuwkoop-Faber [NF] stages 60-64) from the Miocene of Randecker Maar, Germany. The largest was 150 mm at the beginning of metamorphosis (stage 60), whereas the smallest was 100 mm and approaching the end of metamorphosis (stage 64). In contrast, normal palaeobatrachid tadpoles and their pipid relatives, both extinct and extant, rarely exceed 60 mm in length. We review here both ecological and pathological conditions that are conducive to the development of gigantism in tadpoles. Tadpoles that lack a thyroid gland become exceptionally large and arrest development at early hindlimb stages (NF stages 53-56). However, the advanced metamorphic stages of the giant Palaeobatrachus tadpoles indicate that they were able to metamorphose, and thus were not athyroid. Environmental factors-pond size and permanence, predators, duration of the growing season-may all contribute to tadpole gigantism in certain extant anuran species. We identify suites of ecological features that distinguish extant anurans with large tadpoles from high-latitude and high-altitude permanent lakes in temperate regions (e.g., certain Rana and Telmatobius) from tropical species, such as Pseudis paradoxa, whose tadpoles normally achieve large size in temporary seasonal ponds. The paleoecology of Randecker Maar suggests that Palaeobatrachus tadpoles lived in a permanent semitropical lake, but one with few predators.
25482670|Improvements in our understanding of green plant phylogeny are casting new light on the connection between character evolution and diversification. The repeated discovery of paraphyly has helped disentangle what once appeared to be phylogenetically coincident character changes, but this has also highlighted the existence of sequences of character change, no one element of which can cleanly be identified as the "key innovation" responsible for shifting diversification rate. In effect, the cause becomes distributed across a nested series of nodes in the tree. Many of the most conspicuous plant "innovations" (such as macrophyllous leaves) are underlain by earlier, more subtle shifts in development (such as overtopping growth), which appear to have enabled the exploration of a greater range of morphological designs. Often it appears that these underlying changes have been brought about at the level of cell interactions within meristems, highlighting the need for developmental models and experiments focused at this level. The standard practice of attempting to identify correlations between recurrent character change (such as the tree growth habit) and clade diversity is complicated by the observation that the "same" trait may be constructed quite differently in different lineages (e.g., different forms of cambial activity), with some solutions imposing more architectural limitations than others. These thoughts highlight the need for a more nuanced view, which has implications for comparative methods. They also bear on issues central to Stephen Jay Gould's vision of macroevolution, including exaptation and evolutionary recurrence in relation to constraint and the repeatability of evolution.
4097002|Recent phylogenetic studies of Paleozoic gastropods show the classification provided by the Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology to include numerous highly polyphyletic taxa. Here we test whether this classification reflects limits on the range of possible designs, general architectural constraints, or common functional solutions for Paleozoic gastropods. Our test evaluates whether superfamilial/subordinal level archetypes as defined by the Treatise evolved more frequently than expected among 626 Late Cambrian-Middle Devonian species. Using a previously established phylogeny and five general shell features (spire angle, exhalent current position, base angle, umbilical width, and apertural inclination) we show that there are fewer gastropod morphotypes than expected given the frequency of change in these features. This is true even after accounting for architectural constraints implied by the data. Moreover, the most common morphotypes include significantly more species and evolved significantly more times than expected. These results imply a set of architectural attractors for lower-middle Paleozoic gastropods, consistent with ecomorphological theory that particular morphotypes are best suited for particular lifestyles. Thus, the Treatise classifications likely reflect these ecomorphological patterns within subclades rather than phylogenetic patterns.
2400867|Problems of stratigraphic completeness and poor temporal resolution make analysis of faunal change in terrestrial sequences difficult. The fluvial Neogene Siwalik formations of India and Pakistan are an exception. They contain a long vertebrate record and have good chronostratigraphic control, making it possible to assess the influence of biotic interchange on Siwalik fossil communities. In Pakistan, the interval between 18 and 7 Ma has been most intensively studied and changes in diversity and relative abundance of ruminant artiodactyls and muroid rodents are documented with temporal resolution of 200,000 years. Within this interval, diversity varies considerably, including an abrupt rise in species number between 15 and 13 Ma, followed by a decline in ruminant diversity after 12 Ma and a decline in muroid diversity in two steps at 13 and 10 Ma. Significant changes in relative abundance of taxa include an increase in bovids between 16.5 and 15 Ma, a decrease in tragulids after 9 Ma, and a very abrupt increase in murids at 12 Ma. Megacricetodontine rodents also decrease significantly at 12 Ma, and smaller declines are recorded among myocricetodontine and copemyine rodents after 16 Ma. An increase of dendromurine rodents at 15.5 Ma is also observed. There is also a trend of progressive size increase among giraffoids and bovids throughout the sequence. We have also investigated relationships between biotic interchange and diversity, body size, and relative abundance, concluding that (1) the rapid increase in ruminant and muroid diversity was largely due to immigration, whereas in situ speciation had only a secondary role; (2) during intervals of increasing diversity, resident lineages did not have higher than average rates of in situ speciation; (3) during intervals with rising diversity, greater extinction did not accompany increased immigration; (4) during intervals with falling diversity, there may have been greater extinction in recently invading lineages; and (5) change in diversity was independent of changes in relative abundance and body size.
3595505|Many fossil assemblages are time-averaged, with multiple generations of organisms mixed into a single stratigraphic horizon. A time-averaged sample of a taxon should be more variable than a single-generation sample if enough morphologic change occurred during the interval of time-averaging. Time-averaging may also alter correlations between morphologic variables and obscure allometric relationships in an evolving population. To investigate these issues, we estimated the variability of six modern, single-generation samples of the bivalve Mercenaria campechiensis using Procrustes analysis and compared them with several time-averaged Pleistocene samples of M. campechiensis and M. permagna. Both the modern and the fossil samples ranged in variability, but these ranges were virtually identical. Morphology was quite stable over the hundreds to many thousands of years that passed as the assemblages accumulated, and the variabilities of the fossil samples could be used to estimate single-generation variability. At one fossil locality, the environment and paleocommunity changed partway through the collection interval; the morphology of Mercenaria appears stable above and below the transition but changes across it. This change is similar in magnitude to the differences between geographically separated modern populations, whereas temporal variation within single environmental settings is distinctly less than geographic variation. Analytical time-averaging (the mixing of fossils from different horizons) between paleocommunities increased variability slightly (but not significantly) above that found in living populations. While its constituent populations appear stable on millennial timescales, M. campechiensis has been evolutionarily static since at least the early to middle Pleistocene.
2400519|A comparison of the morphology and wear of the chewing surfaces among archaic Paleocene herbivores suggests that a compressive type of interaction between opposing chewing surfaces was becoming a dominant mode of chewing, unlike the translative (grinding or shearing) mechanisms common in Eocene and later herbivores. In part, the evidence for this conclusion is that most of the wear occurs on horizontal surfaces centered at the tips of the cusps and pronounced unidirectional striae tend to be lacking in these areas. In the diverse early Paleocene periptychid condylarths, multidirectional striae occur on the wear surfaces and there is a measured loss of directionality of the crests and enamel edges from the condition in the earliest condylarth, the Late Cretaceous Protungulatum. The patterns are even more random in the later Paleocene phenacodontids, suggesting that this was a broad characteristic for the larger Paleocene condylarths. Efficiency (that is, the volume of food processed per stroke) in compressional chewing systems is theoretically proportional to the area of the opposing surfaces, with large, relatively flat surfaces optimal, whereas in translational systems linear structures are dominant. The reduction in alignment of striae and in linearity of topographic features of the chewing surfaces is consistent with an increasing dominance of compressive chewing from the condition characteristic of palaeoryctid and probably other Cretaceous insectivores in which both compression and shearing occurred between opposing surfaces. The change was brought about by expanding surface areas at the expense of edge length, which was accomplished independently and differently by the phenacodontids and the periptychids, one by increasing both the cylindrical shape and size of the cusps, the other by increasing the cylindrical shape and converging the cusps. The retention of large paraconules and metaconules in the upper molars, cusps essentially lost in the periptychids, preadapted the phenacodontid pattern for later development of the oblique lophodonty and translatory chewing component characteristic of perissodactyls (horses and their relatives), the dominant herbivores of the Eocene.
3595488|The Dominican Republic amber, as a data set for ecological investigation, is subject to unique biases. To understand the paleoecology of Hispaniola during the Miocene it is not sufficient only to identify the amber inclusions, the biases of entrapment also need to be elucidated. This study compares the spider (Araneae) fauna from Recent Neotropical rainforests with assemblages from Dominican Republic amber deposits. This comparison demonstrates that the site of the original resin secretion is farther removed from the ground layer than has previously been suggested. In many spider families, particularly the web weavers, mature males lead an active lifestyle as they roam in search of the more sedentary females. Male spiders are significantly more common as amber inclusions than females. When the sex ratios of preserved spiders are examined in relation to the predation strategies of their extant relatives, at family level, wandering spiders appear more susceptible to entombment than sedentary spiders. This implies that spiders, and presumably other co-occurring organisms, were trapped primarily by wandering onto sticky resin rather than by being engulfed passively by less viscous, flowing resin.
2400145| Taxonomists working with late Cenozoic faunas tend to view living species as starting points for the evaluation of chronospecies (i.e., segments of evolutionary lineages subjectively designated as species) that extend backward in time from the Recent. This practice makes it possible to construct a survivorship curve for late Cenozoic chronospecies by evaluating all fossil lineages believed to have survived to the present day. A survivorship curve is produced by plotting the fraction of these lineages existing at any time that have not undergone enough phyletic evolution that their extant representatives are assigned to new species. This kind of surviviorship curve has been plotted for chronospecies of mammals using the beginning of the Wrm, rather than the Recent, as an endpoint in order to avoid the effects of the Wrm and post-Wrm mass extinction. The survivorship curve reveals that all but a small fraction of established chronospecies have long durations relative to intervals of time during which distinctive higher taxa have arisen. Phyletic turnover of species has been remarkably slow. Most net evolutionary change must have been associated with saltational speciation. Even the large majority of genera must have arisen rapidly by one or more divergent speciation events. Estimates of rates of extinction suggest that the bottleneck effect, in which constriction of a lineage is followed by re-expansion as a distinct species, cannot be a major source of evolutionary change. These conclusions, based on the evaluation of mammalian phylogeny, seem also to apply to other taxa of animals, supporting the punctuational model of evolution. The long durations of hominid species imply that the evolution of humans, like that of other mammals, conforms to this model. 
2400172|The claw equipped forelimbs have been shown to be an important hunting weapon for modern felids. In light of its functional importance, the claw retractile mechanism for modern felids was compared with that of the saber-toothed felids. In this regard, the functional anatomy of claw retraction for saber-toothed felids was found to be the same as that of modern forms. Body proportions of modern felids were also compared with saber-toothed felids and the relationship of their morphology to habitat structure and habitat utilization were studied. It was found that the relative body proportions for Hoplophoneus and Smilodon were similar to modern forest felids (dwellers of high structured dense forest), while Dinictis and Machairodus could probably compete in more open terrain (open woodland, meadow). It is postulated that saber-toothed felids used their claw equipped forelimbs to grasp and hold their prey as do modern felids. In this fashion, the enlarged upper canines could then be used to kill the victim, and this was probably done by a stab to the nape of the neck. It is also thought that Smilodon, like the modern lion, adapted to open habitats by forming prides.
4096951|Much of what is known about the long-term history of biodiversity and rates of taxonomic evolution in the fossil record derives from literature-based compilations of fossil stratigraphic ranges. It has been suggested that taxonomic and stratigraphic errors in these compilations are randomly distributed and, therefore, introduce no significant bias to macroevolutionary patterns. Here we compare a new, comprehensive global database of Ordovician and Early Silurian crinoids to Sepkoski's global genus compendium. Approximately 44% of the crinoid genera resolved to substage in Sepkoski's compendium are taxonomically inaccurate (i.e., invalid, nomina dubia, or column genera) or have incorrect first and/or last occurrences. Errors in Sepkoski's compendium result from incomplete coverage of existing taxonomic work and incorrect stratigraphic correlations that, in some cases, are propagated throughout the taxonomic literature. Stratigraphic range errors are nonrandomly distributed among substages in Sepkoski's compendium. The result is underestimated richness in the Early Silurian and significantly overestimated rates of extinction in the Late Ordovician. There is no similar bias in Sepkoski's substage origination rates for crinoids. At the stage-level of temporal resolution, Sepkoski's crinoid data are more accurate. In this case, only 32% of the compendium's crinoid genera contain some stratigraphic or taxonomic inaccuracy. However, errors still result in incorrect macroevolutionary patterns, particularly with respect to rate of origination in the Ashgill, which is significantly underestimated in Sepkoski's compendium. Genera described since the completion of Sepkoski's compendium have had relatively little effect on estimated rates of evolution at both stage and substage resolution. These results suggest that macroevolutionary patterns among some taxa in Sepkoski's compilation may be significantly influenced by nonrandomly distributed taxonomic inaccuracies and stratigraphic range errors. In the case of the apparent end-Ordovician mass extinction among crinoids, the revised history reveals a dramatically reduced role for extinction at the substage-level of temporal resolution. At the stage level, Sepkoski's original compilation strongly exaggerates the excess of extinction over origination in the Ashgill. Although biases inherent in the stratigraphic record remain unaccounted for, removing taxonomic and stratigraphic errors in Sepkoski's compendium substantially changes our understanding of the nature of large-scale biotic change for an important Paleozoic taxon during the end-Ordovician.
4096852|In recent years several authors have questioned the reality of a widely accepted and apparently large increase in marine biodiversity through the Cenozoic. Here we use collection-level occurrence data from the rich and uniquely well documented New Zealand (NZ) shelfal marine mollusc fauna to test this question at a regional scale. Because the NZ data were generated by a small number of workers and have been databased over many decades, we have been able to either avoid or quantify many of the biases inherent in analyses of past biodiversity. In particular, our major conclusions are robust to several potential taphonomic and systematic biases and methodological uncertainties, namely non-uniform loss of aragonitic faunas, biostratigraphic range errors, taxonomic errors, choice of time bins, choice of analytical protocols, and taxonomic rank of analysis. The number of taxa sampled increases through the Cenozoic. Once diversity estimates are standardized for sampling biases, however, we see no evidence for an increase in marine mollusc diversity in the NZ region through the middle and late Cenozoic. Instead, diversity has been approximately constant for much of the past 40 Myr and, at the species and genus levels, has declined over the past ~5 Myr. Assuming that the result for NZ shelfal molluscs is representative of other taxonomic groups and other temperate faunal provinces, then this suggests that the postulated global increase in diversity is either an artifact of sampling bias or analytical methods, resulted from increasing provinciality, or was driven by large increases in diversity in tropical regions. We see no evidence for a species-area effect on diversity. Likewise, we are unable to demonstrate a relationship between marine temperature and diversity, although this question should be re-examined once refined shallow marine temperature estimates become available.
2400409|The function of lunules in sand dollars is reviewed and it is argued that ambulacral lunules and the anal lunule evolved for quite different purposes. Whereas ambulacral lunules evolved to increase the perimeter of the test for food gathering, this was clearly not the original function of the anal lunule, although in some genera it has become secondarily adapted to this role. Many of the unique features of the anal lunule can be explained if it evolved as an outlet for ciliary feeding currents drawn centripetally into the mouth, without disrupting either oral or aboral currents. This allowed the entire margin of the test to be used for collecting the fine particles sieved through the aboral spine canopy. Anal lunules probably evolved only once, in the Miocene, and the Monophorasteridae and Mellitidae are probably sister groups.
2400659|Observations on the morphology of the early whorls of Eutrephoceras dekayi (Morton), a widespread Cretaceous nautilid, are supplemented with oxygen and carbon isotopic analyses (
2400604|Taphonomic analysis of several late Pleistocene mastodon (Mammut americanum) skeletons excavated in southern Michigan provides compelling evidence of mastodon butchery by Paleo-Indians. The occurrence of butchery and details of butchering technique are inferred primarily from patterns of bone modification. An important aspect of butchering practice was production and use of tools fashioned from bones of the animal being butchered. Evidence for butchery and bone tool use includes matching marks on the conarticular surfaces of disarticulated pairs of bones; cutmarks on bones; green bone fracturing; use wear, secondary flaking, and impact features on bone fragments; and burned bone. Interpretation of these features is facilitated by information on patterns of bone distribution and disarticulation preserved in a primary depositional context. Preliminary comparisons among nine sites indicate that putative butchering sites differ consistently and in a variety of ways from sites that appear to record no human involvement. Although based on a small sample of sites, the apparent frequency of butchered individuals relative to those that were not butchered is unexpectedly high. These findings provide new evidence of a well-developed "bone technology" employed by the late Pleistocene human inhabitants of eastern North America. In addition, these data offer circumstantial support for the hypothesis that human hunting was an important factor in the late Pleistocene extinction of mastodons.
41432811|The clade Archosauria contains two very different sister groups in terms of diversity (number of species) and disparity (phenotypic variation): Crurotarsi (taxa more closely related to crocodiles than to birds) and Ornithodira (pterosaurs and dinosaurs including birds). The extant species of Crurotarsi may constitute a biased sample of past biodiversity regarding growth patterns and metabolic rates. Bone histological characters can be conserved over hundreds of millions of years in the fossil record and potentially contain information about individual age at death, age at sexual maturity, bone growth rates, and basal metabolic rates of extinct vertebrates. Using a sample of extant amniotes, we have constructed a paleobiological model to estimate bone growth rate from bone histological traits. Cross-validation tests show that this model is reliable. We then used it to estimate bone growth rates in a sample of extinct archosaurs including Crurotarsi and Ornithodira. After testing for phylogenetic signal, optimization of femoral growth rates through squared change parsimony onto a time-calibrated tree of amniotes shows two divergent evolutionary trends: whereas bone growth rates increase from the last common ancestor of Ornithodira to extant birds, they decrease from the last common ancestor of Crurotarsi to extant crocodiles. However, we conclude, on the basis of recent evidence for unidirectional airflow in the lungs of alligators, that crocodiles may have retained the capacity of growing at high rates.
2666107|Sexual dimorphism is documented in 35 articulated adult skeletons, 24 females, and 11 males, of the Miocene rhinoceros Teleoceras major from Ashfall Fossil Beds, Nebraska. Morphometric analysis of 51 cranial, mandibular, forelimb, and hindlimb characters reveals larger male mean values in 50 of the 51 measurements, of which 23 are significantly different (p$\leq$0.01). The most clearly dimorphic feature is the i2 diameter. The dimorphism evident in additional mandibular and cranial characters is conservative when compared with the dimorphism present in the fore- and hindlimbs. Non-overlapping male and female ranges are recorded for humerus length, radius length, radius proximal width, and femur length, with corresponding dimorphism ratios (DR = male $\div$ female) of 1.11, 1.12, 1.11, and 1.10. Maximum male longbone lengths exceed minimum female lengths by an average of 24% (20-29%). Developmental maturity is apparently asynchronous in T. major, with fusion of longbone epiphyses delayed a minimum of two relative adult age classes in males. Significant sexual dimorphism is evident in the radius (DR = 1.34) and femur (DR = 1.19) cross-sectional areas. Estimates of body mass suggest a DR value between 1.13 and 1.23. The cranial, mandibular, and body-size dimorphism in T. major approaches that seen in the extant rhinoceroses Ceratotherium simum and Rhinoceros unicornis. However, the apparent herd structure and breeding-age sex ratio for the Ashfall herd suggests a behavioral ecology for T. major different from that of extant rhinoceroses. Teleoceras was likely a herding polygynous species ecologically more similar to extant Hippopotamus amphibius of Africa.
2400395|Hierarchy is a central phenomenon of life. Yet it does not feature as such in traditional biological theory. The genealogical hierarchy is a nested organization of entities at ascending levels. There are phenomena common to all levels: (1) Entities such as genomic constituents, organisms, demes, and species are individuals. (2) They have aggregate characters (statistics of characters of subparts), but also emergent characters (arising from organization among subparts). Character variation changes by (3) introduction of novelty and (4) sorting by differential birth and death. Causation of introduction and sorting of variation at each level may be (5) upward from lower levels, (6) downward from higher levels, or (7) lodged at the focal level. The term "selection" applies to only one of the possible processes which cause sorting at a focal level. Neo-Darwinian explanations are too narrow, both in the levels (of genotypes and phenotypes) and in the directive process (selection) which are stressed. The acknowledgment of additional, hierarchical phenomena does not usually extend beyond lip service. We urge that interlevel causation should feature centrally in explanatory hypotheses of evolution. For instance, a ready explanation for divergence in populations is "selection of random mutants." But upward causation from genome dynamics (or downward causation from the hierarchical organism) to the directed introduction of mutants may be more important in a given case. Similarly, a long-term trend is traditionally explained as additive evolution in populations. But sorting among species may be the cardinal factor, and the cause may not be species selection but upward causation from lower levels. A general theory of biology is a theory of hierarchical levels-how they arise and interact. This is a preliminary contribution mainly to the latter question.
2400567|Phyletic speciation arising from a shift between adaptive peaks in the selective surface is modeled. At a locus initially monomorphic, a new allele is introduced that triggers phenotypic evolution by making a new adaptive peak available. A phenotypic model is used to describe the evolution of a quantitative character that is important for fitness but not directly affected by the new allele. Recursion equations are derived for both the allele frequency and the mean of the quantitative character. It is shown that the dynamics of the quantitative trait fit a "punctuated equilibrium" pattern of evolution. Phyletic speciation is seen to occur over a time span so short as to make observation of the transition in the fossil record unlikely.
25482666|The concept of heterochrony has long had a central place in evolutionary theory. During their long history, heterochrony and several associated concepts such as paedomorphosis and neoteny have often been contentious and they continue to be criticized. Despite these criticisms, we review many examples showing that heterochrony and its associated concepts are increasingly cited and used in many areas of evolutionary study. Furthermore, major strides are being made in our understanding of the underlying genetic and developmental mechanisms of heterochrony, and in the methods used to describe heterochronic changes. A general theme of this accumulating research is that some of the simplistic notions of heterochrony, such as terminal addition, simple rate genes, and "pure" heterochronic categories are invalid. However, this research also shows that a more sophisticated view of the hierarchical nature of heterochrony provides many useful insights and improves our understanding of how ontogenetic changes are translated into phylogenetic changes.
2400890|Megafossil remains of conifers allied to taxa of the high montane fir-spruce-hemlock-white pine zone often occur in relatively lowland Tertiary floras together with taxa typical of the mixed-conifer and broad-leaved sclerophyll forest zones. Even though these forests are now separated in elevation by fully 1,000 m and in distance by 10-20 km or more, it has been generally accepted that the structures of the high montane conifers were transported to the basins of deposition from distant, high mountains. Several lines of evidence show that montane conifers were regular members of both mixed-conifer and montane conifer forests. They were restricted to higher elevations in the late Neogene-Quaternary; as summers became drier and hotter, the germinating seedlings failed to become established in the mixed-conifer forest zone. They were further isolated from the broad-leaved sclerophyll zone, which was confined to lower levels as winters became colder and snow more frequent.
2400900|The ability of paleobiologists to draw paleoecological inferences based on spatial faunal variability within a single stratigraphic interval depends ultimately on the spatial resolving power of the fossil record. This paper evaluates the potential spatial resolution of fossil assemblages by examining modern skeletal remains of molluscs on a benthic transect, along which there is a marked decrease in seagrass cover, in Smuggler's Cove, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands. The sampling transect began in a Thalassia-covered area approximately three meters deep, extended into slightly deeper water with lighter seagrass cover, and ended on an open, bioturbated sandy tract at a depth of nearly six meters. Two-way cluster analysis and polar ordination of 37 samples of molluscan remains, taken at 10-meter intervals along the 360-meter transect, reveal patterns of variation that are shown by correlation analyses and consideration of the autecologies of individual species to be related to measured changes in vegetation. There is a transition from dominance primarily by epifaunal gastropods living on seagrass blades to dominance by infaunal, burrowing bivalves as grass cover becomes lighter. Some non-systematic variability exists in faunal distributional patterns within areas where the environment does not vary systematically, but this does not mask the regular faunal transitions related to environmental changes. Correspondence between the dead and live faunas is difficult to ascertain because of the scarcity of live fauna in collected samples. The results suggest that spatial faunal transitions in fossil remains at even the fine scale evaluated in this study are potentially preservable in the fossil record.
1558080|An intriguing phenomenon in the study of evolutionary rates of morphological change measured from fossil lineages has been the dependence of these rates on the inverse of the measurement interval. This effect has been reported across wide ranges of species as well as within single lineages, and has been interpreted as representing a smooth extension of evolutionary rate from generational timescales to paleontological timescales, suggesting that macroevolution may be simply microevolution extended over longer intervals. There has been some debate about whether this inverse dependence is a real feature of evolutionary change, or a mathematical or psychological artifact associated with the interpretation of data. Our analysis indicates that the strong inverse dependence of rate on interval is an artifact produced by the phenomenon of spurious self-correlation. Spurious self-correlation can appear in any calculation when a ratio is plotted against its denominator, as is done in plotting rate versus interval, and when these two quantities are not well correlated with one another. We demonstrate that the effect of spurious self-correlation appears in seven published data sets of evolutionary rate that range from taxonomically broad compendia to studies of single families. The effect obscures the underlying information about the dependence of evolutionary change on interval that is present in the data sets. In five of the seven data sets examined there is no significant correlation between the extent of evolutionary change and elapsed time. Where such a correlation does exist, the inverse dependence of rate on interval length is weakened. We describe the role played by taxonomic, dynamic, and character inhomogeneity in producing the lack of correlation of change with interval in each of these data sets. This lack of correlation of change with interval, and the accompanying inverse correlation of rate with interval, most likely arises from discontinuous modes of evolutionary change in which a distinct long-term dynamic dominates net change over geological time spans. It is poorly explained by the extrapolationary microevolutionary models that have been said to account for this phenomenon.
2400705|A number of facts indicate that the diversity of chthamaloid barnacles is much lower now than it has been in the past. Among these are the relict, often disjunct geographic distributions of distinctive chthamaloid higher taxa and their representation by only a few living species. The living chthamaloid barnacles also have a disjunct bathymetric distribution: as we will document here in detail, they are concentrated in the intertidal zone and in deep water. In his rejoinder to our paper, Paine makes no cogent argument against our interpretations of this powerful evidence. Our case that the balanoids have competitively displaced the more primitive chthamaloids is based on several facts: (1) the Chthamaloidea have dwindled during the Cenozoic Era, so that most have relict or refugial distributions, whereas the Balanoidea have undergone a remarkable adaptive radiation; (2) balanoid species are known to defeat chthamaloid species in competition for space; (3) the competitive success of the balanoids can be attributed to an inherent biological feature-a tubiferous skeleton, which fosters rapid growth; (4) the peak diversity of living balanoids coincides precisely with the bathymetric gap in the chthamaloids' distribution. We argue that the radiation of balanoids during the past 40 Myr or so has caused a decline in chthamaloid diversity by reducing and destabilizing low intertidal and shallow subtidal populations, thus elevating average rate of extinction and depressing average rate of speciation. This model allows for exceptions to the rule of balanoid competitive dominance, but contrary to Paine's claim, the exceptions that exist are either trivial or support our view. Paine offers no alternative to our competition hypothesis. He suggests that an increase in predation has caused a decline in chthamaloid body size, but neither a Cenozoic trend in body size nor one in predation pressure has empirical support; furthermore, the body-size hypothesis has no direct bearing on the case we have presented.
2400503|Three features that provide information on the paleobiologic significance of fossulae in North American Late Ordovician solitary rugose corals are (1) irregularities in shape and position of the outer wall, (2) discontiguous septal growth lamellae, and (3) foreign objects incorporated into interseptal chambers within the corallum. Outer wall irregularities indicate that portions of a polyp could detach from the calice and could contract and expand radially by a significant amount and for prolonged periods of time during ontogeny, especially in the vicinity of the alar and cardinal fossulae. Discontiguous lamellae indicate that the polyp could detach from septa and contract laterally, especially in the cardinal fossula. This began with the onset of maturity and probably reflects reproductive activity. Ostracodes are the most common foreign objects in these coralla and are usually situated within or near the cardinal and alar fossulae. In the most likely hypothesis accounting for their presence, a live ostracode entered the calice when one side of the polyp temporarily detached from the corallum and contracted radially. It became trapped upon expansion and reattachment of the soft parts. The polyp moved upward in its corallum by detachment and uplift of the aboral surface. In a less likely hypothesis, the ostracode was captured by the coral for food and came to rest on the floor of the central cavity. It was incorporated into an interseptal chamber when the polyp moved upward in its corallum by atrophy of the aboral surface and formation of a new base above the object. In either hypothesis, portions of the polyp in the cardinal and alar fossulae probably functioned throughout ontogeny for water circulation in the central cavity, and for the intake of food and/or ejection of undigested material through the mouth. Taxonomic, stratigraphic, and paleobiogeographic variability in frequencies of the three features may indicate differences in the necessity and/or ability of polyps to perform these functions involving the fossulae. This could be a reflection of environmental and/or genetic factors.
3595489|In the last decade, several statistical models have been proposed to quantify the relationships among leaf morphological characters and climate parameters. The models, based on modern plants and climate from varying geographic areas, and derived using varied statistical analyses, were intended for paleoclimatic reconstruction based on the morphological characters of fossil leaves. The goal of the research presented here is to evaluate these and newly constructed models in order to estimate past climate in tropical Africa from fossil leaves. Models found to estimate current climate most accurately using modern African leaf assemblages are used to estimate past climate from fossil leaves at three middle and late Miocene paleobotanical sites in the Tugen Hills, Kenya. Regression models derived from predictor data having a majority of sites from higher than 25N-S latitude consistently overestimate mean annual precipitation at modern African sites by an average of 990 mm. A pronounced cold season, as at high latitudes, has an inhibitory effect on leaf size, the primary correlate of rainfall, and may negatively affect the accuracy with which models derived from high latitudes estimate rainfall in the Tropics, which lack a cold season. Models derived from data sets consisting of samples from <25N-S latitude yield similar and more accurate estimates for mean annual precipitation at modern African sites, expressing the predominant relationship between yearly or seasonal rainfall and leaf size at lower latitudes. Models that estimate temperature parameters, whether derived from high or low latitudes, were found to be inaccurate with modern tropical African samples. The hypothesis is proposed that non-entire margins, the primary correlate with temperature, are more likely to be present on the leaves of deciduous plants, whether they lose their leaves because of cold (at high latitudes) or seasonal drought (at low latitudes). Generally, this study indicates that modern predictor data sets from which models are drawn should be representative of the predominant climate parameters expected among fossil sites. Four regression models are approximately equal in their ability to estimate accurately mean annual precipitation at the modern African sites. They are derived from African data or combinations of African plus other low-latitude data and provide consistent rainfall reconstructions at the three fossil sites. Estimates are 955  29 to 1185  96 mm/yr for Kabarsero (12.6 Ma), 490  46 to 693  32 mm/yr for Waril (9-10 Ma), and 730  30 to 1019  32 mm/yr for Kapturo. Wet-months precipitation estimates are 857  30 mm/yr for Kabarsero, 437  30 for Waril, and 627  30 for Kapturo. These are the first quantitative estimates of climate for the Miocene of East Africa. The seasonally dry climate inferred for Waril may indicate that the Asian monsoon was established by about 9-10 Ma. Alternatively, the seasonally dry climate may reflect local topographic changes caused by rift valley development. However, the plant localities suggest that, although progressive drying may have been a trend during the Tertiary, there was not a unidirectional change from forested to open environments in the Kenya rift between 12.6 and 6.8 Ma, the time interval just prior to the origin of hominids.
2400449|A model is proposed, based on examples that have been interpreted as phylogenetic trends, to explain how directional morphological evolution at the species level can arise by heterochrony. The examples illustrated are of Tertiary to Recent rhynchonellide brachiopods, Cambrian olenellid trilobites, living spatangoid echinoids, Tertiary to Recent schizasterid echinoids, Cenomanian ammonites and Silurian monograptids. Morphological discontinuities between species along morphological gradients (which can be recognised both spatially and/or temporally), and temporal morphological stasis within species, are both consistent with the punctuated equilibria model of macroevolution. It is argued that morphological discontinuities have arisen by selection of morphological novelties produced by heterochronic processes. These novelties are preadaptations which allow ecological and, consequently, genetic isolation from ancestral species. Establishment of a heterochronic morphological gradient is only possible given a suitable environmental gradient. The terms "paedomorphocline" and "peramorphocline" are proposed for these heterochronic morphological gradients. Paedomorphoclines and peramorphoclines each comprise a number of species occupying a series of adaptive peaks, which have evolved sequentially through time by selection along an environmental gradient.
2400513|Numerical cladistic analysis of 73 cranial and postcranial characters has resulted in a highly corroborated hypothesis describing the phylogenetic pattern of early avian evolution. Using "non-avian theropod" dinosaurs as a comparative outgroup and root for the tree, the analysis confirmed Archaeopteryx to be the sister-group of all remaining avian taxa, or Ornithurae. This latter taxon is subdivided into two lineages, the Hesperornithiformes and the Carinatae. The carinates, in turn, were also resolved into two sister-groups, the Ichthyornithiformes and the modern birds, or Neornithes. This paper provides morphological data corroborating the divergence of the two basal clades of the Neornithes: the Palaeognathae (tinamous and ratites) and Neognathae (all other modern birds). The phylogenetic relationships of four important Cretaceous taxa were also investigated, but these fossil taxa were too fragmentary to determine their phylogenetic position unambiguously. Alexornis and Ambiortus are both carinates, but their relationships cannot be resolved in greater detail. The relationships of the Enantiornithes may lie within the Carinatae or these two taxa may be sister-groups. Gobipteryx is a neornithine and possibly the sister-group of the Palaeognathae. This analysis indicates that major patterns of morphological change took place at the time of origin of the ancestors of the Ornithurae and the Carinatae. Ornithurine innovations included major changes throughout the skeleton, whereas those of the carinates, while substantial, were primarily restricted to the pectoral girdle and forelimb. The phylogenetic results, in conjunction with the known ages of fossil taxa, indicate that the early lineages of birds very likely arose in the Jurassic. The early cladistic events within the neornithine lineage are also more ancient than generally recognized, and may well extend back to the early Cretaceous.
2400387|The faunas of three fossil sites in Africa that contain time successive groups of fossil Hominoidea have been analyzed to determine their paleoenvironments. The basis for the analysis is an assessment of the ecological diversity of the fauna, which is expressed in terms of four categories: taxonomic composition, body size, feeding habits and locomotor zonal adaptation. This method has shown that the community structures of the three fossil faunas are significantly different, and comparisons with the community structure of modern habitats suggest that the environment of the early Miocene fauna of Songhor, and the primitive apes associated with it, was probably a type of lowland forest; the habitat of Ramapithecus and the Fort Ternan middle Miocene fauna compares best with modern woodland-bushland habitats; and the habitat of Homo habilis at Olduvai appears to have been intermediate between grassland and woodland-bushland. If man evolved from one of the early forest living apes, as seems likely on present evidence, an adaptive shift from forest to non-forest habitats must have occurred at some stage in his evolution. The evidence from Fort Ternan shows that in Africa Ramapithecus made this adaptive shift, and it is also now becoming clear that several genera of Eurasian apes, including Ramapithecus, made a similar environmental change at the same time.
2400408|Paleoecologists studying Paleozoic reef-builders have interpreted their growth forms as responses to conditions of depth and turbulence in reef complexes. Comparison of the shapes of Paleozoic stromatoporoids and corals with the growth forms of modern scleractinians has been used to reconstruct Paleozoic conditions. A review of shape zonation on modern reefs indicates that no general pattern is applicable to all reefs and variations in shape are the result of the interaction of many environmental factors with the genetically dictated growth pattern of the coral. In most zones of a reef a wide range of shapes co-exist. The growth forms of corals on modern reefs are not a simple vegetative response to the many environmental parameters that have been shown to influence form, but are constrained by phylogenetic and developmental influences as well as functional ones. Interpretations of the environments of western Canadian and other mid-Paleozoic reefs have been based on the growth forms of stromatoporoids. The environmental significance of the shapes has been deduced from comparison with the shapes of modern scleractinians, functional morphology, nature of the enclosing sediment, position of growth, position within the reef, and diversity gradients. The validity of these criteria is open to question and considerable doubt remains concerning the significance of the growth forms. The shapes of reef animals are not specific guides to environments of modern reefs and should not be expected to be guides for ancient ones.
4096983|The evolutionary history of a clade has traditionally been studied through phylogenetics, and taxonomic diversity has been used as a crude proxy for morphological diversity. However, morphological diversification-beyond counting taxa-can provide a very different view of a clade's evolutionary history and allows the investigation of patterns and timing of morphological evolution. In this paper I use dentition to document the pattern of morphological and taxonomic diversification of Carnivoramorpha and mammalian meat eaters in North America. Using the dentition permits ecological inferences to be made, because teeth and diet are closely related. I present a method developed to describe the entire dentition of the Carnivoramorpha and other mammalian meat eaters (Creodonta). Morphological diversification is measured by dental disparity, using the mean pairwise dissimilarity among species. I test the following hypotheses: (1) Morphological diversification was suppressed relative to taxonomic diversification, early in the evolutionary history of Carnivoramorpha; and (2) once an efficient system for consuming meat evolved, the dental system remained relatively unchanged. The first hypothesis is rejected. Taxonomic and morphological diversity increase together through the clade's early evolution. There is no evidence of a morphological release in the carnivoramorphans with the demise of creodonts. The second hypothesis is supported. The ecological group "mammalian meat eaters" rapidly diversified morphologically and reached its maximum disparity early in its history, after which the dental system remained relatively unchanged.
2400894|Long-term persistence of patterns in geographic variation within species is an interesting and puzzling phenomenon. I present a well-defined natural experiment in the land snail Cerion agassizi from the islands of Great Bahama Bank. C. agassizi is the best-known fossil of the ca. 120,000 years BP dunes of New Providence, Cat and Eleuthera Islands; populations have survived on Cat and Eleuthera. During the Wisconsin glacial advance, all these islands joined together in an emergent bank. Presence of the same species on two islands at two times permits a test for both time signatures (does change occur in the same manner on both islands) and island signatures (do aspects of shell phenotypes remain constant on each island through time). Factor and discriminant analyses establish morphological separations among fossil populations of the three islands. These differences occur along pathways specified by well-known covariance sets in the complex allometric ontogeny of Cerion. By these routes, small variations in the geometry of growth may be magnified to large differences in external appearance. I found a time signature, probably attributable to introgression of modern populations by Cerion glans on both Cat and Eleuthera. Despite the intermediate period of emergence and joining of all islands, I also found an island signature in the preservation through time, on both Cat and Eleuthera, of the differentia that separate fossil populations. The basic distinctions of the two islands, expressed as patterns of covariance in growth, have been stable for at least 120,000 years.
2400969|The spinal quotient (S.Q.) is an osteologically defined estimate of the enlargement of the spinal cord at limb levels over that at interlimb levels. It is an efficient predictor of limb use in living reptiles and birds and may be used to predict limb function in fossil vertebrates. Among living reptiles, this ratio of limb to interlimb innervation is greatest in arboreal genera, followed by terrestrial sprawlers, aquatic forms, and undulatory forms. Birds show a wide range of brachial S.Q. values that are roughly commensurate with flight ability. S.Q. values for the manipulative forelimbs of some dinosaurs fall well above those of locomotory limbs. Dinosaur hind-limb values are either well within ranges predicted by living reptiles and birds (most taxa), or highly inflated (stegosaurs, sauropods). This inflation may be the result of presence of a glycogen body similar to that of birds. In no case does the lumbosacral S.Q. support the presence of a "sacral brain."
23014718|We use Fourier analysis and related techniques to investigate the question of periodicities in fossil biodiversity. These techniques are able to identify cycles superimposed on the long-term trends of the Phanerozoic. We review prior results and analyze data previously reduced and published. Joint time-series analysis of various reductions of the Sepkoski Data, Paleobiology Database, and Fossil Record 2 indicate the same periodicity in biodiversity of marine animals at 62 Myr. We have not found this periodicity in the terrestrial fossil record. We have found that the signal strength decreases with time because of the accumulation of apparently ``resistant'' long-lived genera. The existence of a 62-Myr periodicity despite very different treatment of systematic error, particularly sampling-strength biases, in all three major databases strongly argues for its reality in the fossil record.
2666062|Contrary to the geological stereotype of pure-carbonate reef platforms, approximately 50% of shallow shelf area in the Tropics is accumulating siliciclastic and mixed siliciclastic-carbonate sediments. Taphonomic characterization of these settings is thus essential for assessing variation among major facies types within the Tropics, as well as for eventual comparison with higher-latitude settings. Our grab samples and dredge samples of bivalve death assemblages from nine stations in five subtidal habitats in a large marine embayment of Caribbean Panama (Bocas del Toro) provide the first actualistic information on the taphonomic condition of shells in Recent tropical siliciclastic sediments. Focusing on unambiguous damage to bivalve shell interiors, we found that the quality of shell preservation in fine-grained siliciclastics is superb: commonly $\ll$ 10% of specimens are affected by encrustation, boring, edge-rounding, and fine-scale surface alteration via dissolution, microbioerosion, and maceration. Pure-carbonate and mixed siliciclastic-carbonate environments containing hard substrata (patch reefs, Halimeda gravelly sand, mud among patch reefs) contain higher numbers of more severely damaged shells (generally >25%) and also higher diversities of fossilizable encrusters and borers. Disarticulation and fragmentation are pervasive across all environments and are probably related to predation rather than to postmortem processes. As in other shallow subtidal study areas, the taxonomic compositions of death assemblages have not been homogenized by postmortem transport but show high spatial fidelity to the distribution of living species. Assemblages from the five sedimentary environments have distinct taphonomic signatures, but the strongest differences are between the two fine-grained, exclusively soft-sediment siliciclastic environments on the one hand and the three environments containing hard substrata on the other. Experimental tests for rates and agents of damage, still in progress, indicate that the most critical environmental variables are exhumation cycles and burial rate. Bivalve death assemblages from Bocas del Toro demonstrate that damage levels in tropical fine-grained siliciclastic environments are much lower than in closely associated reefs and algal sands, and suggest a less filtered record of biological information.
2400334|Two communities dominated by deposit-feeding bivalves are recognized in Quisset Harbor, Massachusetts. Interference with life position and sediment preconditioning restrict the distribution of some species. The Eel Grass Community, dominated by Nucula proxima, comprises primarily non-siphonate forms which live in fecal-pellet rich, high-water-content, oxygenated sediment. The sediment texture results from active burrowing. This soft, mobile sediment readily clogs the siphons of siphonate bivalves. The Channel Community, dominated by Yoldia limatula, comprises primarily siphonate forms which live in partly compacted, low-water-content muds. Each community is characterized by abundant surface, shallow, and deep feeding species. Competition for food has generated this distinct stratification in feeding depth of the dominant species with each community. Similar competitive relationships, affecting both species occurrence and trophic stratification, are apparent in three Silurian age deposit-feeding bivalve communities from the McAdam Brook Formation of Nova Scotia. A community dominated by four non-siphonate species inhabited soupy, high-water-content muds. A community dominated by three siphonate species lived in cohesive muds. A mixed community, dominated by four species, two non-siphonate and two siphonate species (the most abundant of which are present, but not as the most abundant forms, in the other communities), characterized the mid-way point of the ecotone between the other two communities. These deposit-feeding bivalve dominated communities have similar structural patterns although separated by 400 million years and despite environmental differences and evolutionary changes. Both response to physical factors, such as sediment character, and interspecific competition impose and maintain this type of community structure.
4096822|Intrinsic features of organisms, such as morphology or DNA sequences, and the stratigraphic occurrence of fossils provide distinct evidence of the phylogenetic history of life. Because there is only one true history, we expect the historical signals preserved by these data sets to be similar, and several metrics have been developed to measure the fit of phylogenetic hypotheses to the fossil record. However, a variety of biases affect these metrics, and it is unclear whether they can provide more than an estimate of whether one tree fits the fossil record better than another when used on their own. Here we explore two novel applications of stratigraphic fit metrics when they are used with a combination of phylogeny reconstruction methods that do and do not directly include stratigraphic occurrence data (e.g., cladistics and stratocladistics). In particular, we are interested in whether differences in the stratigraphic fit of cladistic and stratocladistic trees can be used to identify cases in which the stratocladistic results are likely to be more accurate, as well as whether such differences can be used to identify potential problems in the underlying data sets. Using 550 simulated data sets that were analyzed with cladistics and stratocladistics, we found that the absolute difference in fit to stratigraphy between the results of the two methods was strongly correlated with the probability of character state transition and the accuracy of the stratocladistic results relative to the cladistic results. Completeness of the fossil record and number of taxa included in the analysis were more weakly correlated with stratigraphic fit, and the statistical significance of the differences in fit between the two sets of results did not show a meaningful relationship with improvements in accuracy or potential data problems. These results suggest that measuring the difference in stratigraphic fit between cladistic and stratocladistic trees might be useful for qualitatively estimating whether the addition of stratigraphic data benefited a phylogenetic analysis, and for identifying data sets with high average rates of character state change.
40792301|All evolution attributable to natural selection, at any level, is due to a causal covariance between fitness and phenotype. Over macroevolutionary time scales, species selection is one of many possible mechanisms for generating large-scale morphological trends. For species selection to sort morphology, a correlation between morphology and taxonomie diversification rate must be present. Other trend mechanisms (driven mechanisms, e. g., a bias in the direction of speciation) produce a systematic change in the mean phenotype over time. All mechanisms can co-occur. Here I demonstrate (1) an inverse correlation between diversification rate and calyx complexity that demonstrates the effect of species selection on morphology. Genera with simple calyces tend to increase in diversity, whereas genera with complex calyces have a net decrease in diversity; and (2) the presence of a driven trend mechanism in monobathrid crinoids where descendant genera tend to be simpler than their ancestors. The separate effects of these two classes of trend mechanisms can be combined by using the Price's Theorem, which partitions the contribution to the overall change in calyx complexity over time accurately among selection and driven mechanisms. Price's Theorem provides significant conceptual and methodological clarification of the contribution of multiple and interacting hierarchical mechanisms in generating large-scale trends.
2401006|It has been argued that many clades originating in the early Paleozoic filled their design space rapidly while still at low taxonomic diversity. Standardization of morphology for analytical purposes facilitates testing of this claim. Here I document evolutionary patterns of morphological disparity in Ordovician-Devonian crinoids, using a set of 75 discrete characters covering the principal features of the crinoid stem, cup, tegmen, and arms. Disparity is measured as the average dissimilarity among species, the range of morphospace occupied, and the number of realized character-state combinations. Comparison with generic richness reveals that the full range of form was essentially attained by the early part of the Caradocian, long before the time of maximal taxonomic diversity. Despite subsequent taxonomic diversification, the variety of crinoid form did not expand appreciably; increased diversity was accommodated by the evolution of variations upon the spectrum of designs established earlier. The data discussed here do not definitively imply specific sources of constraint, but the effective stasis in disparity supports previous arguments that some morphological limits were reached early in crinoid history.
4096879|Disparity appears to decrease or remain stable over geological time in numerous groups. This pattern is sometimes explained in terms of developmental constraints, but labile developmental systems might produce the same pattern should novelties interact, counterbalancing their individual effects. We test the hypothesis that counterbalancing can reduce disparity by comparing ontogenies of shape among nine species of piranhas to identify the developmental novelties. All three parameters examined change multiple times, sometimes dramatically. By comparing levels of disparity between species at two developmental phases, at the transition from larval to juvenile phases, and at maximum adult body size, we find that disparity decreases significantly and substantially over ontogeny. That reduction occurs because of, rather than despite, novelties of postlarval morphogenesis. Some interacting novelties are historically independent and affect different developmental phases, others are historically independent and affect the same developmental phase, and still others are historically correlated and affect either the same or different developmental phases. By modeling hypothetical ontogenies, constraining developmental parameters mathematically to one of the observed values, we find that variation in each parameter, taken by itself, and combinations of them taken two at a time, tend to increase disparity. It is the interactions among all three that reduce disparity. In this group divergent ontogenies transform disparate larvae into similar adults.
2400966|Approximate periodicity for peak rates of global extinction during the past 250 m.y. may have resulted from delayed recovery following major extinction events. Two components can be envisioned for such delays: persistence of inimical environmental conditions for some time after the onset of the crisis, and slow restoration of vulnerable taxa. This general hypothesis is consistent with statistical evidence of linkage between measured rates of extinction of marine invertebrate genera for contiguous stages and substages of the geologic column. The nine broad valleys between the "periodic" peak rates for the past 250 m.y. exhibit only three trivial secondary peaks, indicating that, if the pattern is not artifactual, trends in global rates of extinction have not readily been abruptly reversed. Moreover, the smooth observed trends reflect the fact that regional crises tend to remove many species but few genera. To some degree, high rates of extinction that precede peak rates must represent bias of the incomplete fossil record (the Signor-Lipps effect). High rates that immediately follow peak rates also may, to a degree, reflect biological legacy: (1) final extinction of weakened genera or (2) extinction of new genera that contain few species or represent failed evolutionary "experiments." Nonetheless, there is evidence that protracted intervals of stressful environmental conditions contributed to high rates of extinction preceding or following certain peak intervals, including the Scythian, Cenomanian, Early Paleocene, and Early Oligocene. The reef-building rudists, for example, suffered heavy extinction during both Cenomanian and Turonian time and then failed to recover quickly. The late Neogene record of bivalve molluscs in the Western Atlantic offers a more detailed picture of delayed recovery. Here early intervals of glacial expansion caused heavy extinction, leaving an impoverished, eurythermal fauna that was virtually unaffected by late Pleistocene glacial episodes. The episode of heavy extinction in Late Eocene time exhibits a similar phenomenon on a worldwide scale. Among the planktonic foraminifera, warm-adapted stenothermal species died out, and eurythermal forms predominated throughout Oligocene time; restoration of vulnerable, stenothermal species proceeded gradually during the Miocene Epoch. This example of delayed recovery and others like it following earlier global crises may have prevented such crises from following one another in rapid succession, yielding an appearance of periodicity.
40792292|We present a morphometric analysis of water transport cells within a physiologically explicit three-dimensional space. Previous work has shown that cell length, diameter, and pit resistance govern the hydraulic resistance of individual conducting cells; thus, we use these three parameters as axes for our morphospace. We compare living and extinct plants within this space to investigate how patterns of plant conductivity have changed over evolutionary time. Extinct coniferophytes fall within the range of living conifers, despite differences in tracheid-level anatomy. Living cycads, Ginkgo biloba, the Miocene fossil Ginkgo beckii, and extinct cycadeoids overlap with both conifers and vesselless angiosperms. Three Paleozoic seed plants, however, occur in a portion of the morphospace that no living seed plant occupies. Lyginopteris, Callistophyton, and, especially, Medullosa evolved tracheids with high conductivities similar to those of some vessel-bearing angiosperms. Such fossils indicate that extinct seed plants evolved a structural and functional diversity of xylem architectures broader, in some ways, than the range observable in living seed plants.
2400967|The frequent late Cenozoic glacial ages were accompanied by sea-level falls of 100-150 m amplitude. These falls stranded the complex inner-reef platforms and lagoons of tropical Pacific islands, while outer-reef-slope habitats persisted, although displaced downslope. The effects of glacial regressions on bivalves were studied by examining the zonation of species across reef systems and species composition on tectonically uplifted islands, islands with, effectively, local low sea stands. I show that qualitative habitat loss (the stranding of inner-reef habitats) was responsible for the local extinction of about one-third of the bivalve species that inhabit central Pacific islands during high sea stands, whereas quantitative loss of habitat area and climatic effects were inconsequential. Soft-sediment habitats, and consequently soft-bottom bivalves, were more drastically affected by sea-level fluctuations than were hard-bottom habitats and bivalves. Although many bivalve species were extirpated in the central Pacific during low sea stands, they survived in the western Pacific, where the different geomorphology of many marine systems provided refugia for lagoonal species. Thus, a large proportion of Pacific bivalve species has very dynamic distributions, undergoing great range reductions and expansions with falls and rises of sea level, and much of the present central Pacific lagoonal fauna is of Holocene age. Several implications of these findings are discussed.
2401097|During land plant evolution, a change in stelar architecture, i.e., in the geometric arrangement of the water-conducting tissue inside the plant axis; can be observed. In the most primitive stele type, the protostele, the vascular tissue is organized as a simple central strand. Further evolutionary changes led to more peripherally arranged vascular tissues. In the siphonostele, for example, the vascular tissue forms a hollow cylinder filled with pith. A functional explanation of this early stelar evolution is provided in the present paper. Using a numerical simulation approach, we analyze the water transport properties of various protostelic and siphonostelic model axes. The results indicate that several geometric parameters are relevant for understanding the water transport properties of various stele types and for explaining the early stelar evolution: the parenchymatic path lengths (i.e., the distance between the xylem surface and the transpiring plant surface), the ratio of xylem surface over transpiring surface, and the ratio of cross-sectional area of xylem to cross-sectional area of the parenchyma outside of the xylem. As a whole, the evolution of early stele types may be viewed as a size-related multi-criteria optimization process in which the xylem volume as well as the fluid pressure gradients in the parenchyma and in the xylem are minimized. For slender plant axes, a protostele appears to be the optimal stelar architecture. In wider plant axes, however, other stelar architectures (such as a siphonostele) prove to be more efficient than a protostele.
2401076|Approximately half of the Caribbean Oligocene reef coral fauna became locally extinct during the Early Miocene; roughly two thirds of the genera driven to local extinction still survive in the Indo-Pacific. Coral genera with lecithotrophic larvae (brooders) preferentially survived, over those with planktotrophic larvae (broadcasters). Among 37 genera for which we inferred reproductive mode, 73% of brooding genera survived the Oligocene/Miocene extinction events, while only 29% of the broadcasting genera survived. The proportion of brooders to broadcasters also increased markedly. During the late Oligocene, 47% of Caribbean reef coral genera were broadcasters, but in the middle Miocene, only 32% of the genera were broadcasters. Survivorship in Puerto Rican reefs was correlated with tolerance of cold and turbid conditions. Genera tolerant of both cold water and turbidity had much higher survival rates than those tolerant of turbidity alone. Only 25% of the genera that could tolerate neither cold water nor turbidity survived. Most of the eurytopic genera were brooders, while most of the stenotypic genera were broadcasters. We present two hypotheses that may account for the preferential survivorship of brooders: the recruitment hypothesis, and the dispersal hypothesis. The recruitment hypothesis holds that brooders survive preferentially because lecithotrophic larvae have higher recruitment success than do planktotrophic larvae in marginal habitats, such as upwelling zones. This is supported by the correlation of brooding and eurytopy. The dispersal hypothesis suggests that brooders survive preferentially because lecithotrophic larvae, which typically inherit zooxanthellae from the egg, have a longer larval lifespan and, hence, a wider potential dispersal range, than planktotrophic larvae, which typically capture zooxanthellae from the water column. Biogeographic range data, however, do not support this second hypothesis: modern Indo-Pacific brooding and broadcasting genera have nearly identical ranges, and many brooding species have narrower longitudinal ranges than do broadcasting species. Preferential survivorship of brooding corals contrasts sharply with survivorship patterns among molluscs during extinction events; among molluscs, broadcasters are favored over brooders. A major increase in upwelling at the Oligocene/Miocene boundary was probably responsible for this extinction/geographic restriction event. Preferential survival of brooding and mixed mode coral genera appears to be a product of their being better able to recruit and survive in marginal conditions such as upwelling zones.
4096848|Cenozoic sediments of Florida contain one of the most highly fossiliferous sequences of extinct sirenians in the world. Sirenians first occur in Florida during the Eocene (ca. 40 Ma), have their peak diversity during the late Oligocene-Miocene (including the widespread dugongid Metaxytherium), and become virtually extinct by the late Miocene (ca. 8 Ma). Thereafter during the Pliocene and Pleistocene, sirenians are represented in Florida by abundant remains of fossil manatees (Trichechus sp.). Stable isotopic analyses were performed on 100 teeth of fossil sirenians and extant Trichechus manatus from Florida in order to reconstruct diets (as determined from 
2400686|Living echinoids provide a structural analogue to the rigid thecae of many extinct echinoderms and are here used to examine some consequences of the increased rigidity and decreased number of plates which occurred in several lineages of echinoderms. A special feature of the echinoids is the large spines which protect the echinoid tests from failure under impact. The spines absorb energy or spread loads because the spines break or the tissue connecting the spine to the test is stretched or torn. Spines that absorb impacts might be superfluous in echinoderms encased in a rigid test or theca if they have flexible stems or are in low energy habitats, but spines should be useful to stemless thecate echinoderms on hard substrata. In the absence of spines, a flexible theca of overlapping plates might be superior to a rigid theca. Greater rigidity does not necessarily provide greater protection. Tracts of podial pores are sites of weakness in all tests examined [Eucidaris tribuloides (Lamarck), Echinometra viridis Agassiz, Diadema antillarum Philippi, Lytechinus variegatus (Lamarck), Tripneustes ventricosus (Lamarck)]. Therefore arrangement of pores affects strength of rigid thecae. Sutures are stronger than plates in most species examined, but cracks cross sutures, and tests of E. tribuloides frequently break along sutures. It is not yet proven that sutures increase toughness of rigid tests by relieving stress on plates or stopping cracks. If resisting failure under impact is important, then preconditions for acquiring rigidity are life in a low energy habitat or accessory structures which absorb or spread impacts.
4096829|One of the greatest challenges in using faunal assemblages to make ecological or paleo-ecological interpretations is determining the spatial scale over which such analyses are applicable. As a result, it has been difficult to use these assemblages to test hypotheses about spatial and temporal variability in populations. Here we show that it is possible to use strontium (Sr) isotopes from bones and vegetation to statistically constrain the area sampled in two Holocene predator accumulations in northeastern Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Previous studies have used these sites to elucidate local population responses to climatic change, by assuming that the specimens originated within ~5 km of the site. We used Sr analyses to construct a likelihood curve that describes the probability that our samples were collected within a given radius of each site. Our results indicate that the specimens in both sites were derived from non-overlapping populations and that the collection radius has not changed detectably over the past 3000 years. This work underscores the promise of this technique for ascribing source areas to paleontological, biological, and ecological specimens.
2401215|A hierarchical branching model is presented that tracks diversity of lineages and paraclades simultaneously. It is based on three parameters: (1) lineage origination within a paraclade, (2) lineage origination that founds new paraclades, and (3) lineage extinction. The model assumes stochastic constancy of evolutionary rates and, therefore, exponential growth of diversity is the null expectation. The probabilistic model can be used to generate confidence intervals for exponential growth through Monte Carlo simulation. These confidence intervals can be compared to empirical curves to test the null hypothesis of exponential growth. The analytic solution for paraclade diversity gives the statistical expectation for the probabilistic model. It can be applied to empirical diversity curves of supraspecific taxa to estimate total speciation rate, the intrinsic rate of increase, and the proportion of speciation events that found new paraclades. Two factors were identified with the model that may cause diversity curves for higher taxa (e.g., genera, families) to deviate from simple exponential growth during initial phases of diversification: (1) stochastic fluctuation at low diversity, and (2) taxonomic structure (i.e., species/genus ratio). These sources of variability should be evaluated before macroevolutionary explanations for specific diversity trends are invoked. Two kinds of evolutionary radiations were investigated with this model: (1) prolonged periods of low diversity (macroevolutionary lag) in cheilostome bryozoans and mammals prior to their main phases of diversification, and (2) rapid bursts in diversity of bivalves following the late Permian and end-Cretaceous mass extinctions. In all cases these patterns were found to deviate significantly from the null expectation of exponential growth lending support to previous macroevolutionary explanations. Finally, rates of speciation during radiations were compared to rates of speciation during background times for articulate brachiopods, cheilostome bryozoans, bivalves, and mammals. Speciation events that found new paraclades tend to make up a larger proportion of total speciation events during radiations compared to background times indicating that the opportunity for new adaptive zones to be filled at higher taxonomic levels is proportionately higher during these periods of increased evolutionary activity, and is not simply a result of an increased frequency of speciation.
2666099|Homalozoans include four classes of non-pentamerous Paleozoic echinoderms: Homostelea (cinctans), Ctenocystoidea (ctenoid-bearing homalozoans), Homoiostelea (solutes), and Stylophora (cornutes and mitrates). Their atypical morphologies have historically made it difficult to relate them to other classes. Therefore, their systematic positions have been represented by two hypotheses (H): as stem taxa to echinoderms (H1) or as stem taxa to chordates (H2). These conclusions rest on previous inability to recognize synapomorphies with more crownward echinoderms, resulting in a forcing of the homalozoans down the phylogenetic tree that is more artifactual than evolutionary. The Extraxial-Axial Theory (EAT) identifies body-wall homologies, common onto-genetic patterns, and major events in bodyplan evolution. Therefore, the EAT can identify synapomorphies among even the most disparate of echinoderms. Application of the EAT undermines both H1 and H2 and strongly suggests that the bizarre asymmetry of homalozoans is a derived characteristic, and not indicative of plesiomorphic morphology for either chordates or echinoderms. Each of the four homalozoan clades and their major features are reexamined using the EAT. New findings are presented concerning homologies of thecal body wall, but we focus on stems, arms, and brachioles, which are recognized as very distinct products of independent evolutionary events. The results support a new interpretation (H3) of homalozoans as a polyphyletic assemblage that can be parsed out into other, clearly echinoderm clades. The Homoiostelea and Homostelea share the blastozoan synapomorphy of a brachiole. The enigmatic Ctenocystoidea also seem to have brachioles. The Stylophora have an arm as in crinoids. H3 is also more congruent with the known fossil record. Although they are stratigraphically early echinoderms, homalozoans are not indicative of the plesiomorphic morphology of the phylum.
2666042|The Paleozoic and post-Paleozoic radiations of crinoids present an opportunity to explore genomic and ecological explanations for patterns of morphologic diversification. Analysis of discrete-character data that cover the principal features of the crinoid skeleton shows that both Paleozoic and post-Paleozoic increases in morphological disparity were abrupt; this is consistent with rapid exploitation of open ecological opportunities in both cases. For the post-Paleozoic, this result is sensitive to some aspects of data analysis and sampling, so it cannot be regarded as unequivocal. The deceleration in morphological diversification within each radiation is consistent with an observed decline in rates of taxonomic origination as well as with the attainment of functional or structural limits. Despite these similarities in the two radiations, Paleozoic crinoids exploited a wider range of morphological designs than did their post-Paleozoic successors. Post-Paleozoic crinoids exploited a wide range of ecological strategies despite being stereotyped in many aspects of form. This difference between the radiations is consistent with an increase in the rigidity of genetic and developmental systems. The range of post-Paleozoic designs is not in essence a subset of the Paleozoic spectrum. The two radiations resulted in morphological distributions that are largely nonoverlapping, perhaps reflecting a different range of ecological strategies.
4096877| Despite numerous studies, the thermal physiology of dinosaurs remains unresolved. Thus, perhaps the commonly asked question whether dinosaurs were ectotherms or endotherms is inappropriate, and it is more constructive to ask which dinosaurs were likely to have been endothermic and which ones ectothermic. Field data from crocodiles over a large size range show that body temperature fluctuations decrease with increasing body mass, and that average daily body temperatures increase with increasing mass. A biophysical model, the biological relevance of which was tested against field data, was used to predict body temperatures of dinosaurs. However, rather than predicting thermal relations of a hypothetical dinosaur, the model considered correct paleogeographical distribution and climate to predict the thermal relations of a large number of dinosaurs known from the fossil record (>700). Many dinosaurs could have had "high" (30C) and stable (daily amplitude 2C) body temperatures without metabolic heat production even in winter, so it is unlikely that selection pressure would have favored the evolution of elevated resting metabolic rates in those species. Recent evidence of ontogenetic growth rates indicates that even the juveniles of large species (3000-4000 kg) could have had biologically functional body temperature ranges during early development. Smaller dinosaurs (<100 kg) at mid to high latitudes (>45) could not have had high and stable body temperatures without metabolic heat production. However, elevated metabolic rates were unlikely to have provided selective advantage in the absence of some form of insulation, so probably insulation was present before endothermy evolved, or else it coevolved with elevated metabolic rates. Superimposing these findings onto a phylogeny of the Dinosauria suggests that endothermy most likely evolved among the Coelurosauria and, to a lesser extent, among the Hypsilophodontidae, but not among the Stegosauridae, Nodosauridae, Ankylosauridae, Hadrosauridae, Ceratopsidae, Prosauropoda, and Sauropoda. 
41432161|Integration between phylogenetic systematics and paleontological data has proved to be an effective method for identifying periods that lack fossil evidence in the evolutionary history of clades. In this study we aim to analyze whether there is any correlation between various ecomorphological variables and the duration of these underrepresented portions of lineages, which we call ghost lineages for simplicity, in ruminants. Analyses within phylogenetic (Generalized Estimating Equations) and non-phylogenetic (ANOVAs and Pearson correlations) frameworks were performed on the whole phylogeny of this suborder of Cetartiodactyla (Mammalia). This is the first time ghost lineages are focused in this way. To test the robustness of our data, we compared the magnitude of ghost lineages among different continents and among phylogenies pruned at different ages (4, 8, 12, 16, and 20 Ma). Differences in mean ghost lineage were not significantly related to either geographic or temporal factors. Our results indicate that the proportion of the known fossil record in ruminants appears to be influenced by the preservation potential of the bone remains in different environments. Furthermore, large geographical ranges of species increase the likelihood of preservation.
2401233|Ediacaran fossils are taphonomically similar to impressions of fossil plants common in quartz sandstones, and the relief of the fossils suggests that they were as resistant to compaction during burial as some kinds of Pennsylvanian tree trunks. Fossils of jellyfish are known from siderite nodules and fine-grained limestone, and even in these compaction-resistant media were more compressed during burial than were the Vendobionta. Vendobionta were constructed of materials that responded to burial compaction in a way intermediate between conifer and lycopsid logs. This comparative taphonomic study thus falsifies the concept of Vendobionta as thin softbodied creatures such as worms and jellyfish. Lichens, with their structural chitin, present a viable model for the observed preservational style of Vendobionta, as well as for a variety of other features that now can be reassessed from this new perspective. The diversity of Ediacaran body plans can be compared with the variety of form in fungi, algae, and lichens. The large size (ca. 1 m) of some Ediacaran fossils is reasonable for sessile photosynthetic symbioses, and much bigger than associated burrows of metazoans not preserved. Microscopic tubular structures and darkly pigmented cells in permineralized late Precambrian fossils from Namibia and China are also compatible with interpretation as lichens. The presumed marine habitat of Ediacaran fossils is not crucial to interpretation as lichens, because fungi and lichens live in the sea as well as on land.
2400322|Consider a one-dimensional sequence (temporal or spatial) of samples from a many-species community. The sequence may exhibit no steady change, or gradual, steady change, or one or more abrupt, stepwise changes. The pattern is graphically displayed in a similarity matrix, whose elements are the pairwise similarities between every possible pair of samples. Statistical study of the patterns of similarity matrices will be shown to be informative. A criterion, Q, is proposed for measuring the "disarray" of a similarity matrix; matrices constructed from "perfect" sequences, exhibiting uninterrupted steady change, have Q = 0. The probability distribution of Q in "random" similarity matrices (constructed from sequences in which the ordering is wholly haphazard) is examined. Several applications are illustrated, using data on foraminiferal assemblages in marine sediment cores as examples. Use of the criterion permits the following: (1) Objective recognition of regions in which stratigraphy is especially well preserved. (2) Selection for study of cores in which the sequence of change is especially clear, and rejection of cores in which the natural sequence has been obscured by reworking. (3) Judgment as to whether, in sequences exhibiting stepwise changes, gradual change between the steps occurs as well. (4) Discrimination between species-sets that track gradual environmental change and sets that switch abruptly. (5) Objective choice of the best similarity index for measuring pairwise similarities in a given body of data.
2401027|Synrhabdosomes, structures made of mostly radially arrayed graptolite rhabdosomes attached by distal regions of their virgulae, have been considered as biological entities by some in the past, but as taphonomic structures by others more recently. Our survey of at least 200 synrhabdosomes, more than 90 of which derive from one locality in northwestern Spain, shows that all synrhabdosomes are most probably entirely monospecific assemblages composed of a more or less finite number of rhabdosomes, all of which are consistently straight or only weakly curved, and all of which bear simple, or relatively simple, thecae. We conclude, therefore, that synrhabdosomes are biological entities, and we suggest that they formed infrequently as, perhaps, temporary structures to increase food-gathering efficiency during times of lower plankton supply in local, relatively restricted water masses.
2400995|The shovel-tusked gomphotheres are normally portrayed scooping up water plants with their shovellike mandibular tusks. This portrayal is based on speculation about the possible functions of the lower tusks and misinterpretation of mandibular-tusk wear patterns that goes back to the 1920s and 1930s. In addition, most literature concerning shovel-tusker feeding behavior ignores the possibility that the upper tusks may have had a role in feeding, as they do in modern African elephants. Because wear patterns on tusks provide direct evidence as to how tusks were used during feeding, I examined and interpreted patterns on the lower and upper tusks of shovel-tusked gomphotheres on the basis of theoretical models of tusk wear to determine how the tusks were used in feeding. This examination led to the following conclusions. (1) The genus Amebelodon was characterized by feeding opportunism, gathering food with both its lower and upper tusks in a variety of ways. (2) There is evidence for similar flexibility within the genus Serbelodon. (3) Wear patterns on man-dibular tusks of Platybelodon grangeri and Torynobelodon barnumbrowni indicate that these taxa did not practice mandibular shoveling but used these tusks to cut tough vegetation in a specialized fashion. (4) The flaplike trunks (probosces) generally attributed to shovel-tusked gomphotheres in restorations are shown almost certainly to be erroneous; morphological and functional evidence suggests that these animals had trunks similar to those of modern elephants. (5) Strong tusk sexual dimorphism is unknown in the shovel-tusked gomphotheres except for Platybelodon and should not be found in any taxa that relied on their tusks for procuring food. New restorations of both Amebelodon and Platybelodon are provided that are more consistent with the actual evidence bearing on their feeding behavior.
3595511|Finite-element analysis of circular septum models indicates that (1) anticlastic fluting weakened the last septa of the same radius of curvature by a factor of about 2.5 relative to the tensile stresses in a sphere of nacre, (2) septa with ammonitic sutures were stronger than those with goniatitic sutures of the same thickness, and (3) septa with more "complex" ammonitic sutures were stronger at the edge between lobes and saddles than "simple" ones. These results contradict recent claims that ammonoid septa became weaker as sutural complexity increased from goniatitic through ammonitic, so that the most complex sutures were limited to the shallowest habitats. The smaller marginal flutes of complex septa were relatively strong, allowing them to be thinner than the central septum and still act as elastic wall supports. Many Mesozoic ammonoids with highly sinuous sutures occurred in deep epeiric and open-ocean habitats, whereas it is those with secondarily reduced, ceratitic sutures that were typically associated with restricted shallow basins.
2400371|Amecystis Ulrich and Kirk is a rhombless rhombiferan cystoid exhibiting adaptation to an active mode of life in the bilaterally symmetrical, dorso-ventrally compressed theca and to an active mode of respiration suggested by the lack of pore rhombs and greatly enlarged periproct. Like other members of the Pleurocystitidae, Amecystis probably wriggled along the bottom, but may have adopted a temporarily sessile habit by pushing the distal stele into the substrate or by grasping. Evolution of the genus began in the Middle Ordovician, probably as a development from Pleurocystites. General trends in the stratigraphic succession of recognized morphospecies: A. raymondi Parsley, A. woodi n.sp., and A. laevis (Raymond) show a reduction in angularity of thecal outline and obsolescence of surface features on the thecal plates. The use of the periproct as a pumping organ in respiration is regarded as an advanced trend that was probably utilized by many rhomb-bearing cystoids as an accessory respiratory mode; alone, it proved to be an unsuccessful adaptation in Amecystis.
2401031|Synchronous episodes of phenotypic change in five lineages of the endemic land snail genus Mandarina of the oceanic Bonin (Ogasawara) Islands through 40,000 years were documented by morphological analyses of radiocarbon-dated fossil specimens. Adult shell traits of these lineages show mostly synchronous patterns of change with longer intervals of stability and rapid shifts to other states of stability. Although there are intermediates between these different phenotypic states, the net interval of the phenotypic shift was relatively short, i.e., no longer than 7000 years. Extinction of a lineage and speciation occurred during the intervals of the rapid phenotypic shift. This period of abrupt change corresponds to the period of lowest sea level and end of the last glacial period. This implies that climatic change is one of the causes of these episodes of simultaneous rapid phenotypic shifts, speciation, and extinction in different lineages. These findings suggest that major phenotypic changes in phyletic evolution, separation of different species, and extinction of lineages may occur synchronously in many lineages during an extremely short interval.
2400283|Bones of recent mammals in the Amboseli Basin, southern Kenya, exhibit distinctive weathering characteristics that can be related to the time since death and to the local conditions of temperature, humidity and soil chemistry. A categorization of weathering characteristics into six stages, recognizable on descriptive criteria, provides a basis for investigation of weathering rates and processes. The time necessary to achieve each successive weathering stage has been calibrated using known-age carcasses. Most bones decompose beyond recognition in 10 to 15 yr. Bones of animals under 100 kg and juveniles appear to weather more rapidly than bones of large animals or adults. Small-scale rather than widespread environmental factors seem to have greatest influence on weathering characteristics and rates. Bone weathering is potentially valuable as evidence for the period of time represented in recent or fossil bone assemblages, including those on archeological sites, and may also be an important tool in censusing populations of animals in modern ecosystems.
2401217|Distributions of brachiopods from low-latitude paleogeographic settings, primarily in the Tethyan Ocean of southern Europe, with additional data from North America allow some observations on the bathymetric distribution of early Mesozoic brachiopod orders. Norian and latest Triassic (Rhaetian) brachiopod biofacies are dominated in shallowest waters by short-looped terebratulids (Terebratulidina) while spire-bearing athyrids (Athyrida) are common components of deeper-water environments in the latest Triassic. In the late Early Jurassic (Pliensbachian), shallow-water brachiopod faunas are dominated by rhynchonellids, short-looped terebratulids are commoner in relatively deeper shelf waters, and spiriferids and long-looped terebratulids (Terebratellidina) are abundant in deeper-water shelf environments. Following the end-Triassic extinction event there appears to be niche-replacement in deep-water shelf environments of Late Triassic athyrids by spiriferids and long-looped terebratulids in the Early Jurassic. Rhynchonellids appear to have diversified into shallowest water environments; specialized short-looped terebratulids may have occupied deeper-water niches that resulted ultimately in the success of the enigmatic Pygopidae later in the Jurassic and Cretaceous.
2400143|Cohort analysis provides an effective method of analysing taxonomic survivorship in the fossil record where large data sets are available. An analysis of the stratigraphic ranges of about 8,500 fossil genera and subgenera shows that survivorship patterns are substantially the same throughout the Phanerozoic. These patterns are used to calculate an average value for mean species duration among fossil invertebrates (11.1 Myr.). Also, the extra extinctions near the Permo-Triassic boundary are shown to be equivalent to about 85 Myr of normal, background extinction.
2401148|Arm autotomy was induced in a living specimen of Metacrinus rotundus (Echinodermata: Crinoidea). An arm was autotomized at a ligamentary articulation known as a cryptosyzygy, following incision by scissors distal to the break point. Although sessile stalked crinoids cannot entirely escape from a predatory attack by arm autotomy and they do not have an active defense, arm autotomy at cryptosyzygies reduces damage and arm loss by effective distribution, and by minimizing trauma and facilitating subsequent regeneration. The paradigmatic distribution of cryptosyzygies in which arm loss is set at a minimum, compared with the actual distribution, shows that these two patterns are similar and that actual specimens successfully reduce arm loss by the effective distribution of cryptosyzygies. The crinoid branching pattern also affects arm loss, and two different paradigms are discussed: anti-predatory and harvesting. Arm branching patterns of various isocrinids have tended toward the anti-predatory configuration from the Jurassic to the Recent, suggesting that the isocrinids have coped with increased predation. Shallow-water comatulids generally adopt the anti-predatory paradigm in their branching pattern, whereas many deep-water, stalked crinoids adopt a harvesting paradigm, reflecting that shallow-water comatulids receive more predatory attacks than do deep-water crinoids.
40792290|Organisms emit, detect, and respond to a huge array of environmental signals. The distribution of a given signal is dependent, first of all, upon the original spatial distribution of signal sources, the source landscape. The signal sources can be fixed or moving and their output can be stable or ephemeral. Different sources can also occupy the same general spatial location, such as insects living on a host plant. The emitted signals are modified by relevant transport processes, which are often strongly scale and environment dependent. Chemical signals, for example, are propagated by diffusion and turbulence. The resulting complex, three-dimensional, and dynamic distribution of signals in the environment is the signal landscape; it is the environment of potentially available information in which sensory systems function and have evolved. Organisms also differ widely in what signals they can actually detect; the distribution of signals that an organism can potentially respond to is its information landscape. Although increasing the kinds and specificity of signals that can be detected and processed can lead to improved decision making, it almost always comes at an increased cost. The greater the spatial and temporal complexity of the environment, the greater are the costs of incomplete information and the more advantageous is the development of improved information-garnering capabilities. Studies with simulation models suggest how variability in the spatial structure of source and signal landscapes may control patterns of animal movement that could be represented in the trace fossil record. Information landscapes and the corresponding sensory systems should have evolved in concert with major transitions in the history of life. The Ediacaran to Cambrian interval is one of the most intensively studied periods in the history of life, characterized by the profound environmental and biological changes associated with the bilaterian radiation. These include the advent of macroscopic prdation, an increase in the size and energy content of organisms, and the transition in seafloors from laminated matgrounds to mixgrounds produced by the development of macroscopic infaunal bioturbation. The overall effect of these transitions was to markedly increase the spatial complexity of the marine environment. We suggest that this increased spatial complexity, in turn, drove the evolution of macroscopic sense organs in mobile bilaterians, leading to their first appearance during the Cambrian. The morphology and distribution of these sense organs should reflect the life habits of the animals that possessed them. Our overall hypothesis was that there was a "Cambrian Information Revolution/' a coevolutionary increase in the information content of the marine environment and in the ability of and necessity for organisms to obtain and process this information. A preliminary analysis of the Maotianshan Shale (Chengjiang) biota indicates that the distribution of eyes and antennae in these animals is consistent with predictions based on their life habit.
20445600|The hypothesis of limiting similarity, which postulates that morphologically and / or ecologically similar species will differ enough in shape, size, or other variables to minimize competition, has been controversial among ecologists and paleoecologists. Many studies have reported the occurrence of limiting similarity in modern environments or in time-averaged fossil deposits; however, empirical high-resolution time series demonstrating limiting similarity over longer time scales are lacking. We have integrated radiocarbon-calibrated amino acid dating techniques, stable isotope estimates, and morphometric data to test the hypothesis of limiting similarity in late Quaternary land snails from the Canary Islands over a period of 42,500 years. We tested for both ecological character displacement (two closely related species will differ in size in order to minimize competition in sympatry and these differences will be minimized in allopatry) and community-wide character displacement (overdispersion of body size among competitors in a guild). Multiple proxies of body size consistently show that two endemic congeneric pulmonate gastropod species (Theba geminata and T. arinagae) maintained a difference in size from 42,500 B.P. through the last occurrence of T. arinagae 14,900 B.P., with a concomitant trend of a decreasing body size. Theba geminata body size did not converge on that of T. arinagae and variation in T. geminata body size did not increase significantly following the extinction of T. arinagae; therefore, ecological character displacement and release did not occur. Community-wide character displacement was found in only one time bin over the last 42,500 years. These results suggest that limiting similarity is a transient ecological phenomenon rather than a long-term evolutionary process. This study not only demonstrates the problems inherent in biological "snapshot" studies and geological studies of time-averaged deposits to test limiting similarity adequately, but it also presents a more adequate research protocol to test the importance of interspecific competition in the history of life.
2666054|Addition of the recently discovered fossil Nalacetus to a phylogenetic analysis of basicranial, cranial, dental, postcranial, and soft morphological characters reveals that it is the most basal cetacean, and that mesonychians form the monophyletic sister group to Cetacea. The molars of Nalacetus elucidate transformations in dental morphology that occurred early in the cetacean radiation and clarify certain derived differences in molar cusp position between cetaceans and the extinct clade, Mesonychia, hypothesized to be their sister taxon. Nalacetus and other archaic cetaceans share derived vertically elongate shearing facets on the lower molars. Applying the Extant Phylogenetic Bracket, we advance the hypothesis that these facets are an osteological correlate of aquatic predation. Our functional interpretation of this character and its distribution within Cetacea indicates that a behavioral change in tooth use characterized the origin of the clade. Comparison of the transformation of this dental character with that of the cetacean pelvis indicates that a change in tooth use (feeding behavior) occurred before loss of the ability to engage in terrestrial locomotion. The most parsimonious phylogenetic hypothesis presented here has a significant fit with the stratigraphic record as determined by the Manhattan Stratigraphic Measure, which is corroborated by retention indices of stratigraphic data. Ghost lineages necessitated by the phylogenetic hypothesis extend the stratigraphic range of Cetacea into the middle Paleocene (Torrejonian), ten million years earlier than the oldest cetacean fossil currently known. Primitive features of Nalacetus, the large number of synapomorphies diagnosing Cetacea, and the implied ghost lineage suggest that the early cetacean radiation was much more extensive than has been previously recognized.
2400987|Many organisms continue to grow their skeletons throughout ontogeny. In the shells of molluscs, protists, and brachiopods and in bovid horns, accretionary spiral growth provides a detailed and continuous growth history. Although a shell may be described as a single static form, the overall morphology is a summation of the ongoing accretionary process. For this reason, an explicitly ontogenetic characterization of form provides insight into the final form achieved. Analysis of landmark transformations offers direct access to major components of morphological variation, both among adult individuals and through an individual's ontogeny. Parameters of preconceived, abstract geometric models can also be used to characterize morphological variation, but there is no guarantee that these parameters will coincide with the major features of shape variation. In order to locate landmarks at equivalent ontogenetic stages, features that indicate ontogenetic stage of coiled forms must be identified (e.g., growth increments, age, size, whorls). The gastropod Epitonium (Nitidiscala) tinctum exhibits prominent varices that provide landmark locations throughout ontogeny. Recent specimens of this species were obtained from three localities in Baja, Mexico. The morphological variation among individuals, treated as whole shells and within individual ontogenies, was analyzed using shape coordinates of landmark configurations. Deformation of shape is expressed in the uniform and nonuniform shape subspaces. The empirical components of shape variation found are similar to those generated by two parameters of an equiangular spiral: , the angle between consecutive varices, and W, the whorl expansion rate. The distribution of individuals is examined within morphospaces constructed from these shape features. Three scales of analysis are necessary to characterize adequately the shape variation within and among specimens. The smallest scale is equivalent to increment-by-increment changes in  and W. The middle scale comprises variation equivalent to whorls resulting from systematic changes in  and W during an individual's ontogeny. Finally, there is the overall ontogenetic trajectory. Mean shape must be a function of initial shape and ontogenetic trajectory in shape. Mean forms that are found to have similar shapes at the same arbitrary growth increment may achieve that shape in different ways.
4096973|Long-term diversity equilibria, ecological incumbency, and widespread recurrent fossil assemblages have each been cited as evidence that local processes, such as competition, played an important role in structuring communities over geologic time. We analyze the relationship between local and regional diversity in tropical marine communities spanning approximately 13 Myr of the Late Ordovician to test for the role of local processes in structuring local communities. We find a significant and strong positive relationship between local and regional diversity, indicating that local communities were not saturated with species and that local processes did not exert a dominant influence on local diversity. Rather, local diversity was influenced more by regional oceanographic processes that governed the size of the regional species pool. This evidence for unsaturated communities is consistent with the Walker and Valentine hierarchically structured niche model of global diversification. These results come at the beginning of the 200-Myr Paleozoic plateau in both local and global diversity and therefore raise the question whether local communities were ever saturated with species during the Paleozoic. Similar studies need to be conducted during other times in the Paleozoic to determine if this is indeed the case.
2400834|We have produced computer simulations of multiramous graptoloids with the intention of defining the rules governing branching strategies and colony form. Close matches between such simulations and real graptolites show that complex rhabdosomes may be produced by the permutation of relatively simple sets of rules. Those designs found in nature produce an efficient and regular distribution of zooids through the area included by an essentially planar rhabdosome. Strikingly geometrical arrays of stipes, such as the Goniograptus and yin/yang patterns, closely approach paradigmatic harvesting arrays. For dichotomously branching anisograptids the evolutionary trend in reduction of "primary stipes" can be explained by the production of larger spreading colonies. Multiramous graptoloids fed during vertical movement through the water column. Changes in a single branching decision may produce considerable changes in rhabdosome morphology, but these are not necessarily of high taxonomic importance; this is proved by a specimen which is a morphological combination of two "genera." Although primarily under genetic control, certain modifications to colony form were probably the result of inhibitory interaction between adjacent stipes.
4096858|Spinal ossified tendons are a defining character for Ornithischia, one of the two major clades of dinosaurs. The function of these bony rods has remained a mystery since their first detailed description in 1886. Qualitative approaches to understand ossified tendon function have resulted in different ecological and behavioral interpretations for ornithopod dinosaurs. To evaluate ossified tendon function, this study constructed finite element models of the vertebral column for two ornithopod taxa: Tenontosaurus, which shows the plesiomorphic condition of longitudinally arrayed tendons along the spinous processes, and Brachylophosaurus, which exhibits a lattice of tendons along the spinous processes. Both models predict that ossified tendons stiffened the vertebral column, especially the tail, but the derived lattice of ossified tendons in iguanodontoidean dinosaurs, like Brachylophosaurus, increased spinal stiffness more than the plesiomorphic condition. Caudofemoral muscles that retracted the hindlimb during locomotion attached the femur to the tail in ornithopods. Increased tail stiffness caused by intratendinous ossification may have influenced locomotion by rigidly anchoring M. caudofemoralis longus to the tail, thereby allowing a more forceful retraction of the hindlimb by reducing ventral flexion of the tail during muscle contraction. Ossified tendons may also have been important for storing elastic energy throughout the gait cycle. Moreover, the lattice of ossified tendons stiffened the trunk and tail nearly equally in Brachylophosaurus, indicating the evolution of a postural function by passively supporting the epaxial musculature in maintaining a horizontal vertebral column.
2400699|The chamber formation cycle in externally shelled, chambered cephalopods consists of mural ridge formation, secretion of the siphuncular connecting ring, septal calcification, and cameral liquid removal. Radiographic observation of the chamber formation cycle in specimens of Nautilus macromphalus allows direct observation of the various processes of the chamber formation cycle in a chambered cephalopod, and gives direct measures of rates. New chamber formation in N. macromphalus initiates when slightly more than half of the cameral liquid has been removed from the last formed chamber. At this volume, the liquid within the chamber drops from direct contact with the permeable connecting ring to a level where it is no longer in direct contact and must move onto the connecting ring due to wettable properties of the septal face and septal neck. This change from "coupled" to "decoupled" emptying coincides with the formation of a mural ridge at the rear of the body chamber, in front of the last formed septum. With completion of the mural ridge, the septal mantle moves forward from its position against the face of the last formed septum and attaches to the new mural ridge, where it begins calcifying a new septum in front of the newly created, liquid-filled space. Emptying of the new cameral liquid from this space commences when the calcifying septum has reached from one-third to two-thirds of its final thickness. The cessation of calcification of the septum coincides with a liquid volume in the new chamber of approximately 50%, at which point the cycle begins anew. During the chamber formation cycle apertural shell growth appears to be continuous. Since apertural shell growth is the prime factor leading to increased density in seawater, and hence decreased buoyancy, the period in the chamber formation cycle between the onset of septal calcification and the onset of emptying would be a time of greatly decreasing buoyancy. This is avoided by the removal of decoupled liquid from previously produced chambers. In this way constant neutral buoyancy is maintained. The time between chamber formation events in aquarium maintained N. macromphalus appears to be between 70 and 120 d.
41432159|Fish scales accumulating in marine laminated sediments can provide a record of population variability of small pelagic fishes. Although some studies have noted signs of scale degradation that could affect estimates of population variability, there are presently no welldeveloped means to evaluate degradation. We developed several indices as indicators of fish scale preservation in two box-cores that we collected off Pisco (14S), one at 301 m near the center of the oxygen minimum zone (OMZ), and the other at 201 m near the upper limit of the OMZ. These indices include (1) an index of fish scale integrity (estimate of scale wholeness relative to fragmentation), (2) the fungi-free area of fish scales and vertebrae, (3) the ratio of fish scales to vertebrae (as well as fish scales to vertebrae and bones), and (4) the ratio of whole scales to fragments. We address whether lower numbers of anchovy scales occurring in association with reduced total organic carbon fluxes and higher bottom-water oxygen concentrations are due entirely to lower abundances of anchovy or whether differential preservation of the fish scales in the sediments plays an important role in reduced scale abundances. Comparison of temporal sequences between the two cores provides the means to assess whether there are differences in the preservation of fish scales. The combined indices indicate that the lower numbers of fish scales in the earliest period have been affected by degradation, and to a greater degree in the box-core from 201 meters, which can be subject to higher oxygen concentrations. On the other hand, decadal-scale variations in fish scale abundance within the period of better preservation are unlikely to be caused by degradation. We discuss the utility and drawbacks of different indices of preservation for reconstructing past changes in fish population sizes with fluxes of fish debris and also briefly discuss the utility of these indices to other paleobiological systems.
2666017|Chad is a key region for understanding early hominid geographic expansion in relation to late Miocene and Pliocene environmental changes, owing to its location 2500 km west from the Rift Valley and to the occurrence of sites ranging in age from about 6 to 3 Ma, some of which yield fossil hominids. To reconstruct changes in herbivore paleodiet and therefore changes in the paleoenvironment, we measured the carbon and oxygen isotope composition of 80 tooth-enamel samples from three time horizons for nine families of Perissodactyla, Proboscidea, and Artiodactyla. The absence of significant alteration of in vivo isotopic signatures can be determined for carbon, thus allowing paleodietary and paleoenvironmental interpretations to be made. While the results generally confirm previous dietary hypotheses, mostly based on relative crown height, there are some notable surprises. The main discrepancies are found among low-crowned proboscideans (e.g., Anancus) and high-crowned rhinocerotids (Ceratotherium). Both species were more opportunistic feeders than it is usually believed. This result confirms that ancient feeding ecology cannot always be inferred from dental morphology or extant relatives. There is an increase in the average carbon isotope composition of tooth enamel from the oldest unit to the youngest, suggesting that the environment became richer in C$_4$ plants with time. In turn, more C$_4$ plants indicate an opening of the plant cover during this period. This increase in carbon isotope composition is also recorded within genera such as Nyanzachoerus, Ceratotherium, and Hexaprotodon, indicating a change from a C$_3$-dominated to a C$_4$-dominated diet over time. It appears that, unlike other middle Pliocene hominid sites in eastern and southern Africa, this part of Chad was characterized by very open conditions and that savanna-like grasslands were already dominant when hominids were present in the area.
23014752|The photosynthetic gas exchange capacities of early angiosperms remain enigmatic. Nevertheless, many hypotheses about the causes of early angiosperm success and how angiosperms influenced Mesozoic ecosystem function hinge on understanding the maximum capacity for early angiosperm metabolism. We applied structure-functional analyses of leaf veins and stomatal pore geometry to determine the hydraulic and diffusive gas exchange capacities of Early Cretaceous fossil leaves. All of the late Aptianearly Albian angiosperms measured possessed low vein density and low maximal stomatal pore area, indicating low leaf gas exchange capacities in comparison to modern ecologically dominant angiosperms. Gas exchange capacities for Early Cretaceous angiosperms were equivalent or lower than ferns and gymnosperms. Fossil leaf taxa from Aptian to Paleocene sediments previously identified as putative stem-lineages to Austrobaileyales and Chloranthales had the same gas exchange capacities and possibly leaf water relations of their living relatives. Our results provide fossil evidence for the hypothesis that high leaf gas exchange capacity is a derived feature of later angiosperm evolution. In addition, the leaf gas exchange functions of austrobaileyoid and chloranthoid fossils support the hypothesis that comparative research on the biology of living basal angiosperm lineages reveals genuine signals of Early Cretaceous angiosperm ecophysiology.
20445589|We calculated water vapor conductance (a product of eggshell porosity) from the first definitively identified sauropod egg (Megaloolithus patagonicus) from the Auca Mahuevo locality in Argentina. We then compared the results with those from M. siruguei (an egg type long associated with sauropod dinosaurs) from the Pinyes locality in Spain. The 14-cm Auca Mahuevo egg has a thinner eggshell and 47 times fewer pores than the 22-cm M. siruguei specimen. The resulting water vapor conductance (
2666053|In this paper we reconstruct the phylogeny of a clade of pachypleurosaurs (Reptilia: Sauropterygia) occurring in Triassic-age deposits in the Monte San Giorgio region, Switzerland. We also present the phylogeny of this clade as a case study for two paradigms of phylogeny reconstruction: cladistics and phenetic/stratigraphic methods. While this dichotomy is not held rigidly by all workers, its advancement by cladists leads us to retain it initially for rhetorical purposes. We review the philosophical bases of species, species concepts, and speciation, as well as cladograms and phylogenies, before introducing the experimental system. Data are presented from cladistic analyses, phenetic analyses, and stratigraphic information. Phylogeny of the clade is interpreted from both paradigms, and the interpretations are found to be inconsistent. Resolution of the phylogeny rests on the emphasis of one type of data over another. An interpretation of cladogenesis within the genus Neusticosaurus entails rejection of suggestive phenetic and stratigraphic data, whereas an anagenetic interpretation entails reversal of autapomorphies in ancestral taxa. Anagenesis is deemed to be the more probable interpretation, based on the strength of the stratigraphic and phenetic data relative to the character data. Implications of the test case results for phylogeny reconstruction in general are discussed, ending with a call for pluralism in approach.
41432808|The fossil record provides an important source of data on adaptive radiations, and indeed some of the earliest theoretical insights on the nature of these radiations were made by paleontologists. Here we focus on the diverse Devonian Metacryphaeus group calmoniid trilobites, known from the Malvinokaffric Realm, which have been considered a classic example of an adaptive radiation preserved in the fossil record. We use a geometric morphometric analysis in conjunction with phylogenetic and biogeographic patterns and data on speciation rates. Using ancestral character state reconstruction during speciation events, we quantify patterns of morphological change in order to assess the role ecological and geographical factors may have played in mediating this radiation. We found no significant differences between the amount of morphological change that occurred during speciation events when ancestors and descendants were in the same area as opposed to when they occupied different areas. Further, the magnitude of morphological divergence did not change through time or with cladogenetic rank. These patterns, in conjunction with the fact that the radiation occurs in a geographically heterogeneous region subjected to repeated episodes of sea-level rise and fall, suggest that at the macroevolutionary scale this radiation may have been motivated more by phenomena that facilitated geographic isolation than by competition.
4096981|The pattern of variation in taxonomic turnover on short timescales is expected to leave detectable signals even when taxonomic data are compiled at coarser timescales. Global, stage-level data on first and last appearances of marine animal genera are analyzed to determine whether it is more likely that origination and extinction were spread throughout stages or that they were concentrated at a single episode per stage. The analysis takes incomplete and variable sampling of stratigraphic ranges into consideration, and it takes advantage of the fact that empirical sampling rates are within the range of values that allow the within-stage turnover models to be distinguished on the basis of stage-level data. The data strongly support the model of a single extinction pulse per stage over the alternative of continuous extinction within the stage. Pulsed origination is also supported over continuous origination, but the case is not as compelling as for extinction. Differential support for pulsed turnover is not confined to a few stages. Pulsed turnover therefore appears to be a general feature of the evolution of marine animals.
3595506|During the Ordovician Radiation, domination of benthic marine communities shifted away from trilobites, toward articulated brachiopods, and, to a lesser degree, toward bivalves and gastropods. Here, models are formulated that mathematically represent alternative hypothesized causes of this transition. These include models in which per-genus origination or extinction probabilities were constrained to be (1) constant, (2) diversity-dependent, (3) productivity-dependent, or (4) jointly dependent on productivity and diversity. Using a method adapted from capturemark-recapture (CMR) population studies, we estimate origination, extinction, and sampling probabilities jointly in order to avoid confounding patterns in turnover probabilities with temporal variation in the quality of the fossil record. Using Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC), we assessed the fit of the alternative causal models relative to one another, and relative to a noncausal "phenomenological" alternative that placed no constraints on the pattern of temporal variation in origination or extinction. There were differences among taxa in the relative fit of these models, suggesting that the effects of productivity and diversity varied among higher taxa. In the aggregate, however, there was strong support for diversity-dependent origination. For extinction, poor fit of the alternative causal models suggests that we lack a good explanation for extinction patterns. These analyses support the hypothesis that diversity-dependent origination, particularly in trilobites, contributed to the Ordovician faunal transitions. By contrast, the effects of increased productivity, if indeed they were large enough to influence global diversification patterns, did not proceed in the hypothesized manner.
20445586|Because of the fragmentary preservation of the earliest Cooksonia-like terrestrial plant macrofossils, younger Devonian fossils with complete anatomical preservation and documented gametophytes often have received greater attention concerning the early evolution of vascular plants and the alternation of generations. Despite preservational deficits, however, possible physiologies of Cooksonia-like fossils can be constrained by considering the overall axis size in conjunction with the potential range of cell types and sizes, because their lack of organ differentiation requires that all plant functions be performed by the same axis. Once desiccation resistance, support, and transport functions are taken into account, smaller fossils do not have volume enough left over for an extensive aerated photosynthetic tissue, thus arguing for physiological dependence on an unpreserved gametophyte. As in many mosses, axial anatomy is more likely to have ensured continued spore dispersal despite desiccation of the sporophyte than to have provided photosynthetic independence. Suppositions concerning size constraints on physiology are supported by size comparisons with fossils of demonstrable physiological independence, by preserved anatomical detail, and by size correlations between axis, sporangia, and sporangial stalk in Silurian and Early Devonian taxa. Several Cooksonia-like taxa lump fossils with axial widths spanning over an order of magnitude--from necessary physiological dependence to potential photosynthetic competence--informing understanding of the evolution of an independent sporophyte and the phylogenetic relationships of early vascular plants.
2400271|Evidence is presented that primitive artiodactyls had a diploid number of 14. The higher diploid numbers of most living artiodactyls are interpreted as resulting from karyotypic fissioning at the times of past adaptive radiations. The fossil record appears to support this contention. An evolutionary sequence of unusual X chromosome transformations has been deduced from the differences that exist among extant species. From these, and from interrelationships of karyotypes, certain phylogenetic revisions are suggested.
41432809|A developmental model, based upon murine rodents, has been proposed by Kavanagh et al. (2007) to explain lower molar proportions in mammals. We produce a clade-wide macroevolutionary test of the model using the dental evolutionary trends in a unique radiation of extinct mammals endemic to South America ("Meridiungulata") that comprise a diverse array of molar morphologies. All of the South American ungulate groups examined follow the inhibitory cascade model with the exception of two groups: Interatheriidae (Notoungulata) and Astrapotheria. For most taxa studied, ratios between lower molar areas are greater than 1.0, indicating a weak inhibition by ml on the subsequent molars in the tooth row, and a trend to greater absolute size of the posterior molars. Comparisons of mean ratios between clades indicate that a significant phylogenetic signal can be detected, particularly between the two groups within NotoungulataTypotheria and Toxodontia. Body mass estimates were found to be significantly correlated with both m3/m1 and m2/m1 ratios, suggesting that the larger body size achieved the weaker inhibition between the lower molars. Molar ratio patterns are examined and discussed in relation to the independent and numerous acquisitions of hypsodonty that are characteristic of dental evolution in "Meridiungulata."
2400945|George Gaylord Simpson was one of the first paleontologists to apply survivorship analysis to the study of fossil taxa. His finding that the survivorship curve for extant bivalve genera plotted above that for extinct genera led him to conclude that bivalve genera are drawn from at least two distinct distributions of longevities, and formed the fundamental basis for his influential concepts of horotelic and bradytelic evolutionary rates. Survivorship curves presented in this paper show the same pattern of disjunct survivorship in genera from the Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology and in families from Sepkoski's compendium. Some of the observed differences between survivorship curves are artificial, occurring because long-lived genera and families are more likely to survive to the Recent than short-lived genera and families. The living fauna thus contains a disproportionate number of long-lived genera and families, and the survivorship curve for the living fauna is expected to lie above that for the extinct fauna for this reason alone-even if all longevities are drawn from the same distribution. Recognition of this bias led Raup (1975) to question the significance of the survivorship patterns presented by Van Valen (1973), and Stanley's (1984) acceptance of Raup's argument led him to dismiss the survivorship pattern discovered by Simpson. But statistical analysis using bootstrapping shows that this bias accounts for only a small proportion of the difference between survivorship curves. Other biases considered, such as "pull of the Recent," "asymmetrical range truncation," and erroneous concatenation of stratigraphic ranges, do not account for the pattern either. Although still other biases, as yet unknown, cannot definitively be ruled out, it appears that the longevities of extinct and living bivalve taxa are meaningfully different, and that the fundamental causes are biological.
2400284|The traces of macroboring organisms are known throughout the Phanerozoic, with diversification and exploitation of the macroboring niche paralleling variations in the development of skeletal metazoa. The oldest macroboring biota is an abundant yet low diversity fauna in hardgrounds and reefs of Lower Cambrian age. Following the extinction of archaeocyathids at the end of the Lower Cambrian (and thus the demise of skeletal reefs until the Middle Ordovician), boring organisms appear to be restricted to submarine hardgrounds. With the development of skeletal reefs in the Middle Ordovician the macroboring fauna shows a rapid speciation and a dramatic increase in diversity. This same pattern occurs again in the Devonian. This record appears to represent refuge of the fauna in low stress, hardground environments when skeletal reefs were not present and radiation in the high stress environment of the reef when large skeletal metazoa were abundant and diverse.
2400300|An analysis of the geographic and stratigraphic distribution of nearly 200 Jurassic bivalve genera leads to a number of new discoveries. Similarities between regions reached a maximum in the middle of the period, while the percentage of endemism correspondingly decreased. Diversity increased through the Lower Jurassic to a level which remained more or less stable from Middle Jurassic times onwards, while the origination rate shows the opposite trend. Extinction rate increased early in the period to a maximum in the Pliensbachian and fell thereafter to a low value until the Tithonian, which is marked by a sharp rise. The overall taxonomic composition of the fauna in terms of orders remained substantially stable throughout the period. The relationship with facies is discussed and three major ecological groups distinguished: marginal marine (euryhaline), shallow neritic and deep neritic. Certain pterioids have a very wide distribution and the order as a whole has a significantly higher proportion of cosmopolitan to endemic genera than any other order; the hippuritoids and trigonioids have the highest proportion of endemics. Five faunal provinces are distinguished, and the dominant control on distribution considered to be sea level. Times of high sea level were marked by widespread distribution of taxa and low endemism. High extinction rates were provoked both by regression (in the Tithonian) and by a sharp rise of sea level in the Toarcian, marked by the widespread onset of anaerobic or near-anaerobic conditions in many epicontinental seas. Some latitudinal control is recognised, notably for the hippuritoids and other stenotopic thick-shelled genera, which are confined to low latitudes.
1558099|Co-ossified pygal and caudal vertebrae in Late Cretaceous mosasaurs from the southeast Netherlands, northeast Belgium, and North America are compared with lumbar and caudal vertebrae from fossil and extant whales. Both infectious spondylitis and idiopathic vertebral hyperostosis afflicted these marine tetrapods. The causes of the infectious disease and of the idiopathic disease are similar in the compared life forms. The location of idiopathic hyperostosis along the vertebral column implicates axial locomotion in mosasaurs, as in whales.
4096989|Although direct predator-prey interactions are unobservable in the fossil record, predation has been used to explain many evolutionary trends. Evidence of predation supporting such hypotheses is often presented as isolated instances of preserved sublethal damage, and less commonly, as the frequency of such injuries. For instance, numerous morphological and ecological trends and innovations observed in Phanerozoic crinoids have been causally linked to predation, and whereas the high frequency of arm regeneration in living crinoids is generally assumed to represent intense predation, attempts to assess regeneration frequency and patterns in paleontological samples are few. Can the frequency of fossil injuries be assessed to test hypothesized predation-driven trends, or are such data unavailable? To address this question, we analyzed regeneration in crinoids from the lower Mississippian (Kinderhookian) Maynes Creek Formation near Le Grand, Iowa, a locality renowned for the preservation of thousands of crinoids in tangled masses of crowns, stalks, and holdfasts. Nine percent of the specimens that we examined contained at least one regenerating arm; however, whereas some species lacked evidence of regeneration, others preserved up to 27% arm regeneration. Furthermore, we observed specimens with all arms regenerating, multiple adjacent arms regenerating from the same place along the arm, and a specimen with a damaged and regenerated primaxil and anal sac. The highest regeneration frequency was observed in the most abundant species, Rhodocrinites kirbyi, a significantly higher value than expected under a model of no taxonomic selectivity (binomial: p < 0.05). Furthermore, bootstrapped simulations of the probable number of regenerated individuals suggest that the number of regenerated arms observed in our sample is two to three times less than what existed in the living population. Rhodocrinites kirbyi constituted over 40% of the individuals in the Le Grand crinoid fauna and had the longest stalk of the studied species. In addition, regeneration in R. kirbyi is size related, with individuals above median dorsal cup height (7 mm) displaying nearly 50% regeneration, and smaller individuals only 2% (a statistically significant difference; 
25609423|Paleobiological phylogenies often contain contrasting biological information to phylogenies based on extant species. Available software is primarily based on a present-day view of the world, however. Here, we present freeware to visualize phylogenies that is more suitable for the needs of paleobiologists, providing flexibility in how stratigraphic uncertainty, the geological timescale, and ancestor-descendant relationships are depicted.
2400345|An equation for the distribution of divergence times between closest relatives is derived to explore the possibility that contemporary data might shed some light on the controversy between supporters of gradual versus punctuated phyletic change. The principal assumptions of the model are uniform rates of speciation and extinction, bifurcating speciation, and uniform patterns of divergence, by whatever measure, among species in a taxon. The structure of the model indicates clear differences between patterns generated by extremes of gradualism and punctuation. But inability to verify critical assumptions considerably weakens the applicability of the model to the gradualism-punctuation problem.
2400808|Primary vascular architecture of members of the Paleozoic Aneurophytales (Progymnospermopsida) is described. This architecture is somewhat more complex but fundamentally similar (homologous) to that of members of the Trimerophytina, putative ancestors of aneurophytes. It is suggested that the presence of complex stelar morphology in aneurophytes was epiphenomenal, a passive result of changes in growth and development in a trimerophyte-like ancestor. Specifically, I suggest that the evolutionary transformation in primary vascular architecture from haplostele to ribbed protostele was a direct consequence of changes that affected the vertical spacing and degree of organization of lateral appendages in early vascular plants. This view is in sharp contrast to adaptationist explanations of change in stelar morphology expressed by other authors and provides an example of non-adaptive change in evolution.
40792297|Temporal patterns in species occupancy and geographic range size are a major topic in evolutionary ecology research. Here we investigate these patterns in Pliocene to Recent large mammal species and genera in Western Eurasia. By using an extensively sampled fossil record including some 700 fossil localities, we found occupancy and range size trajectories over time to be predominantly peaked among both species and genera, meaning that occupancy and range size reached their maxima midway along taxon existence. These metrics are strongly correlated with each other and to body size, after phylogeny is accounted for by using two different phylogenetic topologies for both species and genera. Phylogenetic signal is strong in body size, and weaker but significant in both occupancy and range size mean values among genera, indicating that these variables are heritable. The intensity of phylogenetic signal is much weaker and often not significant at the species level. This suggests that within genera, occupancy and range size are somewhat variable. However, sister taxa inherit geographic position (the center of their geographic distribution). Taken together, the latter two results indicate that sister species occupy similar positions on the earth's surface, and that the expansion of the geographic range during the existence of a given genus is driven by range expansion of one or more of the species it includes, rather than simply being the summation of these species ranges.
2400447|Colonies of the fossil bryozoan Archimedes and erect, spiralled species of the living bryozoan Bugula consist of wedge-shaped systems of radially diverging, bifurcated branches that extend from a helical axial margin. Morphology of these colonies may be simulated using few growth rules. These include 1) radius of the central helical margin (RAD), 2) rate of climb of central helical margin (ELEV), 3) radial angle between successive branches that originate from the central helical margin (ANG), 4) radial growth of all branches, 5) angle between branches and axis of central helical margin (BWANG), 6) distance between three adjacent, radially diverging branches at which the central branch bifurcates into two branches equally spaced between the two side branches (XMIN), and 7) placement of a spacing bar at base of newly bifurcated branches. In addition, size constraints on the simulations must be stipulated. Simulations are begun at a proximal point along the central helix where a radial branch originates and are "grown" in repetitive steps by extending the central helical margin a distance distally, determined by ANG, then censusing established branches for XMIN in order to bifurcate appropriate branches and extend others in several short growth increments, etc. Growth of branches ceases at stipulated maximum width, and growth of the entire simulation ceases at stipulated maximum height. The presence of a helical inner margin marked by uniformly spaced bifurcations generates the spiralled shape, i.e. ELEV must be a positive number. Values of RAD, ELEV (not zero), ANG and BWANG determine form of the spiral; the other growth rules apply to bifurcated unilaminate branch systems in general. The range of observed colony forms and hypothetical morphospace of Archimedes may be simulated by varying BWANG, XMIN, and ELEV. RAD was kept constant, as its variation would be redundant with XMIN and ELEV. Variation in ANG affects near-helix morphology, but its influence is undetectable beyond this zone. Variability within colonies may be simulated by assigning to each variable a standard deviation with mean-centered randomly chosen values for each decision.
2400848|A general model of species dynamics must incorporate the effects of species number on the processes of speciation and extinction. Previous models make specific assumptions about these effects, but do not consider the effects of dynamics of lower level entities on speciation and extinction rates. A hierarchical model is developed which explicitly describes the effects of energy use by species on speciation and extinction rates. The effects of energy use are represented by parameters that characterize the average effects of energy use by each species in the biota on speciation and extinction rates. The dynamics of the model describe a sigmoidal increase in species number over time, as does the logistic model of species dynamics. However, the mechanisms of those dynamics are assumed to be different in the two models. Empirical analysis of a data set on the diversification of fossil Miocene horses suggests that the logistic and hierarchical models have similar descriptive power. The hierarchical model incorporates insights from recent considerations of the nature of a hierarchical theory of biology. Further progress in developing such a theory will depend on the success with which relationships among levels in the biological hierarchy are able to be defined.
2401202|Dorsal sails supported by hyperelongate neural spines of dorsal vertebrae were evolved by various tetrapods, but most work on their function has centered on the pelycosaur Dimetrodon, in which the sail has generally been interpreted as a thermoregulatory structure that would permit rapid warming in the morning and cooling during the hot midday. The pelycosaur Edaphosaurus differed from other sailed tetrapods in that the neural spines supporting the sail had laterally directed tubercles or cross-bars. Past interpretations of Edaphosaurus suggested that the cross-bars were embedded in a thick fat-storage structure or extended from a thin sail to enhance its utility for intraspecific display. However, wind tunnel modeling of air flow over a thin sail with laterally projecting cross-bars supports a thermoregulatory interpretation of the sail of Edaphosaurus. The cross-bars would produce a turbulent flow, which would increase the effectiveness of convective cooling. Measurements of heat flow in an instrumented model show that cross-bars increase heat loss from the sail. The cross-bars may have enabled Edaphosaurus to thermoregulate effectively with a smaller and lower dorsal sail than would have been required without them.
2401240|The Scleractinia, which are one of the most important builders of modern reefs, have been considered to have first appeared in the Middle Triassic. Recently, Paleozoic scleractiniamorphs have been reported from both the Ordovician and the Permian, suggesting that the scleractinian-like body plan was already established in the Paleozoic. Those Paleozoic scleractiniamorphs are considered either unsuccessful skeletonized offshoots (extinct experiments) or Paleozoic progenitors of the post-Paleozoic Scleractinia. Permian scleractiniamorphs are characterized by "ancestral" features and have no specific morphologies that deny scleractinian affinities. Molecular phylogenetics also indicate that extant scleractinians are monophyletic and originated long before their Triassic appearance. A Paleozoic origin for the Scleractinia is supported by morphological and molecular phylogenetic data. On the other hand, there is no positive evidence to show that different groups of scleractinians had separate soft-bodied precursors. The Paleozoic scleractinians evolved within the framework of their basic body plan, and a direct derivation of the Scleractinia from the Rugosa is not probable. The Anthozoa are characterized by a bilaterally symmetrical body plan, which is traditionally considered to have been derived from other radially symmetrical Cnidaria. The problem of the origin of scleractinian body plan may provide a key for deciphering the early anthozoan radiation within the Bilateria. Other examples of Paleozoic Scleractinia and scleractiniamorphs will be found, probably in shallow-water reefal facies or deeper-water communities, bridging the stratigraphic gaps in occurrence and elucidating the origin of the Scleractinia and their body plan.
4096887|This paper tests whether the most common fossil brachiopod, gastropod, and bivalve genera also have intrinsically more durable shells. Commonness was quantified using occurrence frequency of the 450 most frequently occurring genera of these groups in the Paleobiology Database (PBDB). Durability was scored for each taxon on the basis of shell size, thickness, reinforcement (ribs, folds, spines), mineralogy, and microstructural organic content. Contrary to taphonomic expectation, common genera in the PBDB are as likely to be small, thin-shelled, and unreinforced as large, thick-shelled, ribbed, folded, or spiny. In fact, only six of the 30 tests we performed showed a statistically significant relationship between durability and occurrence frequency, and these six tests were equally divided in supporting or contradicting the taphonomic expectation. Thus, for the most commonly occurring genera in these three important groups, taphonomic effects are either neutral with respect to durability or compensated for by other factors (e.g., less durable taxa were more common in the original communities). These results suggest that biological information is retained in the occurrence frequency patterns of our target groups.
2400613|Three closely related species of the irregular echinoid Oligopygus succeed one another in the late Eocene deposits of Florida. This apparent lineage, where each species is similar but larger than the preceding species, offers an excellent opportunity to examine relationships between heterochrony and environmental change. Bivariate and multivariate techniques illustrate patterns of simple and complex allometry and indicate that simple size increase related to changes in the timing of maturation account for most of the morphological differences among species. Those differences that are not the by-products of size increase are due to heterochronic changes dissociated from the otherwise global (i.e., whole organism) hypermorphosis and were probably needed to increase the relative food intake of the larger forms. Unlike the vast majority of allometric studies, which show constant growth ratios, the ontogenies analyzed here often exhibit curvilinear trajectories. Thus, heterochronic events are seen as systematic alterations of already changing growth ratios. It is suggested that these heterochronic changes provided quick, efficient responses to selective pressures on a plurality of characters and behaviors. As the Florida carbonate environment became more stable, responses associated with K-type life history strategies were favored, resulting in "size selection." Thus, the morphological differentia among these species may not have resulted from selection directed at those traits, but were either simple sequelae of size increase or of changes which occurred to permit the size increase.
2401020|Seven endemic species of skates (Chondrichthyes: Rajidae) represent the only family of elasmobranchs currently known to live in Antarctic continental waters. Many previous authors believed skates colonized Antarctic waters from Patagonia during interglacial periods in the Quaternary. However, recent fossil material collected from the middle Eocene La Meseta Formation of Seymour Island, Antarctic Peninsula, indicates that they may have persisted in Antarctic waters since the Paleogene. Additionally, oceanographic barriers present in the Neogene and Quaternary would have prevented dispersal from southern continents to Antarctica. A revised dispersal scenario, based on skate fossils, biology, paleogeography, and present centers of skate diversity, suggests that skates evolved in the western Tethys and North Boreal seas of western Europe in the Late Cretaceous and early Paleogene and emigrated into Antarctica during the early to middle Eocene via a dispersal corridor along the continental margins of the western Atlantic Ocean. Skates probably populated the Pacific Basin by passing from this dispersal corridor through the Arctic Ocean. Vicariant events, such as opening of the Drake Passage, the development of the Circum-Antarctic Current, and formation of deep and wide basins around Antarctica in the late Paleogene, created barriers that isolated some species of skates in Antarctica and prevented movement of other species of skates into Antarctica from northern areas. Skates are the only group of fishes known to have survived the Oligocene cooling of Antarctica that killed or extirpated the Paleogene ichthyofauna; they persisted by a combination of cold-tolerance, generalized diet, and unspecialized bathymetric and habitat preferences.
2400327|A theory is presented that cranial crests of hadrosaurs were visual and acoustical display organs. Facial morphology and phylogeny of the Hadrosauridae and earlier theories of crest function are reviewed. The following hypothesis is presented: cramal crests, whether hollow or solid, served as visual signal structures, and hollow lambeosaur crests were also vocal resonators; all crests promoted successful matings within species, i.e., they served as premating genetic isolating mechanisms. The following predictions are tested and found to support the hypothesis: (1) hadrosaurs had well-developed eyes and ears; (2) external features of crests varied independently of internal structure; (3) crest variations were species-specific and sexually-dimorphic; (4) crest distinctiveness correlates with species diversity; (5) crest size tended to increase through time. The circumnarial depression on the side of the face in hadrosaurines housed an inflatable diverticulum of the nasal passage which served as a visual display organ. Primitive hadrosaurs (kritosaurs) possessed a small nasal horn used as a butting weapon in intraspecific combat. Because the weapon was also used in intimidative displays, narial diverticula evolved to draw attention to it. In the kritosaur Brachylophosaurus fighting was modified to ritualized head-pushing using the flat nasal "shield". Saurolophines expanded the diverticula on to the elongated nasal horn, converting the weapon to a dominance rank symbol. In non-crested edmontosaurs, enlarged diverticula assumed a vocalization function. Lambeosaurs created resonators by enclosing the diverticula in bone; they further enhanced the resonator function of the nose by forming elongated "organ pipes" in the premaxillae. This "pushed" the olfactory region above the eyes as a conspicuous dome which then was modified to form species-specific visual display organs.
2400802|This study addresses the question of evolutionary tempo and mode in a sequence of Upper Cretaceous bivalves in the genus Pleuriocardia from the Western Interior Basin of North America. Change between species was probably phyletic (without persistence of ancestors). There is some evidence for weak gradual change within the lineage, but most important change is concentrated in short intervals of time. Detailed examination of the differences among samples reveals pronounced geographic variation, whereas temporal variation within localities is generally minor. The relatively rapid episodes of change fit the model of punctuated equilibrium, but the phyletic nature of species-level change does not. The value of the debate about the punctuated and gradualistic models has been to force a more criticial examination of fossil sequences, but these sequences should not be forced into narrowly defined categories. A variety of evolutionary patterns may exist in the fossil record, and it is this variation in pattern that will inform us of the underlying processes.
2400577|Changes in morphological variability within fossil populations of planktonic protists provide insight into the processes responsible for morphological change. Evolution in the radiolarian genera Theocorythium and Lamprocyclas is documented biometrically in Pliocene and Pleistocene core material from the equatorial Pacific and Indian Oceans. The patterns of morphological change in Theocorythium within a single Pacific core could be interpreted as indicating the in situ evolution of T. trachelium trachelium from T. vetulum via intermediate forms during the Pleistocene. However, consideration of biogeographic data shows that this is not the case and supports instead two alternate interpretations: (1) immigration coupled with extensive hybridization and introgression, or (2) multiple polymorphs of a single species changing in frequency along a cline. Analyses of evolutionary change in Theocorythium and the closely related genus Lamprocyclas during the Pliocene suggest that hybridization may be a significant factor in the production of new species. Evolutionary models and phylogenetic analyses should consider that barriers to gene flow may vary significantly with time and permit the exchange of genetic information between populations previously reproductively isolated.
2400332|The phenomenon of selective biotic extinction is commonly explained as the result of the extinction of specialized organisms and the survival of generalized organisms during a time of environmental stress. Using 48 orders of aquatic free-living arthropods, we test the hypothesis that generalized organisms tend to have longer geologic ranges than specialized organisms. The degree of specialization, as expressed through morphological complexity, is measured by the diversity of limb pairs on the arthropod body. The resulting "tagmosis value" reflects the functional differentiation of limb pairs to perform specific tasks and thus may estimate ecological specialization. No statistically significant correlation exists between an order's typical degree of morphological specialization and its geologic range. Degree of specialization is not an important determinant of evolutionary persistence at this taxonomic level. Evolutionary longevity may depend on the adaptive type (e.g., trophic role, relationship to substrate, etc.) represented by the taxon and on the assortment of these adaptive types.
3595483|Colonial organisms vary in the degree to which they are individuated at the colony level, i.e., in the degree to which the colony constitutes a unified whole, as opposed to a group of independent lower-level entities. Various arguments have been offered suggesting that evolutionary change along this continuum may be biased, that increases may be more probable than decreases. However, counterarguments can be devised, and the existing evidence is meager and inconclusive. In this paper, we demonstrate how the question can be addressed empirically by conducting a test for bias in a group of stenolaemate bryozoans, the cyclostomes. More specifically, we suggest three criteria for colony individuation: degree of connectedness among lower-level entities (in this case, zooids), degree of differentiation among lower-level entities, and number of intermediate-level parts. And we show how these criteria can be used together with a phylogeny and ancestral-state reconstruction methods to test for bias. In this case, results do not unambiguously support any single interpretation but are somewhat supportive of a null hypothesis of no bias in favor of increase. As part of the demonstration, we also show how results can be transformed into a quantitative estimate of an upper limit on bias. Finally, we place the question of bias in a larger context, arguing that the same criteria and methods we employ here can be used to test for bias in other colonial taxa, and also at other hierarchical levels, for example, in the transitions from free-living eukaryotic cells to multicellular organisms.
2400942|A review of the processes required for exceptional preservation of soft-bodied fossils demonstrates that anoxia does not significantly inhibit decay and emphasizes the importance of early diagenetic mineralization. Early diagenesis is the principal factor amongst the complex processes leading to soft-part preservation. The development of a particular preservational mineral is controlled by rate of burial, amount of organic detritus, and salinity. A new causative classification of soft-bodied fossil biotas is presented based upon fossil mineralogy and mineral paragenesis.
40792288|Both the body fossils and trackways of sauropod dinosaurs indicate that they inhabited a range of inland and coastal environments during their 160-Myr evolutionary history. Quantitative paleoecological analyses of a large data set of sauropod occurrences reveal a statistically significant positive association between non-titanosaurs and coastal environments, and between titanosaurs and inland environments. Similarly, "narrow-gauge" trackways are positively associated with coastal environments and "wide-gauge" trackways are associated with inland environments. The statistical support for these associations suggests that this is a genuine ecological signal: non-titanosaur sauropods preferred coastal environments such as carbonate platforms, whereas titanosaurs preferred inland environments such as fluvio-lacustrine systems. These results remain robust when the data set is time sliced and jackknifed in various ways. When the analyses are repeated using the more inclusive groupings of titanosauriforms and Macronaria, the signal is weakened or lost. These results reinforce the hypothesis that "wide-gauge" trackways were produced by titanosaurs. It is commonly assumed that the trackway and body fossil records will give different results, with the former providing a more reliable guide to the habitats occupied by extinct organisms because footprints are produced during life, whereas carcasses can be transported to different environments prior to burial. However, this view is challenged by our observation that separate body fossil and trackway data sets independently support the same conclusions regarding environmental preferences in sauropod dinosaurs. Similarly, analyzing localities and individuals independently results in the same environmental associations. We demonstrate that conclusions about environmental patterns among fossil taxa can be highly sensitive to an investigator's choices regarding analytical protocols. In particular, decisions regarding the taxonomie groupings used for comparison, the time range represented by the data set, and the criteria used to identify the number of localities can all have a marked effect on conclusions regarding the existence and nature of putative environmental associations. We recommend that large data sets be explored for such associations at a variety of different taxonomie and temporal scales.
23014730|Delayed biotic recovery from the end-Permian mass extinction has long been interpreted to result from environmental inhibition. Recently, evidence of more rapid recovery has begun to emerge, suggesting the role of environmental inhibition was previously overestimated. However, there have been few high-resolution taxonomic and ecological studies spanning the full Early and Middle Triassic recovery interval, leaving the precise pattern of recovery and underlying mechanisms poorly constrained. In this study, we document Early and Middle Triassic trends in taxonomic diversity, assemblage evenness, and size distribution of benthic foraminifers on an exceptionally exposed carbonate platform in south China. We observe gradual increases in all metrics through Early Triassic and earliest Middle Triassic time, with stable values reached early in the Anisian. There is little support in our data set for a substantial Early Triassic lag interval during the recovery of foraminifers or for a stepwise recovery pattern. The recovery pattern of foraminifers on the GBG corresponds well with available global data for this taxon and appears to parallel that of many benthic invertebrate clades. Early Triassic diversity increase in foraminifers was more gradual than in ammonoids and conodonts. However, foraminifers continued to increase in diversity, size, and evenness into Middle Triassic time, whereas diversity of ammonoids and conodonts declined. These contrasts suggest decoupling of recovery between benthic and pelagic environments; it is unclear whether these discrepancies reflect inherent contrasts in their evolutionary dynamics or the differential impact of Early Triassic ocean anoxia or associated environmental parameters on benthic ecosystems.
2401119|Heterochrony, change in developmental rate and timing, is widely recognized as an agent of evolutionary change. Heterotopy, evolutionary change in spatial patterning of development, is less widely known or understood. Although Haeckel coined the term as a complement to heterochrony in 1866, few studies have detected heterotopy or even considered the possibility that it might play a role in morphological evolution. We here review the roles of heterochrony and heterotopy in evolution and discuss how they can be detected. Heterochrony is of interest in part because it can produce novelties constrained along ancestral ontogenies, and hence result in parallelism between ontogeny and phylogeny. Heterotopy can produce new morphologies along trajectories different from those that generated the forms of ancestors. We argue that the study of heterochrony has been bound to an analytical formalism that virtually precludes the recognition of heterotopy, so we provide a new framework for the construction of ontogenetic trajectories and illustrate their analysis in a phylogenetic context. The study of development of form needs tools that capture not only rates of development but the space in which the changes are manifest. The framework outlined here provides tools applicable to both. When appropriate tools are used and the necessary steps are taken, a more comprehensive interpretation of evolutionary change in development becomes possible. We suspect that there will be very few cases of change solely in developmental rate and timing or change solely in spatial patterning; most ontogenies evolve by changes of spatiotemporal pattern.
2666034|Previous estimates of the global generic diversity loss for echinoids at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary have been as high as 65%. However, these estimates are based on compilations of occurrence data from the existing literature and are plagued by problems of inconsistent taxonomic usage. Analysis of a taxonomically standardized, phylogenetically framed data set demonstrates that the generic extinction rate for heart urchins was 33%, and that the two constituent orders suffered markedly different fates. Whereas holasteroids lost 56% of their generic diversity at the end of the Cretaceous, only 17% of spatangoid genera became extinct. Correlation of extinction with a range of geographical, environmental, and biological factors has been explored. Survivorship is significantly correlated only with feeding strategy, implying that the extinctions of atelostomate echinoids at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary were nutrient driven. In addition, feeding strategy is correlated with atelostomate clade affinity, explaining the differential fates of holasteroids and spatangoids at the end of the Cretaceous.
2401081|This study quantifies the fine structure of time-averaging by using large samples of dated shells collected from within individual strata. Time-averaging results in both good and bad news for interpreting bioclastic deposits. Nine samples of shells were collected from four Holocene cheniers on the Colorado Delta (Gulf of California) and 165 shells of the bivalve Chione fluctifraga were dated using <sup>14</sup>C-calibrated amino acid racemization (D-alloisoleucine/L-isoleucine). The age range of shells within samples averages 661 years and, in seven out of nine samples, exceeds 500 years. The sample standard deviation ranges from 73 to 294 years and averages 203 years, far exceeding the dating errors ( 100 years) and potential variation in the life span of Chione (<10 years). Time-averaging is homogeneous among strata within cheniers but varies significantly among cheniers. Age-distributions of dated shells indicate that at 50-year resolution, the samples provide a continuous and uniform record for the entire interval. The actual sample completeness (63.6%) is very close to that predicted by simulations of sampling a 100% complete, uniform record (67.3%). The bad news is that, no matter how carefully collected, data from shell beds may not be suitable for studying processes on timescales shorter than 10<sup>2</sup> to 10<sup>3</sup> years; explanations for faunal change that invoke reasoning or models derived from a strictly ecological point of view may rarely be justifiable. Also, notable differences in temporal resolution between the shell beds of seemingly identical origin imply that paleontological patterns (e.g., species diversity) may be affected by cryptic variation in time-averaging. The comparison of our data with time-averaging estimates obtained from other cheniers at coarser sampling resolutions indicates that pooling of samples (analytical time-averaging) can significantly reduce the temporal resolution of paleontological data. The good news is that shell beds can record the optimal type of time-averaging: where paleobiological data are a time-weighted average of the faunal composition from the spectrum of environments that existed during the entire interval of time. Samples from single strata provide a long-term record that is representative of the predominating environments. Within the range of <sup>14</sup>C dating, shell beds can provide a complete, high-resolution record, and thus may offer exceptional insights into the environmental and climatic changes of the last 40 thousand years.
2400298|Diversity data from stochastic phylogenies and from uniformly spaced Gaussian curves were subjected to Q-mode factor analysis in order to determine whether a few factors would account for a large percentage of the original variance. In both analyses, a small number of factors show systematic variations in time and account for more than 90% of original data variance. To further study the question of evolutionary pulsations, turnover rates were calculated between successive samples. These turnover rates indicate that stochastic phylogenies have pulses similar to those recorded in the fossil record. Large scale environmental changes are not required to explain such pulses. Therefore the observed existence in the real world of biologic diversity associations and evolutionary pulsations can as equally well be accounted for in a stochastic world (in which each species is an independent variable) as in a deterministic world. This supports the notion that there may be stochastic laws in paleontology akin to the gas laws of chemistry.
2400981|The kill curve for Phanerozoic marine species is used to investigate large-body impact as a cause of species extinction. Current estimates of Phanerozoic impact rates are combined with the kill curve to produce an impact-kill curve, which predicts extinction levels from crater diameter, on the working assumption that impacts are responsible for all "pulsed" extinctions. By definition, pulsed extinction includes the approximately 60% of Phanerozoic extinctions that occurred in short-lived events having extinction rates greater than 5%. The resulting impact-kill curve is credible, thus justifying more thorough testing of the impact-extinction hypothesis. Such testing is possible but requires an exhaustive analysis of radiometric dating of Phanerozoic impact events.
2400451|Some ungulate species at Upper Pleistocene and Holocene archeological sites in South Africa exhibit catastrophic mortality profiles, while others exhibit attritional ones. The awareness by Stone Age people that some species are especially amenable to driving or snaring probably accounts for the catastrophic profiles. Natural catastrophic death immediately followed by human scavenging is a much less likely explanation because the species samples comprise material lumped from deposits that accumulated more or less continuously over hundreds or even thousands of years during which period there is no reason to suppose the repeated occurrence of natural catastrophes nearby. The inability of Stone Age people to obtain prime-age adults in species that are not particularly amenable to driving or snaring presumably accounts for the attritional mortality profiles. Although the species that display attritional profiles conceivably were scavenged, the high proportion of very young individuals in the profiles suggests active hunting. Very young individuals are much less abundant in attritional profiles from local non-archeological sites, probably because their carcasses were removed from the record before burial, primarily by carnivore or scavenger feeding. Scavenging would account for the abundance of very young individuals in the archeological sites only in the unlikely event that people could regularly locate carcasses before other predators did. In general, geomorphic/sedimentologic context is probably the best criterion for determining whether a species characterized by a catastrophic profile in an archeological site was hunted or scavenged. At the majority of known sites, active hunting is suggested. In the case of a species characterized by an attritional profile in an archeological site, the proportion of very young individuals in the sample probably provides the best criterion for distinguishing hunting from scavenging. A relatively high proportion of very young individuals suggests active hunting.
2400539|In evaluating the biotic effects of transgressions and regression, care must be taken to ensure that observed patterns are not simply an artifact of the location of available stratigraphic sections along an ancient onshore-offshore gradient of adaptive types. Analysis of Recent bivalves suggests that very nearshore benthic assemblages are dominated by species that are geographically more widespread, are more eurytopic, and more often have planktotrophic larvae than species in offshore assemblages (Jackson 1974; Jablonski and Valentine 1980); this pattern may serve as a null hypothesis for paleobiogeographic analysis. Late Cretaceous bivalve and gastropod faunas of the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plain exhibit decreasing levels of endemism and increasing mean geographic range over the course of regression and return to high levels of endemism and low mean geographic range with the succeeding transgression. In addition, species with longer durations are more frequent at peak regression, while geologically shorter-lived species are more prevalent at peak transgression. As seen in Recent examples, the molluscan assemblages from nearshore facies have a higher proportion of species with broad environmental tolerances and planktotrophic larvae, and thus more extensive geographic and stratigraphic ranges, than do the more offshore shelf assemblages. Because late regressive phases are represented only by very nearshore facies, these directional changes in biogeographic and evolutionary characteristics are most parsimoniously interpreted as a reflection of the nature of the facies available for sampling rather than biotic effects of transgression and regression.
2400591|Bones of mammals exhibit progressive stages of weathering during their time of subaerial exposure. Consequently, the study of bone weathering in fossil assemblages may help to assess the period represented by an accumulation of bones. Stages of bone decomposition due to subaerial weathering have been identified in assemblages of fossil macromammals from Olduvai Gorge, Tanzania. A modern bone assemblage collected by spotted hyenas is used to devise a method for recognizing attritional accumulations of bones from weathering characteristics. This method, which involves study of long bone diaphyses, is applied to Plio-Pleistocene faunal assemblages from Olduvai, 1.70-1.85 ma old. Previous work indicates that early hominids had an important role in the collection of fauna at five of the six sites studied. It is shown that animal bones were accumulated at each site over a period of probably 5-10 yr or more. The length of this period, along with other taphonomic evidence, suggests that the processes of bone aggregation at these sites differed from those at the short-term campsites of modern, tropical hunter-gatherers.
2400135|Benthic ecologists have successfully applied rarefaction techniques to the problem of compensating for the effect of sample size on apparent species diversity (= species richness). The same method can be used in studies of diversity at higher taxonomic levels (families and orders) in the fossil record where samples represent world-wide distributions of species or genera over long periods of geologic time. Application of rarefaction to several large samples of post-Paleozoic echinoids (totaling 7.911 species) confirms the utility of the method. Rarefaction shows that the observed increase in the number of echinoid families since the Paleozoic is real in the sense that it cannot be explained solely by the increase in numbers of preserved species. There has been no statistically significant increase in the number of families since mid-Cretaceous, however. At the order level, echinoid diversity may have been nearly constant since late Triassic or early Jurassic.
2400157|Fibrous ligament and aragonitic shell material have been found preserved in two specimens of radiolitid rudists [cf. Radiolites angeoides (De Lapeirouse)] from the Lower to Middle Coniacian of Tirol, Austria. The invaginated ligament apparently comprised two torn and overgrown non-functional strings, one in each valve, connected medially by a thin strip of active ligament. The original dimensions of the active ligament have been estimated, for shells of 4 to 5 cm commissural diameter, at 0.58 mm2 cross-sectional area and 1.3 mm length, with the shell closed. Using data on the adductor muscle of Recent oysters and the results of compression tests carried out on samples of oyster fibrous ligament, it is estimated that these radiolitid shells opened less than 1 mm in life; their gaping was highly restricted. This is taken to support the proposal that the expanded mantle margins (principally that of the right, attached valve) were responsible for food particle entrapment, rather than the gills as in most other bivalves. It is suggested that a tentaculate mantle flange was extruded through the narrow gap between the valves during feeding. The pair of pronounced radial bands on the posterior flanks of the shell are interpreted as marking pseudofaecal and faecal ejection sites. Finally, it is speculated that slime (possibly poisonous or foul-tasting) on the mantle tentacles inhibited predators.
1571655|Taphonomy plays diverse roles in paleobiology. These include assessing sample quality relevant to ecologic, biogeographic, and evolutionary questions, diagnosing the roles of various taphonomic agents, processes and circumstances in generating the sedimentary and fossil records, and reconstructing the dynamics of organic recycling over time as a part of Earth history. Major advances over the past 15 years have occurred in understanding (1) the controls on preservation, especially the ecology and biogeochemistry of soft-tissue preservation, and the dominance of biological versus physical agents in the destruction of remains from all major taxonomic groups (plants, invertebrates, vertebrates); (2) scales of spatial and temporal resolution, particularly the relatively minor role of out-of-habitat transport contrasted with the major effects of time-averaging; (3) quantitative compositional fidelity; that is, the degree to which different types of assemblages reflect the species composition and abundance of source faunas and floras; and (4) large-scale variations through time in preservational regimes (megabiases), caused by the evolution of new bodyplans and behavioral capabilities, and by broad-scale changes in climate, tectonics, and geochemistry of Earth surface systems. Paleobiological questions regarding major trends in biodiversity, major extinctions and recoveries, timing of cladogenesis and rates of evolution, and the role of environmental forcing in evolution all entail issues appropriate for taphonomic analysis, and a wide range of strategies are being developed to minimize the impact of sample incompleteness and bias. These include taphonomically robust metrics of paleontologic patterns, gap analysis, equalizing samples via rarefaction, inferences about preservation probability, isotaphonomic comparisons, taphonomic control taxa, and modeling of artificial fossil assemblages based on modern analogues. All of this work is yielding a more quantitative assessment of both the positive and negative aspects of paleobiological samples. Comparisons and syntheses of patterns across major groups and over a wider range of temporal and spatial scales present a challenging and exciting agenda for taphonomy in the coming decades.
2666005|The origins and maintenance of morphological diversity through the Phanerozoic have been documented in several groups of invertebrates. By using shape analysis of the ventral valve, we quantify morphological diversity within the inarticulate brachiopods, which have a species-rich lower Paleozoic history followed by low richness through the rest of the Phanerozoic. Morphological diversity peaked during the Cambrian, and was subsequently maintained despite significant decreases in richness at all taxonomic levels. The loss of morphological diversity, associated with late-Paleozoic decreases in the number of orders and the Permo-Triassic mass extinction, was followed by rapid morphological rediversification without concordant taxonomic diversification. Any limits upon the generation of diverse morphologies were established early in the Cambrian and were maintained and approached through the history of this group.
4096909|In post-Cambrian time, five events-the end-Ordovician, end-Frasnian in the Late Devonian, end-Permian, end-Triassic, and end-Cretaceous-are commonly grouped as the "big five" global intervals of mass extinction. Plotted by magnitude, extinction intensities for all Phanerozoic substages show a continuous distribution, with the five traditionally recognized mass extinctions located in the upper tail. Plotted by time, however, proportional extinctions clearly divide the Phanerozoic Eon into six stratigraphically coherent intervals of alternating high and low extinction intensity. These stratigraphic neighborhoods provide a temporal context for evaluating the intensity of extinction during the "big five" events. Compared with other stages and substages in the same neighborhood, only the end-Ordovician, end-Permian, and end-Cretaceous extinction intensities appear as outliers. Moreover, when origination and extinction are considered together, only these three of the "big five" events appear to have been generated exclusively by elevated extinction. Low origination contributed more than high extinction to the marked loss of diversity in the late Frasnian and at the end of the Triassic. Therefore, whereas the "big five" events are clearly times when diversity suffered mass depletion, only those at the end of the Ordovician, Permian, and Cretaceous periods unequivocally qualify as globally distinct mass extinctions. Each of the three has a unique pattern of extinction, and the diversity dynamics of these events differ, as well, from the other two major diversity depletions. As mass depletions of diversity have no common effect, common causation seems unlikely.
41432157|The study of spatial patterns in biotic compositional variability in deep time is key to understanding the macroecological response of species assemblages to global change. Globally warm climatic phases are marked by the expansion of megathermal climates into currently extra-tropical areas. However, there is currently little information on whether vegetation in these "paratropical" regions resembled spatially modern tropical or extra-tropical biomes. In this paper we explore spatial heterogeneity in extra-tropical megathermal vegetation, using sporomorph (pollen and spore) data from the late Paleocene Calvert Bluff and Tuscahoma Formations of the formerly paratropical U.S. Gulf Coast (Texas, Mississippi, and Alabama). The data set comprises 139 sporomorph taxa recorded from 56 samples. Additive diversity partitioning, nonmetric multidimensional scaling, and cluster analysis show compositional heterogeneity both spatially and lithologically within the U.S. Gulf Coastal Plain (GCP) microflora. We then use sporomorph data from Holocene lake cores to compare spatial patterns in the late Paleocene GCP with modern tropical and extra-tropical biomes. Distance decay analysis of the Holocene data reveals a higher rate of spatial turnover in tropical versus extratropical vegetation types, consistent with a latitudinal gradient in floral compositional heterogeneity. The specific combination of rate and scale dependency of distance decay in the Holocene assemblages prevented us from associating the late Paleocene GCP with any particular modern biome. Our results demonstrate the importance of spatial scale, taphonomy, and lithology in determining patterns of spatial heterogeneity, and show the potential of the fossil sporomorph record for studying spatial patterns and processes in deep time.
2400948|Plesiadapiforms were among the most diverse and abundant of North American mammalian groups during the Paleocene epoch. Their decline and extinction has been attributed to a variety of causes, including competitive exclusion by rodents and/or by primates of modern aspect (euprimates), and the effects of late Paleocene-early Eocene climatic warming. However, analyses of generic and species richness and relative abundance patterns indicate that the decline of plesiadapiforms was more complex than usually supposed. The two major superfamilies, Plesiadapoidea and Microsyopoidea, exhibited very different patterns of decline. Microsyopoids and paromomyid plesiadapoids do not exhibit a pronounced decline in taxonomic richness and relative abundance during the Early Tertiary. Non-paromomyid plesiadapoids do decline markedly, but, when their taxonomic richness and relative abundance patterns are compared with those of potentially competing taxa (rodents and euprimates) only non-paromomyid plesiadapoids and rodents show the inverse relationship consistent with taxonomic displacement. Euprimates appear in North America after non-paromomyid plesiadapoids were virtually extinct. Analyses of body size, diet, diel activity patterns, and locomotion support the hypothesis that rodents and non-paromomyid plesiadapoids may have competed for the same resources; their paleobiogeographic histories also are consistent with the competition argument. Currently available paleoclimatological data for the Early Tertiary largely pertain to global temperature trends and are not detailed enough to demonstrate unequivocally whether the decline of non-paromomyid plesiadapoids coincided with climatic change. A more complete record of paleoclimatic indicators, especially from the Western Interior of North America, is needed to test the climate hypothesis adequately. The several independent lines of evidence considered here and elsewhere in reference to other mammalian taxa strongly support the hypothesis that competition with rodents was an important factor in a major restructuring of Early Tertiary mammalian communities in North America.
2401195|One of the striking yet scarcely documented episodes of clade replacement in the post-Paleozoic fossil record is the decline of cyclostome Bryozoa and the corresponding, rapid diversification of cheilostome Bryozoa. These clades are closely associated morphologically and phylogenetically, and their ecological similarities have previously led to the inference that competition was a primary cause of the overt pattern of replacement. Alternatively, previous compilations of bryozoan families and genera have implied that extinctions at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary differentially affected cyclostomes, and thus were also an important factor in the transition. We first evaluated the ecological context for competition between the two clades, then updated and reexamined the history of absolute family diversity for bryozoans in consecutive geologic stages from Jurassic to Recent. The resulting trends echo the patterns shown in earlier family level compilations, but indicate a slight shift in the frequency of cheilostome family originations from Late Cretaceous to early Paleogene. The relative fall in cyclostome family diversity at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary is significantly less than shown in earlier genus level compilations. We then assessed these various compilations of absolute diversity by analyzing species counts and percentages in 728 fossil assemblages, primarily from North America and Europe, over the same time interval. Cyclostome species overwhelmingly dominate assemblages from Jurassic through Cenomanian, then decline significantly in average percentage dominance through the Campanian. Cheilostomes are predominant in Campanian and later assemblages. Cyclostome species percentages do decrease overall through the Tertiary, but this decrease is small and non-uniform, varying around 30%, with a sharp drop in the Late Neogene. Our within-assemblage results indicate that as cheilostomes radiate, their mean species diversity, maximum diversity, and variance all increase, thereby accounting for much of the decline in average percentage of cyclostomes within assemblages. While this result does not exclude a role for competition, an hypothesis of relative decline in cyclostome species richness based on competitive extinction alone seems unlikely. Further, despite decreases in absolute species counts following end-Cretaceous extinctions, within-assemblage percentages of cheilostome or cyclostome species show only slight change relative to one another. Comparison of these and earlier diversity compilations indicates that the dynamics of bryozoan clade replacement may be perceived differently at different ecologic scales or taxonomic ranks.
2400638|In the past twenty years, both knowledge of fossil plants and ways of looking at the paleobotanical record have expanded significantly. Studies of Precambrian microfossils have provided insight on early photoautotrophs, while fundamental changes in perceptions of Silurian and Devonian plant remains have clarified our understanding of the colonization of land, as well as the subsequent evolution of complex stems, leaves, and the seed habit. A recurring question concerns the phylogenetic relationships of gymnosperms: is the gymnospermy found in various living and extinct taxa the result of evolutionary convergence or of common descent? Rapidly accumulating data on the reproductive and developmental biology of Paleozoic seed ferns is reopening debate on this issue. The mystery of angiosperm origins remains "abominable", but the past two decades of research have seen convincing documentation of the initial radiation and rise to taxonomic and ecological dominance of the flowering plants. While phylogenetic and systematic botany remain at the core of paleobotanical research, increased attention is being devoted to studies of ontogeny and reproductive biology, paleoecology, taphonomy, paleophytochemistry, paleoclimatology, and paleobiogeography. Studies of evolutionary rates and diversity are in their infancy, but initial results permit an optimistic appraisal of the contributions that paleobotanists can make to evolutionary paleontology.
4500171|Geographic range size is one of the few traits that promoted survivorship during both mass and background extinctions, but the exact reason (or reasons) why a large geographic range confers extinction resistance remains unclear. Proposed explanations have focused on the roles of dispersal ability, climate tolerance, global abundance, and widespread ranges in predicting taxon longevities. This study uses biogeographic data for late Paleozoic brachiopod genera to test the relative contribution of these traits to genus longevities, using simple but accurate proxy measurements. The results demonstrate a strong positive relationship between genus longevity and geographic range size, which is robust to several potential errors. Further, latitudinal range, which predominantly reflects climate tolerance, was no more important than longitudinal range, which predominantly reflects dispersal ability, in predicting genus longevities. Rather, longevities were an outcome of the total number of occurrences, which estimates global abundance, and the advantages of widespread distribution, regardless of which particular traits were responsible for generating the total geographic range. The advantages of a large geographic range were apparent during both background and mass extinctions of late Paleozoic time. Although not statistically significant, there was a tendency for the greatest selectivity to occur in intervals with the lowest extinction rates. The correlation of genus longevity and geographic range size had a profound consequence for the secular pattern of global brachiopod diversity: because the diversity of genera with small geographic ranges was more volatile owing to their correspondingly shorter longevities, global diversity and mean geographic range size paralleled each other almost exactly. Given that the correlation between taxon longevity and geographic range size has also been demonstrated for other taxonomic groups and at other time intervals, these results suggest that global diversity curves compiled from taxonomic databases dominantly reflect changes in the diversity of genera with small geographic ranges.
1571652|The study of evolution has increasingly incorporated considerations of history, scale, and hierarchy, in terms of both the origin of variation and the sorting of that variation. Although the macroevolutionary exploration of developmental genetics has just begun, considerable progress has been made in understanding the origin of evolutionary novelty in terms of the potential for coordinated morphological change and the potential for imposing uneven probabilities on different evolutionary directions. Global or whole-organism heterochrony, local heterochrony (affecting single structures, regions, or organ systems) and heterotopies (changes in the location of developmental events), and epigenetic mechanisms (which help to integrate the developing parts of an organism into a functional whole) together contribute to profound nonlinearities between genetic and morphologic change, by permitting the generation and accommodation of evolutionary novelties without pervasive, coordinated genetic changes; the limits of these developmental processes are poorly understood, however. The discordance across hierarchical levels in the production of evolutionary novelties through time, and among latitudes and environments, is an intriguing paleontological pattern whose explanation is controversial, in part because separating effects of genetics and ecology has proven difficult. At finer scales, species in the fossil record tend to be static over geologic time, although this stasis-to which there are gradualistic exceptions-generally appears to be underlain by extensive, nondirectional change rather than absolute invariance. Only a few studies have met the necessary protocols for the analysis of evolutionary tempo and mode at the species level, and so the distribution of evolutionary patterns among clades, environments, and modes of life remains poorly understood. Sorting among taxa is widely accepted in principle as an evolutionary mechanism, but detailed analyses are scarce; if geographic range or population density can be treated as traits above the organismic level, then the paleontological and macroecological literature abounds in potential raw material for such analyses. Even if taxon sorting operates on traits that are not emergent at the species level, the differential speciation and extinction rates can shape large-scale evolutionary patterns in ways that are not simple extrapolations from short-term evolution at the organismal level. Changes in origination and extinction rates can evidently be mediated by interactions with other clades, although such interactions need to be studied in a geographically explicit fashion before the relative roles of biotic and physical factors can be assessed. Incumbency effects are important at many scales, with the most dramatic manifestation being the postextinction diversifications that follow the removal of incumbents. However, mass extinctions are evolutionarily important not only for the removal of dominant taxa, which can occur according to rules that differ from those operating during times of lower extinction intensity, but also for the dramatic diversifications that follow upon the removal or depletion of incumbents. Mass extinctions do not entirely reset the evolutionary clock, so survivors can exhibit unbroken evolutionary continuity, trends that suffer setbacks but then resume, or failure to participate in the recovery.
2401236|The pattern of differential species longevities among five Osagean-Meramecian crinoid clades is analyzed for its evolutionary significance. Differences in mean species longevity between clades may have resulted from species sorting based on eurytopy (niche breadth). In order to test the relationship between longevity and eurytopy it was first necessary to recognize generalists (eurytopes) vs. specialists (stenotopes) objectively. Three different approaches were used: (1) the "Eurytopy Index" (EI), which is a measure of mean number of facies per species; (2) analysis of crinoid functional morphology; and (3) use of canonical discriminant analysis to analyze species distributions between facies in order to separate generalists from specialists. Mean species longevity for each clade was evaluated by four different approaches: (1) rarefaction was used to control for differences in sample size, including both species richness and number of occurrences, between clades; (2) potential facies control of species longevity was evaluated by a bootstrap that compared the observed data to a null model where species longevity was limited only by the actual occurrences of each species known facies through time; (3) uniformity of clade species richness through time was evaluated by the "Index of Uniformity for Species Richness" based on the standard deviation of clade species richness across the time intervals; and (4) potential species range truncations were evaluated by a biostratigraphic gap analysis based on the binomial distribution. The general order of increasing longevity and eurytopy is (from least to most): flexibles, advanced cladids, camerates, disparids, and primitive cladids. In general the pinnulate crinoids (advanced cladids and camerates) were specialists with lower mean species longevity, and the nonpinnulate crinoids (disparids and primitive cladids) were generalists with higher mean species longevity. Pinnulate crinoids were specialized for feeding in high-energy currents and, thus, were limited in their facies distribution and presumably more extinction-prone. The non-pinnulates could feed in both low- and high-energy currents and, thus, were less limited in their facies distribution and presumably less extinction-prone. The flexibles were the exception in that they were non-pinnulate but had the lowest mean species longevity, apparently because they were specialized for deeper-water clastic environments. On average, generalist clades have mean species longevities that at a minimum are up to 45% (1.0  0.7 m.y.) longer than specialist clades. However, greater mean species longevity did not necessarily confer long-term advantages to a clade. The specialist advanced cladids became the dominant crinoid clade of the late Paleozoic and gave rise to the articulate crinoids of the post-Paleozoic. This may have resulted from the more rapid species turnover of stenotopes creating adaptive evolutionary novelties for their clade. Alternatively, it could simply be the result of stochastic processes. The finer subdivision of niche space by specialists has led previous workers to predict that specialist clades should have higher species richness than generalist clades. The present study supports this prediction.
2400426|In the past decade, evolutionary paleoecology has shifted away from corroborative research of the "me-too-ecology" type toward its proper domain-the evolutionary consequences of ecological properties, roles, and strategies at the individual, population, community, and species levels. The science of evolutionary paleoecology tests for linkage between a species' ecology and its macroevolutionary history. Do the ecological characters of species within clades influence differential rate dynamics, particularly rates of faunal turnover and diversification? Intellectual coequality, once hampered by the misunderstanding that the role of paleoecology is to find examples of past ecology imperfectly entombed in the fossil record, is strengthened by the increasing number of evolutionary ecologists who have called for explicit paleontological contributions to resolve theoretical issues. The fossil record provides a necessary perspective to an understanding of process.
25609421|Pterosaurs were the first flying vertebrates and formed important components of terrestrial and marginal marine ecosystems during the Mesozoic. They became extinct during the latest Cretaceous (latest Maastrichtian), at, or near, the Cretaceous/Paleogene boundary, following an apparent decline in diversity in the Late Cretaceous. This reduction in species richness has been linked to the ecological radiation of birds in the Early Cretaceous and the proposal that birds competitively excluded pterosaurs from many key niches. However, although competition is often posited as a causal mechanism for many of the clade-clade replacements observed in the fossil record, these hypotheses are rarely tested. Here we present a detailed examination of pterosaur diversity through time, including both taxic and phylogenetically corrected diversity estimates and comparison of these estimates with a model describing temporal variation in the number of pterosaur-bearing formations (a proxy for rock availability). Both taxic and phylogenetic diversity curves are strongly correlated with numbers of pterosaur-bearing formations, suggesting that a significant part of the signal contained within pterosaur diversity patterns may be controlled by geological and taphonomic megabiases rather than macroevolutionary processes. There is no evidence for a long-term decline in pterosaur diversity through the Cretaceous, although a reduction in morphological, ecological, and phylogenetic diversity does appear to have occurred in the latest Cretaceous. Competitive replacement of pterosaurs by birds is difficult to support on the basis of diversity patterns.
2400696|Patterns of dental and cranial variation are analyzed in a unique sample of early Eocene equid Hyracotherium from one fossil quarry of late Wasatchian age in the Huerfano Basin of southern Colorado. The sample includes remains of two species differing principally in size: H. vasacciense and H. tapirinum. The larger species, H. tapirinum, is represented by 24 individual specimens that show marked bimodality in cranial size and robustness and in upper and lower canine size. These differences are attributed to sexual dimorphism. Males tend to be about 15% larger than females in cranial dimensions and 40% larger than females in canine dimensions suggesting, by comparison with modern ungulates, that early Eocene horses were probably polygynous. The appearance of Hyracotherium in North America and its rise to dominance in early Eocene mammalian communities coincides with development of an environmental mosaic including open park woodland and savanna habitats. The evolutionary success of Hyracotherium may reflect, in part, the adaptive superiority of a social structure in which females in open habitats are grouped for mutual protection from predators, for optimal foraging in patchy environments, or both.
2400907|Survival of North American shelf trilobite families during a mass extinction across the upper boundary of the Upper Cambrian Sunwaptan Stage (="Ptychaspid Biomere") cannot be predicted from patterns of turnover among their component species: on the shelf, stratigraphic ranges of species belonging to surviving families do not differ significantly from those of eliminated families. Thus, the sorting of families during the extinctions cannot be explained by simple upward causation from the individual level. However, families that ranged from shelf to slope environments before the extinctions (most of which are pandemic) fared significantly better than those confined to shelf settings (which tend to be endemic to North America), indicating that family survival was influenced by geographic and environmental distribution, a property emergent above the individual level. One factor implicated in clade survival during normal background times, high species richness, did not influence the outcome of mass extinction. The results affirm the importance of a hierarchical approach to the interpretation of macroevolutionary patterns and provide some support to the suggestion that sorting processes operating during mass extinctions differ from those of background times.
41432158|The role of antagonistic organismal interactions in the production of long-term macroevolutionary trends has been debated for decades. Some evidence seems to suggest that temporal trends in prdation frequency share a common causative mechanism with genus-level diversity, whereas studies on the role of parasites in "shaping" the evolutionary process are rare indeed. Digenean trematodes (Phylum Platyhelminthes) infest molluscs in at least one stage of their complex life cycle. Trematodes leave characteristic oval-shaped pits with raised rims on the interior of their bivalve hosts, and these pits are preserved in the fossil record. Here we survey 11,785 valves from the PleistoceneHolocene deposits of the Po Plain and from nearby modern coastal environments on the northeast Adriatic coast of Italy. Of these, 205 valves exhibited trematodeinduced pits. Trematodes were selective parasites in terms of host taxonomy and host body size. Infestation was restricted to lower shoreface/transition-to-platform paleoenvironments. During the Holocene, individuals from the transgressive systems tract were significantly more likely to be infested than those from highstand systems tracts. Temporal trends in infestation frequency cannot be explained as an ecological/evolutionary phenomenon (e.g., the hypothesis of escalation); instead the trend seems controlled by environmental variation induced by glacio-eustatic sea-level changes and inadequate sampling. Because this interaction appears to be ephemeral, both temporally and spatially, it is not likely that any selective pressure would be continuous over geologic time in this region. Furthermore, these results support the hypothesis that antagonistic interactions are lower in the northern Adriatic Sea in comparison to other midlatitude shallow marine settings.
2400477|Fusion occurred between pairs of conspecific colonies of Permian fenestrate bryozoans that were of approximately equal radius at time of contact. In contrast, no fusion occurred in pairs of conspecific colonies that were of unequal radius at time of contact. It is suggested that histologically compatible colonies developed from larvae that settled essentially simultaneously and that the larvae were siblings, lecithotrophic with low mobility, and of the same genotype (i.e., polyembryonic). Thus polyembryony appears to have existed as a reproductive "strategy" for at least 275 Myr, and its scarcity in modern taxa cannot be due to recentness of evolution.
2400365|Analysis of stratigraphically separated collections of Late Ordovician fossilized marine invertebrates suggests that our understanding of faunal changes through time may be enhanced by considering them in terms of a successional framework. The faunal succession in the Nicolet River Valley, St. Lawrence Lowlands, Quebec, began with the initial colonization of an offshore barren mud by two or three presumably opportunistic deposit-feeding species. Diversity, both of species and of trophic types, increased gradually, peaked, and then decreased slightly with some faunal shifts, especially in the numerical predominance of the epifaunal element. A three-fold repetition of this quiet-water succession seems in each case to have been terminated by an external physical perturbation. There also appears to be a second, separate successional sequence which became localized on a somewhat coarser-grained and perhaps less stable substratum as the paleoshoreline was approached, due to sediment filling of the basin.
41432156|Sabertooth members of the Felidae, Nimravidae, and Barbourofelidae are well-known for their elongated saber-shaped canines. However, within these groups, there is a wide range of independently derived tooth shapes and lengths, including dirk-tooth and scimitar-tooth morphs. In conjunction with the saberteeth, forelimbs were also used to subdue prey. Thus, there may be a functional link between canine shape and forelimb morphology. Because there are no living sabertooth forms for comparison, extant felids make a good proxy for examining the morphology of these extinct organisms. Here, I examine the forelimb morphology of different sabertooth groups from across North America; I address whether forelimb morphologies are associated with tooth morphologies, and whether these associated tooth and forelimb morphologies are convergent among different families. To answer these questions, I analyzed six functional indices of the forelimbs and two canine characters for 13 species of sabertooth predators and 15 extant felid species. Results indicate that sabertooth morphs with longer, thinner canines show more robust limb proportions. These patterns were convergent among sabertooth felids, nimravids, and barbourofelids, and indicate a positive functional relationship between saber elongation and increased forelimb robustness. This suggests that sabertooth carnivorans demonstrated niche partitioning of predation strategies according to canine shape and corresponding forelimb morphology.
2400486|Siwalik rocks of Pakistan are a virtually continuous, continental sedimentary sequence, extending in age from 18 to 1 ma B.P. This paper describes taphonomic features of late Miocene mammalian assemblages from a highly fossiliferous interval about 400 m thick, based on field documentation of sedimentary environments at 42 fossil localities and systematic fossil collection of 21 localities. Within a broadly fluvial system, I recognize four sedimentary environments of bone accumulation, distinguished by lithology, unit-thickness, unit-geometry, contacts, sedimentary structures, and relationship to adjacent units. Each environment corresponds to an association of lithofacies. Facies Association I is interpreted as the persistent, major channel bodies of a meandering fluvial system; Facies Association II as coarse-grained flood deposits, such as crevasse splays, deposited beyond the main channels; Facies Association III as channel margins, including levees and swales; and Facies Association IV as predominantly subaerial floodplains. Taphonomic features of bone assemblages from each facies association include skeletal-element composition, surface distribution of specimens, degree of articulation, hydraulic equivalence between organic and inorganic sedimentary particles, frequency of juvenile remains, size distribution of fauna, and an estimate of duration of accumulation of individual fossil localities. The distribution of these features among the four facies associations suggests that bone assemblages in Facies Associations I and II accumulated by the action of currents in river channels or floods, whereas bone assemblages in Facies Associations III and IV accumulated through concentration by biological agents and/or attrition at a repeatedly used site of predation. Inclusion in fluvial accumulations depends on initial availability of skeletal remains and hydraulic characteristics of individual skeletal elements, but not taxonomic identity per se. For biological accumulations, however, taxonomic composition reflects the preferences of the individual agents of accumulation. The probability of preservation of taxa in fluvial accumulations is probably mainly a function of body size, as reflected in the sizes of isolated skeletal elements. Thus, in this Siwalik system, bone assemblages that experienced fluvial transport are better representations of original community composition than bone assemblages created by biological agents or passive accumulation.
2400167|On the basis of about 70,000 species citations in the Zoological Record, it is estimated that about 190,000 fossil invertebrate species were described and named through 1970. The true figure may be higher because of incompleteness of the Zoological Record or lower because the estimate does not account for synonymy. About 70% of the species were described from USSR, Europe, and North America. About 42% are Paleozoic, 28% Mesozoic, and 30% Cenozoic. In the Cambrian part of the sample, 75% of the species are trilobites. In the Mesozoic and Cenozoic, about 70% are either molluscs or protozoans. When the data are normalized for absolute time, diversity (species per million years) shows a Paleozoic high in the Devonian which is approximately four-tenths of the Cenozoic level.
4096912|The compactness profile of femoral cross-sections and body size of 105 specimens of 46 species of lissamphibians was studied to assess the effect of lifestyle (aquatic, amphibious, or terrestrial). Several tests that incorporate phylogenetic information (permutational multiple linear regression incorporating phylogenetic distances, logistic regression using phylogenetic weighting, concentrated-changes tests) show that the return to a fully aquatic lifestyle is associated with an increase in the compactness of the femur and an increase in body size. However, amphibious taxa cannot be distinguished from terrestrial ones solely on the basis of size or compactness. Body size and compactness profile parameters of the femur exhibit a phylogenetic signal (i.e., closely related taxa tend to be more similar to each other than to distantly related taxa). Mathematical equations obtained from our data by using logistic regression with phylogenetic weighting are used to infer the lifestyle of four early stegocephalians. The results are generally congruent with prevailing paleontological interpretations, which suggests that this method could be applied to infer the lifestyle of early taxa whose lifestyle is poorly understood.
2400896|The Cretaceous-Tertiary (K-T) extinction reduced the gamma diversity of molluscs on the U.S. Gulf Coast from over 500 species in the late Maastrichtian to a little over 100 species in the early Danian. Gamma (total) diversity increased in a series of steps that generally tracked temperature, to a high of around 400 species in the late Middle Eocene, at which time diversity declined in the Late Eocene-Oligocene extinctions. The molluscan radiation occurred in at least two distinct phases: 1) an Initial Radiation Phase in which certain families underwent unusually high speciation, apparently filling ecological niches vacated by the extinction, followed by extinction of many of the species in these families in the late Danian; and, 2) a Secondary Radiation Phase where gamma diversity gradually increased and new genera gradually appeared. The fact that the gamma diversity of molluscs did not reach pre-extinction levels before the next extinction in the Late Eocene suggests that molluscan faunas may spend much of their evolutionary time recovering from these extinctions.
4096815|Previous observations about the stable nature of coral-rich assemblages from the Middle Devonian Hamilton Group have led some researchers to invoke the primacy of ecological controls in maintaining biofacies structure through time. However, few analyses have examined the degree to which recurring biofacies vary quantitatively, and none have assessed lateral variability as a benchmark for testing the significance of temporal variability. Thus, the extent to which Hamilton biofacies persist and the mechanism(s) responsible for their hypothesized stability remain contentious. In this study, recurring coral-rich biofacies were evaluated from two stratigraphic horizons within the Middle Devonian Appalachian Basin to examine (1) the extent to which species assemblages persisted within the basin through space and time, and (2) whether ecological interactions may be a plausible mechanism for generating the degree of stasis observed in this case. Variations in species composition and abundance were examined across multiple spatial scales within both sampled coral-rich horizons. This permitted the establishment of a baseline against which temporal differences in biofacies composition and structure could be evaluated. Although successive coral-rich horizons remained taxonomically stable, their dominance structures changed significantly through the 1.5 Myr study interval. Moreover, additional comparisons among older Hamilton coral-rich horizons corroborate our primary results. These findings support a model in which species respond individually to fluctuations in the physical environment, as indicated by the fluidity of their relative abundances geographically and temporally.
23014736|Taxonomic membership frequencies exhibit distributions in which groups with few numbers of subtaxa are much more common in a clade than those with more subtaxa. Here, a "broken plate" model is developed to describe such taxonomic memberships; some higher taxonomic group (the plate) is randomly subdivided into intermediate taxonomic units (plate fragments), whose sizes are dependent on the number of taxonomic subunits that they each contain. Theoretical distributions of membership frequencies produced by this model yield a superior fit to data from both modern and fossil groups, as illustrated by classifications for primarily fossil brachiopods and entirely modern mammals. The nature of these distributions is consistent with the contention that Linnaean membership frequencies result from the random partitioning of taxonomic/morphologic space. Moreover, numbers of taxa contained within hierarchically equivalent groups are unrelated, as are membership numbers at taxonomically higher and lower levels of consideration. Agreement between observed taxonomic memberships and those anticipated from the random partitioning of diversity as described by the "broken plate" model bears directly on a number of fundamental questions including the significance of extreme polytypy and inferred causes of adaptive radiation within many taxonomic groups.
23014719|We describe statistical methods to formulate and validate statements about survival rates given a small number of individuals. These methods allow one to estimate the age-specific survival rate and assess its uncertainty, to assess whether the survival rates during some age range differ from the survival rates during another age range, and to assess whether the survivorship curve has a particular shape. We illustrate these methods by applying them to a sample of 22 Albertosaurus sarcophagus individuals. We show that this sample is too small to provide any confidence in the claim that this species had a ``convex'' survivorship curve arising from age-specific survival rates that decreased monotonically with age. However, we show that a sample of 50 to 100 individuals has reasonable statistical power to support such a claim. There is evidence for the much weaker claim that average survival rates for ages 2 to 15 were higher than survival rates for later ages. Finally, we describe one way to account for size-dependent fossilization rates and show that a plausible positively-size-dependent fossilization rate results in a substantially non-convex survivorship curve for A. sarcophagus.
2400628|Bases of attachment of Archimedes colonies are very rare, but many colonies show evidence of origination from a pre-existing set of branches. The evidence consists of spiralled supports (axial screws) originating from fragments of pre-existing sets of branches, proximal taper of colonies or axial screws to a diameter smaller than that of bases of attachment, early stages of new colonies originating from the whorl margins of older colonies, and sets of laterally fused colonies. In the most favorable environments Archimedes populations were dominated by a few genets that consisted of hundreds to perhaps thousands of genetically identical colonies. The ability to reproduce by colony fragmentation was probably an important cause of Archimedes' abundance in the Chesterian seas of eastern North America, especially where it occurred in dense populations in the lee of submarine carbonate shoals. Colony fragmentation, the importance of which is becoming increasingly recognized in modern corals and bryozoans, was also of importance in Paleozoic seas.
2401096|Statistical inference about the upper and lower endpoints of the stratigraphic ranges of fossil taxa can be based on the pattern of finds. Strauss and Sadler (1989) described a test and confidence interval for a common upper or lower endpoint in two or more taxa. This approach is conservative, in the sense that it provides only an upper bound on the significance level. This paper describes and illustrates a test and confidence interval for which the significance level is known.
2401113|The incompleteness of the fossil record hinders the inference of evolutionary rates and patterns. Here, we derive relationships among true taxonomic durations, preservation probability, and observed taxonomic ranges. We use these relationships to estimate original distributions of taxonomic durations, preservation probability, and completeness (proportion of taxa preserved), given only the observed ranges. No data on occurrences within the ranges of taxa are required. When preservation is random and the original distribution of durations is exponential, the inference of durations, preservability, and completeness is exact. However, reasonable approximations are possible given non-exponential duration distributions and temporal and taxonomic variation in preservability. Thus, the approaches we describe have great potential in studies of taphonomy, evolutionary rates and patterns, and genealogy. Analyses of Upper Cambrian-Lower Ordovician trilobite species, Paleozoic crinoid genera, Jurassic bivalve species, and Cenozoic mammal species yield the following results: (1) The preservation probability inferred from stratigraphic ranges alone agrees with that inferred from the analysis of stratigraphic gaps when data on the latter are available. (2) Whereas median durations based on simple tabulations of observed ranges are biased by stratigraphic resolution, our estimates of median duration, extinction rate, and completeness are not biased. (3) The shorter geologic ranges of mammalian species relative to those of bivalves cannot be attributed to a difference in preservation potential. However, we cannot rule out the contribution of taxonomic practice to this difference. (4) In the groups studied, completeness (proportion of species [trilobites, bivalves, mammals] or genera [crinoids] preserved) ranges from 60% to 90%. The higher estimates of completeness at smaller geographic scales support previous suggestions that the incompleteness of the fossil record reflects loss of fossiliferous rock more than failure of species to enter the fossil record in the first place.
2401021|More than 300 coots (Fulica americana) became frozen in Spring Lake, Tazewell County, Illinois, on December 1, 1985. This catastrophic event permitted 8 weeks of taphonomic observations, which showed that ice forms a stable substrate which permits terrestrial taphonomic processes to be imprinted on lacustrine deposits. Bird and mammal scavengers attacked coot carcasses in different manners, resulting in distinct disarticulation sequences. Bird scavengers preferentially fed on the head, neck, and breast-wing complex, causing early disarticulation of bones in these areas, late loss of hindlimb joints, and minimal bone damage. In contrast, mammal scavengers concentrated their attention on the hindlimb and tail region, resulting in bone breakage and early disarticulation of these body parts, but late disarticulation of the breast-wing complex. These data demonstrate that scavenger-specific feeding behaviors significantly influence disarticulation patterns early in assemblage formation, while anatomy may exert increasingly greater influence on disarticulation patterns as carasses become less attractive to scavengers. Finally, because taphonomic processes change in intensity and type through time, bone frequency and modification patterns will vary according to the time at which the patterns are arrested by burial. Thus, bone frequency and modification patterns should provide an index to the relative importance of specific biotic agents and of anatomy in fossil disarticulation patterns as well as an estimate of the time between death and burial.
3595507|The characters and body parts of organisms are shaped by mechanical forces at two temporal scales. At the ontogenetic scale, the relevant forces are those of every day, exerted by muscles, other metabolism-powered processes, and normal interactions between the body and the external environment. At the phylogenetic scale, forces are strong enough to kill some individuals or to cause reproductive failure. These forces act more intermittently. I explore these ideas by examining the characters of molluscan shells, which grow by the addition of skeletal material along the rim of the open end of a hollow, conical tube that is closed at its narrow (apical) end. In the idealized case of a null shell, the skeleton is a right circular cone, in which the magnitude and direction of growth are the same at each point along the rim. The rate of expansion of the cone is determined by the shell-builder's metabolism. Real shell-builders are exposed to, and themselves exert, forces that affect shell shape. These forces are generated by contact between the shell-secreting mantle margin and the substratum, by local or temporary deformations of the mantle margin imposed by other parts of the body and previously formed parts of the shell, and by contraction of muscles that connect the soft tissues to the inner shell surface. Early mollusks whose shells more or less resemble the null shell were slow-moving, epifaunal animals that clamped the shell against the substratum. Evolutionary increases in metabolic rate, associated with greater mobility and faster growth, made some ontogenetically important forces stronger and introduced new forces. As a result, the range of available phenotypes expanded. Refinements in genetic regulation of form, perhaps including an increase in the number of semiautonomous regulatory regions, further added to the specification and range of variation of characters that were subject either to evolutionary conservation or to natural selection. For example, the mantle margin in plesiomorphic gastropods appears to comprise one such region, which produces a growing shell margin in the form of a logarithmic spiral; in more-derived gastropods, the mantle margin may comprise two or more regions, which together produce a growing shell margin that departs strikingly from the logarithmic form of the outer shell lip. The morphospace occupied by accretionary shells can be described by (1) the number of semiautonomous developmental modules, (2) selective regimes observable as phenotypic adaptive evolution, and (3) metabolic rate. The perspective outlined here implies that shells initially occupied a limited morphospace encompassing one or two modules, adaptation as an epifaunal clamping animal, and slow growth (low expansion rates) and metabolism. Further compartmentalization, together with increased metabolic rates in ecologically dominant taxa, caused the morphospace to expand both in the number of independent descriptors and in the range of values that each parameter spans. These trends in morphospace may characterize all major multicellular clades.
2401154|Stratigraphic data are compared to morphologic data in terms of their fit to phylogenetic hypotheses for 29 data sets taken from the literature. Stratigraphic fit is measured using MacClade's stratigraphic character, which tracks the number of independent discrepancies between observed order and the order of occurrence that would be expected on the basis of a given phylogenetic hypothesis. Acceptance of a phylogenetic hypothesis despite such discrepancies requires ad hoc hypotheses concerning differential probabilities of preservation and recovery. These stratigraphic ad hoc hypotheses are treated as logically equivalent to morphologic ad hoc hypotheses of homoplasy. The retention index is used to compare the number of stratigraphic and morphologic ad hoc hypotheses required by given phylogenetic hypotheses. Each data set is subjected to five analyses, varying in the constraints imposed on the structure of the phylogenetic tree against which fit is measured. Analyses 1-4 compare the stratigraphic and morphologic retention indices using phylogenetic trees consistent with the morphologically most-parsimonious cladogram reported in the original study. Analysis 5 compares retention indices using the overall (stratigraphically and morphologically) most-parsimonious phylogenetic tree, which may be, but is not necessarily, consistent with the reported cladogram. Proceeding from Analysis 1 to Analysis 5, stratigraphic data are allowed greater influence in determining the structure of phylogenetic trees, with the trees in Analysis 1 derived without reference to the stratigraphic character and the trees in Analysis 5 derived from full interaction of stratigraphic and morphologic characters. Morphologic and stratigraphic retention indices for these 29 studies cannot be statistically distinguished in comparisons 3-5, suggesting very similar degrees of fit. The values of these retention indices are high, indicating a generally high level of congruence under these phylogenetic hypotheses. Significant gains (49%) in stratigraphic fit can be realized without significant loss (4%) in morphologic fit as the stratigraphic and morphologic evidence are both allowed to participate in constraining the structure of phylogenetic hypotheses. These results suggest that arguments based on alleged "noisiness" of stratigraphic data offer inadequate grounds for ignoring stratigraphic order in phylogenetic analysis. In terms of congruence, stratigraphic and morphologic data perform about equally well.
2666048|Paleotectonic reconstructions for the late Proterozoic have differed over the timing of the Cordilleran rifting between Laurentia and the East Gondwana cratons. Parsimony Analysis of Endemism (PAE) and phenetic clustering of the "Ediacara biota" were carried out, for comparison with competing paleotectonic hypotheses. All analyses show a common pattern of similarities among biotas. The biotas of Charnwood Forest and Newfoundland consistently group together, while the south Australian biota is closest to those of Baltica, northern Laurentia, and Siberia. The biota of southwest North America, though still poorly known, strikingly resembles that of Namibia-not that of northwestern Canada. This pattern is not obviously due to facies-related or preservational bias and is very different from Cambrian biogeographic patterns. The overall pattern is most consistent with the hypothesis that the western margin of Laurentia was in close contact with East Gondwana, with rifting taking place either during or just before the Vendian. This arrangement has been previously proposed as a paleotectonic hypothesis; however, most recent paleomagnetic and structural studies support the alternate hypothesis that this rifting took place more than 100 million years before the Vendian. Resolving this contradiction will require much more data on both organismal distribution and cratonal position.
2400388|An unusual isolated specimen representing an immature rhabdosome of Dicellograptus sp. from the Middle Ordovician Athens Shale of Alabama has a flattened sphere attached to the distal end of the nema. The flattened sphere can be interpreted as a float that probably conferred buoyancy on the rhabdosome. Such floats, which became detached in mature rhabdosomes, may be common in the fossil record. The presence of nematophorous siculae in all planktonic graptolites suggests that for immature rhabdosomes a passive, buoyant mode of life, attained by means of a float, might have been widespread taxonomically. This mode of life is compatible with the theory of passive response for the mode of life of mature rhabdosomes, but it is difficult to reconcile with the theory of automobility.
2400461|Macerations of fragmented plant compressions of Silurian (Llandoverian) age yield sheets of organic material bearing ridges and depressions (interpreted as corresponding to surficial dimensions of cells), fragments of smooth walled tubular elements, and fragments of tubular elements with differentially thickened walls ("banded tubes"). A fragment of tissue (1.2 mm long), consisting of smooth walled tubes (17  6.9  m in diameter), surrounding 2-3 larger (18.8  2.1  m in diameter) banded tubes, was isolated from an irregularly shaped, relatively large (1 x 3 mm) compression. Comparisons between (1) fragments of tubular cell types, not organized into strands, isolated from 122 compressions, and (2) dispersed tubular cell types previously reported from the Massanutten Formation and other Silurian formations (Tuscarora and Clinton), reveal no significant morphologic differences. Comparisons between the organization of smooth-walled and banded tubular cell types found in the tissue strand and the organization of cell types in nematophytic plants (Nematothallus, Nematoplexus, Prototaxites) indicate a similarity in construction (tubular) but a lack of correspondence in organization. The strand of tissue is interpreted as representing part of the internal anatomy of a nonvascular land plant of unknown taxonomic affinity On the basis of analogy with present-day embryophytes, the strand of tubular cell types is inferred to have functioned as a conductive tissue. The significance of "banded tubes" in Silurian strata is discussed, and it is concluded that, until more is known about the anatomy, morphology, and biochemistry of the parent plant(s), the habitat and systematic affinity of these organisms are conjectural.
2666116|Multicellular filaments from the ca. 1200-Ma Hunting Formation (Somerset Island, arctic Canada) are identified as bangiacean red algae on the basis of diagnostic cell-division patterns. As the oldest taxonomically resolved eukaryote on record Bangiomorpha pubescens n. gen. n. sp. provides a key datum point for constraining protistan phylogeny. Combined with an increasingly resolved record of other Proterozoic eukaryotes, these fossils mark the onset of a major protistan radiation near the Mesoproterozoic/Neoproterozoic boundary. Differential spore/gamete formation shows Bangiomorpha pubescens to have been sexually reproducing, the oldest reported occurrence in the fossil record. Sex was critical for the subsequent success of eukaryotes, not so much for the advantages of genetic recombination, but because it allowed for complex multicellularity. The selective advantages of complex multicellularity are considered sufficient for it to have arisen immediately following the appearance of sexual reproduction. As such, the most reliable proxy for the first appearance of sex will be the first stratigraphic occurrence of complex multicellularity. Bangiomorpha pubescens is the first occurrence of complex multicellularity in the fossil record. A differentiated basal holdfast structure allowed for positive substrate attachment and thus the selective advantages of vertical orientation; i.e., an early example of ecological tiering. More generally, eukaryotic multicellularity is the innovation that established organismal morphology as a significant factor in the evolutionary process. As complex eukaryotes modified, and created entirely novel, environments, their inherent capacity for reciprocal morphological adaptation, gave rise to the "biological environment" of directional evolution and "progress." The evolution of sex, as a proximal cause of complex multicellularity, may thus account for the Mesoproterozoic/Neoproterozoic radiation of eukaryotes.
40926781|The Corbulidae are one of a handful of a primarily marine bivalve clades that exhibit a remarkable radiation, marked by increased species richness and divergent morphologies, within a long-lived lake. For corbulids, this diversification occurred within the lower to middle Miocene Pebas Formation of western Amazonia. Only one taxon associated with this radiation (Anticorbula) remains extant. We conducted a series of phylogenetic analyses to characterize diversification of Corbulidae within the Pebas Formation and relate that diversification to geologically older freshwater corbulids from the Paleocene Fort Union Formation of the northern Great Plains (United States). We used these results, as well as a quantitative examination of morphospace occupation, to infer whether Pebasian corbulids represent a true species flock, and whether the lacustrine system represented by the Pebas Formation represents a cradle of, or reservoir for, freshwater corbulid diversity. We conducted two sets of phylogenetic analyses using shell morphology characters. A genus-level data set incorporated type species of freshwater corbulid genera, any Paleocene representatives of these genera, and selected brackish and marine corbulid genera. A species-level analysis added all described freshwater corbulid taxa to the genus-level matrix. Our results were highly resolved (few most-parsimonious trees), but not particularly robust (low branch support). For the genus-level matrix, we used a taxon jackknife procedure to explore the effects of taxon sampling on tree stability and topology. Jackknife results recover a subclade of freshwater taxa (including both Anticorbula and Pachydon species and the Paleocene Ostomya sp.) in 92.4% of trees, although placement of this subclade across the ingroup varies, as do the topologie positions of other freshwater species. Freshwater and marine corbulids also are morphologically distinct from each other, a factor that likely reduced the robustness of our phylogenetic results. By combining these results with paleoecologic, stratigraphic, and morphologic data, we infer that freshwater corbulids arose once within the family, prior to the Cenozoic, with three distinct freshwater lineages present at their first appearance in the late Paleocene of North America. Within the Miocene Pebas system of South America, we reconstruct supralimital morphologic evolution within three lineages as freshwater taxa became variously adapted to the fluid, dysoxic muds characterizing lake-bottom facies representative of the Pebas lacustrine system. In addition, corbulids apparently successfully coped with high predation pressures from co-occurring shellcrushing predators. Finally, we consider that freshwater Corbulidae were primarily fluvial taxa throughout their geologic history, with a relatively ephemeral radiation within the Pebasian lake system, thus making the Pebasian system a cradle of diversity for several corbulid lineages.
41432807|A basic hypothesis in extinction theory predicts that more abundant taxa have an evolutionary advantage over less abundant taxa, which should manifest as increased survivorship during major extinction events and longer fossil-record durations. Despite this, various palontologie studies have found conflicting patterns, indicating a more complex relationship between abundance and extinction in the geologic past. This study tests the relationship between abundance and extinction among brachiopod genera within seven third-order depositional sequences spanning the Late Ordovician to Early Silurian (Katian-Aeronian) of the Cincinnati Arch. Contrary to predictions, abundance is not positively correlated with duration in this study. Abundance and duration range from strongly negatively correlated to uncorrelated depending on the spatial scale of analysis and the geologic intervals included, but correlations never indicate that abundance is an evolutionary advantage. In contrast, abundance was an advantageous trait prior to the Ordovician/Silurian extinction, and brachiopods with higher abundances were more likely to survive the event than less abundant brachiopods. While this result is in keeping with common models of extinction, it has not been observed previously at a mass extinction boundary. This may be further evidence that the Ordovician/Silurian extinction was not accompanied by a shift in the macroevolutionary selectivity regime.
2400366|Succession mvolves changes in a community through time, whether internally or externally controlled. As succession progresses, niche specialization, species diversity (variety and equitability), complexity of food chains, and pattern diversity increase; net production and species growth rate decrease. We apply the succession concept to three types of ancient community sequences: 1) fossil reefs (Ordovician-Cretaceous in age), 2) short-term successions occurring through thin stratigraphic intervals, and 3) long-term successions occurring through thicker stratigraphic intervals. Ancient reefs show four vertical zones: (1) a basal stabilization zone (autogenic), 2) the overlying colonization zone (autogenic, pioneer stage), 3) the diversification zone, the bulk of most reefs (diversification culminating in climax), and 4) the uppermost domination zone. The first three zones represent autogenic succession but the final stage may involve allogenic succession. Short-term succession usually occurs where periodic allogenic catastrophes wipe out the community which is rebuilt through autogenic succession. Opportunistic pioneer species are important and in our examples (Ordovician, Silurian, and Cretaceous) are species which pave soft substrata. Paleozoic strophomenid brachiopods filled this role, and inoceramid pelecypods served the function in the Mesozoic. The succession which begins with opportunists progresses to a climax community of equilibrists. Repetition of catastrophe-succession couplets produces a cyclic stratigraphic record. Long-term successions are recorded in thicker stratigraphic sequences, and are of two types: 1) autogenic succession in unchanging physical environments and 2) allogenic succession in changing physical environments. Our examples of these are from the Devonian Haragan-Bois D'Arc formations of Oklahoma and the Lime Creek Formation of Iowa. This type of succession represents a temporal-spatial mosaic. The Haragan data (unchanging environments) indicate characteristic, intergrading, and ubiquitous species in the brachiopod communities. Most ubiquitous species in the pioneer community were eurytopic opportunists. The Lime Creek data allows testing of the prediction that environmental changes cause regression to an earlier succession stage. The brachiopod communities after environmental changes have more ubiquitous and intergrading eurytopic species. These represent an earlier stage in the succession.
4096886|Kelps and other fleshy macroalgae-dominant reef-inhabiting organisms in cool seas-may have radiated extensively following late Cenozoic polar cooling, thus triggering a chain of evolutionary change in the trophic ecology of nearshore temperate ecosystems. We explore this hypothesis through an analysis of body size in the abalones (Gastropoda; Haliotidae), a widely distributed group in modern oceans that displays a broad range of body sizes and contains fossil representatives from the late Cretaceous (60-75 Ma). Geographic analysis of maximum shell length in living abalones showed that small-bodied species, while most common in the Tropics, have a cosmopolitan distribution, whereas large-bodied species occur exclusively in cold-water ecosystems dominated by kelps and other macroalgae. The phylogeography of body size evolution in extant abalones was assessed by constructing a molecular phylogeny in a mix of large and small species obtained from different regions of the world. This analysis demonstrates that small body size is the plesiomorphic state and largeness has likely arisen at least twice. Finally, we compiled data on shell length from the fossil record to determine how (slowly or suddenly) and when large body size arose in the abalones. These data indicate that large body size appears suddenly at the Miocene/Pliocene boundary. Our findings support the view that fleshy-algal dominated ecosystems radiated rapidly in the coastal oceans with the onset of the most recent glacial age. We conclude with a discussion of the broader implications of this change.
1571664|The origin of evolutionary novelty involves changes across the biological hierarchy: from genes and cells to whole organisms and ecosystems. Understanding the mechanisms behind the establishment of new designs involves integrating scientific disciplines that use different data and, often, different means of testing hypotheses. Discoveries from both paleontology and developmental genetics have shed new light on the origin of morphological novelties. The genes that play a major role in establishing the primary axes of the body and appendages, and that regulate the expression of the genes that are responsible for initiating the making of structures such as eyes, or hearts, are highly conserved between phyla. This implies that it is not new genes, per se, that underlie much of morphological innovation, but that it is changes in when and where these and other genes are expressed that constitute the underlying mechanistic basis of morphological innovation. Gene duplication is also a source of developmental innovation, but it is possible that it is not the increased number of genes (and their subsequent divergence) that is most important in the evolution of new morphologies; rather it may be the duplication of their regulatory regions that provides the raw material for morphological novelty. Bridging the gap between microevolution and macroevolution will involve understanding the mechanisms behind the production of morphological variation. It appears that relatively few genetic changes may be responsible for most of the observed phenotypic differences between species, at least in some instances. In addition, advances in our understanding of the mechanistic basis of animal development offer the opportunity to deepen our insight into the nature of the Cambrian explosion. With the advent of whole-genome sequencing, we should see accelerated progress in understanding the relationship between the genotype, phenotype, and environment: post-genomics paleontology promises to be most exciting.
2401137|More than 5000 measurements were taken on over 1000 specimens of two species of brachiopods, Mediospirifer audaculus and Athyris spiriferoides, from the Middle Devonian Hamilton Group of New York state. Statistical analyses were performed on these data, with specimens partitioned by their occurrence in one of many paleoenvironments and stratigraphic horizons. Neither species showed substantial morphological departures between first appearance and extinction (the range of the Hamilton Group, roughly 5 m.y.). However, oscillations in morphology were discovered in both taxa. For the two species we studied, groups of organisms occurring in a single paleoenvironment undergo moderate morphological change through time; however, the net sum of changes through time in all paleoenvironments in which these species occur is essentially zero. Therefore, stasis may be partly a property of the organization of species into different environmental populations. Different "environmental populations" may evolve, but they will typically do so in several different "directions," generally producing no net change. The difference between the morphology of species in different environments over the whole interval of the Hamilton Group is also nil, thereby ruling out any major role that ecophenotypic effects could play in the patterns recognized herein.
4096814|A model is developed to explore the potential responses of paleocommunities to disruptions of primary production during times of mass extinction and ecological crisis. Disruptions of primary production are expected to generate bottom-up cascades of secondary extinction, and these are predictable given species richnesses, functional diversity, and trophic link distributions. If, however, consumers are permitted to compensate for the loss of trophic resources by increasing the intensities of their remaining biotic interactions, top-down driven catastrophic increases of secondary extinction emerge from the model. Both bottom-up and top-down effects are themselves controlled by the geometry of the food webs. The general Phanerozoic trends of increasing taxonomic and ecological diversities, as well as the varying strengths of biotic interactions, have led to food webs of increasing complexity. The frequency of catastrophic secondary extinction increases as food web complexity increases, but increased complexity also serves to dampen the magnitude of the secondary extinctions. When intraguild competitive interactions are included in the model, competitively inferior taxa are observed to possess greater probabilities of survival if the guilds are embedded in simple subnetworks of the overall food web. The result is the emergence of post-extinction guilds dominated by those inferior taxa. These results are congruent with empirical observations of "disaster taxa" dominance after some mass extinction events, and provide a mechanism for the reorganization of ecosystems that is observed after those events. The model makes the testable prediction that dominance by disaster taxa, however, should be observed only when bottom-up disruptions have caused ecosystems to collapse catastrophically.
2666035|A method is presented for the digital reconstruction of weakly calcified fossils within the Nama Group, Namibia. These recently described fossils (Grotzinger et al. 2000) are preserved as calcitic void-fill in a calcite matrix, and individual specimens cannot be freed by conventional techniques. The technique presented here has several integrated steps: (1) the analysis of cross-sections of fossil specimens, (2) the construction of a three-dimensional "tomographic" model that is assembled from the cross-sections, (3) the development of an idealized mathematical model based upon geometric parameters measured from the tomographic model, and (4) the visualization of randomly oriented cross-sections through the mathematical model, which can be compared with fossil cross-sections in outcrop. In this procedure, rocks containing the fossils are ground and digitally photographed at thickness intervals of 25 $\mu$m. A battery of image-processing techniques is used to obtain the contour outlines of the fossils in serial cross-sections. A Delaunay triangulation method is then used to reconstruct the morphology from tetrahedrons which connect the contours in adjacent layers. We found that most of the fossils represent a single morphology with some well-defined characters that vary slightly among individual specimens. This fossil morphology was described by Grotzinger et al. (2000) as Namacalathus hermanastes. A mathematical description of the morphology is used to obtain a database of randomly oriented synthetic cross-sections. This database reproduces the vast majority of cross-sections observed in outcrop.
2401159|A cladistic analysis of the three recognized patterns of central nervous visual organization among teleosts reveals that there is a pattern of intermediate complexity representing the plesiomorphic condition for teleosts, and that there is a simple visual pattern in two unrelated teleost groups which can be concluded to be a secondarily reduced derived condition, as well as an elaborate pattern which is present only in acanthomorph teleosts, thus likely representing a synapomorphy for this taxon. The elaborate central nervous visual pattern, therefore, is one of many functional-anatomical advanced features characterizing the acanthomorphs. Furthermore, when neontological and paleontological data is compared with the paleoecological record of early acanthomorph history during the Late Cretaceous, it is consistent with a hypothesis that this acanthomorph synapomorphic functional-anatomical complex arose likely in ctenothrissiforms as an adaptation to the life in the reorganizing reefs of that geologic period.
4096925|To reconstruct the paleodiet and habitat preference of gomphotheres, we measured the carbon and oxygen isotope composition of 68 bone and tooth samples for three species of Gomphotheriidae from 24 different localities (Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador, Chile, and Brazil). Additionally, we measured the isotopic oxygen in the phosphate of 30 samples to control diagenetic alteration. We calculated the correlation between pairs of
2400817|Lengths of crinoid stalk segments consisting of multiple columnals (pluricolumnals) from the Fort Payne Formation of south-central Kentucky (Mississippian) were tested for uniformity using simulations. The results indicate that stalk segment lengths are too uniform to have been produced by a random process operating on homogeneous stalks. The most parsimonious explanation for the uniformity of pluricolumnal lengths is based on analogy with stalks of living isocrinids. The stalks of these crinoids are organized into multicolumnal segments of approximately uniform length: columnals within each segment are connected by "through-going" ligament and "intercolumnal" ligament. The articulation between segments, however, consists of only intercolumnal ligament. Preliminary results from experiments on Recent carcasses indicate that the latter is the primary plane of disarticulation following death. The preservational pattern of the Mississippian stalks suggests that their ligamentary organization was similar to that of the isocrinids. Since the plane of primary disarticulation in isocrinids corresponds to the autotomy plane, Mississippian crinoids also may have been capable of autotomizing their stalks.
2401009|The Neogene species Petaloconchus sculpturatus presents a contradiction in terms, for it grows whorl "packages" of nearly perfect regularity, but ranks within the most geometrically irregular family of uncoiled gastropods, the Vermetidae. We perform a first biometric study of vermetids (only possible because sufficient regularity of growth permits us to number and identify whorls) to specify and characterize the factors on both sides of this "exquisite tension" between promotion and prevention of recoiling. Promoting factors include the older phyletic heritage of preserved dextral coiling, and the more immediate vermetid (or specifically petaloconchid) features of growth toward open spaces (where regular coiling might proceed in an unimpeded fashion); radular excision of discordant feeding tubes with shaping of the resulting scar so that growth may proceed in conformity with previous whorls; and locking of subsequent whorls upon a keel formed by longitudinal bead-rows of the previous whorl. Preventing factors include prominent phyletic heritage of all vermetids-maximal early irregularity enjoined by discordance between larval and subsequent growth (with teleoconch wrapping itself around the protoconch), thus precluding an ordered substrate to act as a foundation for regular whorl "packages" of intermediary growth-and a set of features specific to this lineage and acting as geometric constraints. In this category, we particularly document the exceedingly low rate of whorl expansion and the consequently wide umbilical space that produces a shell akin to winding a cylindrical coil of narrow-diameter rope around the periphery of a wide circular platform. This complex combination of promoting and preventing factors produces a shell that is tantalizingly close to fully regular, but cannot truly reattain this previous phyletic state-thus providing a fine example of Dollo's Law at the centenary of his formation of irreversibility.
2400137|The linear survivorship curve of Van Valen's Law can be generated from stochastic loss of lineages, given a decreasing sample size within an adaptive zone. No special biological explanation is required or called for in order to explain "linearity" in taxonomic survivorship curves.
2400542|It is often assumed that, if a few species are introduced into a relatively empty environment, the subsequent diversification will take the form of a logistic growth curve, rising to an equilibrium level of species richness. The diversifications of taxa in higher categories commonly resemble logistic curves, although there are no well-defined theoretical bases for such a resemblance. A model of diversification of taxa in higher categories is based on the notion that many taxa originate rapidly. Relatively small changes leading to new species occur at a high frequency, while larger changes leading to progressively higher taxa occur with progressive rarity. During diversification in an empty environment, few large changes will occur before the environment is filled. The rate of filling, relative to the rate of production of higher taxa, determines the richness of taxa in higher categories and gives the diversification curves a logistic appearance although the maximum level achieved is not an equilibrium. Subsequently, opportunities for diversification will generally lead only to the appearance of taxa in progressively lower categories.
2400558|The growth rates of ammonites and extinct nautiloids have been estimated in two ways: through analyses of shell growth lines and by analyzing the patterns of oxygen isotopic values from successive septa. In both types of studies, it has been assumed that the amount of time between successive chamber formation events is approximately constant. This assumption has never been tested with living cephalopods, however. To examine this, 10 immature Nautilus pompilius and two immature N. macromphalus were maintained in a surface aquarium for a period of 1 yr and periodically radiographed. The radiographs allowed direct observation of chamber formation events and apertural shell growth. During this observational period 61 separate chamber formation events were observed in the nautiluses. The time between separate chamber formation events increased in successively produced chambers, and varied from a minimum of 2-3 wk in a specimen of 45-mm shell diameter to a maximum of 13-15 wk in a specimen of 132-mm shell diameter. Unlike interval of chamber formation, which increased during ontogeny, rate of apertural shell growth showed no observable rate increase or decrease during ontogeny prior to maturity. With the onset of maturity, as marked by the shell characteristics defined by Collins et al. (1980), apertural shell growth rates dropped markedly, and ceased coincident with the removal of the last volumes of cameral liquid in the last formed, approximated chamber. Both rate of apertural shell growth and septal spacing were affected by degree of shell breakage.
1571657|The preservation of compounds of biological origin (nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and resistant biopolymers) in terrigenous fossils and the chemical and structural changes that they undergo during fossilization are discussed over three critical stratigraphic levels or "time slices." The youngest of these is the archeological record (e.g., <10 k.y. B.P.), when organic matter from living organisms undergoes the preliminary stages of fossilization (certain classes of biomolecule are selectively preserved while others undergo rapid degradation). The second time slice is the Tertiary. Well-preserved fossils of this age retain diagenetically modified biomarkers and biopolymers for which a product-precursor relationship with the original biological materials can still be identified. The final time slice is the Carboniferous. Organic material of this age has generally undergone such extensive diagenetic degradation that only the most resistant biopolymers remain and these have undergone substantial modification. Trends through time in the taphonomy and utility of ancient biomolecules in terrigenous fossils affect their potential for studies that involve chemosystematic and environmental data.
2400714|A survey was undertaken of the developmental types of the neogastropod families Volutidae, Fasciolariidae, Nassariidae, Mitridae, Buccinidae and Olividae in the Palaeocene and Eocene series of the Gulf of Mexico. Although the families were dominated by planktotrophic development in the Paleocene, most show a general increase in numbers of species with nonplanktotrophic development through the Eocene. Present day environmental correlations with larval development do not adequately explain the observed shift in developmental types in the Early Tertiary. It is proposed that higher speciation rates for nonplanktotrophs and a unidirectional trend in developmental change may account for the progressive increase of nonplanktotrophic development.
2400556|The impact of environment, interspecific competition, and, to a lesser extent history, on the structure of the guild of large predatory mammals is explored in one fossil and four Recent communities. Two aspects are emphasized: (1) the number of species within each guild and (2) the extent of locomotor convergence as inferred from morphology among the constituent species. Locomotor behavior reflects habitat choice, hunting mode, and escape strategy, all of which appear to be important avenues of adaptive divergence among coexisting predators. Locomotor behavior in extinct and extant predators is determined from body weight and five measured characteristics of the postcranial skeleton, including ungual shape, elbow shape, and limb proportions. Results indicate that levels of morphologic and inferred ecologic similarity between large predators are higher in the tropical grassland guild of East Africa than in the equivalent guilds of either tropical or temperate forest. This may be due to the great density and diversity of terrestrial herbivores in the productive grasslands. The fossil guild, from the Late Chadron-Orellan (Oligocene) of North America, appears most similar to the tropical forest guilds, but the predators seem to have been slower and more robust than their modern counterparts. Since the Orellan represents an early stage in the evolution of large, fissiped carnivores, both ancestry and time could have influenced Orellan guild structure.
2400209|Limestone beds in the Middle Ordovician (Trentonian) Bobcaygeon Formation, exposed near Kirkfield, Ontario, exhibit irregular, bored and encrusted surfaces indicative of early lithification. These hardgrounds were formed in extensively burrowed carbonate sediments and their hummocky surface topographies were inherited, in part, from a pre-existing pattern of burrow tunnels. A diverse community, including bryozoans, brachiopods, crinoids, edrioasteroids, and paracrinoids, colonized these hard substrates. In addition, most surfaces are riddled with small, cylindrical boreholes (Trypanites) which represent dwellings of soft-bodied organisms. Some hardground surfaces were inhabited by multiple generations of organisms. Remains of the older generations of encrusters were strongly abraded and nearly obliterated. Superimposed upon these worn remnants are well-preserved remains of rather fragile organisms, e.g. complete hybocystitid crinoids and edrioasteroids. Evidently, certain hardground surfaces were rapidly buried by muds, resulting in the in situ preservation of the last generation of attached organisms. Slightly differing subcommunities of organisms inhabited various microhabitats provided by the irregular hardground surfaces. Thus, the relative abundance of bryozoans and echinoderms encrusting the roofs of small crevices differs from that on the exposed upper surfaces of the hardgrounds. This is the geologically oldest known hardground community in which microhabitat subdivision can be recognized. However, polarity between the subcommunities is not as pronounced as in geologically younger hard substrate faunas.
2400803|A diversity and turnover analysis has been undertaken for a number of invertebrate groups in the Liassic of northwest Europe. There is a more or less steady rise in diversity from the early Hettangian through to the Pliensbachian, followed by a marked decline into the early Toarcian, after which it tends once more to increase. Ammonites stand out from the other invertebrates as having had an exceptionally high rate of turnover, with very short species durations. Increase of neritic habitat area due to rise of sea level, and recolonization following the end-Triassic mass extinction event appear to be the promoters of diversity increase or radiation. Severe reductions of neritic habitat area with associated environmental deterioration, related either to episodic marine regressions or spreads of anoxic bottom waters, and bound up respectively with sea-level fall and rise, are seen as the prime factors responsible for increase of extinction rate. While the environmentally sensitive ammonites were affected by even minor regressions, the other, more eurytopic groups were evidently more resistant to these. The only event that warrants the term mass extinction, affecting nearly all the benthos and nekton but not the plankton, correlates precisely with the early Toarcian anoxic event. Several episodes can be recognized of migrations of organisms into Europe following extinctions.
4096995|Stable isotope analysis of mammalian tooth enamel is a valuable method for examining resource partitioning in modern and ancient environments where there is a mixture of C
4096900|Morphometric analyses of sauropod limbs have the potential to illuminate functional aspects of sauropod locomotion and paleobiology. However, analyses of sauropod limb dimensions typically show few discernible morphological trends because of large size differences among the individuals in a sample. For sauropods, combined analyses of both limb dimension and shape may be more desirable. Numerous humeri and femora from Apatosaurus, Diplodocus, and Camarasaurus provide an opportunity to explore and compare limb morphology in contemporaneous, sympatric sauropods. Thin-plate splines were used to analyze landmark-based shape differences in combination with traditional morphometrics. The aims of the analysis were (1) to determine if humerus and femur shape were significantly different among the genera; (2) to determine where shape changes occurred; and (3) to infer the basic functional implications of the shape differences using an Extant Phylogenetic Bracket approach. Few differences were detected among the genera using traditional morphometric analyses, and linear regression revealed a predominantly isometric relationship between most measurement variables and element size. Thin-plate splines revealed significant shape differences among the taxa. Apatosaurus humeri and femora were the most robust, with expanded regions for muscle insertion and more distally placed deltopectoral and caudofemoral landmarks. Diplodocus humeri and femora were gracile, with more proximally located landmarks of muscular insertion. Camarasaurus humeri were surprisingly gracile, with a less extensive deltopectoral crest, but had more robust femora similar to those of Apatosaurus. Few differences distinguished juvenile from adult specimens. These data suggest some locomotor differences were present among the three genera.
2401050|A generalized method for calculating confidence intervals on the position of the true end point of a stratigraphic range when the distributions of fossil horizons is nonrandom is presented. The method requires a quantitative measure of collecting and/or preservation biases with stratigraphic position. This fossil recovery potential function may be based on (among other variables) bedding-plane surface areas, or, given a water depth curve, an a priori estimate of the preservation potential with water depth. The approach assumes that the observed distribution of fossil horizons is consistent with the distribution predicted by the fossil recovery potential function, an assumption that must be tested before the method is applied. Unlike previous methods for calculating confidence intervals on the end points of stratigraphic ranges, this method may be applied when the number of fossil horizons is correlated with stratigraphic position. The approach should only be applied to sections that have been sampled continuously, or approximately continuously. Its efficacy will depend on how accurately fossil recovery potentials can be determined. A method is also presented for estimating the probability that a species became extinct during a major hiatus in the rock record.
2400348|Ciliary transport of particulate suspensions in water was studied in the mantles of the inarticulate brachiopod Lingula anatina, the articulate brachiopod Coptothyris grayi and in the ciliated epithelium of the scleractinian coral Montipora foliosa. In both brachiopod species a close correlation was found between the water currents induced by the lophophore and by the mantle. Lophophore and mantle are considered here as functionally integrated organs which are active in the transport and capture of food, accumulation and the removal of (pseudo-)faeces, the sorting of particles, the pumping of water and respiration. The tuberculate surface of Montipora foliosa is lined with ciliated epithelium; the polyps are situated in the depressions of this surface. The particulate suspension within the labyrinth is constantly diluted: particles are funneled through the furrows but end up at the tips of the tubercles. On their way they pick up some mucus. While they concentrate on the tubercles they coalesce to form larger boluses that are easily removed. The tubercular tips thus act as "bolus accumulators" and the unciliated margins of the brachiopod mantles appear to have the same function. In this accumulated form the particles are probably prevented from being recycled through the food-capturing system. Based on these observations a preliminary functional interpretation is presented of some fossil brachiopods: the Devonian rhynchonellids Uncinulus and Hypothyridina and the Strophomenida, with the genus Marginifera serving as an example of the latter order. The morphology of the inner shell surface, and the inferred configuration of the lining ciliated mantle, was modified in these taxa by a variety of structures such as spines, tubercles, diaphragms and trails. It is suggested that the mantle of the evolved Uncinulidae and of the Strophomenida is particularly suited for the dilution of particulate suspensions before they reach the lophophore and for the accumulation and removal of mucous pseudofaeces. The inhibitory effect of the constrictions on the circulation of water could be counteracted by local ciliary pumping. In the strophomenids the mantle became a specialized and elaborate organ, while the lophophore probably remained relatively simple. In the other articulate stocks the lophophore became the central food-gathering and pumping device and in general the morphology of the mantle was maintained simple.
2400740|Using the diameters of the channels at branch points, we quantitatively test three alternative models of the function of astrorhizae in stromatoporoids. The distribution of diameters at branch points is significantly different from the distribution that would be predicted from models of either a diffusive function or a bulk-flow system in which resistance to flow was constant at all levels of the branching hierarchy. The distribution of channel diameters is virtually identical to that predicted by a model (Murray's law) that simultaneously minimizes resistance to flow and some volume-related cost function. Astrorhizae thus carried a bulk flow of fluid and can be inferred to have been lined with cellular elements; the exchange sites associated with the fluid-transport system were distributed throughout the soft tissues of the stromatoporoid animal. The most parsimonious hypothesis of function, that the fluid-transport system was associated with suspension feeding, implies strong similarities between the structure of the stromatoporoid animal and living sponges.
2400544|Stick-like bryozoans from 1 to 5 cm tall, and of varying degrees of colony robustness, are common in deposits from Ordovician through Cenozoic in age; their occurrence has been used to infer strength of bottom currents. Three species which are modern analogues of this mode of growth occur abundantly at subtidal depths near Friday Harbor, Washington; we studied one of these forms, the calcitic cyclostome Heteropora pacifica. Branch diameter was used as an indication of colony robustness because it can be measured in both living and fossil material. Branch diameter decreases significantly with depth (in collections from approximately 9, 15 and 30 m depth) at each of 4 transect localities. At each locality, currents 6 to 10 cm above the bottom were measured continuously in water depth of ~-15 m, for several hours at a time. Under these conditions, the maximum sustained current through the several hour tidal cycle was 70 to 90 cm/sec at one locality, and 20 cm/sec or less at each of the other 3 localities. Suspended matter was determined at heights of 0.2, 0.5 and 1.0 m above the bottom. The amount of suspended matter 0.2 m above the bottom was 40 to 45 mg/cm
2401017|Detailed analysis of the stratigraphic ranges of Devonian rugose coral genera within the Old World and Eastern Americas Realms gives new information on faunal extinctions and other bioevents in both realms. Various origination and extinction metrics are calculated from tabulations of occurrences in each stage. The most significant faunal changes were near or at the ends of the Lochkovian and Frasnian stages. The former marks the gradual transition from dominance by Silurian families and genera to the characteristic Devonian coral assemblages; the latter marks the virtual extinction of the Devonian families and genera. Other coral events are related to the two major changes. The data provide new bases for comparing the histories of the two realms. Most of the events are recorded in both, giving support to previous suggestions that the causes were worldwide. The coral record shows an increase (probably episodic) in environmental deterioration persisting through the Middle Devonian and culminating in extinction at the end of the Frasnian. Eustatic sea level fluctuations may have caused the precursor events and a bolide impact may have caused the end-Frasnian extinction.
1571662|Attempts to model form-function relationships for fossil plants rely on the facts that the physiological and structural requirements for plant growth, survival, and reproductive success are remarkably similar for the majority of extant and extinct species regardless of phyletic affiliation and that most of these requirements can be quantified by means of comparatively simple mathematical expressions drawn directly from the physical and engineering sciences. Owing in part to the advent and rapid expansion of computer technologies, the number of fossil plant form-function models has burgeoned in the last two decades and encompasses every level of biological organization ranging from molecular self-assembly to ecological and evolutionary dynamics. This recent and expansive interest in modeling fossil plant form-function relationships is discussed in the context of the general philosophy of modeling past biological systems and how the reliability of models can be examined (i.e., direct experimental manipulation or observation of the system being modeled). This philosophy is illustrated and methods of validating models are critiqued in terms of four models drawn from the author's work (the quantification of wind-induced stem bending stresses, wind pollination efficiency of early Paleozoic ovulate reproductive structures, population dynamics and species extinction in monotypic and "mixed" communities, and the adaptive radiation of early vascular land plants). The assumptions and logical (mathematical) consequences (predictions) of each model are broadly outlined, and, in each case, the model is shown to be overly simplistic despite its ability to predict the general or particular behavior or operation of the system modeled. Nonetheless, these four models, which illustrate some of pros and cons of modeling fossil form-function relationships, are argued to be pedagogically useful because, like all models, they expose the internal logical consistency of our basic assumptions about how organic form and function interrelate.
2400700|Analysis of post-mortem buoyancy loss in Nautilus shells suggests that extensive nekroplanktonic drifting occurs infrequently. Most shells do not reach the surface but settle to the sea floor, after a short period of ascent. This occurs because the rate of water influx into the phragmocone due to ambient hydrostatic pressure is sufficiently rapid in most cases to overcome positive buoyancy before the shell reaches the surface. The resulting geographic distribution of Nautilus shells would therefore mirror the distribution of the live animals. Thus, post-mortem drift in Nautilus cannot be used as a basis for questioning the validity of cephalopod paleobiogeography. Estimate of influx rates in ammonoid siphuncles indicates that many, if not most, ammonoid shells also would not become nekroplanktonic. This is especially true for small (<5 cm diameter) shells. Cephalopod paleobiogeographic investigation appears less subject to criticism stemming from the supposed obfuscating effects of post-mortem drift than previously thought.
2400736|Two alternative hypotheses have been advanced to explain the demise of about half of the mammalian genera exceeding 5 kg in body mass in the later Pleistocene. One hypothesis invokes climatic change and resulting habitat transformations. This fails to predict the increased likelihood of extinctions with increasing body size, greater severity in both North and South America than in Eurasia or Australia, lack of simultaneous extinctions in Africa and tropical Asia, and the absence of extinctions at the end of previous glacial periods. The other hypothesis invokes human predation as the primary cause. This fails to explain the simultaneous extinctions of a number of mammalian and avian species not obviously vulnerable to human overkill. I propose a "keystone herbivore" hypothesis, based on the ecology of extant African species of megaherbivore, (i.e., animals exceeding 1,000 kg in body mass). Due to their invulnerability to non-human predation on adults, these species attain saturation densities at which they may radically transform vegetation structure and composition. African elephant can change closed woodland or thicket into open grassy savanna, and create open gaps colonized by rapidly-regenerating trees in forests. Grazing white rhinoceros and hippopotamus transform tall grasslands into lawns of more nutritious short grasses. The elimination of megaherbivores elsewhere in the world by human hunters at the end of the Pleistocene would have promoted reverse changes in vegetation. The conversion of the open parklike woodlands and mosaic grasslands typical of much of North America during the Pleistocene to the more uniform forests and prairie grasslands we find today could be a consequence. Such habitat changes would have been detrimental to the distribution and abundance of smaller herbivores dependent upon the nutrientrich and spatially diverse vegetation created by megaherbivore impact. At the same time these species would have become more vulnerable to human predation. The elimination of megaherbivore influence is the major factor differentiating habitat changes at the end of the terminal Pleistocene glaciation from those occurring at previous glacial-interglacial transitions.
25609429|Many studies have examined temporal changes in insect feeding on angiosperm leaves, but none have considered variability within a single stratigraphic level. If spatial variability within a level is high, a single sample will not adequately represent the level and may either mask true temporal changes or create spurious ones. In order to measure the spatial variability in fossil insect feeding damage, I collected 12 replicate samples from two laterally extensive carbonaceous shale beds (55.2 and 52.6 Ma) from the early Eocene of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming. Over 2800 fossil angiosperm leaves were scored for presence or absence of 50 insect damage morphotypes. Damage frequency, diversity, and composition were computed for both the bulk flora and individual plant species in each sample, and variation within a bed was compared with differences between the two beds. Differences in diversity and composition between beds were significantly greater than variations within a bed, and intra-bed variation was primarily due to differing floral composition. Damage frequency within a bed, however, was more variable than diversity. Damage diversity and composition reflect the number of insect species present, whereas damage frequency also depends on the number of insects present, which may be much more variable over small distances.
2400820|Evolutionary patterns in the articulate brachiopod hinge are investigated and this empirical example is used as a model to examine evolutionary trends and evolutionary constraints. Several features of the hinge-system geometry exhibit persistent directional change from the Cambrian to the Recent and result in increased mechanical advantage in opening the valves. These geometric changes are reflected also in general features of shell morphology and growth and in patterns of familial diversity through time. Specific, identifiable constraints on brachiopod morphology and function related to the position of the pedicle and muscles and nature of the hinge line and hinge structures may be said to direct the observed trends. The pattern of evolutionary change among all articulate brachiopods is most satisfactorily accommodated by a diffusion model of morphological change. Examined independently, the deltidiodonts (with noninterlocking hinge structures) appear to reflect a process of directional selection through time, whereas change in the cyrtomatodont hinge mechanism (with interlocking teeth and sockets) may reflect the incidental effects of selection for increasing mantle-cavity volume rather than increasing diductor (opening) muscle moment. The "transition" from deltidiodont to cyrtomatodont hinge structures over the course of brachiopod evolutionary history may be interpreted from at least two distinctly different perspectives. Paleoecologically, this transition appears to reflect a habitat shift from soft sediment to hard, rocky substrates. Phylogenetically, the transition reflects the process of evolution: deltidiodonts persist as their modified descendants, the cyrtomatodonts. Investigating the acquisition of evolutionary novelties over time, or the transition from primitive to derived morphological features, may be the most informative approach to follow in studying evolutionary trends.
2400642|The pedicle differentiates brachiopods from all other phyla. With its associated musculature, it is more variable than any other brachiopod system at or above the generic level and is considered to contribute to the versatility of behavior possessed by some species. Differences in pedicle type are reflected clearly in the beak.
2401093|The number of regenerated arms was counted on specimens of two distinct phenotypes of the stalked crinoid Endoxocrinus parrae (Gervais) from a wide bathymetric range in the Caribbean (178-723 m). In one phenotype, the sample was divided into two groups, one from shallower (< 500 m) depths, the other from deeper ( 500 m); in the other phenotype the group divided at 550 m. In both phenotypes, the frequency of regenerated arms is significantly higher in specimens from shallower water than in those from deeper water. If the regenerated arms in Endoxocrinus parrae were the result of sublethal predation, as previously suggested, then predation intensity is higher in shallow water than deep water. These results are consistent with the idea of the late Mesozoic marine revolution-that there has been stronger predation on various invertebrates in shallow-water environments since the late Mesozoic. The stalked crinoids may have been unable to cope with increased predation in shelf environments, and they migrated to offshore environments.
2400713|It is shown that the abundant Jurassic oyster Gryphaea provides material adequate to test biogeographic and evolutionary hypotheses involving speciation. Phyletic size increase is widespread if not characteristic and tends to be marked by a sharp initial increase followed by a longer period of stability. The larger size of phyletically younger forms is apparently because of greater age of individuals rather than a higher growth rate. Species durations fall within the range of the majority of Jurassic bivalve species. The detailed study of European Gryphaea indicates a pattern of punctuated equilibria allied with morphological trends, some of which are paedomorphic. Gradualistic, species selection and cladistic models of change are not supported. World-wide analysis of Gryphaea species supports centres of origin and migration rather than vicariance, and a relationship exists between migrational and evolutionary events and changes in the physical environment.
2401085|A detailed morphometric approach based on size and on outline analyses has been used on an exceptionally well-preserved assemblage of silicified trilobite exuvia, recovered from a Late Devonian limestone from southeastern Morocco. The material comprises a series of late larval to postlarval growth stages belonging to a single phacopine species, Trimerocephalus lelievrei Cronier and Feist, 1997. Plurimodality of size distribution has allowed us to discriminate postlarval instars. Distinct dimensional classes of isolated parts are obtained using the intertooth distances on the posterior pygidial margin and the internotch distances in the cephalic vincular furrow, which are functionally linked during trilobite enrollment. Morphometric analysis of development permitted demonstration of progressive shape change in agreement with ontogenetic ordination and a comparison of the timing of size and shape changes. The main shape changes appear to occur early in development, and once the "adult" morphology is obtained, size increases significantly. The growth rate during ontogeny is estimated by analogy with extant deep-sea crustaceans. Exponential size increase resulting from constant duration of intermolt periods may be regarded as a life history strategy to compete in a nutrient-impoverished offshore environment. The particular phacopine mode of molting, which involves the opening of the neck joint after ankylosis of the facial sutures, occurred in Trimerocephalus lelievrei between the first two postlarval instars, later than in its ancestor. Trimerocephalus lelievrei occupies an intermediate position within the phacopine paedomorphocline as indicated by the delayed onset of ankylosis.
2401121|The evolutionary origin of Morozovella angulata from its immediate ancestor, Praemurica uncinata, is preserved in Paleocene sediments from the Gulf of Mexico. This event represents the beginning of the morozovellid radiation and marks the first appearance of keeled planktonic foraminifera after the Cretaceous/Tertiary extinction. Parallel biometric and isotopic analyses were performed on size-segregated specimens from a succession of stratigraphic horizons. The biometric data reveal a temporal pattern of variation consistent with paedomorphosis. The appearance of angulose juvenile chambers in the otherwise rounded ancestral form (Praemurica uncinata) results in an allometry that becomes more pronounced upsection. At the origin of M. angulata, the juvenile morphology of the ancestor is retained throughout the entire ontogeny. Isotopic analysis of this sequence reveals the gradual acquisition of an increasingly heavy adult <sup>13</sup>C signal relative to that of the juvenile, while the <sup>18</sup>O data display no temporal or size-related trends. The temporal increase seen in the slope of the <sup>13</sup>C/size relationship may reflect the evolution of an increased dependency on photosymbionts.
2400208|If the dinosaurs Protoceratops grangeri and Hypselosaurus sp. grew at rates predicted for their body size from extant reptiles, their expected ages at reproductive maturity would be about 20 and 62 yr respectively. This calculation assumes that dinosaurs grew at ectothermic rates which are about an order of magnitude slower than those of endothermic vertebrates of the same body size. Such delayed reproductive maturity may have set a premium on selection for high juvenile survivorship that is reflected in the relatively large eggs of these dinosaurs and in their only moderately large clutch sizes compared to modern reptiles.
41684298|The Permian/Triassic mass extinction marks a permanent phylogenetic shift in the composition of the sessile benthos, from one largely dominated by articulate brachiopods to one dominated by mollusks. Widespread evidence of oceanic hypoxia and anoxia at this time provides a possible selective kill mechanism that could help explain the large taxonomic losses in brachiopods compared to the morphologically and ecologically similar bivalve molluscs. Our study compared the oxygen consumption of an articulate brachiopod, Terebratalia transversa, with that of two pteriomorph bivalves, Glycymeris septentrionalis and Mytilus trossulus, under normoxia and hypoxia, as well as their tolerance to anoxia, to gain insight into the relative metabolic characteristics of each group. We found no significant difference in the oxygen consumption of the three species when normalized to the same dry-tissue mass. However, when calculated for animals of the same external linear dimensions, bivalve oxygen consumption was two to three times greater than that of brachiopods. Our results also showed no significant decrease in the oxygen consumption of the three species until measured at a partial pressure of oxygen ~ 10% of normoxic values. Finally, T. transversa and M. trossulus showed no significant difference in their tolerance to complete anoxia, but both showed a much lower tolerance than another bivalve, Acila castrensis. Findings from this study suggest that oxygen limitation is unlikely to account for the observed selective extinction of brachiopods during the Permian/Triassic mass extinction. Results may provide valuable information for assessing hypotheses put forth to explain why articulate brachiopods continue to remain a relatively minor group in marine environments.
2401010|Late Paleocene planktic foraminifera exhibit strong positive correlations between carbon isotopic values and test mass, but negative correlations between oxygen isotopic values and test mass. Based on analogy with modern taxa, these trends are probably ecotypic and may or may not apply to an ontogenetic series. Among Acarinina and Morozovella species, the magnitude and direction of these trends resemble those of modern planktic foraminifera with dinoflagellate photosymbionts. This is consistent with current models of photosymbiosis and calcification in planktic foraminifera and suggests that Acarinina and Morozovella relied heavily on photosymbionts for nutrition. Acarinina and Morozovella species resemble modern, strongly photosymbiotic taxa in their association with low and mid latitude nearsurface water masses. However, their test morphologies differ greatly from those of extant taxa that bear obligate photosymbionts. Earliest Paleocene taxa that exhibit a similar paleohabitat association and similar size-related isotopic trends are characterized by still different test morphologies. These comparisons suggest that (1) throughout geologic time, strong reliance on photosymbiont activity has been closely linked to habitat, but not to test morphology; (2) photosymbiosis has been a common and convergently evolved strategy of planktic foraminifera over geologic time, and (3) modern relationships between planktic foraminiferal test morphology and photosymbiont dependence are largely an artifact of geologically recent phylogenetic relationships and shared ecologic strategies. Intersite comparison suggests that the stable isotopic signals of narrowly constrained size fractions of a late Paleocene Acarinina or Morozovella species can be used to reconstruct the magnitude and direction of relative variation in equilibrium stable isotopic values throughout its geographic and temporal range. This is supported by analogy with extant photosymbiotic taxa. However, since photosynthetic depletion of <sup>12</sup>C leaves <sup>13</sup>C-enriched HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> for calcification, the carbon isotopic values of Acarinina and Morozovella tests may have been consistently greater than paleoseawater values. Failure to account for this effect could lead to overestimation of late Paleocene marine productivity.
25609406|Estimates of taxonomic richness and abundance are complicated by sampling biases. The failure to sample rare taxa is most often attributed to inadequate sampling and to removal during the process of sample-size standardization. Here I present two methods for unveiling rare diversity by integrating species presence/absence data from museum collections and the literature with quantitative estimates of species richness and abundance gathered from field-based bulk samples. Combining museum, literature, and field data can provide a more comprehensive estimate of taxonomic richness and abundance without substantial increase in current sampling effort. First, in a given bulk sample, the lowest proportional abundance value observed can be used to estimate the maximum abundance of rare species known to have occurred at the locality at least once but not recorded in the current sample. Second, a model-selection approach can be used, in which a set of relative abundance distribution models are fit to the bulk-sample abundance data and the parameter estimates for the best model used to calculate the abundance distribution for all species known from the locality. The Paleogene marine fossil record of the U.S. Gulf Coastal Plain is suitable for applying these methods, because (1) the molluscan fauna is well represented in museum collections and the literature, (2) the molluscan fauna has been taxonomically standardized, and (3) many classic localities remain accessible for standardized bulk sampling. I introduce these methods by applying them to a single locality and then, using the faunas of the Gosport, Moodys Branch, and Red Bluff Formations, I demonstrate how the model-fitting approach can be used to compare taxonomic richness among multiple localities. A substantial fraction of the molluscan richness known from each locality is not captured in bulk samples and much of this unobserved richness may be attributed to the rarity of species. The multiple-locality comparison suggests that the greatest Paleogene decline in standing richness occurred in the middle Eocene and that the recovery of richness following the Eocene-Oligocene extinction was quite rapid despite substantial loss of taxa. These analyses underscore the magnitude of veiled diversity in marine fossil assemblages and the potential of existing sources of data to unveil rare taxa, allowing them to be incorporated into quantitative diversity studies.
2666069|One of the most extensively studied aspects of phylogenetic tree shape is balance, which is the extent to which nodes divide a tree into clades of equal size. Several authors have stressed the importance of tree balance for understanding patterns of evolution. It has been remarked that paleontological studies commonly produce very unbalanced trees (also called pectinate cladograms or "Hennigian combs"). This claim is tested here by comparing the balance of 50 paleontological trees and 50 neontological trees, all taken from the recent literature. Each tree was reanalyzed from the published data matrix to ensure its accuracy. The results confirm that paleontological trees tend to be more imbalanced than neontological trees. That paleontological trees are more imbalanced has been represented as a shortcoming of fossil data sets, but here it is argued that this is the expected result. Even under a simple Markovian model in which all speciations and extinctions occur randomly and with equal probability in all parts of the tree, trees based on taxa from a single time period (e.g., the present day) are generally more balanced than trees based on all taxa that ever existed within the clade. Computer simulation is used to calculate the expected balance and standard deviation of trees for up to 40 terminal taxa over the entire history of a model clade. The balance is measured using Colless's index, Ic, and the expected balance conforms well with published paleontological trees. The study underlines the difficulty of applying neontological tree statistics in paleontology.
4096921|High-resolution (annual to decadal) paleoecological records of community composition can contribute a long-term perspective to conservation biology on baseline ecological variability and the response of communities to environmental change. We present here a detailed comparison of species assemblage characteristics (species richness, abundance, composition, and occurrence frequency) in live, dead, and recent fossil ostracode samples from Lake Tanganyika, East Africa. This study calibrates the fidelity of paleoecological samples (i.e., both death and fossil assemblages) to live diversity patterns for the purpose of reconstructing community dynamics through time. Both life and death assemblages were collected from rocky sites in a mixed substrate habitat (total of ten sampling visits over 22-month period) over spatial scales of less than a meter to about 3-12 meters. Fossil assemblages were derived from sediment cores collected in sandy substrates adjacent to the rocky sites. Species richness in paleoecological assemblages is comparable to that in a year's accumulation of life assemblages sampled approximately monthly. The temporal resolution of the fossil samples in Lake Tanganyika could thus be as short as one year. Species abundance distributions were statistically indistinguishable among data sets. Rank abundance tests demonstrated that death and fossil assemblages were quite similar, although life assemblages differed substantially in the composition of their dominant species. Species composition differences between life and paleoecological assemblages appear to reflect the area of spatial integration represented by an assemblage-i.e., death and fossil assemblages are integrated over multiple habitat types, whereas life assemblages dominantly represent the rocky habitats where they were collected. Species occurrence frequencies in paleoecological data identified ecologically persistent species and may be useful for delimiting local species pools. Analysis of sampling efficiency indicates that approximately 28% of species in each paleoecological assemblage are "unique"; i.e., they are not likely to be present in an additional subsample from the same sample. Ordination reveals that life assemblages of ostracodes are characterized by high spatiotemporal heterogeneity. Variability in species composition was lower in paleoecological assemblages, presumably as a result of spatial and temporal averaging. Death and fossil assemblages of Lake Tanganyika appear to preserve many characteristics of living benthic ostracode assemblages with high fidelity. Spatiotemporal averaging allows paleoecological assemblages to render information about the average composition of ostracode communities over short timescales, at spatial scales of several meters, and across habitat types. Sampling shell assemblages in surficial sediments thus represents a more efficient way of assessing the average ecological conditions at a locality than repeated live sampling. Furthermore, paleoecological analyses can generate novel insights into long-term community variability and membership with direct relevance to conservation.
2400703|Because predation by drilling gastropods is uniquely preservable in the fossil record, it represents important evidence for the study of coevolution. Previous studies of drilling gastropod predation have been largely descriptive and sometimes contradictory. We formulate and test a model of prey selection by naticid drilling gastropods. The model adequately predicts both prey species selection and prey size selection. Prey preferences parallel prey profitabilities, determined by calculating prey species-specific and predator size-specific cost-benefit functions. The model also specifically suggests the evolution of potential refugia from predation and the evolution of potential predatory attributes. Application of the model to several Miocene and Pliocene assemblages studied by Thomas (1976) corroborates the feasibility and utility of this approach in examining the evolutionary record of naticid predation, which extends from the Late Mesozoic. Apparent evolutionary stasis and convergent morphological trends among prey species may be consistent with continuous selection pressures against predation.
23014716|The rapid ecological expansion of grasses with C4 photosynthesis at the end of the Neogene (8-2 Ma) is well documented in the fossil record of stable carbon isotopes. As one of the most profound vegetation changes to occur in recent geologic time, it paved the way for modern tropical grassland ecosystems. Changes in CO 2 levels, seasonality, aridity, herbivory, and fire regime have all been suggested as potential triggers for this broadly synchronous change, long after the evolutionary origin of the C 4 pathway in grasses. To date, these hypotheses have suffered from a lack of direct evidence for floral composition and structure during this important transition. This study aimed to remedy the problem by providing the first direct, relatively continuous record of vegetation change for the Great Plains of North America for the critical interval (ca. 12-2 Ma) using plant silica (phytolith) assemblages. Phytoliths were extracted from late MiocenePliocene paleosols in Nebraska and Kansas. Quantitative phytolith analysis of the 14 best-preserved assemblages indicates that habitats varied substantially in openness during the middle to late Miocene but became more uniformly open, corresponding to relatively open grassland or savanna, during the late Miocene and early Pliocene. Phytolith data also point to a marked increase of grass short cells typical of chloridoid and other potentially C 4 grasses of the PACMAD clade between 8 and 5 Ma; these data suggest that the proportion of these grasses reached up to 5060% of grasses, resulting in mixed C 3 -C 4 and highly heterogeneous grassland communities by 5.5 Ma. This scenario is consistent with interpretations of isotopic records from paleosol carbonates and ungulate tooth enamel. The rise in abundance of chloridoids, which were present in the central Great Plains since the early Miocene, demonstrates that the "globally" observed lag between C 4 grass evolution/taxonomic diversification and ecological expansion occurred at the regional scale. These patterns of vegetation alteration imply that environmental change during the late MiocenePliocene played a major role in the C 3 -C 4 shift in the Great Plains. Specifically, the importance of chloridoids as well as a decline in the relative abundance of forest indicator taxa, including palms, point to climatic drying as a key trigger for C 4 dominance.
41684302|In this paper we present a method for estimating soil pCO in ancient environments using the measured carbon-isotope values of pedogenic carbonates and plant-derived organic matter. The validity of soil pCO estimates proves to be highly dependent on the organic C values used in the calculations. Organic matter should be sourced from the same paleosol profiles as sampled carbonates to yield the most reliable estimates of soil pCO. In order to demonstrate the potential use of soil pCO estimates in paleoecological and paleoenvironmental studies, we compare samples from three Upper Jurassic localities. Soil pCO estimates, interpreted as a qualitative indicator of primary paleoproductivity, are used to rank the Late Jurassic terrestrial environments represented by the Morrison Formation in western North America, the informally named Lourinh formation in Western Europe, and the Stanleyville Group in Central Africa. Because modern terrestrial environments show a positive correlation between primary productivity and faunal richness, a similar relationship is expected in ancient ecosystems. When the relative paleoproductivity levels inferred for each study area are compared with estimates of dinosaur generic richness, a positive correlation emerges. Both the Morrison and Lourinh formations have high inferred productivity levels and high estimated faunal richness. In contrast, the Stanleyville Group appears to have had low primary productivity and low faunal richness. Paleoclimatic data available for each study area indicate that both productivity and faunal richness are positively linked to water availability, as observed in modern terrestrial ecosystems.
2401077|Despite exhaustive investigation of present-day Nautilus, the phylogenetic relationships of the five or six recognized species within this genus remain unclear. Mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequence data plus a suite of morphological characters are used to investigate phylogenetic relationships. Systematic analysis of the morphological variation fails to characterize described species as independent lineages. However, DNA sequence analysis indicates that there are three geographically distinct clades consisting of western Pacific, eastern Australian/Papua-New Guinean, and western Australian/Indonesian forms. The morphologically and genetically distinct species Nautilus scrobiculatus falls outside the three geographically recognized assemblages. Members of the genus Nautilus also exhibit low levels of sequence divergence. All these data suggest that Nautilus is currently undergoing diversification, which may have begun only several million years ago. These data also suggest that some of the morphological features used to define Nautilus species may simply represent fixed variations in isolated populations within the same species.
2400919|Paleozoic and post-Paleozoic marine faunas are strikingly different in composition. Paleozoic marine gastropods may be divided into archaic and modern groups based on taxonomic composition, ecological role, and morphology. Paleozoic assemblages were dominated by pleurotomariids (Eotomariidae and Phymatopleuridae), the Pseudozygopleuridae, and, to a lesser extent, the Euomphalidae, while Triassic assemblages were dominated by the Trochiina, Amberleyacea, and new groups of Loxonematoidea and Pleurotomariina. Several new groups of caenogastropods appeared as well. Yet the importance of the end-Permian mass extinction in generating these changes has been questioned. As part of a study of the diversity history of upper Paleozoic and Triassic gastropods, to test the extent to which taxonomic and morphologic trends established in the late Paleozoic are continued after the extinction, and to determine the patterns of selectivity operating during the extinction, I assembled generic and morphologic diversity data for 396 genera in 75 families from the Famennian through the Norian stages. Within this interval, gastropod genera underwent an adaptive radiation during the Visean and Namurian, largely of pleurotomariids, a subsequent period of dynamic stability through the Leonardian, a broad-based decline during the end-Permian mass extinction, and a two-phase post-extinction rebound during the Triassic. The patterns of generic diversity within superfamily-level clades were analyzed using Q-mode factor analysis and detrended correspondence analysis. The results demonstrate that taxonomic affinity, previous clade history, generic age, and gross morphology did not determine survival probability of genera during the end-Permian extinction, with the exception of the bellerophontids, nor did increasing diversity within clades or expansion of particular morphologies prior to the extinction facilitate survival during the extinction or success after it. The pleurotomariids diversified during the Lower Permian, but were heavily hit by the extinction. Similarly, trochiform and turriculate morphologies, among those which Vermeij (1987) has identified as having increased predation resistance, were expanding in the late Paleozoic, but suffered similar extinction rates to other nondiversifying clades. Survival was a consequence of broad geographic and environmental distribution, as was the case during background periods.
2400328|Experiments show that diductor muscles of articulate brachiopods are normally relaxed, contracting only when the valves gape. Consequently, dead brachiopods rarely gape.
23014900|Ecological theory predicts an inverse association between population size and extinction risk, but most previous paleontological studies have failed to confirm this relationship. The reasons for this discrepancy between theory and observation remain poorly understood. In this study, we compiled a global database of gastropod occurrences and collection-level abundances spanning the Early Permian through Early Jurassic (Pliensbachian). Globally, the database contains 5469 occurrences of 496 genera and 2156 species from 839 localities. Within the database, 30 collections distributed across seven stages contain at least 75 specimens and ten generaour minimum criteria for within-collection analysis of extinction selectivity. We use logistic regression analysis, based on global and local measures of population size and stage-level extinction patterns in Early Permian through Early Jurassic marine gastropods, to assess the relationship between abundance and extinction risk. We find that global genus occurrence frequency is inversely associated with extinction risk (i.e., positively associated with survival) in 15 of 16 stages examined, statistically significantly so in five stages. Although correlation between geographic range and occurrence frequency may account for some of this association, results from multivariable regression analysis suggest that the association between occurrence frequency and extinction risk is largely independent of geographic range. Within local assemblages, abundance (number of individuals) is also inversely associated with extinction risk. The strength of association is consistent across time and modes of fossil preservation. Effect strength is poorly constrained, particularly in analyses of local collections. In addition to limited power due to small sample size, this poor constraint may result from confounding by ecological variables not controlled for in the analyses, by taphonomic or collection biases, or from non-monotonic relationships between abundance and extinction risk. Two factors are likely to account for the difference between our results and those of most previous studies. First, many previous studies focused on the end-Cretaceous mass extinction event; the extent to which these results can be generalized to other intervals remains unclear. Second, previous findings of nonselective extinction could result from insufficient statistical power rather than the absence of an underlying effect, because nonselective extinction is generally used as the null hypothesis for statistical convenience. Survivorship patterns in late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic gastropods suggest that abundance has been a more important influence on extinction risk through the Phanerozoic than previously appreciated.
2400311|Forty-six specimens of Nautilus pompilius Linnaeus were captured in depths varying between 100 and 500 m outside of the fringing reef near Suva, Fiji Islands. Thirty-eight of the specimens were male. Air weight per individual varied between 347 and 630 g. Sexual dimorphism in size is indicated, since mature shell modifications (approximated septa, blackened aperture) were present in two females weighing about 350 g (soft parts plus shell) and one weighing slightly over 400 g; the smallest male showing mature shell modifications weighed 496 g. All newly captured specimens were heavier than seawater, with mean weight in seawater of 1.87 g determined for twenty-five specimens. Total volumes of cameral liquid ranged between 13.5 and 0 ml. Thirteen of twenty-five sampled specimens showed less than 1.0 ml of cameral liquid from all chambers. Average cameral liquid osmolarity was lower than that observed in sampled populations of N. macromphalus from New Caledonia and N. pompilius from the Philippine Islands. Maximum swimming rates were 0.25 m/sec. N. pompilius exhibits two common color polymorphs.
2401092|Dinoflagellates are a major component of the marine microplankton and, from fossil evidence, appear to have been so for the past 200 million years. In contrast, the pre-Triassic record contains only equivocal occurrences of dinoflagellates, despite the fact that comparative ultrastructural and molecular phylogenetic evidence indicates a Precambrian origin for the lineage. Thus, it has often been assumed that the dearth of Paleozoic fossil dinoflagellates was due to a lack of preservation or recognition and that the relatively sudden appearance of dinoflagellates in the Mesozoic is an artifact of the record. However, new evidence from a detailed analysis of the fossil record and from the biogeochemical record indicates that dinoflagellates did indeed undergo a major evolutionary radiation in the early Mesozoic.
2400920|The exceptionally preserved Triassic (Anisian) Gres a Voltzia fauna from the Vosges of northeastern France is compared with four major Carboniferous Konservat-Lagerstatten. The problem of comparing faunas with different types of preservation and degrees of taxonomic determination is addressed with a newly devised similarity coefficient. This coefficient quantifies and combines data from different levels in the taxonomic hierarchy and allows comparisons between biotas in a consistent direction regardless of relative diversity. The rank order of similarity between the four Carboniferous Konservat-Lagerstatten and the Gres a Voltzia is as follows: 1. Mazon Creek (Westphalian D) of Illinois; 2. Glencartholm (Visean) of southern Scotland; 3. Bear Gulch (Namurian) of Montana; and 4. Blanzy-Montceau (Stephanian) of France. These occurrences represent conditions transitional between nearshore fully marine and fresh water. The Gres a Voltzia fauna is significantly closer to the Mazon Creek fauna than to the others; the taxonomic overlap with Blanzy-Montceau and Bear Gulch is limited. Stratigraphic age has an insignificant influence on the result; indeed, the fauna closest in age to the Gres a Voltzia, that of Blanzy-Montceau, is least similar. Taphonomic factors are important in determining the range of organisms preserved. The Glencartholm fauna is represented only by forms with either mineralized or robust chitinous skeletons, implying a greater degree of decay prior to the onset of diagenetic mineralization than in the other Konservat-Lagerstatten. Environment, however, is the major control on similarity. The Mazon Creek biota, like that of Gres a Voltzia, represents settings transitional between terrestrial and marine-influenced delta. Groups common to both Konservat-Lagerstatten include medusae, brachiopods, polychaetes, bivalve and gastropod molluscs, limulids, scorpions, spiders, branchiopods, ostracodes, malacostracans, cycloids, euthycarcinoid and myriapod uniramians, insects, fish, and tetrapods. There is a striking continuity between the faunas of Carboniferous and Triassic transitional sedimentary environments. Groups that were adapted to fluctuating conditions (e.g., shifting salinity) show strong congruence at the family and lower levels and were little affected by Permian extinctions. The major taxonomic contrasts are in the eumalacostracans and insects: many of the groups represented in the Gres a Voltzia appeared in the Permian and radiated across the Permo-Triassic boundary as Paleozoic forms became extinct.
2400684|Two kinds of adaptation aid infaunal bivalve mollusks in sustaining their life positions against potentially disruptive water movements: (1) ability to retard scour of surrounding sediment and (2) ability to reburrow rapidly if exhumed. The shell of the venerid Anomalocardia brasiliana is ornamented with concentric ridges that are asymmetrical in cross-section; experiments show that these ridges aid the animal in burrowing by gripping the sediment during backward rotation of the shell. The shell of the less deeply burrowing venerid Chione cancellata also bears concentric ridges, but these are symmetrical and experiments show that they hinder burrowing; other experiments demonstrate that these ridges reduce scour of sand from around a partly exposed animal. The single cardiid species Trachycardium egmontianum possesses adaptations comparable to those of the two venerid species, in the form of spines of two varieties; experiments show that the flared anterior spines facilitate burrowing and the cupped posterior spines reduce scour. Conspicuous ornamentation of the kinds considered here was rare throughout the Paleozoic. Its evolutionary deployment occurred primarily during the post-Paleozoic adaptive diversification of infaunal bivalves, which was triggered by the evolution of efficient burrowing mechanisms. The general premium on maintaining infaunal life positions was accentuated for bivalves after the Paleozoic by the origins of important modern predatory taxa.
2400405|Functionally significant aspects of skull morphology were examined in Eocene miacids and in early members of the modern carnivore families to see if functional craniology might shed light on factors involved in the origin and early evolution of the modern carnivores. No key innovations are apparent at the beginning of the modern carnivore radiation, and an alternative hypothesis to account for that radiation is proposed: the radiation represents the filling of niches vacated by the extinction of several groups of archaic carnivores in the late Eocene. Differences that distinguish modern viverrids, canids, felids, and mustelids from each other today were less pronounced in the Oligocene, when these families first appeared, and provide no insights into possible ecological differences at the family level. However, body size differences among the early members of the modern carnivore families suggest that partitioning of prey resources by size may have been a factor in their initial radiation. Comparison of cranial morphology in Eocene miacids, early members of the modern carnivore families, and living carnivores allows reconstruction of the primitive conditions of carnivore skull morphology and determination of the pathways of morphological transformation that resulted in the diversity of skull morphology seen in modern carnivores.
2400829|The mass, wingspan, and wing area of pterosaurs were reconstructed. Mass was estimated by determining volume and multiplying by avian density. This method was considered appropriate only for smaller pterosaur species because there is evidence for lower density in larger species. These reconstructions were used to compare the wing shapes of Triassic and Jurassic pterosaurs with those of birds. Pterosaurs had wings of below-average loading and above-average aspect compared to the avian mean. This wing design was compatible with relatively slow and highly efficient flight, with high maneuverability. Wing area depends on the reconstruction model adopted; wings attached to the hindlimb principally reduced aspect, and secondarily reduced loading, which would improve take-off performance at the expense of efficiency. The wing shape and cranial feeding adaptations of pterosaurs were most compatible with a marine or aerial predatory adaptive zone. The reconstructed pterosaurs show a limited range of wing shape compared to birds. This may partly reflect preservational bias favoring species living in marine or lagoonal environments, but this is not a complete explanation because there is a lack of pterosaurs with wings of high loading like the marine ducks and auks. Structural, physiological, or adaptive factors may have limited pterosaur wing shape.
23014753|Studies of crinoid morphology have been pivotal in understanding the constraints on the range of morphology within a clade as well as the patterns of disparity throughout the Phanerozoic. Newly discovered and described faunas and recent study of early Paleozoic crinoid diversity provide an ideal opportunity to reanalyze Ordovician through Early Silurian crinoid disparity with more complete taxonomic coverage and finer stratigraphic resolution. Using the coarse stratigraphic binning of Foote (1999), the updated morphologic data set has a similar disparity pattern to those previously reported for the early Paleozoic. However, with the more resolved stratigraphic binning used by Peters and Ausich (2008), a significant difference exists between the original and current data sets. Both data sets have a pronounced disparity high during the late Middle Ordovician. However, the updated disparity curve has a much higher initial disparity during the Early Ordovician and a pronounced rise in disparity during the Silurian recovery. Examination of differential sampling, proportions of the crinoid orders through time, and methods of coding characters indicate these factors have little effect on the pattern of crinoid disparity. The Silurian morphospace expansion occurs primarily within disparids and coincides with the origination of the myelodactylids. These findings corroborate the rapid expansion of morphospace during the Ordovician. However, crinoid disparity did not remain static and, although less frequent than during the initial radiation, new body plans evolved following the Ordovician Extinction (e.g., the myelodactylids). These results are consistent with the hypothesis of ecology constraining the limits on morphologic disparity at the class level.
2666015|Hox genes are known from a wide variety of organisms. In arthropods, these genes control segment characteristics. Trilobites, being arthropods, probably contained eight major Hox genes that controlled their segment types. The trilobite Bauplan contains eight regions that are most likely under the influence of one or more of these Hox genes. The cephalon contains the frontal lobe, glabellar, and occipital ring regions; the thorax contains the anterior thoracic and posterior thoracic regions; and the pygidium contains the articulating ring, axial, and terminal piece regions. Changes in character distribution within or between these regions represent homeotic evolution, which may have resulted from the modification of Hox transcription or of downstream regulatory genes. A phylogenetic analysis is used to recognize homeotic evolution in trilobites, leading to the conclusion that homeotic evolution is common among Cambrian trilobites.
4096933|Quantitative estimates of time-averaging in marine shell accumulations available to date are limited primarily to aragonitic mollusk shells. We assessed time-averaging in Holocene assemblages of calcitic brachiopod shells by direct dating of individual specimens of the terebratulid brachiopod Bouchardia rosea. The data were collected from exceptional (brachiopod-rich) shell assemblages, occurring surficially on a tropical mixed carbonate-siliciclastic shelf (the Southeast Brazilian Bight, SW Atlantic), a setting that provides a good climatic and environmental analog for many Paleozoic brachiopod shell beds of North America and Europe. A total of 82 individual brachiopod shells, collected from four shallow (5-25 m) nearshore (<2.5 km from the shore) localities, were dated by using amino acid racemization (D-alloisoleucine/L-isoleucine value) calibrated with five AMS-radiocarbon dates
2400806|The frequency of sublethal damage was examined in two ophiuroid species, Palaeocoma milleri and ?Ophioderma tenuibrachiata (Ophiodermatidae), from a shallow-water Jurassic "starfish bed." None of 60 specimens was regenerating arms, a result that agrees with four previous studies of Paleozoic and early Mesozoic ophiuroids. By contrast, 66.1 percent of a living Ophioderma brevispinum population from Belize were regenerating one or more arms. For living populations of Ophiothrix oerstedi, the natural injury frequency was high at sites where the field mortality of tethered individuals was high. All predators that have been observed feeding on ophiuroids cause sublethal injuries, which would appear as regenerating arms in the fossil record. These results support the hypothesis that predation pressure on ancient ophiuroid populations was low and increased after the Jurassic.
4500151|If last appearances of marine animal genera are taken as reasonable proxies for true extinctions, then there is appreciable global extinction in every stage of the Phanerozoic. If, instead, backsmearing of extinctions by incomplete sampling is explicitly taken into consideration, a different view of extinction emerges, in which the pattern of extinction is much more volatile and in which quiescent time spans-with little or no global extinction for several million years-are punctuated by major extinction events that are even more extreme than is generally thought. Independent support for this alternative view comes from analysis of genus occurrence data in the Paleo-biology Database, which agrees with previous estimates of sampling probability and implies that offsets between extinction and last appearance of one or more stages are quite probable.
2401132|We discuss a model for the origin of cetacean swimming that is based on hydrodynamic and kinematic data of modern mammalian swimmers. The model suggests that modern otters (Mustelidae: Lutrinae) display several of the locomotor modes that early cetaceans used at different stages in the transition from land to water. We use mustelids and other amphibious mammals to analyze the morphology of the Eocene cetacean Ambulocetus natans, and we conclude that Ambulocetus may have locomoted by a combination of pelvic paddling and dorsoventral undulations of the tail, and that its locomotor mode in water resembled that of the modern otter Lutra most closely. We also suggest that cetacean locomotion may have resembled that of the freshwater otter Pteronura at a stage beyond Ambulocetus.
4096972|Ediacaran fossils at Mistaken Point, southeastern Newfoundland (terminal Neoproterozoic; 565-575 Ma) represent the oldest known animal communities. In contrast to most Phanerozoic fossil assemblages, in which postmortem transportation, bioturbation, and the accumulation of hardparts obscure community relationships, all fossils in the Mistaken Point assemblages were sessile, soft-bodied organisms that show no evidence of mobility in life or transportation after death. Mistaken Point assemblages are spectacularly preserved on large bedding planes as in situ census populations of hundreds to thousands of fossils, recording the living soft-bodied benthic community at the moment it was smothered by volcanic ash. This unique preservation style allows ecological tests routinely conducted in modern communities (e.g., species richness, abundance, "biomass," diversity, and evenness, as well as statistical tests of nearest-neighbor interactions) to be applied to the fossil communities. Observed patterns of community variability are consistent with the theory that Mistaken Point fossil surfaces are "snapshots" recording different stages of ecological succession, progressing from communities of low-level feeders (e.g., pectinates and spindles) to frond-dominated communities with complex tiering and spatial structure. The presence of diverse slope communities at Mistaken Point suggests that the deep sea was colonized rapidly during the evolution of complex organisms. Species richness, abundance, and diversity values, as well as levels of intraspecific interaction, all fall within the typical range observed in modern slope communities. These structural similarities imply that ecological processes present in Ediacaran communities at Mistaken Point were strikingly similar to the processes that operate in modern deep-sea animal communities.
25609407|Recent analytical advances have permitted quantitative evaluations of evolutionary mode in populations of fossil organisms by providing tests of the null hypothesis that patterns of stratigraphic character variation do not differ from the expectations of a random walk. If the hypothesis can be rejected, then stasis and anagenesis represent alternative evolutionary modes discernable using values of the Hurst estimate. We used this approach to evaluate evolutionary mode in the bryozoan genus Peronopora across 34 characters in eight unbranched, cladistically defined, evolutionary sequences. Eight monophyletic crown species and eight paraphyletic (phenetically distinct) metaspecies constitute 16 species-rank taxa within the genus. In seven of 15 species-rank transitions that had adequate sample sizes, significant character state changesboth phyletic gradualism and punctuated equilibriumcoincided with speciation events 11% of the time and were limited to more derived, crownward, ancestor-descendant pairs. Each of the 34 measured characters exhibited instances of transpecific stasis or anagenesis. Anagenesis of some characters persisted across unbranched lineages over 13 species (i.e., across 12 speciation events), whereas character stasis continued through unbranched lineages in up to 16 species (i.e., persisted unchanged across all 15 speciation events). Transpecific stasis and anagenesis were recognizable in over one-half of the data set, with stasis being approximately twice as common as anagenesis. Across all character state transitions, approximately one-half reflect stasis, 30% anagenesis, and 20% could not be differentiated from a random walk. Similarly, across species and metaspecies characterized by a single intraspecific mode, stasis was twice as common as anagenesis and three times more common than undifferentiated random walks. The remaining instances of multiple intraspecific evolutionary modes occurred more commonly within metaspecies than within species. This difference might reflect the more frequent presence of unrecognized cryptic species or subspecies within metaspecies of Peronopora. Instantaneous rates of evolution can be estimated both within and between species of Peronopora for characters displaying anagenesis, potentially providing quantitative insights into evolutionary changes within the lineage.
2400331|The degree of perceived taxonomic change in various lineages may be directly related to their general morphologic complexity: more complex forms appear to change more rapidly. "Rates of evolution" as customarily reported by paleontologists may therefore be a poor indication of evolutionary changes in the underlying genome. Two approaches were used to examine this problem. (1) We have estimated the degree of morphologic complexity by using the number of descriptive terms per genus, and per family, for 12 major groups of animals. Three general levels of complexity occur: (i) gastropods, bivalves and ectoprocts have relatively few terms; (ii) echinoids, forammiferans, ostracodes, nautiloids, corals, trilobites, and brachiopods have an intermediate number of terms; (iii) mammals and ammonoids appear to have a relatively large number of terms. These 3 levels of complexity also increase in rate of taxonomic turnover; i.e., an increasing rate of evolution. (2) Using a cluster analysis based on morphologic similarity, we grouped 200 lineages of a computer-generated phylogenetic sequence according to 4 phenetic bases: 3, 5, 10 and 20 morphologic traits. Groups based on a few characters are longer lived and are commonly polyphyletic in comparison with groups based on many characters. In both the real world and the computer simulation, the bias of differential morphologic complexity may account for the observation that "only complicated animals evolve." Most paleontologic studies of the "rate of evolution" may tell us more about morphologic complexity than about evolutionary rates of genomes.
2400397|Morphologic analysis of 281 species of ammonoids from Great Britain, the North American mid-continent, and the South Urals, at eight successive levels within the Namurian Series (ca. 18 Myr duration), using bivariate plots and principal-components analysis, permits definition of morphologic diversity and identification of morphotypic patterns in time and space. Namurian ammonoids exhibit the same general range of shell geometry that characterizes ammonoids as a whole; there were few post-Namurian innovations in the basic geometry of planispiral ammonoids. Within this overall range of geometry, there are eight preferred morphotypes: two were phylogenetically monopolized by long-ranging forms; three were generalized and reoccur in successive horizons; two others were homeomorphically utilized at different times by different lineages; and one represents morphologic innovation followed by radiation. Such patterns seem to represent combined effects of function, phylogeny, and ecology. Synchronous variations in isolated successions suggest global controls such as eustatic sea-level fluctuations, whereas provincial differences in diversity may be attributable to paleogeographic and ecologic factors. We predict that the Namurian record of ammonoid morphologic diversity and change will be found to be distinctive and differentiable from earlier and later intervals.
2401044|I examine the late Pleistocene megafaunal extinctions by testing the only extinction model with strong a priori predictions, the blitzkrieg model (Martin 1973; Mosimann and Martin 1975). I first test an assumption of the blitzkrieg and other extinction models that the megafaunal extinctions occurred in the terminal Wisconsin (12-10 Ka). This assumption has been disputed by Grayson (1989, 1991), but I find that both a reanalysis of Grayson's data and an analysis of new reliable data support a terminal Wisconsin extinction. The blitzkrieg model predicts that the ranges of megafauna in North America were constricted as the semicircular front of hunters moved southeastward; hence the extinctions should be time-transgressive from northwest to southeast. I test this prediction in three separate analyses that examine (1) the location of terminal sites for each taxon relative to all their other late Wisconsin fossil sites, (2) the location of terminal sites for each taxon relative to all their other reliably dated late Wisconsin fossil sites, and (3) the spatio-temporal pattern of all the reliably dated terminal Wisconsin sites without regard to taxonomy. The geographic distribution of the megafaunal remains does not support the blitzkrieg hypothesis in any of the three analyses. Moreover, all of the patterns in the data are in a direction opposite to that predicted by the blitzkrieg hypothesis. I examine how these conclusions affect both climatic and predation models, particularly in relation to the testability of other extinct+ion hypotheses.
2400682|Among the various forms developed by marine colonial filter feeders, erect colonial fans have evolved in representatives of several phyla. Branches are relatively narrow, evenly spaced from one another, proliferate by bifurcation, and in most colonies continue from their point of origin to the distal margin of the colony. Their narrowness and uniform placement is apparently related to filling an area with multiple tentacle bells of similar size. The major architectural problem for such a colonial suspension feeder seems to be construction of a sheet composed of narrow branches such that water may be filtered as it flows through the sheet, between branches. The simplest form of the filtration sheets is a uniformly expanding wedge, in which new branches originate at regular intervals from the point of origin of the wedge. Variation in rate of addition of new branches results in more complex forms, such as paraboloids, flaring fans, spirals, and highly folded sheets.
2400281|Punctuated equilibrium and phyletic gradualism are alternative hypotheses that purport to explain the tempo and mode of evolution. We evaluate the two hypotheses, as they apply to the fossil record, on both theoretical and empirical grounds. Hidden randomness in data increases as a function of greater aggregation, and the hypothesis of punctuated equilibrium should not be applied to those examples where randomness is likely to occur. False stasis can result from a sustained pattern of emigration and immigration, and geographic variation must be studied in order to posit an unambiguous case of punctuated equilibrium. We describe a statistical method based on the general linear model for testing the relative fit of the alternative hypotheses to any set of temporally ordered metric data. Our method is hierarchical in the sense that subsets of the total explained variance can themselves be explained. The size of the first molar of the primate Pelycodus and of the condylarth Hyopsodus are analyzed. There are 17 tests in the two data sets, and we discover 12 instances of gradualism, four of punctuation and one of equilibrium.
2666058|Encrusting bryozoans provide one of the few systems in the fossil record in which ecological competition can be observed directly at local scales. The macroevolutionary history of diversity of cyclostome and cheilostome bryozoans is consistent with a coupled-logistic model of clade displacement predicated on species within clades interacting competitively. The model matches observed diversity history if the model is perturbed by a mass extinction with a position and magnitude analogous to the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary event. Although it is difficult to measure all parameters in the model from fossil data, critical factors are intrinsic rates of extinction, which can be measured. Cyclostomes maintained a rather low rate of extinction, and the model solutions predict that they would lose diversity only slowly as competitively superior species of cheilostomes diversified into their environment. Thus, the microecological record of preserved competitive interactions between cyclostome and cheilostome bryozoans and the macroevolutionary record of global diversity are consistent in regard to competition as a significant influence on diversity histories of post-Paleozoic bryozoans.
2400752|The directionality of long-term trends can be strongly biased by forces intrinsic to a clade. Trends in body size and skeletal shape may be dictated more by variations in survivorship that reflect differences in ecology than by long-term directional changes in the environment. Hence, mass extinctions can help drive evolutionary trends by selectively eliminating some morphologies and permitting the survivors to found the next radiation. Examples include repeated trends toward larger maximum body size and the evolution of keeled species from those with globose tests in planktonic foraminifera. Both the trends in size and shape develop because small species with globose tests are significantly more resistant to extinction than species that are large or have peripheral keels. Hence, the survivors of both the Cretaceous-Tertiary and Eocene-Oligocene extinction episodes are small, unkeeled taxa. Large species and species with keels evolved convergently after both mass extinctions as the founders radiated anew. Comparison of three radiations of planktonic foraminifera suggest that the convergent evolution of similar test shapes and sizes is not due to synchronous changes in oceanography that track evolutionary trends. Instead, the reestablishment of habitat heterogeneity is needed to permit the ensuing radiation to unfold rather than to closely guide its progress. Similar evolutionary trends will develop in each radiation as long as the founders have similar morphology and the evolution of variants present in the previous radiation is not precluded by the environment.
25609405|Understanding the relationships between morphological disparity and environment, geography, and scale require examination at the local level. Even with disparity metrics that are inherently sample size independent, the nature of rare species and the segregation of common and rare species within morphospace can create substantial sampling issues. Eight well-sampled, Late Ordovician crinoid assemblages were examined for potential biases in the study of local disparity. Disparity is based on the ordination of discrete characters. The rare and common species within these assemblages contributed equally to disparity. In spite of this pattern, rare species in some localities occupy a different area of morphospace, causing disparity to vary greatly with sampling intensity. Morphological rarefaction based on the number of specimens shows that disparity weighted by abundance is constant past a sample size of approximately 30 individuals. This metric is dependent on the evenness within an assemblage as well as the abundance within subgroups in morphospace. Disparity weighted according to abundance gives a view of the functional disparity of an assemblage, which is more applicable in studies of local disparity, though unweighted disparity is still preferred in regional-scale studies and in investigations of morphospace filling through a clade's history.
4096914| The quantification of disparity is an important aspect of recent macroevolutionary studies, and it is usually motivated by theoretical considerations about the pace of innovation and the filling of morphospace. In practice, varying protocols of data collection and analysis have rendered comparisons among studies difficult. The basic question remains, How sensitive is any given disparity signal to different aspects of sampling and data analysis? Here we explore this issue in the context of the radiation of the echinoid order Spatangoida during the Cretaceous. We compare patterns at the genus and species levels, with time subdivision into subepochs and into stages, and with morphological sampling based on landmarks, traditional morphometrics, and discrete characters. In terms of temporal scale, similarity of disparity pattern accrues despite a change in temporal resolution, and a general deceleration in morphological diversification is apparent. Different morphometric methods also produce similar signals. Both the landmark analysis and the discrete character analysis suggest relatively high early disparity, whereas the analysis based on traditional morphometrics records a much lower value. This difference appears to reflect primarily the measurement of different aspects of overall morphology. Disparity patterns are similar at both the genus and species levels. Moreover, inclusion or exclusion of the sister order Holasteroida and the stem group Disasteroida in the sampled morphospace did not affect proportional changes in spatangoid disparity. Similar results were found for spatangoid subclades vis--vis spatangoids as a whole. The relative robustness of these patterns implies that the choice of temporal scale, morphometric scheme, and taxonomic level may not affect broad trends in disparity and the representation of large-scale morphospace structure. 
2400704|The view that interspecific competition with balanoid barnacles has caused the evolutionary decline of chthamaloids (Stanley and Newman 1980), is challenged on 3 grounds. First, as a phyletic stock, chthamaloid size, as indicated by the mean adult basal diameter of extant taxa, has been decreasing, probably since the end of the Cretaceous. Small organisms will lose in interspecific competition to larger ones. However small body size reduces the susceptibility to predation and various forms of disturbance, and therefore allows chthamaloids to inhabit intertidal areas denied to balanoids. Second, although many species of Chthamalus occupy a high intertidal "refuge," there is little evidence that competition is the primary ecological force maintaining them there. Predation is the most significant influence in tropical areas. In many temperate zone communities characterized by intense invertebrate predation or physical disturbance, chthamaloids achieve their maximum density lower in the intertidal than do balanoids or coronuloids. Last, the fossil evidence supporting a decline in chthamaloids is missing. The difficulty of seeking a single mechanism to explain global, multispecific phenomena is discussed.
2401241|Evidence that can be used to interpret the life habits of extinct organisms usually takes three forms: functional analysis, analogy with living organisms, and geological evidence. Independent quantitative tests for habit are rarely available. A theory of optimum eye design originally derived for living aquatic arthropods provides quantitative data that are used to test previous suppositions about the life habits of two Ordovician pelagic trilobites: that the telephinid trilobite Carolinites was epipelagic while the cyclopygid Pricyclopyge was mesopelagic. Optimum compound eye design theory uses measured lens diameters and interommatidial angles to determine the "eye parameter" (p), which can be used to gauge approximate optimum level of illumination for the eyes of these trilobites. The eye parameter provides an independent test for their relative paleobathymetry. Values of the eye parameter measured in the dorso-ventral direction across two eyes of Carolinites killaryensis utahensis were found to have medians of 2.13 and 3.24. Values measured in the antero-posterior direction have medians of 3.17 and 4.86 for the two eyes. Values measured in the dorso-ventral direction across two eyes of Pricyclopyge binodosa have medians of 4.23 and 4.98, while values measured in the antero-posterior direction have medians of 7.06 and 8.31. Eye parameters are higher in Pricyclopyge than in Carolinites, the difference statistically significant at p = 0.05. The eyes of Pricyclopyge are optimally designed for lower levels of illumination than are those of Carolinites. This accords with the previous interpretations of the former trilobite as mesopelagic and the latter as epipelagic.
2400999|This study assesses swimming potential in a variety of ammonoid shell shapes on the basis of coefficients of drag (Cd) and the power needed to maintain a constant velocity. Reynolds numbers (Re) relevant to swimming ammonoids, and lower than those previously studied, were examined. Power consumption was scaled to a range of sizes and swimming velocities. Estimates of power available derived from studies of oxygen consumption in modern cephalopods and fish were used to calculate maximum sustainable swimming velocities (MSV). Laterally compressed, small thickness ratio (t. r.) ammonoids, previously assumed to be the most efficient swimmers, do not experience the lowest drag or power consumption at all sizes and velocities. At low values of size and velocity associated with Reynolds numbers below 10
23014720|The floral community along South Africa's southwest coast today is dominated by shrubby strandveld, renosterveld, and coastal fynbos vegetation. The grass family (Poaceae), represented primarily by C 3 taxa, is scarce by comparison. Nevertheless, grass has a long history along this coast, as indicated by the presence of 5-million-year-old C3 grass pollen and phytoliths in sediments at the fossil locality of Langebaanweg E Quarry. Because the pollen and phytoliths of other plant families, including fynbos, have also been found, it has been difficult to determine whether grass was scarce or abundant in this environment. In order to shed light on this issue, I analyzed the dental mesowear of the E Quarry bovids. Results indicate that only one (Simatherium demissum) of seven analyzed species was a grazer. These compare well with the results of a microwear texture analysis, which indicate that none of the seven analyzed species were obligate grazers. These two studies point strongly toward a heavily wooded environment and not one that was dominated by grass. Although a conventional dental microwear analysis did identify three out of seven E Quarry bovid species as grazers (Bed3aN Damalacra, Kobus subdolus, and S. demissum), only S. demissum probably actually was a grazer. I suggest that the grazer signal exhibited by the other two bovid samples indicate that these species were taking advantage of a spike in grass abundance, probably during the winter growth season.
2401218|The relative numbers of sexually and asexually recruited colonies and the proportion of brooding zooids were determined in 26 species of cheilostome bryozoans of Late Cretaceous and Early Tertiary ages. Asexual reproduction seems to be much more widespread than previously realized, although its relative importance is related to growth habit. Arborescent species of these fossil assemblages reproduce mainly asexually via fragmentation; encrusting species reproduce sexually via motile larvae. Free-living species use both methods; some reproduce sexually, whereas other species have enhanced the ability to break and reproduce predominantly asexually. Mode of reproduction was stable over a period of 3 m.y. in all species except the vinelike Columnotheca cribrosa. In this species both the proportion of asexual recruits and brooding zooids varied in accord with environmental parameters. In all cases populations dominated by asexual propagation had a significantly lower proportion of brooding zooids than populations dominated by sexual propagation.
4096853| Biological veracity of the sharp diversity increase observed in many analyses of the post-Paleozoic marine fossil record has been debated vigorously in recent years. To assess this question for sample-level ("alpha") diversity, we used bulk samples of shelly invertebrates, representing three major fossil groups (brachiopods, bivalves, and gastropods), to compare the Jurassic and late Cenozoic sample-level diversity of marine benthos. After restricting the data set to single-bed, whole-fauna, bulk samples (n  30 specimens) from comparable open marine siliciclastic facies, we were able to retain 427 samples (255 Jurassic and 172 late Cenozoic), with most of those samples originating from our own empirical work. Regardless of the diversity metric applied, the initial results suggest that standardized sample-level species (or genus) diversity, driven by evenness and/or richness of the most common taxa, increased between the Jurassic and late Cenozoic by at least a factor of 1.6. When the data are partitioned into the three dominant higher taxa, it becomes clear that (1) the bivalves, which dominated the samples for both time intervals, increased in sample-level diversity between the Jurassic and the late Cenozoic by a much smaller factor than the total fauna; (2) the removal of brachiopods, which were a noticeable component of the Jurassic samples, did not significantly affect standardized sample-level diversity estimates; and (3) the gastropods, which were rare in the Jurassic but common in many late Cenozoic samples, contributed notably to the increase in sample-level diversity observed between the two time intervals. Parallel to these changes, the samples revealed secular trends in ecological structure, including Jurassic to late Cenozoic increases in proportion of (1) infauna, (2) mobile forms, and (3) non-suspension-feeding organisms. These trends mostly persist when data are restricted to bivalves. Supplementary analyses indicate that these patterns cannot be attributed to sampling heterogeneities in paleolatitudinal range, lithology, or paleoenvironment of deposition. Likewise, when data are restricted to samples dominated by species with originally aragonitic shells, the observed temporal changes persist at a comparable magnitude, suggesting that the pervasive loss of aragonite in the older fossil record is unlikely to have been the primary cause of the observed patterns. The comparable ratio of identified to unidentified species and genera, observed when comparing the Jurassic and late Cenozoic samples, indicates that the relatively poorer (mold/cast) preservation of Jurassic aragonite species also is unlikely to have been responsible for the observed patterns. However, the diagenesis-related taphonomic and methodological artifacts cannot be ruled out as an at least partial contributor to the observed post-Paleozoic changes in diversity, taxonomic composition, and ecology (the outcomes of the three tests of the diagenetic bias available to us are incongruent). The study demonstrates that the post-Paleozoic trends in the sample-level diversity, ecology, and taxonomic structure of common taxa can be replicated across multiple studies. However, the diversity increase estimated here is much less prominent than suggested by many previous analyses. The results also narrow the list of causative explanations down to two testable hypotheses. The first is diagenetic bias-a spurious trend driven by either (a) increasing taphonomic loss of small specimens in the older fossil record or (b) a shift in sampling procedures between predominantly lithified rocks of the Mesozoic and predominately unlithified, and therefore sievable, sediments of the late Cenozoic. The second hypothesis is genuine biological changes-macroevolutionary trends in the structure of marine benthic associations through time, consistent with predictions of several related models such as evolutionary escalation, increased ecospace utilization, and the Mesozoic marine revolution. Future studies should focus on testing these two rival models, a key remaining challenge for identifying the primary causative mechanism for the long-term changes in sample-level diversity, ecology, and taxonomic structure observed in the Phanerozoic marine fossil record. 
2400850|A marked retardation of dental ontogeny characterizes the family Elephantidae. As a consequence of this retardation, elephant teeth are subject to the forces of mastication, eruption, and progression while still in a developing and pliant stage. As specimens described here illustrate, the mechanical forces are often sufficient to deform the gross morphology of dentitions. Morphological variation in elephant teeth can be regarded as "fabricational noise"-revealing information about the dynamic context in which the teeth develop. Accordingly, dental variation is less species-specific in elephants than in other mammals. The fossil record may comprise fewer species of elephants than is generally believed, and trends inferred to reflect rapid evolution within this family may in fact reflect phenotypic plasticity.
2400721|Diachronic variation in insectivore remains from a deeply stratified cave deposit in southeastern North America is described. The paleobotanical record for the region is congruent with variation in the soricid (shrew) and talpid (mole) faunal assemblages. Both faunal and floral records reflect considerable climatic change since the full Wisconsinan in this unglaciated portion of eastern North America. Variations in the insectivore assemblages indicate the presence of a more equable climate during the late Pleistocene. Continental climates ushered in at the end of the Pleistocene resulted in a marked decrease in insectivore diversity. Relative frequency changes in taxa throughout the Holocene reflect the mid-Holocene Climatic Optimum.
2400762|Physical models of graptolites have been constructed for a range of morphologies, with emphasis on planar, multiramous forms. The models are life size and have the density of a living graptolite, based on the now-established collagenous nature of the periderm and unavoidable assumptions about the amount of extrathecal tissue present in the living colony. These models have been used to test the two main hypotheses of graptolite life habit developed by Bulman, Rickards, Kirk, and others. Testing of graptoloid models in water suggests that many rhabdosome shapes were designed for passive rotation within the water column. This is caused in the models by a variety of modifications, including changes in thecal and stipe orientation, alterations of colony shape and the addition of vanes and hooks. Rotation would only have been useful when the rhabdosome was in directional motion and the frequency of such modifications seems anomalous if no such movement occurred. Thus movement by some means is required, either passively, by changes in buoyancy, or by automobility. Spiralling action would increase the harvesting path of an individual living on a planar, multiramous colony, making this a theoretically advantageous mode of life for the morphology. It would prevent the individual zooids of scandent biserial and uniserial colonies from feeding from the same narrow band of water.
2401000|Polymorphism is being actively investigated by ostracode specialists because the phenomenon is widespread and may be a key to understanding speciation patterns and evolutionary processes. However, the methods for recognizing the phenomenon and the cause or causes of polymorphism are still under debate. This study presents an example of genetically controlled ostracode dimorphism in which the relationship between the two forms can be explained in terms of heterochrony. The living males as well as the females of Loxoconcha uranouchiensis in Aburatsubo Cove, central Japan, are found to be dimorphic in size, shape, and surface ornamentation of the carapace. The dimorphic forms appear concurrently in the same microhabitat, suggesting that the dimorphism is genetically rather than environmentally controlled. Although the large and the small forms are indistinguishable in their early stages, morphological differences gradually appear and become complete after the final molting, which is the seventh molting for both forms. The characters determined by the number of moltings, such as the numbers of reticules, bristles, and pores, are identical between adults of the two forms. In contrast, for characters affected by the growth condition of the epidermal-cell system, such as carapace shape and fine surface ornamentation, the small-form adult is similar to the penultimate instar of the large form. Taking the large form as a standard, the small form is paedomorphic. These two forms are reproductively isolated and should be considered different species.
2400869|When the isthmian land bridge triggered the Great American Interchange, a large majority of land-mammal families crossed reciprocally between North and South America at about 2.5 Ma (i.e., Late Pliocene). Initially land-mammal dynamics proceeded as predicted by equilibrium theory, with roughly equal reciprocal mingling on both continents. Also as predicted, the impact of the interchange faded in North America after about 1 m.y. In South America, contrary to such predictions, the interchange became decidedly unbalanced: during the Pleistocene, groups of North American origin continued to diversify at exponential rates. Whereas only about 10% of North American genera are derived from southern immigrants, more than half of the modern mammalian fauna of South America, measured at the generic level, stems from northern immigrants. In addition, extinctions more severely decimated interchange taxa in North America, where six families were lost, than in South America, where only two immigrant families became extinct. This paper presents a two-phase ecogeographic model to explain the asymmetrical results of the land-mammal interchange. During the humid interglacial phase, the tropics were dominated by rain forests, and the principal biotic movement was from Amazonia to Central America and southern Mexico. During the more arid glacial phase, savanna habitats extended broadly right through tropical latitudes. Because the source area in the temperate north was six times as large as that in the south, immigrants from the north outnumbered those from the south. One prediction of this hypothesis is that immigrants from the north generally should reach higher latitudes in South America than the opposing contingent of land-mammal taxa in North America. Another prediction is that successful interchange families from the north should experience much of their phylogenetic diversification in low latitudes of North America before the interchange. Insofar as these predictions can be tested, they appear to be upheld.
2400433|Mammalian species often exhibit clinal geographic variation in body size: individuals tend to be larger in areas with lower mean annual temperature. Climatic change involving increasing or decreasing mean annual temperature may cause clines to shift geographically, resulting in a phenotypic shift at all affected locales within a species' range. I assess the potential of shifting geographic clines to produce morphological trends in the fossil record. Five extant North American mammalian species (Didelphis virginiana, Mephitis mephitis, Odocoileus virginianus, Scalopus aquaticus, and Sciurus carolinensis) are examined to quantify size change along latitudinal clines and to estimate the geographic range and temperature difference commonly associated with a given difference in body size. Relative to body size, the observed size range of skeletal characters within each of these five species is comparable to that seen in a much larger sample of North American mammals. Thus patterns of variation documented for the five species may be used to assess the likelihood of cline translocation as an explanation of size change in the mammalian fossil record. As a case study, I examine three lineages from the Early Eocene of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming. I determine that size change in these chronoclines represents evolutionary change and is not merely the result of shifting geographic clines.
2400698|The growth rate of Nautilus pompilius in its natural environment has been determined from radioactive disequilibrium between
2400764|The tailbend, a downward flexure of the vertebral column, is a prominent feature of post-Triassic ichthyosaurs. However, due to the vagaries of preservation and of preparation, its presence cannot be verified in all skeletons. Computed tomography offers a solution to the problem by identifying the wedge-shaped centra that contribute to the tailbend. Leptopterygius tenuirostris appears to have a tailbend, albeit slightly downturned. There is also evidence that its close relative Eurhinosaurus longirostris had a tailbend, too.
2400543|Many apparent homeomorphs have been recognized among genera assigned to the Paleozoic stenolaemate bryozoan orders Trepostomata and Cryptostomata. Morphologies are evaluated to determine whether such homeomorphy should be expected, or is likely to have resulted from incomplete taxonomic analysis. Historical and constructional constraints prevalent in the phylum appear to provide ample opportunity for adaptive convergence, a conclusion supported by the occurrence of similar morphologies in distantly related post-Paleozoic bryozoans. Cryptostomes are distinguished in part by the presence of restricted budding loci. Loci pattern is hypothesized to be the key innovation in the establishment of the clade and the pattern also is considered critical to the evolution of the relatively slender branches and short zooecia typical of cryptostomes. Loci development does not provide a taxonomic panacea. This is because the hypothesis does not preclude convergent evolution of broadly similar restricted loci in Paleozoic non-cryptostome groups, although presumably the cryptostomes in general would have been best equipped to succeed under conditions favoring restricted loci. Environmental conditions for the cryptostomes in general and changing life history strategies for rhabdomesoids in particular provide possible controlling factors for the evolution of these bryozoans.
2400839|Cretaceous floras in Alaska, when compared to those at mid-latitudes, generally indicate later appearances in Alaska of major clades and major leaf morphologies. Compared to mid-latitude floras, Alaskan Late Cretaceous floras contain few major clades. The Alaskan clades diversified but at a low taxonomic level. Migrational pathways into high latitudes were probably along streams. Similar patterns characterized the Alaskan Tertiary, although some southward migrations of lineages occurred during the Neogene. Review of other Arctic paleontological data from Ellesmere Island, previously used to suggest that the Arctic was a major center of origin during the Late Cretaceous, indicates that the ages of supposedly substantiating dinoflagellate floras were misinterpreted. When the dinoflagellate data are interpreted according to standard methodology, first occurrences of genera and species groups on Ellesmere are, like the Alaskan occurrences, later than first occurrences at middle latitudes.
2400400|The mineralized hard parts of Nautilus, including the mandibles, statoconia, and uroliths, are more complex with respect to ultrastructure, mineralogy, trace element, and isotopic composition than was previously recognized. X-ray diffraction and amino acid composition analyses of the organic structural hard parts (siphuncle tube, shell wall and septum organic matrix, mandibles, and muscle tendon sheath) show that two different chitin-protein complexes are utilized by Nautilus. The mandible mineral hard parts are particularly complex, with five different minerals present in various locations. A comparison of the statoconia of Nautilus species with the statoliths of dibranchian cephalopods reveals an evolutionary trend in which carbonate is substituted for phosphate. This study also shows that Nautilus uses a number of different crystal-forming processes for constructing its hard parts. The data presented here provide a broad spectrum of information, which, when applied to the fossil counterparts, can be utilized for improving our understanding of ancient nautiloid biology.
2400669|Morphologic analysis was made on early whorls of two Paleozoic and 43 Mesozoic ammonoid species to obtain basic data on early life history. A positive linear relationship between protoconch and ammonitella sizes is recognized among the species examined. Total rotation angle of the ammonitella (ammonitella angle) seems to be independent of ammonitella size but has a significant negative linear relation with whorl expansion rate. This supports the model that the embryonic shell of ammonoids consists of gas-filled protoconch and the succeeding body whorl up to the primary varix. Growth analysis of siphuncle diameter in the early post-embryonic stage also indicates that the shell growth rates of the species hatched from large-sized eggs were smaller than those of species hatched from small-sized eggs.
2400998|Dental measurements are commonly used in the diagnosis of fossil elephant species, yet elephant teeth develop slowly, within a highly dynamic context that enhances opportunities for physical deformation (or its subtler manifestation, quantitative phenotypic variation). This paper examines intraspecific variation in elephant teeth and compares it with variability in other mammals (83 species in 7 orders). I conclude that (1) male elephants tend to have slightly larger cheek teeth than females, though the difference is not marked; (2) of the full complement of six cheek teeth per jaw quadrant, no single tooth consistently varies less than the others (so on this basis, for taxonomic decisions no tooth is preferable to the customarily used M
2400743|The depositional history of Upper Miocene through Recent sediments from DSDP Site 214 (Ninetyeast Ridge, Indian Ocean) is reexamined. Samples of the Globorotalia tumida planktic foraminiferal lineage, originally obtained from these sediments by Malmgren et al. (1983), serve as the empirical basis for the recognition of punctuated anagenesis as a distinct mode of phenotypic evolution and have been the subject of numerous additional investigations. However, conclusions reached by previous authors depend strictly on the validity of the original chronostratigraphic interpretation of these sediments. Graphic correlation analysis of first- and last-appearance datum levels for a total of 41 planktic foraminiferal, radiolarian, and calcareous nannoplankton taxa provides evidence for a more complex depositional history at this deep-sea site than originally believed. Based on a conservative model of variation in the pattern of sediment accumulation rates, the lowermost portion of the studied section (6.5-4.3 Ma) represents an interval of temporally condensed sediment accumulation (1.88 cm/1,000 yr) followed by an interval (4.3-2.8 Ma) of temporally expanded sediment accumulation (3.97 cm/1,000 yr). This interval, in turn, is followed by a depositional hiatus or an extremely condensed interval, at least 800,000 yr in duration, which is followed by another relatively condensed (1.36 cm/1,000 yr) interval from 2.0 Ma-Recent. Although this chronostratigraphic reinterpretation deviates substantially from the original, which recognized Site 214 as being both temporally continuous and exhibiting a constant sediment accumulation rate from the Upper Miocene through the Upper Pliocene, it is more consistent with expectations based on Neogene eustatic sea-level fluctuations and global surveys of Neogene hiatus distributions. Age assignments for samples of the Gr. tumida lineage based on the revised chronostratigraphic model reverse some findings of previous investigators with respect to the distinctiveness of phenotypic evolutionary rates characterizing the transition from Gr. plesiotumida to Gr. tumida. Finally, a brief survey of similar marine invertebrate lineage studies shows that changes in the rate of phenotypic evolution often appear to coincide with major physical changes in the paleoceanographic environment. Such correspondences may be due, at least in part, to the effect of these environmental changes on sediment accumulation rates. Paleobiologists who seek to understand patterns of phenotypic change over time must remove the effects of variations in sediment accumulation rates from their data before evolutionary hypothesis testing and remain aware of the limitations imposed on their interpretations by the uncertain nature of chronostratigraphic inference.
2666065|Atmospheric carbon dioxide is the raw material for the biosphere. Therefore, changes in the carbon isotopic composition of the atmosphere will influence the terrestrial $\delta^{13}$C signals we interpret. However, reconstructing the atmospheric $\delta^{13}$C value in the geologic past has proven challenging. Land plants sample the isotopic composition of CO$_2$ during photosynthesis. We use a model of carbon isotopic fractionation during C3 photosynthesis, in combination with a meta-data set (519 measurements from 176 species), to show that the $\delta^{13}$C value of atmospheric CO$_2$ can be reconstructed from the isotopic composition of plant tissue. Over a range of pCO$_2$ (198-1300 ppmv), the $\delta^{13}$C value of plant tissue does not vary systematically with atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration. However, environmental factors, such as water stress, can influence the $\delta^{13}$C value of leaf tissue. These factors explained a relatively small portion of variation in the $\delta^{13}$C value of plant tissue in our data set and emerged strongly only when the carbon isotopic composition of the atmosphere was held constant. Members of the Poaceae differed in average $\delta^{13}$C value, but we observed no other differences correlated with plant life form (herbs, trees, shrubs). In contrast, over 90% of the variation the carbon isotopic composition of plant tissue was explained by variation in the $\delta^{13}$C value of the atmosphere under which it was fixed. We use a subset of our data spanning a geologically reasonable range of atmospheric $\delta^{13}$C values (-6.4% to -9.6%) and excluding C3 Poaceae to develop an equation to reconstruct the $\delta^{13}$C value of atmospheric CO$_2$ based on plant values. Reconstructing the $\delta^{13}$C value of atmospheric CO$_2$ in geologic time will facilitate chemostratigraphic correlation in terrestrial sediments, calibrate pCO$_2$ reconstructions based on soil carbonates, and offer a window into the physiology of ancient plants.
2400840|Extinctions at the top of the Sunwaptan Stage (="Ptychaspid Biomere") near the Cambrian-Ordovician boundary eliminated about half of North American trilobite families. The families that extend from the shelf into the upper slope show significantly higher survival than those confined to the shelf. Biofacies and lithofacies distribution patterns indicate that the extinctions cannot be attributed to a shelfwide physical environmental perturbation, such as a fall in water temperature or the spread of anoxic waters. We develop a simple biogeographic model which suggests that diversity of a faunal province is influenced profoundly by changes in the number of component biofacies. This model is tested with an analysis of biofacies distribution patterns across the upper boundary of the Sunwaptan Stage. The extinctions correspond closely to lithofacies shifts in the outer shelf that indicate the initiation of major paleogeographic changes, possibly in response to a sea-level rise. The effects of these changes cascade across the entire shelf by the shoreward migration of off-shelf and shelf-margin taxa. Biofacies become reduced in number through telescoping and their environmental ranges expand during the extinction interval, suggesting an increase in the proportion of eurytopic taxa. Selective survival of wide-ranging eurytopes may have influenced the dynamics of faunal replacement by lowering speciation rates of shelf taxa. Consequently, the proportion of shelf endemics will decline and biofacies will be dominated by immigrant taxa. There are sufficient similarities in extinction patterns across the upper boundary of the Sunwaptan Stage and those at other Upper Cambrian stage boundaries to suggest that the biogeographic model developed here may have broader application.
2400231|The statistical significance of differences in evolutionary rate between major taxonomic groups is evaluated using conventional chi-square techniques on stratigraphic range data. Romer's (1966) compilation of stratigraphic ranges of fossil mammals is used to determine whether orders differ significantly from each other in generic origination and extinction rates. The evolutionary histories of 2180 genera (primarily Cenozoic in age) are analyzed. Chi-square testing shows that significantly high or low (P  0.99) extinction or origination occurs in 15% of the testable cases. Significantly high or low evolutionary turnover in a taxon (orders in this case) we term taxotely. Significantly high turnover rate is equivalent to Simpson's tachytely and significantly low turnover is equivalent to his bradytely. In the mammal data set, taxotely is largely attributable to the influence of South American endemics. Some of the effect is interpreted as an artifact of biases in the fossil record (or its study) and some is attributed to real biological aspects of mammalian evolution.
2400546|Bone-collecting behavior in the harvester ant, Messor barbarus, has been observed for the first time. Excavation to the depth of the packed substrate of a single ant hill yielded 1167 modern bones derived from nine or more species of small vertebrates. Since harvester ants of various species are well-known from the Americas, Africa, and Eurasia, ants may have served as important agents of concentration for micromammal assemblages in the fossil record. Analysis of the faunal and skeletal representation of the ant hill assemblages reveals characteristic patterns that might be used to distinguish such assemblages from those collected by avian or mammalian predators.
4096998|The independent acquisition of high-crowned cheek teeth (hypsodonty) in several ungulate lineages (e.g., camels, equids, rhinoceroses) in the early to middle Miocene of North America has classically been used as an indication that savanna vegetation spread during this time. Implicit in this interpretation is the untested assumption that hypsodonty was an evolutionary response to feeding in open habitats, either due to a change in food source (from browse to graze) or to increased incorporation of airborne grit in the diet. I examined the adaptive explanation for hypsodonty in equids using criteria pertaining to process and pattern of adaptations set up in the comparative-methods literature. Specifically, I tested whether hypsodonty appeared coincident with or just after the spread of open, grass-dominated habitats in the Great Plains of North America. Phytolith (plant opal) analysis of 99 phytolith assemblages extracted from sediment samples from Montana/Idaho, Nebraska/Wyoming, and Colorado were used to establish the first continuous record of middle Eocene-late Miocene vegetation change in the northern to Central Great Plains. This record was compared with the fossil record of equids from the same area in a phylogenetic framework. The study showed that habitats dominated by C
25482665|The application of molecular genetics, in particular comparative genomics, to the field of evolutionary biology is paving the way to an enhanced "New Synthesis." Apart from their power to establish and refine phylogenies, understanding such genomic processes as the dynamics of change in genomes, even in hypothetical RNA-based genomes and the in vitro evolution of RNA molecules, helps to clarify evolutionary principles that are otherwise hidden among the nested hierarchies of evolutionary units. To this end, I outline the course of hereditary material and examine several issues including disparity, causation, or bookkeeping of genes, adaptation, and exaptation, as well as evolutionary contingency at the genomic level-issues at the heart of some of Stephen Jay Gould's intellectual battlegrounds. Interestingly, where relevant, the genomic perspective is consistent with Gould's agenda. Extensive documentation makes it particularly clear that exaptation plays a role in evolutionary processes that is at least as significant as-and perhaps more significant than-that played by adaptation.
2400252|The Lower Tertiary Gulf Coast was subjected to repeated transgressive-regressive cycles of varying rate and extent which had a marked effect on species longevities. In some neogastropods dispersal and geographic distribution played important roles in species longevities. Species with planktic larval stages that inhabited broad areas of the Gulf Coast could maintain their distributions even during regressive phases when delta building was strong. Wide distributions, free gene flow, and resistance to isolation gave planktic species an evolutionary stability that resulted in greater species longevity. Species with nonplanktic development could attain wide geographic ranges when barriers were minimized, but they were unable to maintain their distributions in the face of regressive progradation. Thus their populations were isolated, and extinction and speciation accelerated, giving them lesser evolutionary longevity. Although planktic volutids tend to be widespread, planktic fasciolariids and mitrids were often restricted in distribution and therefore probably stenotopic. If dispersal and environmental tolerance are considered as separate forces, they seem to act in combination to produce very long, very short or intermediate species longevities.
25609418|A record of late Paleozoic foraminiferal diversity, origination and extinction frequencies, and provincialism at million-year temporal resolution and species-level taxonomic resolution has been achieved by analyzing composite standard databases. Foraminiferal species diversity increased throughout Mississippian and Pennsylvanian time leading up to its peak at the Pennsylvanian/Permian boundary. Foraminifers then experienced a steep decline in diversity during the Early Permian. Frequencies of origination and extinction broadly tracked changes in global diversity. From Late Mississippian time onward, patterns in total foraminiferal diversity were dominated by fusulinoideans. There is no clear relationship between rates of foraminiferal evolution and the alternating glacial and nonglacial intervals that characterized the late Paleozoic ice age. Rather, high rates of origination and extinction might reflect instability of neritic environments as a consequence of high-frequency, high-amplitude base-level fluctuations (cyclothemic deposition). Further, the advent of algal symbiosis in fusulinoideans was a physiologic innovation that promoted diversification as these symbiont-bearing taxa experimented with morphologic adaptations for partitioning the low-nutrient environments to which they were specialized. Growth to large size and delayed maturation in fusulinoideans might have been enabled by the late Paleozoic hyperoxic atmosphere and the widespread development of oligotrophic, carbonate platform and shelf environments. The late Paleozoic history of foraminiferal diversification was influenced also by closure of the Rheic Ocean beginning in Late Mississippian time. Foraminiferal associations on opposite sides of Pangea exhibited relatively high similarity prior to the closure, but then similarity decreased steadily after destruction of the subequatorial marine corridor. Arctic-Eurasian and North American associations were nearly isolated from one another throughout the main burst of fusulinoidean diversification, so that parallel lineages developed independently in the two regions, resulting in many instances of convergence.
25482667|Of all sessile filtrators, only some species of acorn barnacles managed to permanently settle on whales. Their key exaptation was probably a kind of biochemical cleaning process, which could be modified to penetrate into the host's dead cutis. Anchorage was further increased by coring prongs out of the whale skin (Coronula) or by transforming the wall into a cylindrical tube that added new rings at the base, while old ones flaked off at the surface in tandem with skin shedding (Tubicinella). Xenobalanus even everted its naked body into a stalked structure and reduced the wall plates to a minute, but highly efficient, anchor. Cryptolepas combines the strategies of Tubicinella and Coronula, but with a different structure of the radial folds. Because of a shared exaptational inventory, it is impossible to unravel phylogenetic relationships within the Coronulida from skeletal morphology alone.
2400462|Teeth and other dermal skeletal elements from three osteolepid and two eusthenopterid rhipidistians were examined with the scanning electron microscope to establish whether the hypermineralized outer layer was enameloid or enamel. Using Smith's (1978) morphological criteria to infer the developmental history of enamel and enameloid, enamel was found in the teeth and dermal bones of the osteolepids, whereas enameloid was identified in scales. Hyneria and Eusthenopteron teeth also had enamel. As enamel has also been found in teeth of living lungfishes and extant Latimeria, the presence of enamel in tetrapod teeth represents a primitive character retained from a lobe-finned ancestor and is not useful for phylogenetic studies within the lobe-finned/tetrapod group. Shellis and Miles' (1974) hypothesis that the transition from enameloid to enamel occurred via a fairly simple regulatory change is discussed.
3595495|Spatial and temporal variations in biological diversity are critical in understanding the role of biogeographical regulation (if any) on mass extinctions. An analysis based on a latest database of the stratigraphic ranges of 89 Permian brachiopod families, 422 genera, and 2059 species within the Boreal, Paleoequatorial, and Gondwanan Realms in the Asian-western Pacific region suggests two discrete mass extinctions, each possibly with different causes. Using species/family rarefaction analysis, we constructed diversity curves for late Artinskian-Kungurian, Roadian-Wordian, Capitanian, and Wuchiapingian intervals for filtering out uneven sampling intensities. The end-Changhsingian (latest Permian) extinction eliminated 87-90% of genera and 94-96% of species of Brachiopoda. The timing of the end-Changhsingian extinction of brachiopods in the carbonate settings of South China and southern Tibet indicates that brachiopods suffered a rapid extinction within a short interval just below the Permian/Triassic boundary. In comparison, the end-Guadalupian/late Guadalupian extinction is less profound and varies temporally in different realms. Brachiopods in the western Pacific sector of the Boreal Realm nearly disappeared by the end-Guadalupian but experienced a relatively long-term press extinction spanning the entire Guadalupian in the Gondwanan Realm. The end-Guadalupian brachiopod diversity fall is not well reflected at the timescale used here in the Paleoequatorial Realm because the life-depleted early Wuchiapingian was overlapped by a rapid radiation phase in the late Wuchiapingian. The Guadalupian fall appears to be related to the dramatic reduction of habitat area for the brachiopods, which itself is associated with the withdrawal of seawater from continental Pangea and the closure of the Sino-Mongolian seaway by the end-Guadalupian.
1571651|Issues of directionality in the history of life can be framed in terms of six major evolutionary steps, or megatrajectories (cf. Maynard Smith and Szathmry 1995): (1) evolution from the origin of life to the last common ancestor of extant organisms, (2) the metabolic diversification of bacteria and archaea, (3) evolution of eukaryotic cells, (4) multicellularity, (5) the invasion of the land and (6) technological intelligence. Within each megatrajectory, overall diversification conforms to a pattern of increasing variance bounded by a right wall as well as one on the left. However, the expanding envelope of forms and physiologies also reflects-at least in part-directional evolution within clades. Each megatrajectory has introduced fundamentally new evolutionary entities that garner resources in new ways, resulting in an unambiguously directional pattern of increasing ecological complexity marked by expanding ecospace utilization. The sequential addition of megatrajectories adheres to logical rules of ecosystem function, providing a blueprint for evolution that may have been followed to varying degrees wherever life has arisen.
2400680|Factor analysis of morphometric data from fossil and recent Archaeogastropoda reveals that there has been a progressive reduction in the variety of archaeogastropod shell shapes through time. High and low spired genera have slowly disappeared while equidimensional forms, which have always been the most common, have become even more abundant. The taxonomic manifestation of this trend has long been appreciated and involves: 1) the extinction of most of the Pleurotomariacea, the Euomphalacea, Trochonematacea, and several other superfamilies, which collectively comprise most of the variation in shape among early archaeogastropods, and 2) the proliferation of the primarily equidimensional Trochacea and Neritacea. I suggest that this macroevolutionary trend may be explained by the general process I refer to as "stabilizing species selection." More specifically, I suggest that the mechanism of stabilizing species selection in the case presented here may have been differential rates of origination. I believe that the innovative concept of species selection has been burdened by the adherence of its advocates to the idea that differential extinction is its primary mechanism. This preference for differential extinction is rooted in our emphasis upon differential mortality in microevolution and is not based upon data of macroevolutionary change. I argue that differential origination may be as important as differential extinction in directing macroevolutionary change and that demographical and autecological properties of species may be its agents. Recognition of the importance of differential origination will have an important impact upon our concept of the relationship between adaptation and the evolutionary process.
2401007|Macroevolutionary change from the Middle to the Late Paleozoic crinoid fauna was not the result of mass extinction. The presumption that the decline of the middle Paleozoic crinoid fauna was from a single mass extinction event was tested using seriation, multidimensional scaling (MDS), binomial analysis, and bootstrapping simulations on a data set which is a comprehensive revision of old faunal lists. The data for these analyses were based on temporal distributions of 214 species from 69 late Osagean and early Meramecian localities from the midcontinental United States. The time under consideration is subdivided into seven informal intervals using MDS in conjunction with biostratigraphy. Seriation of species ranges into these intervals results in a gradual pattern of faunal turnover, and sampling bias can be eliminated as a cause for this more gradual pattern. MDS analysis of the crinoid range data is similar to MDS simulations using data with continuous, monotonic species turnover and dissimilar to a simulated mass extinction. Binomial analysis and boot-strapping demonstrate that the observed number of extinctions at the putative extinction boundary were not unusually high. All methods agree that extinctions throughout this time were high but spanned several time intervals and that rapid, monotonic faunal turnover describes the data better than mass extinction. Macroevolutionary processes other than mass extinction and microevolutionary processes must have dictated the character and composition of this remarkable faunal transition among the Crinoidea.
2666059|Members of the neogastropod muricid subfamily Rapaninae are abundant, shallow-water predators whose phylogeny was previously investigated by Kool (1993b), who used mainly anatomical characters. In order to deepen understanding of the evolution of this important clade and to incorporate functional, ecological, and fossil evidence, we performed a phylogenetic analysis based on 34 shell characters in 45 genus-level taxa, including five muricid outgroups. Cladograms based on shell characters alone differed from those founded on anatomical features, and these analyses differed from the phylogenetic reconstruction combining all available morphological evidence. The preferred cladogram incorporates all evidence and reveals a "Thais group" and an "Ergalatax clade" that both emerge from the derived portion of a more primitive, paraphyletic group of other rapanines. The Ocenebrinae, the other four outgroup taxa, and three ergalataxine taxa all lie outside the rapanine clade that includes the remaining ergalataxines as a derived subclade. We used the phylogenetic results to probe aspects of the ecological history of the Rapaninae. Our data imply that antipredatory shell defenses (elongated aperture, denticles on the inner side of the outer lip, and robust external spines and tubercles) evolved multiple times, mainly in post-early Miocene clades in the Indo-West Pacific region. These results support earlier nonphylogenetic inferences. We compared known prey types and methods of predation of living rapanines with their distribution on our phylogenetic tree. The plesiomorphic mode of feeding in the Rapaninae is drilling of hard-shelled prey. Feeding by other means and on such soft-bodied prey as sipunculan and polychaete worms evolved several times independently among post-early Miocene rapanines in the Indo-West Pacific. Methods of predation on hard-shelled prey that involve edge-drilling or attack by way of the aperture also evolved independently several times, but did so throughout the geographical range of the subfamily. Specialization for life on the upper shore occurred in at least eight lineages, all but two of which are confined to the Indo-West Pacific. Ecological diversification of the Rapaninae was therefore most common in the tropical Indo-West Pacific during and after early Miocene time. This diversification occurred in a setting of already high biological diversity and intense competition and predation.
2400715|Shell form is not strictly linked to life habits in modern marine turritelliform gastropods. To test the usefulness of various morphological characters in determining life-mode, I present a set of predictions giving the expected distribution of characters occurring in turritelliform snails with three different life-modes. Burrowing species should lack sculpture, possess columellar folds and a flat whorl profile, and have an orthocline or prosocline aperture. Mobile epifaunal forms should have sculpture, a rounded whorl profile, a displaced tangential aperture and a smooth columella. Sedentary forms should resemble epifaunal forms but have non-tangential apertures. These predictions were tested with a sample of 105 Recent marine species. Each hypothesis was found to be a statistically valid generalization and in 92 of the species (88%) the life habits were correctly predicted. Accuracy may be further improved by considering additional features such as ratchet sculpture and disjunct or open coiling. These patterns of shell form can be used to interpret fossil species as burrowers, or as sedentary or active epifaunal forms. For example, the unusual Devonian murchisoniid gastropod Ptychocaulus verneuili is interpreted as an active burrower. The relatively imperfect relationship between shell form and life-mode in turritelliform gastropods, as compared to the Bivalvia, apparently results in part from the behavioral complexity of the Gastropoda. Gastropods have a repertoire of activities which would place them in different life-modes at different times; snail morphology reflects this complexity.
2666120|Ceratopsid dinosaurs traditionally have been restored with sprawling forelimbs and were considered unable to run at high speeds. An alternative view restores the ceratopsids as rhinoceros-like with parasagittal forelimb kinematics and the ability to run faster than extant elephants. Several anatomical difficulties concerning the mounting of ceratopsid skeletons with nearly parasagittal forelimbs stem not from the forelimb itself, but from errors in rib and vertebral articulation. Matching a skeletal restoration to a probable ceratopsid trackway shows that the hands were placed directly beneath the glenoids, and that manual impressions were directed laterally, not medially as in sprawling reptiles. Pedal impressions in trackways are medial to the manual impressions, owing to the slightly averted elbow and to the asymmetrical distal femoral condyles, which directed the crus slightly medially. The limbs of ceratopsians of all sizes display substantial joint flexure, strongly indicating that the elephantine forelimb posture that has sometimes been suggested as the alternative to a sprawling posture is erroneous. The articular surfaces of uncrushed ceratopsian scapulocoracoids and forelimb joints confirm that the forelimb operated in a near-parasagittal plane with the elbows only slightly averted. The maximal running speed of even the largest ceratopsids is inferred to have significantly exceeded that of elephants and was probably broadly similar to that of rhinos.
2400313|The rarefaction graphs and trophic nuclei of dead molluscan shell cumulates and their associated live molluscan fauna from seven `ecological' habitats in the Essex Chenier Plain facies are examined and compared. The results show that while the trophic nuclei of the live and dead faunas tend to be dissimilar, the rarefaction graphs indicate that the dead fauna will be more diverse than the live, though changes in the diversity of the live fauna tend to be mirrored in the dead fauna.
2400661|Small mammal bone assemblages from the scats of three families of mammalian carnivores are described here as a means of assessing paleontological bone assemblages. These are the Viverridae, Canidae, and Mustelidae. Marking behavior by the carnivores or their use of latrine areas can produce concentrations of bone comparable with those produced from owl pellets, but the nature of the bone assemblages is very different. Skeletal element preservation has a characteristic pattern related to the relative strength of the individual elements, so that the strongest elements are the ones that best survive the physical abrasion of the predator's teeth. Bone breakage is greatest in canids and least in some viverrids. Digestion of the bone occurs to a certain extent with all carnivores, with moderate rounding but little corrosion of either bones or teeth in viverrid-derived bone assemblages, very great rounding and severe corrosion of bone and tooth enamel (but little corrosion of tooth dentine) in canids, and moderate rounding and slight to moderate corrosion of bone and tooth dentine (but less of enamel) in mustelid-derived bone assemblages. Tooth marks are generally rare except in canid-derived bone assemblages. These patterns may enable the identification of predators responsible for the accumulation of fossil predator assemblages, and a consideration of the hunting and other behavior of that type of predator then permit the identification of possible biases in the fossil fauna. In the viverrids, for instance, the mongoose selected for large prey size and against cranial elements, while the genet took all prey sizes available to it and all body parts. Larger canids such as foxes and coyotes took both large and small species, but proportionally more of the most common prey species were present. Skulls were underrep-resented. The small canid, the bat-eared fox, selected for the smallest prey species available to it but took all body parts. Mustelids took all sizes of prey, although not necessarily in proportion to their abundance in the habitat, and large species were underrepresented. If the predator type is known, therefore, for a fossil assemblage, these biases can be taken into account in assessing the paleoecological significance of the fauna. An example from the Olduvai Pleistocene deposits is given.
2400824|Calliostoma ligatum shells inhabited by hermit crabs were weaker than shells inhabited by snails collected at the same locality. When shells of C. ligatum were loaded repetitively to 80% of their predicted failure load, hermit crab-inhabited shells showed an immediate drop in shell strength followed by a progressive further loss of shell strength over the next 18 days. Snailinhabited C. ligatum shells exhibited a decrease in strength after 9 days, but returned to initial values within 18 days of loading. Hermit crabs thus bear shells significantly weaker than they were when borne by the gastropods that produced them. Reported similarities in vulnerability of gastropods and hermit crabs to shell-crushing predators may be artifacts of the metric (critical size) used to compare vulnerabilities. Hermit crabs probably were a significant factor in the diversification of durophagous predators in the Mesozoic, supplying a prey base identical in size and shape to gastropods but with significantly lower resistance to crushing. The unpredictability of strength in hermit-crab inhabited shells may maintain the apparently inefficient indiscriminate attacks common among durophagous predators.
2401051|The stratigraphic distribution of fossil species contains potential information about phylogeny because some phylogenetic trees are more consistent with the distribution of fossils in the rock record than others. A maximum likelihood estimator of phylogeny is derived using an explicit mathematical model of fossil preservation. The method assumes that fossil preservations within lineages follow an independent Poisson process, but can be extended to include other preservation models. The performance of the method was examined using Monte Carlo simulation. The performance of the maximum likelihood estimator of topology increases with an increase in the preservation rate. The method is biased, like other methods of phylogeny estimation, when the rate of fossil preservation is low; estimated trees tend to be more asymmetrical than the true tree. The method appears to perform well as a tree rooting criterion even when preservation rates are low. We suggest several possible extensions of the method to address other questions about the nature of fossil preservation and the process of speciation and extinction over time and space.
2400749|Convergent evolution of hypercarnivorous adaptations in canids has occurred a number of times in the last 40 m.y. among distantly related taxa. The adaptations include an increase in carnassial blade length, reduction or loss of post-carnassial molars, and transformation of the talonid of the lower first molar from a basinlike depression into a trenchant, bladelike cusp. Although the diversity of these specialized canids is typically low in past and present communities, it was unusually high during the Late Oligocene of North America and the Pleistocene of South America. These two comparable events provide an opportunity for exploring possible causes of the evolution of hypercarnivory in canids. Plots of generic diversity against time for North American predators reveal a roughly inverse relationship between the number of hypercarnivorous canid taxa and the numbers of other hypercarnivores, such as creodonts, nimravids, mustelids, and amphicyonids. Similarly, the radiation of hypercarnivorous canids in South America occurred at a time of relatively low diversity of other hypercarnivores. Analysis of trophic diversity within the North American carnivore paleoguild before, during, and after the Late Oligocene reveals considerable taxonomic turnover among carnivores because of immigration and speciation. Late Oligocene hypercarnivorous canids appear to have been replaced first by amphicyonids and large mustelids, and then by felids. Despite the repeated tendency of canids to evolve adaptations for hypercarnivory, a canid has yet to appear that is completely catlike, that is, without any post-carnassial molars. This possible constraint on morphological evolution in canids is argued to have resulted, paradoxically, in increased flexibility over evolutionary time and a great potential for rapid diversification and clade survivorship. Finally, it is suggested that the iterative pattern of specialization of the lower molars for meat-slicing that is seen in all families of carnivores, past and present, is probably a result of intraspecific competition for food, perhaps among littermates. This intraspecific selective force is countered by competition among species, since there are limits on the number of sympatric hypercarnivorous species within a single community.
2400356|Subcolony boundaries within Paleozoic bryozoan colonies, not otherwise easily observable, can be located precisely by computer mapping of variables derived from Fourier series. The monticule-centered subcolonies were maintained by morphogenetic gradients that controlled zooecial size and form, zooidal degeneration (producing brown bodies), and the spacing of monticules with respect to each other. These gradients were probably determined by the release of a budding inhibitor from polymorphic zooids within the monticule. In colonies with active monticular budding the morphogenetic gradients represent ontogenetic series, as the zooids that arose in the monticule gradually migrated outward along modified spiral pathways. Polymorphism, including reproductive functions, is probably reflected in the spatial order of zooids away from a monticule. In subcolonies with monticular budding, polymorphs represent different stages in the life history of a single zooid, with gradual transitions in zooecial form between castes. The structural similarity between monticules and oghurd dunes supports the idea that they also functioned as excurrent water outlets, possibly with reproductive polymorphs clustered near the outflow. The variability of monticular size and spacing in some colonies indicates that hydrodynamic efficiency was compromised by the need for developmental plasticity. The development of active budding within monticules is considered an ecophenotypic response to the external environment, suggesting that all monticules within the Stenolaemata were potential budding sites. Monticules were successful adaptations in bryozoans because they performed a multiplicity of functions. While regulating the morphogenesis of the colony, they simultaneously served the metabolic functions of waste removal, feeding and reproduction.
2401015|The number of cell types required for the construction of a metazoan body plan can serve as an index of morphological (or anatomical) complexity; living metazoans range from four (placozoans) to over 200 (hominids) somatic cell types. A plot of the times of origin of body plans against their cell type numbers suggests that the upper bound of complexity has increased more or less steadily from the earliest metazoans until today, at an average rate of about one cell type per 3 m.y. (when nerve cell types are lumped). Computer models in which increase or decrease in cell type number was random were used to investigate the behavior of the upper bound of cell type number in evolving clades. The models are Markovian; variance in cell type number increases linearly through time. Scaled to the fossil record of the upper bound of cell type numbers, the models suggest that early rates of increase in maximum complexity were relatively high. The models and the data are mutually consistent and suggest that the Metazoa originated near 600 Ma, that the metazoan "explosion" near the Precambrian/Cambrian transition was not associated with any important increase in complexity of body plans, and that important decreases in the upper bound of complexity are unlikely to have occurred.
2400148|Size distributions, based on molar length, are presented for various groups of living and fossil primates. I examine (1) the extent to which particular taxonomic groups with distinctive morphological and behavioral attributes are characterized by distinctive size ranges or distributions and (2) the way in which size ranges and distributions are affected by the presence or absence of other primates within the same geographical area and time. Distinctive behavioral and ecological "adaptive zones" are characterized by distinctive size ranges and behavioral and morphological parallelism or convergence among living and fossil primate taxa usually results in similar size distributions.
2400139|Open-ended tubes were found extending inward from the inner surfaces of brachial valves of three different species of Emsian spiriferid brachiopods. It is believed that these tubes were formed by the outer epithelium of the brachiopods, precipitating shell material around a small commensal filter feeding organism living in the outer mantle cavity. The position of the open ends of these tubes, the business end of the filter feeding organism, in every case discovered is between the bases of the two spiralia. This lends support to the suggestion of Ager (1961) and Wallace and Ager (1966) that spiriferid brachiopods had median inhalant and lateral exhalant feeding currents. These structures are named Burrinjuckia spiriferidophilia n.gen. n.sp. They are trace fossils of indeterminate taxonomic position.
41684613|Bipedalism evolved more than twice among archosaurs, and it is a characteristic of basal dinosaurs and a prerequisite for avian flight. Nevertheless, the reasons for the evolution of bipedalism among archosaurs have barely been investigated. Comparative analysis using phylogenetically independent contrasts showed a significant correlation between bipedality (relative length of forelimb) and cursoriality (relative length of metatarsal III) among Triassic archosaurs. This result indicates that, among Triassic archosaurs, bipeds could run faster than quadrupeds. Bipedalism is probably an adaptation for cursoriality among archosaurs, which may explain why bipedalism evolved convergently in the crocodilian and bird lineages. This result also indicates that the means of acquiring cursoriality may differ between archosaurs and mammals.
25609445|Microfossil bonebeds are multi-individual accumulations of disarticulated and dissociated vertebrate hardparts dominated by elements in the millimeter to centimeter size range (75% of bioclasts 5 cm maximum dimension). Modes of accumulation are often difficult to decipher from reports in the literature, although predatory (scatological) and fluvial/hydraulic origins are typically proposed. We studied the sedimentology and taphonomy of 27 microfossil bonebeds in the Campanian Judith River Formation of Montana in order to reconstruct formative histories. Sixteen of the bonebeds examined are hosted by fine-grained facies that accumulated in low-energy aquatic settings (pond/lake microfossil bonebeds). Eleven of the bonebeds are embedded in sandstones that accumulated in ancient fluvial settings (channel-hosted microfossil bonebeds). In lieu of invoking separate pathways to accumulation based on facies distinctions, we present a model that links the accumulation of bioclasts in the two facies. We propose that vertebrate material initially accumulates to fossiliferous levels in ponds/lakes and is later reworked and redeposited as channel-hosted assemblages. This interpretation is grounded in reasonable expectations of lacustrine and fluvial depositional systems and supported by taphonomic data. Moreover, it is consistent with faunal data that indicate that channel-hosted assemblages and pond/lake assemblages are similar with regard to presence/absence and rank-order abundance of taxa. This revised model of bonebed formation has significant implications for studies of vertebrate paleoecology that hinge on analyses of faunal data recovered from vertebrate microfossil assemblages. Pond/lake microfossil bonebeds in the Judith River record are preserved in situ at the scale of the local paleoenvironment, with no indication of postmortem transport into or out of the life habitat. Moreover, they are time-averaged samples of their source communities, which increases the likelihood of capturing both ecologically abundant species and more rare or transient members of the paleocommunity. These attributes make pond/lake microfossil bonebeds excellent targets for paleoecological studies that seek to reconstruct overall community membership and structure. In contrast, channel-hosted microfossil bonebeds in the Judith River record are out of place from a paleoenvironmental perspective because they are reworked from preexisting pond/lake assemblages and redeposited in younger channel facies. However, despite a history of exhumation and redeposition, channel-hosted microfossil bonebeds are preserved in relatively close spatial proximity to original source beds. This taphonomic reconstruction is counter to the commonly held view that microfossil bonebeds are biased samples that have experienced long-distance transport and significant hydrodynamic sorting.
2400297|The history of life is replete with apparent order. Much of this order may reflect the deterministic causes conventionally invoked, but we cannot be sure until we measure and subtract the order that arises in simple random systems. Consequently, we have constructed a random model that builds evolutionary trees by allowing lineages to branch and become extinct at equal probabilities. We proceed by dividing our simulated tree into clades and by comparing their sizes and shapes with the patterns exhibited by "real" clades as recorded by fossils. We regard the similarity of real and random clades as the outstanding result of this comparison. In both real and random systems, extinct clades arising after an "ecological barrel" had been filled have their maximum diversity at the midpoint of their duration; clades arising during the initial "filling" reach an earlier climax during this preequilibrial period of rapid diversification. However, some potential differences also emerge. Clades still living are much larger than extinct clades. We may attribute this to the morphological superiority of survivors, but we can also simulate it in a model that chooses the originators of clades at random. Real clades undergo greater fluctuations in diversity than do random clades, but the effect is not marked.
2401141|In several increasingly realistic steps, a model of the stratigraphic distribution of fossils is presented. The first and simplest step assumes that if a taxon was extant it will have been preserved. The second step admits that if a taxon was extant, there is some probability less than one that it will have been preserved. This step produces randomly distributed gaps, and fossil ranges that are somewhat shorter than the span of time in which a taxon actually lived. The third step assumes facies-controlled taxa and parasequence-style cyclicity. This produces randomly and nonrandomly distributed gaps, including the anomalously long gaps recognized in confidence limit studies. The final model incorporates depositional sequences and indicates that first and last occurrences will cluster at sequence boundaries and at flooding surfaces in the transgressive systems tract. Across-shelf gradients in diversity, taphonomy, or eurytopy can control the strength, but not the stratigraphic position of these peaks. Comparison of the model to data from the Upper Ordovician suggests that these modeled features are present in the fossil record. Many previously studied paleobiologic patterns may be, at least in part, an artifact of facies control and sequence architecture. Such patterns include gradual or stepwise mass extinction, punctuated morphologic and taxonomic change, iterative evolution, and the replacement of shallow water faunas by deeper water faunas at biomere boundaries.
2400982|The per-stage extinction rate is the product of the per-taxon extinction rate and stage length, and the per-stage origination rate is defined similarly. These rates decline from ancient to recent times because of the pull of the Recent, because there is more young than old fossiliferous rock, and because average stage length increases from the recent to the past. More specifically, the present model assumes that the graphs of ln(per-stage extinction rate) and ln(per-stage origination rate) versus geologic time have slope zero in the absence of sampling biases, and shows how sampling biases cause both these graphs to appear to have slope min(h,q) + s in the distant past, where h and q are the fossil loss and actual per-taxon extinction rates, and the stratigraphic constant, s, quantifies how stage length changes through time. Although the per-stage rates of bivalve families and marine invertebrate genera decline toward the recent, the magnitudes of these declines are entirely consistent with what the present model predicts sampling biases will produce. Hence there is no need to postulate a biological explanation for these patterns.
