40072737|Stable flies are an important pest of humans and livestock. Despite being blood feeders, they also visit flowers to eat nectar. Stable flies with pollen adhering to their exoskeletons were collected at the University of Florida Horse Teaching Unit and taken to the Paleobotany and Palynology Laboratory at the Florida Museum of Natural History for processing and identification. The pollen on all the specimens was identified as Carolina willow, Salix caroliniana Michaux 1803 . This small shrub or tree is found throughout Florida in wetland areas. This study demonstrates the utility of pollen analysis in interdisciplinary studies.
27784282|An organic-walled dinoflagellate cyst, Operculodinium aguinawense sp. nov. is described from recent marine sediments in Biafra Bay, Gulf of Guinea, Atlantic Ocean. This species is characterized by a subspheroidal, egg-shaped cyst body with a fibroreticulate surface wall, and flexible to stout processes with wide, fibrous bases and multifurcate terminations. Paratabulation is only expressed by the loss of a single precingular paraplate (3). The distribution of this form in recent marine sediments suggests an affinity for lower salinity conditions (29) and as such, it could be an index of paleosalinity changes. Marine palynomorph records from the Gulf of Guinea document its occurrence from at least the Last Interglacial. Fluctuations in abundance appear to be associated with periods of strengthened monsoon dynamics and river discharge.
3687535|The poorly consolidated clastic sediments of Late Cretaceous age in the vicinity of sen, southern Sweden (Scania) are noted for the variety of fossil flowers and Normapolles pollen grains they have yielded. Megaspores have also been recovered from a number of horizons. Comments on, and illustrations of all but a few indeterminate remains of these are provided in this paper, and four new species, Bacutriletes ferulus, B. majorinus, Erlansonisporites scanicus and E. septus, are erected. Comparison of the total recovery with the relatively small number of Late Cretaceous assemblages that have been described from elsewhere reveals only a few taxa in common. As a result, it is not possible to improve on the late Santonian-early Campanian age determination that has already been established for the sen deposits. It is reasonable to infer from the wall structure of the majority of the spores that they were shed by plants of either selaginellalean or isoetalean affinity. Their distribution within the sen sequence supports the previously held view that the general environment of deposition changed from floodplain-lacustrine to predominantly fluviatile during the time represented.
3687441|Scanning electron microscope studies of specimens of Nannoceratopsis senex and N. gracilis from the Tmetoceras scissum zone (Lower Bajocian) of England permit us to establish for the first time an unmistakable paratabulation and the presence of a unique archeopyle type. The paratabulation formula for both species is ?pr, 5, 5, 4c, 4s, 4H; and the archeopyle is formed by the loss of the third cingular paraplate. Nannoceratopsis is shown to be remarkable in combining features heretofore considered diagnostic of two distinct groups of dinoflagellates, the Peridiniales and Dinophysiales, and suggests that the evolutionary linkage between them is not so remote as generally had been thought.
3687676|Outcrop samples from the Flora and Eslabn formations from northwestern Bolivia contain abundant terrestrial palynomorphs. Pollen grains and spores of 49 species belonging to 36 genera were identified and two new pollen species - Psilaperiporites boliviensis and Psilaperiporites suarezi - are described. The Bolivian palynoflora consists mainly of monocolpate, tricolpate and tricolporate angiosperm pollen grains. The gymnosperm pollen content is low and bisaccates are totally lacking. Some samples also include fungal spores and the fresh-water algae Botryococcus. The assemblage from the Eslabn Formation is compared with that of the Proteacidites dehaani Zone, known from Colombia and Venezuela, and with that of the Tricornites elongatus Zone in Brazil, indicating late Maastrichtian age. The palynoflora of the Flora Formation is probably of Paleocene age. The results indicate deposition in a continental warm and humid environment, as suggested by the composition of the palynoflora which show an abundance of palm pollen grains and the presence of Botryococcus and Azolla megaspores.
3687652|The Silurian and Devonian stratigraphy of Brazil has been revised and refined with the help of available data on shelly fossils, spores, graptolites and chitinozoans. The Silurian sedimentation can be divided into four depositional cycles: (1) early-middle Llandovery, (2) late Llandovery-earliest Wenlock, (3) late Wenlock-early Ludlow, and (4) late Ludlow-earliest Pridoli. All four cycles are present in the Amazonas, Parnaba and probably Jatob basins, whereas only the two youngest occur in the Solimes Basin. The oldest cycle constitutes the Silurian beds of the Paran Basin. Glaciations occurred in the Amazonas, Parnaba and Jatob basins during middle and late Llandovery. Early Lochkovian beds are widespread in all of these basins, while late Lochkovian-Pragian beds are known only from the Paran Basin. The chitinozoan faunas in the Silurian-lower Lochkovian show a striking similarity to those from Florida and north Gondwana. Emsian beds are absent in the Solimes and Jatob basins, but present in the other basins, where the faunas have a pronounced endemism. Eifelian-early Givetian beds are widespread and the faunas show strong influence from eastern North America, although the connection to north Gondwana was still important. Sedimentation was essentially continuous from the Middle Devonian to the latest Frasnian in the Paran Basin. The Late Devonian in the northern basins can be divided into two depositional cycles, one ranging from late Frasnian to early or possibly late Famennian, and a second of latest Famennian age. The faunas are poor and generally cosmopolitan except for the Parnaba Basin, where there occurred a rich and diverse endemic shelly and planktonic fauna during the Late Devonian. Continental sedimentation increased during the Famennian, and glaciations occurred near the Devonian-Carboniferous transition.
3687623|Microfossils of the form taxon Schizosporis reticulatus might well be the resting eggs of rotifers related to the extant species Hexarthra mira. Palynological records of this warmth-demanding planktonic organism, which occurs in conditions of pH higher than 7, may help to reconstruct paleoenvironmental conditions.
3687424|Cysts of the colonial gymnodinialean dinoflagellate Polykrikos schwartzii Btschli 1873, recovered from Recent sediments in the Firth of Forth, Scotland, are shown to be extremely variable in morphology, especially in regard to their wall structure and reticulate ornamentation. The cysts are, however, based upon a relatively simple plan with each elongate cyst carrying seven whorls of ornament. No clear or simple dinoflagellate paratabulation is discernible but an apical archeopyle is described together with possible details around the archeopyle margin. These cysts may provide information about the nature of "primitive" tabulations because of their similarity with some fossil dinoflagellate cysts. The distribution of Polykrikos cysts in Recent sediments is described from both the Firth of Forth, the North Atlantic, and around the British Isles. The known autecology suggests the possible usefulness of P. schwartzii cysts in the interpretation of environments, particularly climate, within the Quaternary record.
3687386|The genus Camerosporites Leschik 1956 is here emended and the seven species attributed to it are reduced to four. Assemblages of Camerosporites isolated from Upper Triassic strata from sites in the eastern U.S. (the Newark, Culpeper, Richmond, Taylorsville, and Danville basins) and the western U.S. (Chinle Formation) consistently segregate into three recognizable species: C. secatus, C. verrucosus, and C. pseudoverrucatus. Of these, C. secatus and C. verrucosus are more common and more easily recognized. Examination of the morphologic characteristics and regional stratigraphic occurrence of these taxa demonstrates that they can be differentiated by light and electron microscopy, that the enigmatic host plant probably was either a primitive pteridophyte or a primitive gymnosperm, and that C. secatus and C. verrucosus are biostratigraphically useful for differentiating Carnian and Norian (Upper Triassic) continental deposits, especially within the eastern Mesozoic basins. The status of the only reported Jurassic species, C. reductiverrucatus, remains problematic.
3687531|Turonian to early Santonian algal cysts from intra-rift sediments within the offshore Gippsland Basin are the oldest cyst assemblages known from offshore southeastern Australia. The cysts were deposited in either nonmarine or nearshore environments that existed prior to the appearance of open marine conditions in the basin during the Santonian. The cyst assemblages contain a varied group of acritarchs belonging to 13 species, and 5 dinoflagellate species comprising 4 peridiniaceans and Spiniferites sp. New taxa described are the dinoflagellate Luxadinium lingulatum sp. nov., the acritarch genera Limbicysta gen. nov. and Rimosicysta gen.nov, and the species Limbicysta pediformis gen. et sp. nov., L. guttularis gen. et sp. nov., Rimosicysta eversa gen. et sp. nov., R. kipperii gen. et sp. nov., R. aspera gen. et sp. nov., R. cucullata gen. et sp. nov., R. concava gen. et sp. nov., R.? ovata gen. et sp. nov., and Tetrachacysta? keenei sp. nov. Limbicysta and Rimosicysta possess some dinoflagellate-like features, but lack definitive characteristics, including an archeopyle. The only evidence of an aperture on these genera are areas of thinning around the periphery of the cyst where the wall often splits apart parallel to the cyst outline. These unusual openings and the shape of some forms distinguish the genera from any previously described type of algal cyst.
3687641|One hundred seventy-five samples from the Borden Delta provided a detailed biostratigraphic framework for part of the Lower Mississippian clastic succession in Kentucky and Indiana. The samples indicate the eastern and southern parts of the Borden Delta are correlative with the PC Biozone and CM Biozones of Western Europe respectively; however, biostratigraphical problems arise in the western part of the investigated area (Indiana). The appearance of Lycospora pusilla in the samples from southcentral Indiana is important in that it raises questions regarding the level of the Tournaisian-Visean boundary, it suggests floral provincialism in this part of North America during the Lower Mississippian, and it does not correlate with the previously established miospore zone from Western Europe.
3687392|Palynomorphs from outliers of the Quqaluit and Cape Searle formations in half-grabens off northeast Baffin Island are examined in order to elucidate the history of rifting and sedimentation. Two distinctive assemblages, herein called the Gemmatriletes clavatus - Cicatricosisporites potomacensis Zone (GC Zone) and the Trivestibulopollenites betuloides-Pesavis parva Zone (TP Zone) are recognized. The lower part of the GC Zone in the lower part of the Quqaluit Formation consists of a low diversity assemblage of long ranging schizaealean spores and gymnosperm pollen; a late Neocomian and Aptian age is suggested from this assemblage. In addition to the name bearing species, the upper part of the GC Zone in the upper Quqaluit Formation contains a diverse spore and pollen assemblage, including Camarozonotriletes ambigens, Cicatricosisporites crassiterminatus, Appendicisporites matesovae, Foveogleicheniidites confossus, Tappanispora sp. cf. Tigrisporites verrucatus, Foveotricolpites sphaeroides, Tricolpites sagax, Retitricolpites sp. and Rousea sp. cf. R. georgensis; this assemblage indicates a late Albian and Cenomanian age. The TP Zone in the Cape Searle Formation has well preserved specimens of Trivestibulopollenites betuloides, Pesavis parva, Quercoidites microhenrica, tricolpites hians, Rhoipites crassus, Tricolporopollenites cingulum, Carpinipites ancipites, Paraalnipollenites alterniporus, Triatriopollenites granilabratus and Polyvestibulopollenites verus; this assemblage indicates an early and middle Paleocene age. Palynomorph biostratigraphy supports geophysical inferences that the history of rifting and sedimentation in Baffin Bay began by the Early Cretaceous when North America and Europe separated. However, predominantly non-marine sedimentation in what is now Davis Strait suggests a distinctive Cretaceous history for Baffin Bay. Reactivation of faults in the Paleocene corresponds with changes in plate motions as Davis Strait opened and Greenland and North America rotated apart.
3687440|Well preserved dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from phosphorite pebbles of the Brentskardhaugen Bed (Toarcian) in Spitsbergen are described. They are dominated by a unique species complex of small cysts possessing simple, hexagonal intercalary archeopyles of the Broomea/Moesiodinium-type. Some of the species reflect the tabulation formula 4-5, 3a, 6-7, 5, 2. A pareodinoid relationship is suggested. The assemblages present wide morphological variation within an evolutionary lineage not described previously and they may be of importance for the understanding of dinoflagellate evolution. Eighteen species are recorded, nine of which are formally described as new and are referred to four genera also proposed as new: Parvocysta n. gen. (P. bullula n. sp., P. contracta n. sp., P. nasuta n. sp., P. barbata n. sp., ?P. cracens n. sp.), Facetodinium n. gen. (F. faustum n. sp., F. inflatum n. sp.), Ovalicysta hiata n. gen. & sp. and Mikrocysta erugata n. gen. & sp. In addition, six species are described but not formally named.
3687690|Although one of the main advantages of palynology over other branches of micropaleontology is the extraordinary resistance of sporopollenin to chemical degradation, this highly inert substance is susceptible to oxidation. Replicate marine samples of late Pleistocene age from the New Jersey shelf were subjected to different degrees of exposure to an oxidizing agent (hydrogen peroxide). Similar palynological trends were identified with increased exposure to hydrogen peroxide, including: 1) a marked decrease in total palynomorph concentration over the first 30 minutes, 2) a marked increase in the gonyaulacacean: protoperidiniacean dinoflagellate cyst ratio which reached infinite values within the first 1/2 to 2 hours, and 3) an increase in the pollen:dinoflagellate cyst ratio over the first 1 to 3 hours. The exercise in progressive oxidation had a large impact on the dinoflagellate cyst assemblages, but a lesser impact on the pollen assemblages, presumably reflecting the selective destruction of the more susceptible taxa long before the accumulation of anemophilous terrestrial palynomorphs. The selective destruction of protoperidiniacean cysts (particularly Brigantedinium spp.) at relatively low levels of oxidation skews the sample toward the more resistant gonyaulacacean cysts (notably Bitectatodinium tepikiense and Spiniferites spp.) and resistant pollen (notably Pinus) and embryophyte spores. This taphonomic skewing should be recognized in biostratigraphic and paleoecological studies in order to avoid spurious interpretations. There are, however, positive applications of palynomorph taphonomy in sedimentological and sequence stratigraphic studies, such as in distinguishing distal turbidites from pelagites, which is difficult to accomplish using sedimentological criteria, and in distinguishing erosional surfaces from condensed sections, both of which generate strong seismic reflections.
40984071|Maranhites isaacsonii sp. nov. was recovered from an outcrop sample of the Upper Devonian Cabanillas Group, Oxapampa Province, Peru. This acritarch displays the discrete equatorial thickenings that characterize the genus, but differs from all described species by having a lobate vesicle margin with processes or process groups. The processes taper distally and terminate in capitate, rounded, or clvate tips. The palynomorph assemblage is dominated by marine elements, including acritarchs, prasinophytes, scolecodonts, and chitinozoans. The occurrence of Retispora lepidophyta indicates a Late Famennian-Early Tournaisian (Fa2c-Tnla) age for the sample yielding Maranhites saacsonii sp. nov. Palynomorphs exhibit a thermal alteration index equivalent to gas-window maturation.
3687352|The topological and geometric characteristics of the paratabulation of 23 species (22 fossil, one living) of gonyaulacoid dinoflagellates are described. These observations are analyzed together with published information on the paratabulation of similar fossil (18 species) and living (5 species) forms, and used to define paraplate (or plate) arrangements in the antapical, ventral, and apical areas. 12 paratabulation (or tabulation) patterns are defined and illustrated here as the combination of one of each of the antapical, ventral, and apical arrangements. These patterns are informally grouped on the basis of the combination of their antapical and ventral arrangements. This study indicates that emphasizing certain details of paratabulation when describing gonyaulacoid dinoflagellates adds consistency to the definition of genera, helps elucidate some of the existing taxonomic problems, and facilitates the comparison between fossil and living forms in equivalent terms.
3687629|The archaeology of prehistoric occupation of the island of Garua, West New Britain, is beginning to provide a detailed picture of human adaptation to a highly volatile environment in which periodic catastrophic destruction of vegetation, soils and, presumably, human habitation, is countered, apparently, by the human ability to recolonise and adapt to changing circumstances. However, our ability to fully identify these human responses is presently limited by a lack of paleoenvironmental data. This wet tropical region presents specific problems in obtaining and analysing such data. In this case these problems are in part being overcome by the use of fossil phytolith analysis. However, to put this technique into use, several methodological issues have had to be addressed. This paper considers several of these, describing experiments testing preparation techniques, introducing key elements influencing assemblage compositions in this environment, and outlining the form of statistical analyses adapted and adopted to interrogate the large multivariate data set. Results are described from tests using modern analogue samples, which indicate promise in the ability of the analytical techniques to identify and differentiate key indicators of the complex and dynamic environment of prehistoric West New Britain.
3687317| Tithonian, Berriasian, and Valanginian sediments in southern England and northern Germany are developed largely in marginal marine and nonmarine facies. Spore-pollen floras from the Wessex Basin of Britain and the Lower Saxony Basin of Germany can be subdivided into discrete suites representing Tithonian, lower Berriasian, upper Berriasian, and lower Valanginian respectively. These suites can be used to correlate the Purbeck Beds and Wealden of southern England with the Mnder Formation and Bckeberg Formation (formerly German "Wealden") of northern Germany. Morphologic gradations between Trilobosporites, Impardecispora, and Concavissimisporites are described in stratigraphic sequence and related to possible evolutionary trends occurring in the Berriasian-Valanginian interval. Dinoflagellates are associated with the spore-pollen assemblages in marine and brackish horizons and allow recognition of distinctive upper Kimmeridgian, Portlandian, upper Tithonian, Berriasian, and upper Valanginian assemblages respectively. Abnormal salinities in the Purbeck Beds may have controlled the composition of some of the algal assemblages. 
3687517|This paper discusses the morphology, taxonomy, and stratigraphic occurrences of 62 forms of spores and pollen grains and four forms of freshwater(?) microplankton, in the Paleogene part of the Oak Grove core from northeastern Virginia. The known geologic ranges of these taxa in southeastern United States are also given. Seven new species are proposed: Lusatisporis indistincta, Momipites flexus, Nuxpollenites psilatus, Piolencipollis endocuspoides, Porocolpopollenites virginiensis, Triatriopollenites triangulus, and Tricolpites crassus. Sporomorph occurrences in seven samples from the upper Sabinian (lower Eocene) and lower Claibornian (lower part of the middle Eocene) of the Gulf Coast are also listed; these samples were analyzed to provide additional control for correlating the assemblages from Virginia with those in southeastern United States. Several sporomorph taxa, including Carya and Kyandopollenites anneratus, appear to range lower in the section (into probable Midwayan rocks) in Virginia than they do farther to the south. On the basis of sporomorphs and other fossils, the Oak Grove core includes the following sequence in ascending order: Aquia(?) Formation, probably Midwayan (lower Paleocene), 12.5 m thick; Aquia Formation, lower Sabinian (upper Paleocene), 22.3 m thick; Marlboro Clay, lower Sabinian, perhaps the upper part of the formation being upper Sabinian (lower Eocene), 5.4 m thick; and Nanjemoy Formation, upper Sabinian, 37.4 m thick. The position of the boundary between the lower and upper Sabinian (that is, the Paleocene-Eocene boundary) could not be precisely determined by means of sporomorphs because of a lack of data on sporomorph assemblages from near this boundary in southeastern United States. The sequence in the Oak Grove core appears to represent more or less continuous deposition across the boundary between the lower and upper Sabinian; such a sequence rarely if ever occurs in southeastern United States.
3687668|The fungal form-genus Reduviasporonites includes the range of morphology found in type and other material from Oklahoma and numerous well-preserved specimens from Italy and elsewhere. Chordecystia Foster 1979 and Tympanicysta Balme 1980 are both junior synonyms of Reduviasporonites Wilson 1962. Species include Reduviasporonites catenulatus Wilson 1962, Reduviasporonites chalastus (Foster 1979) comb. nov., and Reduviasporonites stoschianus (Balme 1980) comb. nov. Reduviasporonites has morphologic characteristics similar to the modern pathogen Rhizoctonia.
40984159|A shallow marine Eocene section recovered in the cored borehole 011-BP, southwestern Siberia, was analyzed palynologically. Age-diagnostic dinoflagellate cyst events including the first occurrences of Charlesdowniea coleothrypta, Dracodinium politum, Ochetodinium romanum, Samlandia chlamydophora, Areosphaeridium diktyoplokum, Hystrichosphaeropsis costae, Wetzeliella eocaenica and Duosphaeridium nudum are recognized at successive levels in the Upper Lulinvor Formation (498.0-459.0 m), indicating a Middle-latest Ypresian age. A hiatus spanning the Early Lutetian is present at an unconformity at 459.0 m which underlies sediments of the uppermost Lulinvor Formation (459.0-456.0 m), which are referred to the Middle Lutetian based on the presence of Costacysta bucina, Cordosphaeridium cantharellus and Wilsonidium echinosuturatum. The overlying interval from 456.0 m to 265.0 m (Tavda Formation) is referred to the latest Lutetian to Priabonian primarily based on a combination of published paleomagnetic signals and the presence of Rhombodinium draco, Membranosphaeridium aspinatum, Svalbardella sp., Thalassiphora fenestrata, Thalassiphora reticulata, Rhombodinium perforatum and Rhombodinium longimanum.According to the combined dinoflagellate cyst data and normal magnetic polarity in the uppermost part of the Tavda Formation, marine sedimentation was interrupted in southwestern Siberia during the Late Priabonian (~ 34.8 Ma). The dinoflagellate cyst assemblages are illustrated, the new species Thalassiphora dominiquei is formally described and a neotype for Wetzeliella coronata (Vozzhennikova 1967) Lentin & Williams 1976 is designated. The morphology and taxonomy of several taxa are discussed.
3687653|Scientific investigation of U.S. honey began in the 1900s when Young examined the pollen contents of honey to determine potential floral sources and to search for a test to detect adulterated samples. Later, in the early 1940s, Todd and Vansell examined the role of pollen in the identification of honey types. Their study followed the path of pollen from its floral source to its eventual location in honey samples. The first extensive study of U.S. honey types was conducted by M. Lieux in the late 1970s. She examined 54 samples of honey from Louisiana, and 68 samples of honey from Mississippi. Since Lieux's studies, there has been only one other pollen study of honey samples from U.S. sources. This study by White et al. (1991) examined the chemical and pollen properties of 11 honey samples collected from regions in Mexico, Texas, and Arizona. Although the United States ranks third in the world in honey production, much of its honey cannot be verified for consumer consumption or effectively exported because it lacks pollen and chemical statistical data. This almost total lack of information about U.S. honey types makes the Unites States unique among the major honey-producing countries of the world.
3687777|A palynological record from Bay of Islands (western Newfoundland) was used to investigate differences in timing between paleoceanographic and paleoclimatic events, and episodic cold sea surface temperature (SST) intervals. Sea surface conditions were reconstructed from dinocyst proxy-data and paleobioclimatic transfer functions. Correlation of onshore-offshore pollen records was used to determine ocean-atmosphere interactions. Between 9.5 and 8.6 ka, cold and lower salinity sea surface conditions and a cold climate may be the result of a large influx of glacial meltwater through the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The marine optimum followed with SST up to 5C warmer than today until 6.8 ka and coincides with an expansion of boreal forest trees, probably resulting from a climatic amelioration. The terrestrial hypsithermal started only around 6 ka, however, possibly due to the lingering effect of the remaining ice sheet on the regional climate. It coincides with lower summer SST than today. Increased proportions of spruce and sedge after 3.7 ka suggest a regional cooling trend, which was recorded later in the surface waters of the Bay (800 years ago) and was preceded by an interval of SST warmer than today between 4 and 1 ka. These results suggest that sea surface conditions in the bay are controlled by the position of the major currents and influx of meltwater, while Newfoundland climate remained under the influence of the Lauren tide ice sheet until 6 ka, after which it was probably controlled by the position of air masses rather than by conditions in the adjacent sea surface.
3687365|Three biozones are proposed for the Tongue River Member of the Fort Union Formation and the overlying Wasatch Formation in the northern Powder River Basin, Wyoming and Montana. The biozones are, in ascending order, the Aquilapollenites spinulosus Zone, Caryapollenites Assemblage Zone (incorporating the Pistillipollenites mcgregorii Subzone and Insulapollenites rugulatus Subzone), and Platycarya platycaryoides Zone. The zones are based on the stratigraphic ranges of several palynomorphs and changes in abundance of certain plant groups. The apparent evolution within the Momipites-Caryapollenites lineage, previously defined and employed stratigraphically in the Wind River Basin, Wyoming, can also be applied in the Powder River Basin. The change in dominance upsection from Momipites to Caryapollenites essentially coincides with a major sedimentological change from a fluvial channel-dominated environment to a fluvial-lacustrine environment. The Paleocene-Eocene boundary in the Powder River Basin lies in the lower part of the Wasatch Formation and is characterized by an abrupt floral change. This is in accord with previous observations in the Powder River Basin. There is good correlation of the boundary with other Western Interior basins, which is made possible by the simultaneous appearance of Platycarya pollen.
3687779|New and previously published dinoflagellate cyst data from the Pliensbachian and early Toarcian of northern and southern Europe have been compared in order to define successions of Boreal and Tethyan bioevents respectively. Significant stratigraphical differences between these two regions indicates that strong provincialism affected dinoflagellates in Europe during the Early Jurassic. This therefore precludes the erection of a pan-European palynostratigraphy for the Pliensbachian to early Toarcian interval. Early Jurassic dinoflagellate cyst provincialism has been quantitatively assessed using the Koch Index of biotal dispersity and the Simpson Coefficient of biotal similarity. These methods conclusively demonstrate that marked provincialism occurred at this time, and that the Boreal and Tethyan realms represent two distinct phytoprovinces, based on their respective dinoflagellate cyst assemblages. The Boreal Realm was characterised by relatively high diversity and the dominance of Luehndea spinosa, Mancodinium semitabulatum and Nannoceratopsis spp. Valvaeodinium may also be abundant and diverse. The Parvocysta suite first appears in the Bifrons Zone and becomes relatively diverse. During the Pliensbachian and early Toarcian, the Tethyan Realm was characterised by low diversity dinoflagellate cyst floras. Mancodinium semitabulatum and Mendicodinium spp. typically dominate the assemblages. Valvaeodinium spp. are present in the early Toarcian (Tenuicostatum Zone) and the Parvocysta suite is extremely rare, represented only by Susadinium scrofoides. The transition between the two realms was diffuse. The intermediate area, between palaeolatitudes 25 and 30, was characterised by mixed Boreal and Tethyan biotas. Dinoflagellate cyst distributions appear to have been strongly controlled by palaeolatitude, indicating that sea water temperature was a major controlling factor. This phenomenon is best exemplified by the distribution of Valvaeodinium. Dinoflagellate cyst distributions were also strongly sensitive to both coastal/oceanic settings and palaeosalinities. The relationship between Early Jurassic dinoflagellate cyst evolution and global palaeoceanographical changes have been investigated via the evaluation of diversity and the rates of speciation, extinction, and turnover. The differing patterns of evolutionary rates in the Boreal and Tethyan realms are explained as interplay between the two dinoflagellate cyst provinces and palaeogeographical changes.
3687691|Sandstone and siltstone samples collected from the lowest part of the Clam Bank Formation in western Newfoundland contain a distinctive monospecific conodont assemblage of Ozarkodina remscheidensis eosteinhornensis and O. remscheidensis ssp., confidently dated as Late Ludlow through Lochkovian. Palynomorph assemblages of terrestrial spores, acritarchs, chitinozoans, scolecodonts and plant fragments are relatively abundant and diverse in the lower 250 m of this formation. Taxa include the cryptospore genera Cymbohilates, Acontotetras, Hispanaediscus, Laevolancis, and Tetrahedraletes, spore genera Ambitisporites, Aneurospora, Apiculiretusispora, Emphanisporites, Retusotriletes, Synorisporites, Vermiverruspora, and a new species Stellatispora fahraeusi. Acritarchs include the taxon Triangulina sanpetrensis and chitinozoa include Angochitina chlupaci. Palynomorphs indicate a Lochkovian age, corresponding with the Apiculiretusispora sp. E zone from Europe. In well preserved samples from this section, the fossil terrestrial palynomorph assemblages from these shallow marine deposits correspond closely in species diversity and concentration with values reported for modern shelf deposits located adjacent to low Arctic moss and sedge tundra. By inference, earliest Devonian terrestrial vegetation must have been relatively well developed on this ancient coastline.
3687776|This work consists of a key, descriptions and illustrations, to identify the most significant angiosperm pollen types (85 genera/species, belonging to 36 families), from a paleoecological point of view, of the Gran Sabana and the 'tepui' (table mountains) summits from eastern Venezuelan Guayana. The pollen key and plates contain the most frequent and abundant pollen types found so far by the author in the Holocene sediments, as well as the significant medium and minor elements. This is enough to carry out a standard, successful palynological analysis in the area with a small percentage of unknown taxa, and can be considered a first step to be enhanced with future studies, especially from the 'tepui' summits of the western Venezuelan Guayana.
3687791|Palynological analysis of a newly recognized stratigraphic unit, situated between the top of the Magothy Formation and the bottom of the Merchantville Formation in northern New Jersey, has revealed that this newly recognized marine interval is biostratigraphically within the overlap of two previously established pollen zonations, which together focused on the Upper Cretaceous interval from the Raritan Formation (Cenomanian) to the Red Bank Sand (Maestrichtian). The outcrop section at Morristown Road, Cheesequake, New Jersey, contains a more complete upper Santonian to lower Campanian interval than previously has been known from eastern North America. Reexamination of selected samples from the original two studies also has resulted in the recognition of additional taxa in each of the two older datasets. Our expanded dataset indicates that the Morristown Road section may form a suitable palynological "bridge" between these two previous zonations. Present evidence now indicates that the Santonian-Campanian boundary is best placed somewhere between the lower and upper unconformities bounding this new unit, probably at the lower of these contacts.
3687642|An illustrated, descriptive atlas of pollen and spores from wetland plants of the Florida Everglades was compiled to facilitate identification of dispersed palynomorphs in sediments. The atlas includes 121 wetland species characteristic of eleven plant associations of the Florida Everglades including sloughs, sawgrass marshes, tree islands, wet prairies, cypress domes, mangrove forests, salt marshes, sawgrass ridges, beach/dune communities, pine flatwoods/dry prairies, and disturbed/developed sites. We include light micrographs and detailed descriptions of 121 species, 110 genera, and 63 families.
3687562|Two species of Early Cambrian acritarchs previously referred to Baltisphaeridium - B. brachyspinosum Kirjanov 1974, and B. papillosum (Timofeev) Volkova 1968 - are transferred to Comasphaeridium Staplin et al. 1965. The new species C. molliculum sp. nov. is proposed for specimens erroneously attributed by Volkova (1968) to the Ordovician species Archaeohystrichosphaeridium papillosum Timofeev 1959. In addition, possible colonial filamentous microfossils previously attributed to Comasphaeridium are here regarded as spheroidal aggregates of bacteria and are transferred to Globus gossipinus gen. et sp. nov. Two additional Early Cambrian acritarch taxa previously attributed to Cymatiosphaera are transferred to Fimbriaglomerella Loeblich & Drugg 1968. A species previously attributed informally to Micrhystridium Deflandre 1937, is redescribed as Multiplicisphaeridium dactilum sp. nov. The stratigraphic significance of these taxa is briefly discussed.
3687478|The morphologies of well preserved specimens assigned to six species of Cribroperidinium Neale and Sarjeant 1962 found in samples whose ages range from Hauterivian to Eocene were analyzed. Detailed observation of the paratabulation patterns in these specimens indicates on the epicyst: absence of a second preapical paraplate and dorsal contact of second and fourth apicals, and on the hypocyst: arcuate shape of posterior intercalary and posterior sulcal paraplates, six-sided antapical paraplate with its right side longer than its left and its longitudinal axis inclined to the left of the cyst, and fourth postcingular paraplate offset to the left relative to the mid-dorsal precingular one. A structure probably related to the ventral pore, reported in several species of modern gonyaulacoids, occurs in all the species studied. These characteristics serve as a basis for redefining Cribroperidinium, emphasizing the details of paratabulation topology as diagnostic criteria. Study of published descriptions of specimens assigned to this genus and to Millioudodinium Stover and Evitt 1978 indicates that the latter genus is a junior synonym of Cribroperidinium. Twelve new combinations are proposed and in addition 18 new combinations are provisionally proposed pending clarification of their paratabulation patterns.
27784283|Paleogene dinoflagellate cysts were recorded from the Chorrillo Chico and Agua Fresca formations at Punta Prat, southern Chile. Due to the presence of Palaeoperidinium pyrophorum, the Chorrillo Chico Formation is no younger than Late Selandian. By comparison with other basins, a Late Danian to Late Selandian age is proposed for the Chorrillo Chico Formation at Punta Prat. The PaleoceneEocene boundary is characterized by Apectodinium-dominated assemblages in the mid and high latitudes, the Atlantic coast of Isla Grande de Tierra del Fuego in Argentina, and Chile. The absence of this event at Punta Prat suggests a regional hiatus across the PaleoceneEocene boundary. An Early to Middle Eocene age is assigned to the lower part of the Agua Fresca Formation by comparison with dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from elsewhere in the Southern Hemisphere.
3687654|Chert from the Fossil Hill Formation collected at eight localities in southern Ontario yielded an acritarch microflora of forty-two species from twenty-six genera. This assemblage belongs to the Domasia facies, and is compared with eight coeval assemblages from formations in southeastern Canada and northeastern United States.
3687538|Analysis of the pollen and charcoal content of a 9.4 m sediment core from Lago Catemaco in the Sierra de los Tuxtlas of southern Veracruz, Mexico, has provided a record of prehistoric agriculture and forest clearance in the Olmec region. Problems with radiocarbon dating have precluded the establishment of a firm chronology, but the volcanic ash stratigraphy suggests that the core represents approximately the last three thousand years. Maize pollen was encountered in all but two of the samples analyzed, and is especially common in the middle section of the core. This section is also characterized by low arboreal pollen counts and high percentages of herbaceous taxa, particularly Ambrosia. We interpret this interval to represent a period of intensified agricultural activity during the Late Classic and Post-classic. In the upper section of the core maize pollen counts are generally low, even in the near-surface samples. The most striking feature of this section is a sharp increase in arboreal pollen percentages at ca. 2.5 m. We attribute this to forest regeneration following the post-Conquest population decline.
3687797|Angiosperm pollen are documented from nine outcrop samples from the Lefipn Formation, Barranca de los Perros, in the Chubut Province of southern Argentina. The material was collected from the lower part of the Lefipn Formation that contains a marine fauna of Maastrichtian age. Twenty-seven angiosperm pollen taxa are described. Stratigraphic and geographic distribution of these taxa, and of pteridophyte and bryophyte spores and gymnosperm pollen from these samples, are compared with Campanian to Paleocene assemblages from southern South America, the Antarctic Peninsula, New Zealand and Australia. The Lefipn flora contains taxa in common with Maastrichtian assemblages to the south, but in overall aspect is dissimilar to the high latitude, wet temperate Weddellian conifer-rich forest floras. The fern and angiosperm-rich Lefipn palynoflora probably represents a shrubby angiosperm-fernland vegetation with patchy wooded areas growing in warm temperate (to subtropical?) conditions.
3687402|Attempts were made to correlate lithostratigraphic units of Campanian and Maestrichtian Age from the Raritan, Salisbury, and Okefenokee embayments of the Atlantic Coastal Plain by using cluster analysis and principal coordinates analysis of selected species of angiosperm pollen. These attempts resulted in the recognition of major biostratigraphic subdivisions but failed to provide the degree of biostratigraphic resolution sought. The lack of resolution is attributed primarily to undetected rates of microfloral change throughout the sections and secondarily to distortion of the data matrix in the multivariate analyses. A new technique, referred to as Similarity Coefficient Matrix Contouring (SCMC), was applied to data in order to minimize matrix distortion. A comparison of the correlations suggested by SCMC with those arrived at by cluster and principal coordinates analyses indicates that, in this study, SCMC provided a graphic representation that led to detailed correlations. The detailed correlations are based on a visual inspection of SCMC diagrams relating pairs of sections.
3687738|Lower Carboniferous to Permian palynological zones are described from sections in central-western Argentina. In ascending stratigraphic order these zones are: (1) the Cordylosporites-Verrucosisporites (CV) Assemblage Biozone (spanning the Malimn and Cortaderas formations); (2) the Raistrickia densa-Convolutispora muriornata (DM) Assemblage Biozone (which is subdivided into: Sub-biozone A in the Guandacol and equivalent formations, Sub-biozone B in the Tupe Formation and equivalents, and Sub-biozone C in the upper part of the Santa Mxima and El Imperial formations); (3) the Fusacolpites fusus-Vittatina subsaccata (FS) Interval Biozone in the Bajo de Vliz and Tasa Cuna formations and equivalents, and (4) the Lueckisporites-Weylandites (LW) Assemblage Biozone in the De La Cuesta and Yacimiento Los Reyunos formations. The oldest biozone (CV) is assigned to the Early Carboniferous and the overlying DM Biozone to the Late Carboniferous. The uppermost FS and LW biozones are Permian in age. Palynological records show the impact of the Early-to-Late Carboniferous glacial event, which caused significant changes in the composition of the assemblages from this interval. Further studies are necessary to calibrate a regional geological time scale in Gondwana, which is essential for precise correlation.
3687671|St. Catherines Island is a barrier island on the Georgia coast, lying within Liberty County about 65 kilometers south of Savannah (3137N latitude, 8109W longitude). The sediments of St. Catherines Island are of Late Pleistocene and Holocene age; understanding their relationship to other inland and marine sediments is critical to assessing geological and biological changes that have occurred in the region. Extensive palynological studies along Georgia's current coastline are completely lacking, though sediments from Georgia's barrier islands provide a potentially unique opportunity to investigate the Quaternary history of the region. The accumulation (and erosion) of these sediments was directly related to sea level changes brought about by global climate shifts, and these changes in topography and sedimentation patterns are probably reflected in pollen assemblages. A transect of three sediment cores from the mid-southern portion of the island was analyzed to determine ages, environments of deposition, and relationships to other coastal and inland localities. Core localities are known as Cracker Tom Bridge, Cracker Tom Hammock, and Cracker Tom Rosetta. Sediment consists of peat, shells, sand, and clay. Peat from 5.02-5.12m at Cracker Tom Bridge was radiocarbon dated at 47,620 B.P. Above this peat lies an irregular erosional surface, which is in turn overlain by marine mollusk shells and charcoal. The charcoal was radiocarbon dated at 6020 B.P. and an Americardia shell was radiocarbon dated at 4060 B.P., indicating a depositional hiatus of at least 40,000 years following deposition of the peat. The subsequent marine transgression resulted in the accumulation of the sediments which make up the remainder of the strata in the three cores. Palynologically these are characterized by abundant Pinus pollen, high percentages of broken Pinus pollen grains, and the presence of dinoflagellates and microforams. Pleistocene sediments deposited during low sea level were derived from inland plant communities. The 47,620 year old Cracker Tom Bridge peat consists dominantly of Woodwardia spores and other hydrophytic taxa. Regional vegetation represented in the Pleistocene portion of the cores is dominated by Pinus, Quercus, Carya, and Poaceae. Pollen of boreal taxa is infrequent, though an indication of the presence of northern temperate forest elements in the region is suggested by very low percentages of Picea, Tilia, Fagus, and Tsuga. Holocene portions of the three cores are derived from near shore marine and salt marsh/tidal flat environments. Composites, chenopods, and grasses are present as well as Pinus and Quercus. Consistently present in small percentages are Carya, Myrica, Taxodium, Liquidambar, and Nyssa. Results of this study are consistent with other studies indicating that the Silver Bluff terrace, which comprises the northern portion of St. Catherines Island, formed over 40,000 years ago following a period of exposure during the latest Pleistocene lowstand. St. Catherines Island subsequently became isolated from the mainland due to eustatic sea level rise approximately 4060 B.P. Subsequent accretion of the Holocene portion of the island southward resulted in the establishment of the modern hammock and marsh communities at the Cracker Tom locality after 3200 B.P. Pleistocene and Holocene sediments are separated by a disconformity in St. Catherines Island sediment cores and in other studied inland localities on the Georgia coastal plain, indicating a regional distribution of this unconformity. Palynological analysis of St. Catherines Island sediment cores attests to the stability of southeastern floral elements throughout portions of the Late Pleistocene and Holocene in coastal Georgia.
3687437|Retusotriletes phillipsii n. sp. is described from the Upper Devonian "Catskill" red beds (Famennian) of West Virginia. Additional occurrences are reported from Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, and New York. The morphologically discerning characters of this species are prominent curvaturae perfectae, a thin-walled triangular proximal apical area, and radial ribbing within the contact area. This form has previously been figured, but not formally described, from the Famennian (Fa 2c) of western Europe. The wide geographic distribution, short geologic range, and distinctive morphological features of this species indicates that it may be a useful time stratigraphic marker for subdividing the Upper Devonian.
3687482|Range tops of 41 dinoflagellate cyst taxa occur within the Upper Triassic to Lower Cretaceous of northwest Europe. These range tops form the basis of a proposed biostratigraphy of the Upper Triassic, Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous strata of the region, the subdivision of which is of value to industrial palynologists who work mainly with drill cuttings from oil and gas exploration boreholes.
3687604|Fifty conventional core samples from the Ragley Lumber # 1 well located in Allen Parish Louisiana (Sec 29, T5S, R7W) were analyzed for palynomorphs. Dinoflagellate cysts, not considered to be recycled, were present in all samples along with abundant to very abundant pollen, spores and fungal spores. Dinoflagellate cyst abundances varied considerably from sparse (<20 cysts per sample) to abundant (> 100 cysts per sample). Preservation also displayed considerable range, even within the same sample. Biostratigraphically useful taxa include: Adnatosphaeridium multispinosum, Apectodinium homomorphum, Areosphaeridium dictyoplokus, Deflandrea phosphoritica, Spinidinium sagittula, Lingulodinium machaerophorum, Muratodinium fimbratum, Palaeocystodinium golzowense, and Hafniasphaera septata. Other taxa described include: Achomosphaera alcicornu, Cleistosphaeridium diversispinosum, Cordosphaeridium inodes, Diphyes colligerum, Operculodinium centrocarpum, Polysphaeridium subtile, Trichodinium hirsuitum, and Senegalinium sp. 1. In addition to the indigenous flora, a recycled flora was also encountered. These specimens were assignable to the following genera: Muderongia, Dinogymnium and Odontochitina. Based on abundances of Spiniferites and Cleistosphaeridium types and general scarcity of peridiniacean dinoflagellate cysts and Impagidinium species an outer neritic water depth is postulated. Benthic foraminiferal data from a section of the core generally support this interpretation.
3687626|We investigated the potential of soil pollen analysis to provide information about recent land use and vegetation history in the lowland humid tropics. Our initial work at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica revealed that pollen was surprisingly well preserved in mineral soil, with pollen concentrations in the upper 10 cm of our soil cores as high as values for some lake sediment samples. Pollen percentages in our initial core samples showed down-core variations that appeared to relate to what we knew about past episodes of forest clearance, pasture establishment, and secondary succession at our sampling sites. We carried out further tests of soil pollen analysis by collecting and analyzing additional soil cores from the La Selva Biological Station. Based on these new results, we conclude that soil pollen analysis in the lowland humid tropics does not hold the promise suggested by our initial work. Most pollen in our soil cores may be only a few decades old, and rapid downwash and/or bioturbation may prevent the development of a stratigraphy at some sites. Poor reproducibility at a scale of meters suggests that where a distinct pollen stratigraphy exists, it may be highly localized, as soil pollen profiles collected under tropical forest canopies may sample very small areas. Alternatively, small (1-cc) samples may be unrepresentative of soil horizons. A large number of samples will be needed in either case to characterize the land use and vegetation history of even a fairly small area. However, extreme locale-specificity could be an advantage for detection of evidence of the past occurrence of a particular plant taxon at a given location.
40072722|A small but diverse assemblage of pollen and spores recovered from marine sediments of the Avon Park Formation (middle Eocene) in west central Florida, represents the oldest land flora described from the state. Twenty-one pollen taxa from terrestrial plants, are identified from the Dolime Minerals and Gulf Hammock quarries. The presence of mangrove pollen associates such as Acrostichum, Nypa, and Pelliciera associated with seagrass macrofossils, combined with evidence from invertebrate fossils and sedimentary structures, suggest that the sediments of the Avon Park Formation, at these quarry sites, were deposited in a shallow marine lagoon, perhaps near the mouth of a river or stream in a protected area that had some tidal influence. This is the earliest report of terrestrial vegetation and near marine vegetation of Florida and documents the presence of a Florida landmass during middle Eocene time.
3687354|Analysis of the miospore content of four coeval depositional environments-levee swale, swamp, marshy lakeside, and distributary margin-of the Dakota Formation (mid-Cretaceous) of north-central Kansas and adjacent Nebraska implies that each environment has a distinctive miospore flora, as indicated by multinomial homogeneity tests and cluster analysis of Spearman rank-order correlation coefficients. Diversity measures such as Simpson's Index and species richness indicate that the swamp and distributary margin depositional environments are less diverse than the levee swale and lakeside depositional environments. Bisaccate (gymnospermous) pollen is most diverse and abundant in the lakeside environment; angiospermous pollen is most diverse in the lakeside and distributary margin. The diversities found in the Dakota Formation are higher than those found by Nichols and Traverse (1971) for similar environments in the early Tertiary of Texas. We believe these differences are, in part, a result of the absence of prolific anemophilous angiosperm pollen producers when the mid-Cretaceous sediments were deposited. The cluster analysis implies that certain taxa are restricted in environmental distribution: bisaccate pollen occurs primarily in the levee swale and lakeside environments, Densoisporites aff. D. perinatus and Perinopollenites elatoides in the lakeside, Gleicheniidites confossus in the levee swale and swamp, and ?Equisetosporites sp. in the distributary margin. Other taxa occur in all environments but have markedly greater abundance in some environments. These data suggest that abundance-based stratigraphic zonations in nonmarine sediments can be in part environmental zonations. Further, these data may allow inference of depositional environments from miospore assemblages in the future and may contribute to our understanding of the paleoecology of the parent plants.
3687548|Diphyes colligerum (Deflandre & Cookson) Cookson, type species of the genus Diphyes Cookson, is revised to include morphotypes with archeopyles of several types, including <tex-math>${\rm P}_{3^{{\prime\prime}}},2{\rm P}_{3-4^{{\prime\prime}}},(4{\rm A}_{1-4^{\prime}})$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$(4{\rm A}_{1-4^{\prime}})\ {\rm P}_{3^{{\prime\prime}}}$</tex-math>, based on lower Paleogene specimens from the Virginia-Maryland coastal plain. Archeopyle variability within an otherwise morphologically similar suite of cysts raises questions regarding the common practice of separating dinoflagellate cyst genera on the basis of slight differences in the nature of the archeopyle. In addition, a gonyaulacacean paratabulation has been determined for rare specimens on which the bases of adjacent processes tend to fuse into apparently intratabular process clusters. The paraplate configuration is inferred by combining several morphological features, including relative position of processes and process clusters, principal and secondary archeopyle sutures, shape of the operculum, and shape of the large antapical process. A nearly complete morphological gradient (with respect to degree of process fusion) exists between specimens of typical Diphyes colligerum [Type (4A) archeopyle; no process fusion] and specimens of an undescribed species of Hystrichokolpoma. A strikingly similar paratabulation between the two further suggests affinity of Diphyes with the Hystrichokolpoma-complex of fossil cysts, and alludes to the possibility that cysts attributed to both genera may have been produced by a single complex of closely related motile (thecate) species.
3687496|Palynologic and petrographic analyses were performed on nine cores selected from an east-west transect in west central Okefenokee Swamp. From these cores it was possible to reconstruct the local vegetational successions from the time of initial peat formation (about 6,000 yr B.P.) to the present and to draw some inferences about regional vegetational changes in southeastern Georgia. Both the pollen assemblages and petrographic data indicate a local upward change in vegetation from a marsh environment, consisting predominantly of Nymphaea, Gramineae and Cyperaceae (with Sagittaria and Xyris as moderate contributors), through a transitional zone dominated by Gramineae and Cyperaceae (with both Nymphaea and Taxodium as major contributors) and finally to a Taxodium-dominated swamp-forest (with Sphagnum and Woodwordia as moderate contributors). Sphagnum was noticeably absent in the lower zones, suggesting a change from a more minerotrophic setting at the base to a nutrient-poor, ombrotrophic environment toward the top. Chenopodiaceae pollen exhibited the opposite trend (decrease toward the top). Regionally, an upward decease in Quercus and other hard-wood trees was observed. This trend supports the findings of others (Watts, 1971; Rich, 1979; Fearn, 1981; Stack, 1985;) for a regional decrease in oak-dominated forests in the southeastern United States.
3687475|A rich palynomorph assemblage of early Miocene age was obtained from the phosphatic facies mudstone samples of the lower Monterey Formation exposed in the basal Lions Head section in the Santa Maria area, California. Angiosperm pollen of Acer, Achillea, Bombacaceae, Carya, Ericaceae, Onagraceae, Salix, and Ulmus occurs commonly. Among conifers, bisaccate Pinus pollen is well represented. Azolla glochidia and spores of Selaginella, Sphagnum, and Polypodium are sparse. Marine algae are represented abundantly by Pterospermella, Tytthodiscus, and several dinocysts, including Leptodinium, Operculodinium centrocarpum, Spiniferites, and Tuberculodinium vancampoae. The dinocyst assemblage, unstructured amorphous organic debris, and the lack of large spores support an offshore deep marine deposition under a prevailing warm temperate climate with an annual summer rainy season. The terrestrial source area encompassed freshwater pools and ponds in a marsh/swamp environment. Pine vegetation was present in elevated areas.
3687469|Spores from sporangia of four species of the Early Devonian trimerophyte Psilophyton (Dawson) Hueber & Banks are generally similar in morphology, corresponding to the dispersed spore genera Apiculiretusispora (Streel) Streel and/or Calamospora Schopf, Wilson & Bentall. Some interspecific differences exist in sculptural detail and the shape of the dark area at the juncture of trilete rays. Thin sections of P. forbesii spores reveal a homogeneous sporoderm consisting of two layers similar in electron density, an inner sporoderm and a thinner outer layer representing the ornamentation. The latter detaches in some spores and may represent a thick deposit of tapetal residue, a perispore, a paraexospore, or simply a less well organized layer of sporoderm. Psilophyton spores can be distinguished from the spores of many, but not all, Early Devonian vascular plants for which in situ spores are known.
3687493|The occurrence of Ficus pollen in neotropical Quaternary sediments is discussed in light of the unique pollination biology of the genus, and possible mechanisms of pollen transport and deposition are proposed.
3687500|The fossil fungal spore Anatolinites gen. nov. is described. The form-genus includes species previously included in Brachysporisporites Lange & Smith 1971 emend. Ediger 1981. Anatolinites differs from Brachysporisporites by having two pores. The morphology of this genus, including the biometry of the type species Anatolinites dongyingensis (Ke & Shi 1978) emend. comb. nov., from the Thrace Basin, Turkey, is described in detail, with illustrations from both transmitted light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Other new taxa include Anatolinites alaskaensis sp. nov., A. alternarioides sp. nov., A. chubutensis sp. nov., A. claibornensis sp. nov., A. holocenicus sp. nov., A. reklawensis sp. nov., and A. subcapsilaris (Sheffy & Dilcher 1971) emend. comb. nov.
3687481|Litosphaeridium is a genus of skolochorate dinoflagellate cysts characterized by an apical archeopyle and 16 to about 45 basically intratabular hollow processes that are conical, cylindrical, or bulbous, with subcircular cross-sections and simple tips. Other indications of paratabulation are absent and, depending upon the species, some paraplates may be without processes while others may be represented by as many as four. Typically, the species are highly variable in details, especially showing many small differences in process number and position. Analysis of six species and one subspecies here assigned to Litosphaeridium suggests that a similar pattern of gonyaulacoid paratabulation can be discerned in each of them. This pattern is distinct from that of other skolochorate cysts and analogous in detail with the epithecal tabulation of Gonyaulax polyedra. Paratabulation, along with similarities in process and wall structure, support the position that these six species can be included in one genus. Species of Litosphaeridium have been found in Albian, Cenomanian, Turonian, and Maestrichtian strata. New taxa described are: Litosphaeridium bacar n. sp. and Litosphaeridium siphoniphorum subp. glabrum n. subsp. Previously described taxa reinterpreted here are: Litosphaeridium siphoniphorum subsp. siphoniphorum, Litosphaeridium conispinum, Litosphaeridium arundum, Litosphaeridium fenestreconum n. comb., and Litosphaeridium sp. of Stein.
3687756|Pollen and oxygen isotope analyses of sediments from deep-sea core SO36-7SL (4218 S, 14440 E; 1085-m water depth) provide a chronostratigraphically-controlled paleoenvironmental record of the last 75,000 years from southeastern Australia. During the early Holocene and later part of the preceding period of deglaciation (post-14,000 yr B.P.), the vegetation of coastal central western Tasmania consisted mainly of Phyllocladus-Eucalyptus mixed forest with a mesic understory, implying warm and humid climate. Grassy herbland communities with scattered Athrotaxis and Lagarostrobos were widespread during the last major phase of highland glaciation (25,000-14,000 yr B.P.), and reflect much lower temperatures than at present. During much of the last glaciation (63,000-25,000 yr B.P.), the vegetation was a mosaic of Eucalyptus woodland, shrubland, herbland and sedgeland communities that developed under generally cool and moist climate. Very high Asteraceae and low Eucalyptus, Phyllocladus and Dicksonia/Cyathea pollen and spore values indicate colder and probably drier environments 70,000-63,000 yr B.P. The basal Eucalyptus-Dicksonia/Cyathea-Phyllocladus forest assemblage, deposited 75,000-70,000 yr B.P., signifies a rapid transition from a moderately warm and moist interglacial-like climate to the colder conditions and open environments that characterized much of the last glacial period. The results of the past 50,000 years are broadly consistent with paleoenvironmental reconstructions inferred from radiocarbon dated lowland pollen sequences in western Tasmania and further afield.
40072718|The structure of the enigmatic Carboniferous miospore genus Pteroretis Felix & Burbridge 1961 is reinterpreted based on well-preserved assemblages from Pennsylvanian (Duckmantian-Bolsovian) strata in the Machrihanish Coalfield, Kintyre, western Scotland. The genus is emended herein, and evidence is presented of a proximal operculum to justify assignment of the genus to the Infraturma Epitygmati. The complex arrangement of wings, originally described as being perpendicular to the equatorial margin from pole to pole, are demonstrated to be concentric structures in the equatorial and subequatorial region. Wings developed on the distal surface commonly form a cuppa structure similar to that developed in Fragilipollenites Konyali 1965 emend. McLean 1997. A comparison is made with Vestispora (Wilson & Hoffmeister 1956) Wilson & Venkatachala 1963, the only other operculate Carboniferous miospore genus. Comparisons are also made with other genera such as Columinisporites Peppers 1964 and Fragilipollenites, which are costate and cuppa-bearing respectively. Previous records of Pteroretis from Europe and North America are reviewed, and indicate a Late Mississippian (Late Visan-Chesterian) to Mid Pennsylvanian (Bolsovian) age. Paleobotanical evidence suggests a sphenophyllalean origin, with Pteroretis miospores being recovered from the fructifications of several species of Bowmanites Binney 1871.
3687466|The dinoflagellate cyst described by Muir and Sarjeant (1978) as Endoscrinium sp. is reinterpreted as belonging to the genus Gonyaulacysta and is formally named as G. centriconnata sp. nov. Its morphology is discussed in detail, in particular its suturocavate nature, the cyst possessing intratabular contact areas of periphragm and endophragm, which are developed in the majority of the paraplate areas. It is stratigraphically useful in England, as it is confined to the mid-Callovian to early Oxfordian interval.
41319060|Honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) collect pollen for brood and young worker development, and pollinate many crops and economically important plants. Pollen was collected from honey bees from six feral honey bee colonies in southern Texas during two time periods to evaluate diurnal patterns of pollen collection. Overall, the same pollen types tended to be collected throughout the day, however, the percentages differed depending upon the time of day.Honey bees from four of the six colonies collected predominant pollen types (> 45% of a sample). Honey bees from the two colonies which did not collect a predominant pollen type collected two or more secondary pollen types (1645% of a sample). Lamiaceae was the most prevalent pollen type collected during the early sampling period and an unknown tricolporate grain was the most collected pollen type during the late sampling period. However, honey bees from one colony primarily collected the unknown tricolporate grain during both sampling periods. Several factors probably contributed to these diurnal variations in pollen collection patterns. These include floral patterns of pollen availability, resource depletion and/or profitability, nutritional needs of honey bees and preferences of individual honey bee foragers.
3687732|Following a restudy of the type material of Muderongia simplex Alberti 1961, this species and the informally-named Volgian morphotype Muderongia sp. A of Davey (1979) are deemed to be unequivocally conspecific. They both have angular endocysts, the extremities of which extend into the pericystal horns, thereby engendering a cornucavate cyst organisation. The specific diagnosis of Muderongia simplex is emended to note this morphologic phenomenon. The distinctive Lower Cretaceous (Ryazanian to Hauterivian-Barremian) circumcavate representatives of Muderongia which have been extensively referred to as Muderongia simplex in the literature are assigned to the new species Muderongia endovata. The distinction between the genera Muderongia and Phoberocysta is maintained, contrary to a recent synonymisation.
3687403|Selected palynomorphs from the Morgan Creek locality in southern Saskatchewan, Canada, indicate that the basin of deposition was an inland fresh-water pond or lake environment. The region of the basin experienced warm air and ocean surface temperatures (20-25C), low pH values (3.5-4.0), and moderate to high rainfall. The presence of Pandanus, Livistona, and other angiosperm taxa strongly suggests that the Morgan Creek locality has its modern analogue in areas within Southeast Asia - Indomalaysia.
40072734|Mississippian palynomorphs have been recovered from two successions of the Hannibal Shale in Missouri, U.S.A., which is the lowermost Carboniferous unit in the Mississippi Valley. The assemblages are dominated by acanthomorph acritarchs, with Micrhystridium stellatum being the principal species. The miospore assemblages are well-preserved and of low taxonomic diversity. They are dominated by longranging taxa that survived the latest Devonian mass extinction event. This assemblage closely resembles assemblages assigned to the Vallatisporites verrucosus-Retusotriletes incohatus (VI) Biozone of Western Europe. However the assemblage from the Mississippi Valley is relatively impoverished in comparison with European assemblages, and many key European zonal taxa are absent. Independent biostratigraphic correlation suggests that the Hannibal Shale is equivalent to the VI Biozone , the Cristatisporites hibernicus-Umbonatisporites distinctus (HD) Biozone, and possibly the lowermost part of the Spelaeotriletes balteatus-Rugospora polyptycha (BP) Biozone in Europe. This indicates the relatively condensed nature of the succession. Palynofacies analysis suggests a shelf to basin depositional environment for the Hannibal Shale; this is consistent with the paleogeographic location of this area during the Early Carboniferous.
3687536|Diverse and well-preserved dinoflagellate cyst and acritarch assemblages were recovered from late Bathonian to early Oxfordian strata of Mt. Crussol, southern France. Two distinct microplankton associations are recognized based on the stratigraphic ranges of 89 identified species, together with frequency distribution data of the most abundant taxa. The older, termed the Ctenidodinium combazii-Cleistosphaeridium varispinosum association, comprises the late Bathonian-early Callovian strata of Mt. Crussol, while the younger Compositosphaeridium polonicum-Sentusidinium pilosum association characterizes the ?late Callovianearly Oxfordian interval. The palynological data suggest a hiatus and/or a pronounced stratal condensation spanning the middle Callovian and possibly part of the upper Callovian in the study section. Trends in the geographic distribution of selected species are discussed based on comparisons of the marine microfloras from Mt. Crussol and other parts of the Tethyan Realm with assemblages recorded from contemporaneous strata of the Sub-Boreal and Boreal Realm.
3687344|Technical Pan 2415 Film, recently introduced by Eastman Kodak Company, can be processed to achieve photomicrographs similar to those obtained by using their recently discontinued High Contrast Copy Film. Exposures were made at an ASA of 80 to 200, and the film was developed in a 1:4 dilution of HC-110 stock developer for 6 minutes at 21C. The method is presented as an alternative to the manufacturer's recommended developer dilutions and times, as these resulted in negatives of either too low or too high contrast for use in palynological photomicrography.
3687569|Nematosphaeropsis balcombiana Deflandre & Cookson 1955 is the genotype of Nematosphaeropsis, but should be restricted to the type material until its morphology can be elucidated by restudy. The circumscription of the genus Nematosphaeropsis is emended, noting in particular the presence of pairs of penitabular trabeculae that join adjacent process terminations. The synonymy of N. balcombiana with "N. labyrinthea" (Ostenfeld) Reid 1974 is rejected because the dinocysts in these species differ significantly in the type of processes and trabeculae that each exhibits and "N. labyrinthea" is not considered a valid species of dinoflagellate cyst. N. lemniscata Bujak 1984 includes in its circumscription morphologies identical to those specimens attributed to "N. labyrinthea" by Reid (1974). Two new species of Nematosphaeropsis, N. lativittatus sp. nov. and N. rigida sp. nov., are described from Neogene oceanic deposits from the Gulf of Mexico. Species of Nematosphaeropsis can be differentiated on the basis of gross morphologic features, without having to delineate paratabulation. N. balcombiana has broad, proximally branched processes and thin, delicate trabeculae. Paratabulation is clearly expressed by parasutural membranes that join process bases proximally. N. densiradiata (Cookson & Eisenack) Stover & Evitt 1978 is larger than most species of Nematosphaeropsis and similar to N. lemniscata in structure. N. densiradiata is, however, too poorly known to assess completely. N. downii Brown 1986 contains some of the largest specimens of Nematosphaeropsis and bears pairs of trabeculae fused to each other by thin membranes. N. elegantulum (Drugg) Stover & Williams 1987 is unusual in reportedly having process tips that have 4 or 5 distal branches that may themselves branch, and occasional trabecular beads and barbs. N. lativittatus sp. nov. is small, and bears open processes that are broadly flared distally and that are joined distally by pairs of broad, ribbon-like penitabular trabeculae that may be more or less fused to each other. N. lemniscata bears long, thin, hollow cylindrical processes joined distally by pairs of uniformly narrow, ribbon-like penitabular trabeculae. Paratabulation is variably developed on the trabecular shell, but is rarely evident on the central body, and then only partially. N.? philippotii (Deflandre) De Coninck 1969 is too poorly known to assess in detail. N. pustulosa (Morgenroth) Stover & Evitt 1978 is characterized by hollow protrusions or outgrowths of the central body and the very large size of the cysts. N. quinquetrum (Duxbury) Stover & Williams 1987 is distinguished from other species of Nematosphaeropsis by its pentagonal central body. The thin, solid pairs of trabeculae of this species are similar to those of N. rigida sp. nov. N. rigida sp. nov. bears stiff, solid processes that are round in cross-section and expanded distally and proximally. process terminations are joined by solid trabeculae that are round in cross-section. N. scala Duxbury 1977 is distinguished by widely flared, distally fenestrate processes and thin trabeculae discontinuously joined to each other by cross strands. N. singularis Davey 1979 bears variably shaped gonal and intergonal processes joined by weak trabeculae. Unipontidinium gen. nov. includes dinocysts with single parasutural trabeculae that join gonal, or gonal and intergonal, processes distally. Proximal parasutural ridges may or may not join process bases. Two new combinations (U. aquaeductum comb. nov. and U. grande comb. nov.) are proposed.
3687692|Within sediments from the central Santa Barbara Basin that date from 1883 to 1992, "round brown" protoperidinioid cysts, characteristic of modern marine upwelling environments dominate the dinocyst associations. With respect to a detrended temperature anomaly curve (DTA) for the northern hemisphere, the proportions of the gonyaulacoid taxa Spiniferites and cysts from ?Alexandrium catenella show significant increases within climatic "warming" and "cooling" intervals respectively. The maximum and peak abundance of the ratio of protoperidinioid "round brown" cysts to Spiniferites occur at the onset and during the 1947 to 1971 "cooling interval" respectively. In contrast, during the "warming interval" of 1905 to 1946, and most prominently since 1972, this ratio is persistently low, with values mostly well below its average. Regionally, a strong and persistent increase in proportions of Spiniferites since the mid-seventies strongly parallels undetrended higher temperatures of both sea surface and air, which is coincident to the onset and duration of a "warm oceanic event" within the Southern California region. The ratio of terrigenous sporomorphs to marine palynomorphs shows a significant positive correlation with regional average amounts of precipitation. Generally, results indicate that even minor global (northern hemisphere) climatic changes may result in significant changes in regional ocean current patterns, which are reflected by prominent changes of dinocyst associations.
3687586| Operculodinium centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) Wall 1967 is one of the most commonly reported dinoflagellate cysts (dinocysts) in samples from Tertiary and Quaternary deposits. However, at least two distinct dinocyst morphologies are assigned to this species in the literature at the present time. In addition, two separate species have been erected for one of these distinct morphologies. In order to define criteria with which to differentiate these morphologies, holotype and topotype material of O. centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) Wall 1967 and O. echigoense Matsuoka 1983 were restudied and compared with dinocysts of Protoceratium reticulatum (Claparde & Lachmann) Btschli 1885. Re-investigation of the holotype and topotype specimens of O. centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) Wall 1967 (=Hystrichosphaeridium centrocarpum Deflandre & Cookson 1955) and O. echigoense Matsuoka 1983 demonstrated that O. echigoense Matsuoka 1983 is a junior synonym of the former. This restudy also confirmed that O. centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) Wall 1967 (=H. centrocarpum Deflandre & Cookson 1955) is morphologically distinct from the Quaternary dinocysts that are widely attributed to this species in the literature. [These Quaternary forms are referred to in this paper as O. centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) sensu Wall 1967.] Viable cysts that are morphologically identical to the Quaternary forms [i.e., O. centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) sensu Wall 1967] have been incubated to produce the motile dinoflagellate P. reticulatum (Claparde & Lachmann) Btschli 1885. We propose that, 1) the latter name should be applied only to large, morphologically distinct dinocysts comparable to those originally described from the Miocene of Australia, and 2) the distinctive Quaternary forms [i.e., O. centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) sensu Wall 1967] should be referred to as the cysts of Protoceratium reticulatum (Claparde & Lachmann) Btschli 1885. 
3687773|Palynological data are presented for a basaltic soil from an archaeological site in northern New Zealand. The profile encompasses two successive soils at the base of Pouerua crater where the initial soil was buried during an erosion and depositional event. The soils have not been disturbed directly by people, and mixing by bioturbating invertebrates has been minimal resulting in a crude stratification of percolated pollen and microscopic charcoal. Forest in the base of the crater escaped the large-scale anthropogenic burning on the outer slopes of the cone and its surrounds indicated by earlier studies. Despite high soil porosity in a humid climate at Pouerua, the rate of pollen percolation in the crater soils is low, occurring at < 1 cm in 17.86 years (< 0.056 cm per year). These preliminary results show that soils with high infiltration rates in humid climates are potentially stratified and thus useful in providing records of local environments.
3687571|A biostratigraphic study of exceptionally well-preserved dinoflagellate assemblages of Maastrichtian and Danian age from southwestern Sweden and southeastern Denmark has provided an opportunity for morphological analysis of the stratigraphically important species, Carpatella cornuta Grigorovich 1969. The paratabulation pattern of this species is shown to be essentially identical to that of other species having a Ventriosum pattern in the Aptiana-Ventriosum complex of Helenes (1986). The generic and specific descriptions are formally emended, and a neotype is designated.
3687503|Selected dinoflagellate cysts from the late Bajocian and Bathonian from three boreholes in southern England are described and illustrated, including two new species: Durotrigia asketa and Durotrigia vesiculata.
3687371|Tyrannus gen. nov. is here proposed for an exceptionally large acritarch species originally named Estiastra gigantea Jardin et al. 1974, from the Algerian subsurface. Well preserved specimens from the subsurface of Libya indicate the original generic assignment is inappropriate. Accordingly, this unique form is redescribed, and specimens are illustrated, to support the erection of a new monotypic acritarch genus. The Algerian and Libyan palynomorph assemblages, in which Tryannus giganteus (Jardin et al.) gen. et comb. nov. occurs, suggest a Late Silurian (Ludlow) age.
3687774|Core samples from the A-IG-85 well and four outcrops located in South Araoiaba da Serra, So Paulo State, Brazil, have been palynologically investigated. Diverse and well-preserved palynomorphs, including seventy-three species of spores, monosaccate, disaccate and taeniate pollen grains, and one species of incertae sedis have been recognized. Among them, sixty species are systematically described including thirty-four species of spores, twenty-five pollen grains and one incertae sedis. Eleven species from the Brazilian Paran Basin are published for the first time: Granulatisporites triconvexus Staplin 1960, Dictyotriletes muricatus (Kosanke) Smith & Butterworth 1967, Vallatisporites punctatus (Marques-Toigo) comb. nov., Cristatisporites rollerii Ottone 1989, Bascaudaspora canipa Owens 1983, Spelaeotriletes triangulus Neves & Owens 1966, Psomospora detecta Playford & Helby 1968, Florinites occultus Habib 1966, Potonieisporites barrelis Tiwari 1965, Costatascyclus crenatus Felix & Burbridge emend. Urban 1971, Limitisporites luandensis Bose & Maheshwari 1968 including a new combination proposed herein [Vallatisporites punctatus (Marques-Toigo) comb. nov.]. The palynofossiliferous beds come from the Ahrensisporites cristatus Interval Zone, in the basal portion of the Itarar Subgroup, and are considered to be late Carboniferous (Westphalian) in age. Changes in the composition of the assemblages and the previous record of marine fossils in the studied beds are interpreted as resulting from minor variations of a transgressive/regressive cycle, under glacial climatic conditions.
3687563|Dinoflagellate cysts of the Wetzeliella-complex belonging to the genera Kisselovia (sensu Lentin and Williams, 1976), Rhombodinium, Wetzeliella and Wilsonidium are reported for the first time from Eocene sediments of the Aquitaine Basin, southwestern France. Ten species are illustrated, six of which are described as new: Kisselovia aculeata, K. columna, Rhombodinium translucidum, R. rugosum, Wetzeliella uncinata, and Wilsonidium compactum. The assemblages illustrate the wide range of ornamentation and archeopyle morphology within the Wetzeliella-complex. Kisselovia aculeata combines a penitabular arrangement of processes with a soleiform archeopyle. Paratabulation in Rhombodinium rugosum is outlined by parasutural folds. Wetzeliella uncinata has a unique archeopyle type, combining an adnate perioperculum with a shorter, free endoperculum. The species of Kisselovia display a para-quadra paratabulation pattern.
3687795|Seventeen algae and fungal palynomorphs recovered from bottom sediments of Holocene age at Chascoms Lake, Buenos Aires Province, are described. The stratigraphic position of different associations and their probable environments in indicated. Some algae, such as the Characeae, seem to be good paleoenvironmental indicators.
3687477|A palynological investigation of 24 outcrop samples from Alberbill, Riverside County, and Rancho Mission Viejo, Orange County, California, provided a spore and pollen assemblage of 85 species in 56 genera. The presence of Momipites tenuipolus Anderson and Plicatopollis triradiata (Nichols) Frederiksen & Christopher indicates that the lower member of the Silverado Formation is late Paleocene in age. This refines a previous interpretation of Paleocene age for the Silverado Formation based on megainvertebrate fossils in the upper member. The abundance of fungal and pteridophyte spores and angiosperm pollen indicate a swampy or lowland bog depositional environment within a paralic deltaic system. Caryapollenites, Cupanieidites, Paraalnipollenites, Plicatopollis, and Momipites pollen in the assemblage indicate a warm temperate influence within a prevailing subtropical climate during the deposition of the Silverado Formation.
3687333|Analysis of conventional percentage frequency data from 167 palynomorph-rich samples from the Eocene of southern Britain by principal components analysis and cluster analysis is making it possible to disentangle the effects of pollen transport and catchment and other facies-related perturbations from real ecological information. Three major natural groups of pollen and spore taxa have been recognized within these assemblages whose internal ecological homogeneity suggests that they record groups of plant communities that are identified as Eocene versions of deciduous forest, fern and conifer forest, and paratropical rain forest. The paleoecological structure of the three communities is explained and their change during the Eocene is recorded. By analogy with temperature of modern vegetation types this method of analysis of palynological data is used to reconstruct Tertiary climatic changes.
3687640|The 10.5 m deep "D-Dor" core was taken at Dor (Tantura Lagoon), on the Carmel coastal plain, Israel. The established chrono-stratigraphic sequence (based on x-ray radiographs, and both luminescence and radiocarbon dating) covers the last about 26,000 years. It provides the paleoenvironmental framework for the transition from hunter-gathering to agriculture in the Levant. Three clay units were identified, overlying kurkar (calcareous sandstone) and covered by 6.3 m of sand. The bottom clay unit is a paleosol. Pollen was not preserved in this unit. Gray clay (the top of which was dated to about 12,000 cal. YBP) was deposited, overlying the paleosol, in a wetland environment. Pollen was preserved only in the upper part of this unit. It indicates a slightly drier climate than today's, probably correlative with the Younger Dryas. At the beginning of the Holocene, between 10,300 and 9,550 cal. YBP, a new marsh originated, depositing dark clay. High concentrations of well-preserved pollen allowed the reconstruction of several fluctuations in humidity. When the marsh was first formed, precipitation was higher than today, and oak maquis was more extensive in the area. The date of the earliest submerged Pre-Pottery Neolithic settlement embedded in its upper part indicates that the marsh dried out no later than 9,400-8,550 cal. YBP. Around 5,000 years ago, long after the Early Holocene marsh had dried up, sand began to accumulate in the region as a consequence of the Holocene sea level rise, covering several submerged Neolithic settlements off the Carmel coast.
3687396|In the emendation of Gonyaulacysta jurassica (Deflandre 1938) Norris & Sarjeant 1965 by Sarjeant (1982), a variety of G. jurassica jurassica near the range base was described but not formally named. This variety, herein named G. jurassica desmos subsp. nov., is considered to be of stratigraphical utility because it is confined to the early Oxfordian. Gonyaulacysta jurassica jurassica is emended, and geographic variation in the stratigraphic ranges of the three subspecies of G. jurassica is discussed.
3687801|The Late Jurassic (early Oxfordian to earliest Tithonian) dinoflagellate cyst Scriniodinium ceratophorum Cookson & Eisenack 1960 from Australia was originally described as having smooth walls and lacking tabulation except for the archeopyle and the cingulum. The type is an atypical end member of this distinctive species; most forms have partially developed tabulation. The species is closely related to Gonyaulacysta jurassica (Deflandre 1939) Norris & Sarjeant 1965. It has a relatively large epicyst, an apparently similar tabulation pattern to Gonyaulacysta jurassica and exhibits neutral torsion. Scriniodinium ceratophorum is therefore transferred to Gonyaulacysta and emended to include partially tabulate forms.
3687609|Palynology has proven an effective method in providing supportive and new information on the visitation/foraging habits of the mahogany glider (Petaurus gracilis) in coastal northern Queensland, Australia. Pollen constitutes at least 30% by volume of the maceral contents in six of the eight fecal and intestinal samples examined. Pollen counts indicate that Myrtaceae taxa and Xanthorrhoea are the most frequently visited flowers, but significant occurrences of Banksia pollen suggest that it may also have been foraged. Incidental occurrences of Acacia, Grevillea/Hakea, Asteraceae, Casuarina, Deplanchea, and Ilex confirm the presence of these taxa within the glider's habitat.
3687800| Taxonomic identification of small fragments of burned plant tissue in lake sediment profiles can enhance reconstructions of past vegetation, fire regimes, and climate. Vouchered reference collections of charcoal prepared from both soft and woody plant tissues, analogous to modern pollen reference collections, will be required for making rigorous identifications and for knowing the level of certainty achieved. Published methods of laboratory production of charcoal may only poorly mimic pyrolysis as it occurs in wildfires, and tend to require large volumes of plant material. We present a method for preparing reference charcoal from dried plant specimens that is simple, provides a high degree of control, yet requires only small tissue samples. Based on results of a series of experiments, we recommend placing dried samples in
27784298|Fossil pollen exhibiting viscin threads are reported from Upper Cretaceous and Paleocene deposits in western Venezuela. The sediments were deposited in a marginal marine environment in an area presently occupied by the northern flank of the Venezuelan Andes. The palynofloras are well preserved and diverse and provide insight into the ancient vegetation of Venezuela. Pollen-bearing viscin threads from the Upper Cretaceous Mito Juan Formation are assigned to the genus Colombipollis Sarmiento Prez 1994. The pollen grains are tri(col)porate, normally quite smooth, and most often viewed in an oblate (flattened) state. The viscin threads are on the proximal and distal sides of the pollen and vary in length; they appear to have a simple morphology unlike the complex, ropelike threads seen on pollen of the Onagraceae and some other angiosperm families. All observations to date are made using a standard light microscope but more morphological detail could be revealed using scanning electron microscopy. The pollen exhibiting viscin threads from the Paleocene Los Cuervos Formation are clearly related to onagraceous types and are assigned to the genus Corsinipollenites Nakomen 1995. The pollen is triporate and the viscin threads originate from the polar regions of the pollen. They resemble pollen reported from Eocene to Miocene deposits in the southern hemisphere (Australia, New Zealand) although are smaller in overall dimensions. The Venezuelan pollen reported in this paper post date the earliest record of viscin threads in the Turonian of the eastern United States. They represent the first reported forms from the South American region. In modern plants the presence of viscin threads has been related to the development of highly specific plantpollinator relationships; their presence in the Late Cretaceous and Paleocene in Venezuela may help constrain the timing of the origin of certain insect groups in this area.
3687332|Palynological analysis of outcropping claystones and shales from three low-grade coal occurrences in the Pindiu area, central Huon Peninsula of Papua New Guinea, discloses well-preserved and generally similar assemblages of spores and pollen grains. These occurrences are from within incompletely known but dominantly marine strata considered to range in age from early Miocene to Pliocene. A total of 25 form-specific categories of spore-pollen palynomorphs are recognizable in the assemblages, together with one type ("grade") of epiphyllous fungal "germling". One new genus, Scolocyamus, typified by S. magnus sp. nov., is established, as are the following new species: Biretisporites huonensis, Baculatisporites scabridus, Matonisporites mulleri, Converrucosisporites ponderosus, Perfotricolpites maculosus, Rostriapollenites robustus, and Margocolporites tricuneatus. Botanical alliances of the dispersed palynomorphs are mainly with the ferns, among which several families, including the Polypodiaceae and Blechnaceae (extant genus Stenochlaena), are represented. A variety of angiospermous groups is also represented, but gymnospermous elements are minimal. Despite the evidently close stratigraphic association with marine deposits, the palynofloras themselves contain no obvious forms of marine derivation. The assemblages appear to represent the autochthonous products of tropical freshwater swamp vegetation of seemingly low diversity.
3687638|The palynological assemblage of coal-bearing Upper Permian sequence of Talcher Coalfield registers presence of some peculiar organic remains. These are described as Orissiella gen. nov., which is characterized by a vesicle with collar-like structure at the oral end, spines and or corrugations on the body. The affinity and palaeoecological significance of Orissiella is also discussed.
3687512|Alpenachitina crameri sp. nov. occurs in Middle Devonian shales in the subsurface of northwestern Egypt. A single example of dimorphism within the new species is described, in addition to a possible morphological variation of A. crameri.
3687572|An unnamed subsurface unit penetrated by wells in southwestern Georgia (U.S.A.) has yielded a rich and diverse palynoflora consisting dominantly of Emsian/Eifelian miospores with a lesser component of acritarchs considered to be reworked from older sediments. Among the miospores present are Apiculiretusispora brandtii, Dictyotriletes subgranifer, Emphanisporites annulatus, Retusotriletes incomptus and Grandispora velata, species characteristic of Emsian-Eifelian assemblages in Canada and northern Europe. The presence of such acritarchs as Domasia limaciforme and Cymbosphaeridium pilar suggests that much, if not all of the acritarch portion of the assemblages is recycled from Upper Silurian strata, which are known to be present both northward and eastward of the study area. The geographical position of the subsurface Devonian unit lies near the North American/African suture formed by the collision of the two continental plates during the Carboniferous. The similarity of the miospore assemblage to those reported from Canada and northern Europe suggests a Laurussian (North American) provenance for this deposit. Anapiculatisporites conatus, A. confertispinosus, Camarozonotriletes earliensis, Rediizonates mcgregorii and Hymenospora woodii are proposed as new species. In addition, Dictyotidium brevis (Tiwari & Schaarschmidt) n. comb. and D. papillatus (Tiwari & Schaarschmidt) n. comb. are transferred.
3687367|The paratabulation and morphology of the Jurassic dinoflagellate cyst species Dinopterygium absidatum Drugg 1978 are demonstrated to be substantially different from that of the type species of Dinopterygium, D. cladoides Deflandre 1935. Dinopterygium absidatum defines a morphotype that is sufficiently distinctive to justify the erection of a new, as yet monotypic genus, Limbodinium Riding. A revised diagnosis for the species Limbodinium absidatum is given on the basis of new observations on its morphology. The removal of D. absidatum from Dinopterygium means that the geological range of unequivocally quinqueform dinoflagellate cysts is now confined to the late Early Cretaceous to Neogene. The eight known quinqueform cyst genera are preceded stratigraphically, and dominated numerically, by sexiform types; this sequence does not conform to a recently postulated evolutionary pathway.
3687693|Fourteen auger holes were drilled through ancient dunes near the Ohoopee River in Emanuel County, Georgia. Driller's logs and sieve analyses show that the wind-blown sands of the dune field overlie a layer of coarse sand and gravel, which in turn overlies clayey Late Tertiary strata. Clay-rich sediment recovered from two of the holes contained diatoms, sponge spicules, and other siliceous marine microfossils, while clay analyses from seven other holes revealed the presence of the clay mineral attapulgite (a variety of palygorskite). Twenty-two sediment samples collected from six of the drill holes contained sufficient organic material to warrant palynological analysis. Eighty-one taxa of pollen, spores, and algal cysts were used along with the diatoms, clay analyses, and stratigraphy to indicate probable ages and environments of deposition of the sediments. Both the diatoms and the attapulgite indicate marine depositional conditions. Overlying the marine units, but below the eolian sands we found rare occurrences of the extinct or extirpated genera Casuarinidites, Sciadopitys, Pterocarya, and Momipites. We believe these support a Late Tertiary age interpretation for the clayey strata. The presence of taxa such as the Cyrillaceae, Nyssa, Sphagnum, Myriophyllum, and Pseudoschizaea in the uppermost Tertiary units indicates that these sediments accumulated in freshwater wetlands. Our interpretation of the depositional history is that Late Tertiary marine strata accumulated first, probably during the Miocene. As sea level dropped fluvial and paludal conditions led to the accumulation of freshwater swamp/marsh sediments and probable stream sands or gravels later in the Tertiary. Exposure of the Inner Coastal Plain during the Pleistocene resulted in the formation of dunes that migrated over the Tertiary strata at the site of deposition.
3687473|Comparison of pollen frequencies and accumulation rates derived from Wood Lake and a nearby small Sphagnum depression (Kellys Hollow) provides better resolution of the vegetational history in north-central Wisconsin than is available from analysis of data from lacustrine sediments alone. This increase in resolution is a result of contrasting pollen collection properties of the two types of sedimentary basins. Four local assemblage zones were recognized from Wood Lake and Kellys Hollow. These are: (1) a basal Picea-herb zone (ca. 13,000 to 10,000 yr B.P.), (2) a Pinus banksiana/resinosa-Betula-Ulmus zone (10,000 to 8,000 yr B.P.), (3) a Pinus strobus zone (8,000 to 3,500 yr B.P.), and (4) a Betula-Pinus strobus-Tsuga zone with an increase in the percentages of Ambrosia-type pollen in the upper few cm. At 7,800 yr B.P., an increase in the pollen accumulation rate at Kellys Hollow indicates the time when the canopy closed over this site. White pine was a dominant component of the vegetation in north-central Wisconsin from 8,000 to 3,500 yr B.P. in the forests near Kellys Hollow and probably over much of the surrounding area. At approximately 6,500 yr B.P. the forests seem to have become more open allowing sugar maple to grow in association with white pine.
3687595|Species assigned to the widely known genus Gonyaulacysta are typically bicavate with an apical horn, parasutural crests, and a precingular archeopyle. Closely related genera are currently distinguished by variations in the degree of cavation, and shape and size of the parasutural crests. Based on details of morphology and paratabulation, three morphologic groups can be distinguished within species now assigned to Gonyaulacysta, and they are here assigned to three genera: Gonyaulacysta emend., distinguished by well-developed apical horn and cavation, elliptical cingular cross-section, and a paratabulation pattern including the contacts lu/li, A/li, ai/II, and the presence of accessory K intercalary paraplates. Forms included in this genus as emended here have been described only from Jurassic rocks. Stanfordella gen. nov., distinguished by weakly developed apical horn and cavation, circular cingular cross-section, and a paratabulation pattern including the contacts lu/li, lu/6, au/Iu, and absence of accessory K intercalary paraplates. Forms included in this new genus have been described from Tithonian to Albian rocks. Wrevittia gen. nov., distinguished by well-developed apical horn, weakly developed cavation, circular cingular cross-section, and paratabulation pattern including the contacts A/ai, lu/ai, au/Iu, and variable presence or absence of accessory K intercalary paraplates. Forms included in this new genus have been described from Berriasian to Cenomanian rocks. The paratabulation pattern of this genus is commonly found in Tertiary forms, and in the living species Gonyaulax spinifera.
40072738|The American Association of Stratigraphic Palynologists (AASP) is a relatively small international scientific organization dedicated to the furtherance of palynology. It is based in the U.S A., but has a global membership. This contribution is a companion paper to a work on the early history (1967-1970) of the organization. The Association was born as a direct result of the rapid expansion of stratigraphic palynology in the oil industry, but then and now it has embraced all applications of organic microfossils and their modern counterparts. Following the inaugural meeting AASP had a membership of around 40; it now stands at just over 500. The maximum membership was approximately 1000 in 1987. AASP collaborates with other scientific bodies and has an extensive range of publications. The Association runs a comprehensive and widely-perused website, organises annual meetings, and gives several types of awards to deserving professional and student palynologists. The most ambitious project of the Association was the establishment of The AASP Center for Excellence in Palynology (CENEX) at Louisiana State University. For a small independent society, AASP has achieved much in its short history and has attained its stated intentions of promoting the science of palynology beyond its expectations.
27784295|Organic-walled resting cysts of Protoperidinium parthenopes Zingone & Montresor 1988 were collected from a sediment trap in Omura Bay, western Japan. The cysts are spherical and pale brown in color. The cyst wall has two layers: a thick endophragm with granulate surface, and a thin periphragm. Three complete and incomplete parasutures appear on the surface of the endocyst. The archeopyle formed on the endocysts is basically saphopylic and compound with some combination of complete and incomplete parasutures. The cyst of Protoperidinium parthenopes closely resembles the cyst of Protoperidinium americanum (Gran & Braarud 1935) Balech 1974, but differs in the shape of the periphragm, the cyst diameter, and in the archeopyle.
3687444|A diverse assemblage of 80 species of fossil spores and pollen was recovered from the Tertiary section of the COST No. B-2 well, Baltimore Canyon, Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf. Many of the species have stratigraphic ranges with well-defined tops and are therefore potentially useful as age indicators for the Tertiary strata of the Atlantic OCS. The previously reported occurrence of sediments of Paleocene age is questionable because the highest occurrence of pollen similar to that of modern Platycarya, generally regarded as Eocene age indicators, is the same interval.
3687407|Sequential morphologic changes in pollen of the Momipites-Caryapollenites lineage from Paleocene strata in the Wind River Basin of Wyoming appear to reflect evolution within the family Juglandaceae. The stratigraphic occurrence of the species within this complex permits the establishment of six biostratigraphic zones that can be correlated between outcroping and subsurface sequences within the basin and to surrounding areas. Trends involving changes in shape and size of the pollen and in structure of exine at the poles proceed from a basic form of Momipites to six other distinguishable species. The genus Caryapollenites appears to have been derived from the basic form of Momipites by changes in size and development of heteropolarity in pore position. Species of Momipites described as new are M. wyomingensis, M. waltmanensis, M. ventifluminis, M. actinus, M. anellus, and M. leffingwellii. The genus Caryapollenites is redescribed and C. prodromus, C. imparalis, C. inelegans, and C. wodehousei are described as new.
3687702|The Milk River Formation, a prograding clastic wedge, outcrops in a limited area of southern Alberta, Canada. The indicated age of the formation is latest Santonian to possibly earliest Campanian; its upper contact with the Pakowki Formation is unconformable. The unit is comprised of three members: Telegraph Creek, Virgelle and Deadhorse Coulee. All three members yielded well-preserved terrestrial palynomorphs. The assemblages characterizing the formation contain an abundance of species, with Accuratipollis lactifluminis sp. nov., Brevimonosulcites corrugatus and Callialasporites dampieri being the more common characteristic types. Eighteen new species are described including: Accuratipollis lactifluminis, Annulispora salsa, Integricorpus scopulensis, Cupanieidites terrestris, Cupuliferoidaepollenites quietus, Diptycha badlandensis, Echinatisporis solaris, Enzonalasporites bojatus, Erdtmanipollis circulifer, Hedlundisporites tricrassus, Leptolepidites crepitus, Mica hoodooensis, Monosulcites riparius, Periretisyncolpites chinookensis, Perotrilites monstrum, Satishia nigra, Trilobapollis laudabilis and Triquitrites absurdus. Seven new combinations are proposed including: Echinatisporis caudata (Krasnova), Foraminisporis simiscalaris (Paden Phillips & Felix), Integricorpus kokufuense (Takahashi & Shimono), Integricorpus protrusum (Takahashi & Shimono), Integricorpus teretes (Zhou & Wang), Zlivisporis cenomanianus (Agasie), and Zlivisporis simplex (Cookson & Dettmann). A new name, Tsugaepollenites stelmakii, is proposed.
3687474|Fossil Picea pollen recovered from the Boriack Bog in central Texas are from layers radiocarbon dated as being older than 15,000 years in age. In an effort to identify the species of fossil spruce present, a comparison between modern Picea species and the fossil Picea grains was conducted with aid of a scanning electron microscope. Those studies revealed the closest correspondence between the fossil Picea pollen and modern pollen of Picea glauca. The presence of Picea glauca in the regional vegetation near the bog is further supported by macrofossil evidence from late-glacial localities in Louisiana. These new data enable a reevaluation of the proposed east-central Texas late-glacial vegetation and a comparison with similar late-glacial flora in the southeastern United States.
3687530|Pollen records of vegetational change in northern New Jersey and adjacent southeastern New York in the past century were examined in four lake sections. Pollen data from three sites (Lake Surprise, Rockland Lake and Lake Marcia) indicate that forests were dominated by Quercus, Castanea, and Carya before the chestnut (Castanea) blight and hickory (Carya) bark beetle decimated Castanea and Carya tree populations. Afterward, Castanea and Carya pollen percentages decreased and Betula increased. Forest canopy opening following the loss of chestnut trees was indicated by a transient pollen concentration peak. An increase in Ambrosia pollen percentages and concentration preceded an increase in Gramineae percentages which reflects secondary succession. Ambrosia and Gramineae increases are not synchronous among the lakes which indicates field abandonment began at various times in different parts of the region. Three regional pollen assemblages characterize vegetation conditions and changes in the region: (1) Quercus-Castanea-Carya represents pre-chestnut blight and hickory bark beetle forests, (2) Quercus-Ambrosia-Gramineae indicates secondary succession, and (3) Quercus-Betula shows the continued importance of Quercus and rise of Betula in the forest after the loss of Castanea. Ordinary least squares linear regression analysis was employed with means of section intervals encompassing three samples to ascertain trends in each lake section. Significant increasing trends in pollen records were not observed for Betula and Quercus at Rockland Lake and Lake Marcia, despite Betula population increasing regionally. Lake Surprise had increasing Betula and Quercus pollen trends which accurately followed regional changes for Betula but not for Quercus. Historical records show that agricultural decline, tree plantings, and fossil fuel use permitted forest area to increase continuously over the past century. Increases in forested land could not be clearly related to increasing pollen concentration because of changing sedimentary and pollen deposition conditions. Data from the one-year section at Sheppard Pond indicated pollen concentration peaks were related to times of leaf fall, and runoff, including periods of abnormally heavy rainfall and snow melt. Percentage peaks for Quercus, Pinus, and Ambrosia occurred during the time of anthesis in the region.
40072707|Veryhachium Deunff 1954, originally described from the Ordovician of western France, is one of the most frequently recorded acritarch genera. Over 250 species and subspecies, from the Cambrian to the Neogene, have been attributed to the genus. This genus has a simple morphology; it displays a triangular, rectangular, or polygonal central vesicle, with a few, simple processes drawn out from the angles of the vesicle in a single plane, and sometimes with supplementary or auxiliary processes arising from the vesicle body. Veryhachium has been emended and revised numerous times. The number of valid species is excessive: most are probably synonyms. To facilitate effective classification, only a few morphological categories should be retained. For the Lower Paleozoic, the use of two informal groups is proposed. These are the Veryhachium trispinosum group for triangular specimens, and the Veryhachium lairdii group for rectangular forms. Although generally abundant and widespread throughout the Phanerozoic, Veryhachium is of limited biostratigraphic, paleoecologic, or paleogeographic value. However, its First Appearance Datum (FAD) is of great importance for Ordovician stratigraphy; the first Veryhachium morphotypes appear in the Tremadocian Stage, making the genus an important biostratigraphic marker.
3687717|The acritarch Polygonium jurassicum sp. nov. is proposed for polygonomorph acritarchs with a surface ornament of hollow spines. It is the second species of Polygonium described from Jurassic sediments. Polygonium jurassicum sp. nov. is reported from lower Toarcian sediments from central Italy and northwest Greece; the stratigraphic range is compared with the ammonite and calcareous nannofossil zonations.
3687789|Palynomorphs from Eocene coaly deposits of the Black Diamond Mines Regional Preserve in California are described. Thirty-two species of spores and pollen are recognized and two of them, Graminidites scabratus and Arecipites antiochus, are regarded as new. The encountered specimens are characterized by 26% spores, 32% gymnosperm pollen, 41% angiosperm pollen, and 1% foraminifers. The climate is considered to be humid and warm. The depositional environment was a coastal brackish-water swamp, and age is regarded to be the Middle Eocene.
3687338|The ultrastructure of two form-species of Complexiopollis Krutzsch 1959 emend. Tschudy 1973, and three form-species of Limaipollenites Diniz, Kedves & Simoncsics 1974/1977 from Upper Cenomanian beds of Vila Flor, Portugal, were investigated. In general, the basic organization of these early Normapolles is identical with that of Recent brevaxonate taxa. The results of our TEM Studies, however, augment data provided by light microscopy in that new details of exine stratification in the germinal areas are revealed. The tectum of Complexiopollis is channeled; in Limaipollenites it is channeled or perforated. An important feature of these early forms of Normapolles is the channeled foot layer of Complexiopollis. The infratectal layer in the intergerminal exine of all species investigated is columellar. In the germinal area of Complexiopollis the infratectal layer is granular. The differentiation of the foot layer in the apertural area is characteristic for the form-genus Limaipollenites, but this feature appears to differ in several species or groups of species of Complexiopollis. Lamellar structures often are present in the germinal area.
3687351|The pollen record at Blacktail Pond provides evidence for the vegetational development of the lowest and driest site yet reported in Yellowstone National Park (elev. 2,018 m). The record begins shortly after deglaciation, over 14,000 yr B.P. (before present). Tundra-like vegetation initially covered the area but was succeeded by Picea parkland. A Picea-Pinus albicaulis-Pinus contorta forest developed at about 11,800 yr B.P. Gradually, as the climate became warmer and drier, the forest opened and P. contorta became more prevalent. From 6,700 to 1600 yr B.P. Pseudotsuga parkland grew in the vicinity of the site, indicating a maximum of warmth and dryness. After 1,600 yr B.P., the climate again became somewhat cooler and moister, and although the Blacktail Pond valley has remained a Pseudotsuga parkland, P. contorta now also occurs in scattered groves, and it probably grows at lower elevations than it did prior to 1,600 yr B.P. A volcanic ash at 4.6 m correlates stratigraphically with the basal ash at Cub Creek pond, whose chemistry suggests a Glacier Peak B ash. We suggest that, based on stratigraphic position, the ash may be an unrecognized Glacier Peak unit older than 14,000 yr B.P.
27784279|Dinoflagellate cysts were used as a proxy for reconstructing the salinity variations during the Holocene in the southwestern Black Sea. The aim of this study was to determine the timing of the reconnection between the Black and Marmara seas. Core GeoB 7625-2, located 50 km northeast of the mouth of the Sakarya River, was sampled with a 200-year resolution between 7.42 and 0.52 ka BP. The lower part of the core was sampled with varying resolution. A distinct change in the dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from freshwater/brackish water to saltwater was observed between 8.25 and 7.97 ka BP, which is 0.6 ka earlier than observed in other dinoflagellate cyst studies. This discrepancy may indicate the diachronous salinification of the Black Sea. The freshwater to brackish water assemblage is dominated by Pyxidinopsis psilata and Spiniferites cruciformis, while the most important euryhaline species are Lingulodinium machaerophorum and cysts of Pentapharsodinium dalei. The average process length of Lingulodinium machaerophorum was used as a salinity proxy. Both proxies suggest a gradual reconnection between the Black and Marmara seas, and these findings confirm earlier studies. Peridinium ponticum is restricted to the Black Sea; abundance fluctuations of this species were controlled by salinity variations and changes in nutrient concentrations. Earlier studies have demonstrated that the 800 to 500 year cycles observed in the sedimentary record are related to the intensity of the discharge of the Sakarya River, and linked to the North Atlantic Oscillations. Cysts of Pentapharsodinium dalei and Spiniferites spp. fluctuated synchronously with the clay layer frequency. The poor preservation of these forms may indicate shelfal transport during periods of intense river discharge. The variation in relative abundance of heterotrophic species does not correlate with the clay layer frequency, since upwelling and nutrient supply also influenced their abundances. Lingulodinium machaerophorum shows the highest relative abundances during periods with reduced river input.
3687342|The Lower Silurian Medina Group from the Niagara Gorge at Lewiston, New York, contains one of the oldest known Llandovery palynomorph assemblages in North America. Age determinations using conodonts and brachiopods from the basal units of the overlying Clinton Group suggest that the Medina Group may be correlative with the Rhuddanian Stage of the Llandovery. A brief review of North American Lower Silurian series nomenclature is presented to place the Medina Group in a regional stratigraphic context. Previous recommendations that North American series nomenclature be replaced by the standard British Llandovery stages are followed. Well-preserved acritarchs, chitinozoans, and spore-like microfossils have been recovered and described from the Whirlpool Sandstone, Power Glen Formation, and Grimsby Sandstone. Forty palynomorph species were recognized. Four new species and one new combination of acritarchs are proposed: Cymatiosphaera densisepta n. sp., Eupoikilofusa? rhomba n. sp., Micrhystridium? polorum n. sp., Retisphaeridium? fragile n. sp., and Moyeria cabotti n. comb. et emend. In addition to previously described spore-like microfossils, two new genera, Strophomorpha and Vermiculatisphaera, and four new species are proposed: Nodospora retimembrana n. sp., Rugosphaera? cerebra n. sp., Strophomorpha ovata n. sp., and Vermiculatisphaera obscura n. sp. The Whirlpool Sandstone and lower part of the Power Glen Formation are dominated by spore-like microfossils, whereas the upper part of the Power Glen and lower part of the Grimsby contain predominantly acritarchs. The palynomorphs recovered from these Lower Silurian near-shore facies appear to have been controlled by the depositional setting and are compared to other Lower Silurian palynomorph assemblages from North America and Britain.
3687460|A well exposed section of Elko Formation in the Adobe Range, north of Elko, Nevada, was examined for plant microfossils. A diverse, well-preserved assemblage of palynomorphs was recovered which indicates an early to middle Eocene age for the exposure. This age is based primarily on the presence of Platycaryapollenites, Pistillipollenites, Ilexpollenites, Ctenosporites, and pollen comparable to the extant genera Eucommia, Platanus, and Triumfetta. This age conflicts with radiometric age determinations from units within and below the Elko Formation at other localities, which indicate a late Eocene to early Oligocene age for the formation. This conflict suggests that stratigraphic units assigned to the Elko Formation on the basis of lithology may be of different ages at different localities. The assemblage is dominated by probable algal microfossils, Pinaceae, Alnipollenites, Ulmipollenites, juglandaceous forms, and diverse tricolpate and tricolporate pollen of uncertain affinity. Rare specimens of a probable fresh water dinoflagellate cyst were encountered and tentatively assigned to the genus Phthanoperidinium. Warm-temperate climatic conditions are suggested by the palynological assemblage, which contrasts with the subtropical to tropical conditions of age-equivalent deposits in the central Rocky Mountains. Additional palynological studies of latest Oligocene and younger strata in the eastern Great Basin Province indicate warm, arid conditions prevailed, similar to the conditions of the present time. Regional correlations of early Tertiary sediments in north-eastern Nevada are difficult as a result of disjunct exposures and great variations in lithologies, both laterally and vertically. The Elko Formation consists of variable lithologies representing lacustrine and fluvial deposition and is characterized by shales rich in organic matter, even though these constitute a minor portion of the total section. The richness and diversity of plant microfossils in the Elko Formation suggest a potential means of dating and correlating Early Tertiary rocks in the Basin and Range Province using palynology.
3687794|The Chenque Formation in southeastern Argentina contains a diverse palynological assemblage, from which selected taxa from three families are herein described. A new genus Baumannipollis is erected to accommodate spinose, stephanocolporate pollen grains related to the family Malvaceae. Four new species belonging to the Malvaceae and Compositae are described. These are Baumannipollis chubutensis gen. et sp. nov., B. variaperturatus gen. et sp. nov., Malvacipolloides comodoroensis sp. nov. and Tubulifloridites viteauensis sp. nov. The type material for these taxa is from the Chenque Formation, Late Oligocene?-Miocene of the Golfo San Jorge Basin, southeastern Argentina. Glencopollis ornatus Pocknall & Mildenhall 1984 is reported for the first time from South America. The presence of Tubulifloridites antipodica Cookson 1947 is recorded for the Chenque Formation. Finally, the species distribution and its chronostratigraphic significance are presented.
3687772|Palynological analyses of several subsurface sections in eastern Venezuela, show varied and abundant Oligocene-Miocene palynomorphs overlying a Cretaceous-Oligocene unconformity. Two palynomorph assemblages are recognized in the Cretaceous interval, and two more in the Tertiary strata. The Cretaceous strata contain the spores Foveotriletes margaritae, Buttinia andreevi and elateres of Ariadnasporites sp., together with the dinoflagellates Dinogymnium, Andalusiella, Cerodinium, Senegalinium, and locally Isabelidinium and Odontichitina. The terrestrial assemblage represents the undifferentiated Auriculiidites reticularis (Campanian to lower Maastrichtian) to Crassitricolporites subprolatus (Maastrichtian) zones, and the Proteacidites dehanii (Maastrichtian) zone of Mller et al. (1987), while the dinoflagellates indicate a Campanian to Maastrichtian age, depending on the location within the area. The lowermost Tertiary rocks are late Oligocene in age and contain the terrestrial palynomorphs Cicatricosisporites dorogensis, Jandufouria seamrogiformis, Polypodiisporites usmensis and Mauritiidites franciscoi, together with the dinoflagellates Cordosphaeridium spp., Polysphaeridium congregatum, Homotryblium spp. and Tuberculodinium vancampoe. The terrestrial assemblage represents the Magnastriatites-Cicatricosisporites dorogensis zone of Mller et al. (1987), while the dinoflagellates indicate a late Oligocene age. Higher in the section, the early Miocene strata contain the pollen Psilatricolporites pachydermatus, P. maculosus, Bombacacidites brevis and Bombacacidites noremii together with the dinoflagellates Cribroperidinium tenuitabulatum and Diphyes latiusculum. The terrestrial assemblage represents the Verrutricolporites rotundiporis-Echidiporites barbeitoensis zone of Mller et al. (1987), and the concurrent presence of the dinoflagellates indicate an early Miocene age.
3687423|Extensive analyses were made of surface soil samples and extant vegetation from Argentina, where palynological reconstructions of paleoenvironments over the last 15,000 years is underway. The major vegetation zones in the desert northwest and the subantarctic southwest and south of Argentina are discernible in the relative frequency of their respective pollen assemblages. Where quantitative comparisons of plant and pollen data are possible, representation factors for the pollen taxa are calculated. In addition to the conventional approach using percentage values, principal component and cluster analysis prove to be excellent and complementary techniques in that they reduce the data set into definite groups of representative taxa, both for plants and pollen. The comparison of these groups and their respective dominance along transects indicate that, for example, in the treeless vegetation zones of the desert northwest of Argentina, the transition zone between the grassland and desert scrub (Punea) occupies a broader range, regionally, in the pollen data than in the vegetation. An explanation for this phenomenon is that the plant taxa representing this transition zone are predominantly wind pollinated, thus they are overrepresented in the pollen rain. Predominance of wind pollination also explains the relative over-representation of human disturbance zones in the pollen data compared to the vegetation data. It is important to recognize over-representation when changes are interpreted in fossil pollen assemblages which include transition or disturbance type pollen spectra, as these spectra evidently mask the other vegetation types. In the temperate forest region this problem does not occur, inasmuch as even the transition from forest to steppe can be recognized in the pollen assemblages. However, the upper timberline in the temperate region cannot be precisely defined. For several hundred meters above the treeline a species of Nothofagus that is present below the treeline occurs as dwarf shrub, thus maintaining relatively high pollen percentages both above and below the treeline. Thus, the limit can only be defined with a precision of about two hundred meters, above which increasing percentages of herbaceous pollen taxa indicate the increasing openness of the vegetation in the pollen spectra.
27784299|In the field of archaeological palynology, charcoal and ash debris in sediments have been among the palynologists' worst enemies. Too often important pollen information is found in the soils of sites near fire hearths where the members of ancient cultures would gather to eat and conduct social activities, and in winter sleep near the fire. For decades archaeological palynologists have searched for ways to remove the thousands of tiny flecks of charcoal and ash in these samples so the fossil pollen can be observed. Until now, no technique has proven adequate for successful charcoal removal without the loss of pollen. We have not completely solved this problem, but we have developed an extraction method that significantly reduces the amount of included charcoal and ash in archaeological sediments. We tested this new extraction procedure on charcoal-laden archaeological sediments from a pueblo site in Arizona. The result demonstrates the advantage of using this new pollen extraction procedure for certain types of archaeological soils.
3687545|The geomorphic events that formed the west Mexican coastal plain and the stratigraphy and chronology for those events based on soils, pollen zones, and radiocarbon ages are discussed. Three phases of geomorphic development are recognized. The Alluvial Phase represents deposition of the coastal bajada during the Neogene; oxisols and saprolites have formed on this surface. The Teacapan Peninsula Phase began during the Sangamonian Interglacial with deposition of the spit; an ultisol and an alfisol have developed on the peninsula. In the Prograding Beach Phase, beginning about 13,000 B.P., four sequences of beach ridges were deposited during eustatic sea level rise and periodic uplift. On the resulting ridge and swale topography are four soil units, three inceptisols on the initial, early, and middle beaches and an entisol on the late beach. The pollen stratigraphy and chronology are based on samples from eleven cores, twelve radiocarbon dates, and calculated deposition rates. The alternation in dominance of mangrove pollen taxa records relative changes in sea level due to tectonic uplift and sea level rise. The data record filling of the lagoon behind the Teacapan Peninsula beginning prior to 8,000 years ago during eustatic sea level rise. A mangrove pollen association that corresponds to this rise continues into the mid-Holocene. A subsequent Avicennia rise indicates a relative lowering of sea level possibly due to uplift of the coastal plain. Between 7,000 and 6,000 B.P., increases in pine and oak indicate expansion of upland forests during a cooler climatic interval. A marine incursion around 5,650 B.P. documents a peak in sea level rise. In late Holocene time, marsh taxa become more important as beaches prograde westward and the lagoons receive more freshwater runoff. After 5,000 B.P., upland forest taxa again increase. The most recent, Avicennia-dominated associations again show lower sea level or uplift. Late Holocene pollen zones include one of nonarboreal pollen dominance and lastly one enriched in pine, nonarboreal and lowland forest taxa, and cultivated plants. The pollen data support age relationships inferred in the Prograding Beach Phase. Just as all of the beaches are represented in the Teacapan area of the coastal plain, the oldest pollen record occurs in the lagoon behind the Teacapan Peninsula. Higher sea levels are indicated by red mangrove prominence for the Initial Beach and by the Dictyocha zone for the Early Beach. The southern part of the coastal plain has only the younger beaches and only the younger Holocene pollen zones in the lagoonal records.
3687707|Two outcrop sections from the Maastrichtian Coln and Mito Juan Formations were analyzed for dinoflagellate cyst biostratigraphy. Samples from the Ro Molino section (Cesar-Ranchera Basin, Colombia) represent a subset of samples from the 240 m-thick hemipelagic limestones and calcareous mudstones reported in Martnez's (1989) foraminiferal study. The upper Campanian, lower Maastrichtian and uppermost Maastrichtian intervals were identified in this section based on some significant dinocyst biostratigraphic events, which are in agreement with planktonic foraminiferal data. In ascending stratigraphic order these events include the lowest occurrence (LO) of Areoligera spp., LO of Senegalinium spp., highest occurrence (HO) of Trichodinium castanea, HO of Xenascus ceratioides, LO of Cerodinium diebelii, LO of Trithyrodinium evittii, HO of Odontochitina operculata, LO of Phelodinium tricuspe, HO of Palaeohystrichophora infusorioides, LO of Glaphyrocysta perforata, LO of Disphaerogena carposphaeropsis and LO of Manumiella seelandica. Relative higher abundance of terrestrial-derived organic matter in the upper Coln Formation is consistent with a marine regression and consequent shallowing of depositional environments at the end of the Cretaceous in northwestern South America. The Ro Loro section (Mrida Andes, western Venezuela) includes 980 m of Maastrichtian, open marine, marginal marine and deltaic siliciclastic and calcareous sediments. The occurrence of Phelodinium tricuspe and Paleocystodinium australinum below the highest occurrence of Hystrichodinium sp. and Odontochitina sp. indicates that the base of the studied interval in this section is early Maastrichtian in age. The K/T boundary in the Ro Loro section is placed within a 11.5 m-unexposed interval, which is above the lowest occurrence of G. perforata and just below the lowest occurrence of the Danian marker, Damassadinium californicum. Very high sedimentation rates during the K/T transition in northern Colombia and western Venezuela may have produced one of the most expanded K/T Boundary sections reported in the literature. Spiniferites-Achomosphaera Group and peridinioid cysts dominate most of the dinoflagellate cyst assemblage in both sections. The peridinioid assemblage reported here is assigned to the tropical to subtropical Malloy suite of Lentin and Williams (1980).
3687372|The fossil dinoflagellate cyst genus Ceratiopsis Vozzhennikova 1963 is a junior homonym of the fungal genus Ceratiopsis De Wildeman 1896. Accordingly, those species formerly included in Ceratiopsis Vozzhennikova are transferred to the genus Cerodinium Vozzhennikova 1963. This has necessitated the emendation of Cerodinium.
3687673|A well-preserved fossil pollen flora from the Bose Basin located in mid-western Guangxi, South China (long. 10634 - 10721E and lat. 2328 - 2355N), consists of some 160 types belonging to 121 genera and 62 families. Four pollen and spore assemblages are recognized (from the bottom upward) for the Late Eocene Nadu Formation: Polypodiaceae-Pinuspollenites assemblage, Quercoidites-Ulmipollenites assemblage, Alnipollenites-Tricolporopollenites assemblage, and Pinuspollenites-Quercoidites assemblage. The pollen flora of the Bose Basin represents a mixed evergreen and deciduous broad-leaved forest that consisted mainly of Fagaceae, Ulmaceae, Betulaceae, and Juglandaceae along with a number of subtropical to tropical evergreen trees. Relatively common occurrence of Pinaceae pollen probably indicates a conifer forest or woodland on the mountain area not far from the lowland sediment basin. This type of paleovegetation is similar to the modern mixed evergreen and deciduous broad-leaved forest in southern China, reflecting a humid southern subtropical climate. Most pollen types in the flora of the Nadu Formation of the Bose Basin are the common elements found in the Lower Tertiary floras of South China. Only a few morphologically extinct pollen types were encountered. Most fossil pollen and spore taxa can be compared with the modern ones in morphology. Many important families of the modern floras in the subtropical and tropical areas of southern China occur in the Upper Eocene fossil pollen flora of the Bose Basin. This probably suggests a floral modernization in southern China during or before the Late Eocene. Since the pollen and spore assemblages from the exposed sections in the basin can be compared with those from the drill cores, pollen analysis becomes a main tool in the correlation and age determination for the core samples in the energy exploration in the Bose Basin of Guangxi, South China.
3687375|Well-preserved representatives of three genera of fossil gonyaulacoid dinoflagellate cysts, Wigginsiella n. gen., Spongodinium Deflandre 1935, and Apteodinium Eisenack 1958, show paratabulation details that indicate a close relationship to genera referred to the "Aptiana-Ventriosum complex" of Helenes (1986) and the "Danea group" of Damassa (1984). Important details of paratabulation include: (1) asymmetrical, oblong, antapical paraplate (Y), (2) elongate posterior intercalary (X), (3) crescentic posterior sulcal (Z), (4) pentagonal-hexagonal last precingular (li) which contacts both first and fourth apicals (lu and A), (5) offset of alignment of the parasutures of the dorsal precingular and dorsal postcingular paraplates (offset of IV/V and 4/5), and (6) contact of the second and fourth apicals (B and A) precluding contact of P with the third apical (C). Expression of paratabulation in species of these three genera is typically subtle and unclear in many specimens, thus other criteria, such as wall structure and ornamentation, are especially important for generic and specific identification, while paratabulation is more critical to an understanding of relationships between genera. Species of these genera are found in Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary strata. Many are useful or potentially useful fossils for biostratigraphy. New taxa described are Wigginsiella n. gen., and Wigginsiella grandstandica n. sp. Previously described taxa reinterpreted and illustrated are: Spongodinium emend., Apteodinium emend., Wigginsiella canadensis (Singh 1983) n. comb., Spongodinium delitiense (Ehrenberg 1838) Deflandre 1936, Apteodinium granulatum Eisenack 1958 and Apteodinium deflandrei (Clarke & Verdier 1967) n. comb. Additional new combinations include: Apteodinium corticatum (Norris & Jux 1984) n. comb. and Apteodinium vectense (Duxbury 1983) n. comb.
27784301|New internal and external structures are described from unusually well-preserved specimens of the acritarch genus Hoegklintia Dorning 1981, recovered from the Lower Silurian Osgood and Estill shales of Kentucky and Estill Shale of Ohio (U.S.A.). The morphological variability of internal features ranges from irregularly dispersed organic remains and clusters of circular bodies within the vesicle, to structures congruent with the contours of the vesicle and processes. External bodies are primarily ovoid, and may have a 'tube-like' extension penetrating the vesicle interior. Published studies mention and/or depict Hoegklintia with dispersed internal organic matter, but the specimens illustrated here are the first to exhibit morphologically discernible contents. Evidence suggests that these various entities represent coagulated cell contents, life-cycle stages, or manifestations of parasitism/mutualism.
3687784|Morphological characters common to the Prosomatifera, but previously not reported within the Operculatifera, favor the erection of three new genera and the establishment of two new subfamilies within the Operculatifera. Ordochitina gen. nov. has spines and/or ridges distributed in longitudinal rows. Orbichitina gen. nov. is characterized by spines arranged in a basal ring. Cutichitina gen. nov. has an outer layer clearly detached from the vesicle wall to form a sleeve. The proposal of the Subfamily Orbichitininae subfam. nov. is based on the presence of basal processes, and that of the Subfamily Cutichitininae subfam. nov. on the presence of a sleeve around the vesicle. These characteristics, newly reported in the Operculatifera, have implications on the classification of Prosomatifera. The Subfamily Eremochitininae is emended and now restricted to forms having an outer layer only extending aborally beyond the base. Two new subfamilies, (Velatachitininae subfam. nov. and Pellichitininae subfam. nov.) are proposed for Conochitinidae and Lagenochitinidae characterized by an outer layer clearly separated from the wall of the chamber. A new genus (Pellichitina gen. nov.) also is erected.
3687459|Dinoflagellate cysts have been recorded and studied from the upper part of the London Clay and overlying Bagshot Formation sensu stricto of early-middle Eocene age from Baughurst, Shapley Heath, Virginia Water, Chobham Common and the Isle of Sheppey in the London Basin and from the early-middle Eocene Bracklesham Group at Bracklesham Bay in the Hampshire Basin. Stratigraphically significant species have been used to classify the studied sections into dinoflagellate assemblage zones after the scheme of Bujak et al. (1980). Correlations indicate the diachronic nature of the relevant lithostratigraphic boundaries in the London Basin and correspondence of geological events in the two basins. The Systematics section deals mainly with new and reattributed taxa which include one new genus, nine new species and two new subspecies. The new taxa are: Achomosphaera improcera n. sp., Adnatosphaeridium williamsii n. sp., Apectodinium cornufruticosum n. sp., Areosphaeridium polypetellum n. sp., Biconidinium n. gen., B. longissimum n. sp., Deflandrea tribulosa n. sp., Fibrocysta vectensis subsp. cymosapicis n. ssp., Homotryblium constrictum n. sp., Impletosphaeridium petalum n. sp., Kisselovia tenuivirgula subsp. exouros n. ssp. and Trivalvadinium plenum n. sp.
3687480|Libopollis, a previously undescribed genus of dispersed fossil angiosperm pollen from the Upper Cretaceous of North America, has been studied with light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopes. The subspherical to rounded triangular amb, reticulate sculpture, and hexaporotricolpate apertures distinguish this genus from previously described taxa of dispersed fossil angiosperm pollen. The type species, L. jarzenii sp. nov., is characterized by a subspherical amb, rarely perforate muri, angular lumina, and equatorially constricted colpi. Libopollis perferomura sp. nov. has a rounded triangular amb, circular lumina, perforate muri, and is planaperturate. Libopollis occurs in Upper Cretaceous (Maestrichtian) deposits in Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, and Wyoming. The Wyoming, Colorado, and New Mexico deposits have palynofloras characteristic of the southern Aquilapollenites phytogeoprovince. Pollen characteristic of Normapolles province assemblages occurs with Libopollis in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Mississippi, and North Carolina. Libopollis jarzenii is one of the few species occurring in both North American Upper Cretaceous phytogeoprovinces in roughly contemporaneous deposits, and thus has biostratigraphic potential for correlation of terrestrially derived palynofloras between the two provinces.
40984161|A diverse assemblage of pollen, spores and fungal elements recovered from deltaic or pro-deltaic sediments of the Alum Bluff Group (Middle Miocene) in the panhandle of Florida, USA, represents the first Miocene systematic palynological study from the state. Forty-three taxa of fungal elements, pteridophyte spores, and pollen of gymnosperms and angiosperms are described. Earlier suggestions of a subtropical to tropical environment based on plant macrofossils is not supported due to the suggested botanical affinities of the pollen and spores. Rather, the botanical affinities of many of the identified palynomorphs suggest a warm temperate to temperate environment similar to that found in the area today. The Alum Bluff Group represents deltaic or pro-deltaic sediments deposited in a high energy depositional environment which supported a warm-temperate flora along a floodplain with elements reflecting the vegetation of the adjacent upland forests.
40984069|A palynological investigation of a section dated by foraminifera, at Ouled Haddou, south-eastern Rifian Corridor, northern Morocco, revealed a rich and well-preserved dinoflagellate cyst assemblage that allowed a palynological separation of Maastrichtian from Danian deposits. The gradual change of the dinoflagellate cyst assemblages and the biostratigraphic resolution attained, suggest that the studied Maastrichtian-Danian section is continuous. The recognition of the latest Maastrichtian and earliest Danian is based on global dinoflagellate cyst events, including the first occurrence of the latest Maastrichtian species Disphaerogena carposphaeropsis, Glaphyrocysta perforata, and Manumiella seelandica, the latest Maastrichtian acme of Manumiella seelandica, and the first occurrence of the earliest Danian markers Carpatella cornuta, Damassadinium californicum, Eisenackia circumtabulata, Membranilarnacia tenella and Senoniasphaera inornata. The Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary is placed above the latest Maastrichtian events, mainly immediately above the acme of M. seelandica and below the earliest Danian events, particularly below the first occurrences of cornuta and D. californicum. The biostratigraphic interpretations are based on a comparison with calibrated dinoflagellate cyst ranges from several reference sections, mainly in the Northern Hemisphere middle latitudes. The Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary is not marked by a mass extinction of dinoflagellate cyst species, but shows important changes in the relative abundances of different species or groups of morphologically related species. These changes are paleoenvironmentally controlled. The peridinioid assemblage suggests deposition in a subtropical to warm temperate province. One dinoflagellate cyst species, Phelodinium elongatum, is formally described.
3687757|Twenty-one species of dinoflagellate cysts are present in Recent sediments from around the Chatham Rise, Southern Ocean, east of New Zealand. Abundant species include Nematosphaeropsis lemniscata, Operculodinium centrocarpum and Spiniferites mirabilis. The distribution of many species show a close relationship to the major oceanographic frontal area, the Subtropical Convergence. One new genus, Dalella, and two new species, Dalella chathamense and Pyxidinopsis reticulata, are described.
40072701|The boll weevil (Anthonomus grandis Boheman) remains a devastating insect pest on cotton (Gossypium hirsutum C. Linnaeus), particularly where it has not been eradicated. Identifying and understanding the survival of overwintered boll weevils, when cotton is not available, is important in designing mitigation programs and controlling this insect pest, especially in areas where boll weevils are active all year. Many non-malvaceous taxa have been listed as possible overwintering adult food sources. The purpose of this research was to determine if pollen from three non-malvaceous taxa could be used as food sources for overwintering boll weevils in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas, where weevils are active year-round and during cotton-free periods. The taxa are almond [Prunus dulcis (Mill.) D.A. Webb], melon (Cucumis melo C. Linnaeus subsp. melo), and pigweed (Amaranthus sp.), Furthermore, it was intended to determine the retention of these pollen types in the boll weevil gut. More weevils (84%) contained almond pollen when they had additional water than those (30%) that did not have additional water. Almond pollen was found in 100% of the examined weevils after 72 hours, and in 80% after 96 hours. Pigweed and melon pollen were never found after 48 hours. Overall, almond pollen was found in more weevils (96%) than pigweed (40%), or melon (12%). In addition, a greater number of almond pollen grains (539) were found than pigweed (41), or melon (21). This shows that these types of pollen were consumed, and could play a part in the survival of overwintering weevils. However, more research is needed to examine the nutritional value of these, and other, pollen grains for overwintering boll weevil survival, and to determine the length of time weevils can survive feeding on these pollen types.
3687429|The acritarch Thymadora kerka n. gen. et sp. (microphytoplankton incertae sedis) is described and illustrated from the Middle Cambrian Rogersville Shale of Tennessee. The Rogersville Shale, which contains the trilobite Ehmaniella, has been placed in the Glossopleura and/or Bathyuriscus-Elrathina zones.
27784285|The establishment of the Converrucosisporites confluens Oppel Zone in the Canning Basin of Australia in cored intervals from the Calytrix No. 1 Borehole was considered to be an advance in Gondwana CarboniferousPermian palynostratigraphy. This was because the zone is associated with a marine fauna that suggests a correlation with the standard Russian Early Permian stages. Moreover the index species has a wide occurrence in Gondwana outside Australia, for example Antarctica, Argentina, Brazil, India, Oman, Saudi Arabia, and Uruguay. The zone was originally considered middle to late Asselian in age, but this was later revised to latest Asselian to Early Sakmarian. Converrucosisporites confluens is reported here from the Ganigobis Shale Member of Namibia in a well-preserved and diverse assemblage including four of the fourteen specified accessory taxa for the Converrucosisporites confluens Oppel Zone. Ash layer IIb of the Ganigobis Shale Member is radiometrically dated as 302.0 3.0 Ma (i.e. Pennsylvanian; Gzhelian or Kasimovian) thus the Converrucosisporites confluens Oppel Zone may range earlier than previously thought. Preliminary study of the range top of Converrucosisporites confluens in Argentina and Uruguay suggests that it ranges younger there than in Western Australia with the possibility that the Converrucosisporites confluens Oppel Zone may also be younger than previously thought.
40072727|Small peridinioid dinoflagellate cysts are abundant in Paleocene strata underlying the Savannah River Site and surrounding area of South Carolina, U.S.A. They are thin-walled and light colored, have one apical and two antapical horns, and show a high degree of intraspecific variability. They occur in low diversity assemblages. The samples in this study are from three lithostratigraphic units, the lower Ellenton, upper Ellenton, and Snapp formations. Some of the species are useful stratigraphic markers in the Paleocene strata of this area. Paleoenvironments include upper delta plain, lower delta plain, and shallow clastic shelf; some may represent fresh or brackish water environments. All species studied belong to the family Peridiniaceae and are assigned to eight genera. These are Alterbidinium, Arvalidinium, Deflandrea, ?lsabelidinium, Phthanoperidinium, Senegalinium, Spinidinium, and Vozzhennikovia. The seven new species described here are Alterbidinium ellentonense, Arvalidinium cristatum, Deflandrea lucyedwardsiae, Phthanoperidinium paleocenicum, Senegalinium pallidum, Senegalinium simplex, and Spinidinium bellum.
40984156|Thermally altered and carbonised palynomorphs from the Omichidani Formation in the Tetori area of westcentral Japan are poorly preserved but identifiable at the genus level. They include fern spores and gymnosperm pollen, and pollen of the angiosperm genera Aquilapollenites, Tschudypollis (" Proteacidites") and Wodehouseia.Pollen of other angiosperms is also present. The angiosperm pollen attests to the Maastrichtian age of the formation and the phytogeographical similarity of western North America and eastern Asia in Late Cretaceous time.
3687786|Dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from Quaternary sediments recovered in eight cores from the South China Sea add to our understanding of the climate signal recorded at low latitude sites. Changes in the cyst assemblages may relate to fluctuations in sea level and the accompanying alterations in nutrient supply rather than as a direct result of temperature change. In this respect, the cysts of the heterotrophic dinoflagellate genus Protoperidinium allow the recognition of times during which the nutrient supply may have been enhanced.
3687670|A new monotypic genus, Bagelopollis, is designated for oblate triporate pollen grains with pseudo-annuli composed of ektexinal sculpturing. Newly discovered occurrences in western Alabama and eastern Mississippi allow for a more detailed description of the type species, Bagelopollis verrucatus (Frederiksen 1988) comb. nov. et emend., and establishes its known geographic and geologic ranges from eastern Virginia to eastern Texas in uppermost Paleocene to lowermost Eocene coastal plain sediment. In this study, Bagelopollis verrucatus and its accompanying palynofloral community are described from lignite beds in the Upper Paleocene Tuscahoma Sand.
3687523|The known stratigraphic ranges of 113 species and subspecies of chitinozoans, based on occurrences of correctly identified fossils in reliably dated rocks, are expressed in terms of the Ordovician and Silurian standard series and the Devonian standard stages. The name Eremochitina baculata grandis is made available.
3687596|Two species of dinoflagellate cysts, Umbriadinium mediterraneense gen. et sp. nov. and Valvaeodinium hirsutum sp. nov. occur in the Lower Jurassic (lower Toarcian) of the Tethyan Realm. Umbriadinium mediterraneense exhibits a suessiacean paratabulation with eight to nine paraplate series and a disintegration type combination archeopyle. Valvaeodinium hirsutum is a species characterised by small size and ornamented by numerous non-tabular spines arising from the autophragm. The two new species are confined to the Tethyan Realm, where they are reliable biomarkers for the lower Toarcian.
40072702|The fungal spore genus Mediaverrunites Jarzen & Elsik 1986 from the Miocene of Mizoram, northeast India is herein validated. It is a monoaperturate fungal amerospore with verrucae along the equatorial region that either remain free, or merge to form an equatorial band. Two new species, Mediaverrunites elsikii and Mediaverrunites mulleri, are described; the latter is designated as the type. Mediaverrunites appears to have a reliable range base within the Miocene, and is an index for warm tropical paleoclimates.
3687321|Empty tests of a modern analog of Schizosporis reticulatus Cookson and Dettmann 1959 (Early to mid Cretaceous) were discovered in sediments from a small freshwater lake on the Stanford University campus. The ovoidal palynomorphs possess a complex wall that has a dense inner portion overlain by an outer portion of closely packed cell-like units, an equatorial suture which extends along approximately 75% of the circumference, and a single pore in each cell. One hemisphere is distinguished by two elongate areas of larger and taller cells parallel to the greatest dimension of the specimen. Light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and study of serial thin sections provide the basis for comparison of the modern species of S. reticulatus. The biological affinity of the modern species has not yet been determined.
3687758|Thirty water samples from a cross-section of the Atchafalaya River taken at Morgan City, Louisiana in June 1991, have pollen concentrations on the order of 3500 grains/l. There are only rare grains attributable exclusively to long-distance transport from the northern United States, and the assemblage is dominated by species common in the local area. However, the condition of much of the pollen suggests that it is largely reworked. Point-velocities obtained for each sample vary from 0.58 m/sec to 1.3 m/sec. There are only minor variations among pollen assemblages, with differences in velocity and position (i.e., water surface or deeper in the water column) having only minimal influence on the pollen distribution. It is likely the differences that do exist reflect unmixed waters of drainages which confluence immediately upstream of the sample site. Compared to 1987 data from the Mississippi River, the June pollen spectra of the Atchafalaya are enriched in the locally abundant Taxodiaceae-Cupressaceae-Taxaceae. While the Mississippi has a June pollen concentration of about 2000 grains/l (approximately half of the Atchafalaya concentration), a higher proportion of the Mississippi pollen was damaged or degraded beyond identifiability. While this may suggest a greater contribution from reworked sediments, it may also be that the nature of the reworked sediment differs - the Atchafalaya may derive its pollen largely from eroded swamp and marsh sediments, in which the previously deposited pollen may be better preserved. The Mississippi is estimated to supply some 10<sup>19</sup> grains of pollen/year to the Gulf of Mexico; if the contribution of the Atchafalaya is of similar magnitude, then together they supply approximately 2000 grains/ cm<sup>2</sup>/year to the Gulf. Information on the taphonomy of pollen grains in these rivers is not only important to analyses of pollen assemblages in sediments from the Gulf of Mexico, but can serve as models of fluvial transport and deposition in large river systems.
3687739|The taxonomy and distribution of Chitinozoa from Silurian (Llandovery) and Lower Devonian strata are reported from the Paran Basin in southern Brazil and eastern Paraguay. The pre-Carboniferous sequences of the Paran Basin in this area are present in three sub-basins viz., the Alto Garas (north) and Apucarana (south) sub-basins in Brazil, and the "East Paraguay Sub-basin" in east Paraguay. There is more similarity in the lithology between the Alto Garas and "East Paraguay" sub-basins, than between the former and the Apucarana sub-basin. Llandoverian and Lochkovian to Pragian beds are present in all sub-basins. So far, no Emsian beds have been found in outcrops from the north-northwest margin of the Alto Garas Sub-basin, and no early Emsian beds in the outcrops on the northeast margin. Furthermore, Emsian beds could not be identified from the "East Paraguay Sub-basin" in the present study. The Early Devonian sequence is more complete in the Apucarana Sub-basin. It seems that the Apucarana Sub-basin endured a different evolution compared to the two other sub-basins during the Ordovician, Silurian and lower Devonian. Of the 39 chitinozoan species encountered, 24 species are left in open nomenclature, and the following five species are newly described: Ancyrochitina paranaensis, Angochitina daemoni, Sphaerochitina silurica, Spinachitina harringtoni, and Spinachitina wolfarti. A chitinozoan biozonation, with five zones and three subzones, is proposed for the investigated interval, and compared with the spore zonation. In addition we infer that the Furnas Formation could correspond to two chitinozoan zones found in Bolivia and Argentina (zones of Urochitina loboi and Angochitina aff. A. comosa), ranging in age from late Lochkovian to earliest Pragian. The zones are, from oldest to youngest: total range zone of Belonechitina postrobusta (upper Rhuddanian); total range zone of Conochitina elongata (Aeronian); concurrent range subzone of Spinachitina wolfarti n. sp. and Plectochitina sp. A (lower Aeronian); concurrent range subzone of Conochitina proboscifera and Spinachitina harringtoni n. sp. (upper Aeronian s.l.); concurrent range subzone of Conochitina proboscifera and Desmochitina cf. D. densa (lower Telychian s.l.); concurrent range zone of Salopochitina monterrosae and Conochitina proboscifera (upper Telychian-lower Sheinwoodian); total range zone of Urochitina loboi (upper Lochkovian); total range zone of Angochitina aff. A. comosa (lowermost Pragian); total range zone of Ramochitina magnifica (Pragian s.l.), and total range zone of Ancyrochitina parisi (upper Emsian).
3687731|The distinctive coenobial chlorophycean alga (Chlorococcales) Plaesiodictyon has been recovered from Upper Triassic subsurface samples of Cass County, Texas. Specimens have been assigned to Plaesiodictyon mosellaneum ssp. variable and Plaesiodictyon mosellaneum ssp. bullatum ssp. nov. This is the first illustrated record of Plaesiodictyon from North America. The presence of the palynomorphs Brodispora striata, Patinasporites densus, P. toralis and Pyramidosporites traversei suggests a Carnian age for this occurrence. A review of published information indicates that Plaesiodictyon has a wide geographic breadth in the Middle/Upper Triassic. Conjectural evidence suggests this alga lived in fresh-brackish water areas and could have been transported to marine environments via a fluvial plume. The wide, and relatively rapid, distribution of Plaesiodictyon may be related to aerobiological dispersal as evidenced by recent studies which have recovered viable algae (including chlorococcalean) at high altitudes and great distances from freshwater sites. Aeroalgal dissemination gives forms like Plaesiodictyon the capacity for wide biogeographic dispersal and colonization independent of streams and animal vectors.
3687322|Fossil pollen records from peat bogs are used to propose a 16,000-year paleoenvironmental sequence for central Texas. Evidence suggests that during the late Fullglacial, central Texas was covered by an open woodland deciduous forest with some conifers present. During the Lateglacial, this vegetation appears to have been replaced by a proposed parkland vegetation dominated by grasses but still containing some arboreal elements. Finally, during the Postglacial period there was a continued loss of more arboreal elements resulting in the establishment of the central Texas Post Oak Savanna vegetation of today.
3687736|Three new species of dinoflagellate cysts are described from the Late Bathonian and Early Callovian of England. Jansonia scarffei and Mancodinium morgensternii are described from the Late Bathonian sediments exposed at the Cement Works Quarry at Shipton-on-Cherwell in Oxfordshire. Orobodinium changii is described from Early Callovian sediments exposed on the Yorkshire coast. The genus Mancodinium has previously only been recorded from Early Bajocian or older assemblages, therefore the consistent presence of M. morgensternii in the Late Bathonian and Early Callovian is considered to be of stratigraphic/evolutionary significance.
3687370|The circinate suture is a preformed, levorotatory excystment suture present on specimens of the acanthomorphic acritarch Circinatisphaera aenigma gen. et sp. nov. The operculum is frequently adnate, but when detatched bears a distinctive notch on its margin. The offset of the excystment suture and corresponding opercular notch is new for acritarchs and can be used for orientation. The descending, levorotatory circinate suture resembles paracingula of many fossil dinoflagellate cysts in spiral direction, but Circinatisphaera aenigma lacks other characters typical of dinoflagellates. Specimens exhibiting this excystment structure have been isolated from Libyan and Saudi Arabian Lower Silurian strata.
3687524|Representatives of the genus Rhaetogonyaulax are often abundant in Late Triassic sediments from the Arctic Islands, N.W.T., Canada. Comparison with R. rhaetica (Sarjeant) Loeblich and Loeblich, 1968 from Northwest Europe suggests that although outline, shape, ornament and paratabulation are similar, the archaeopyle formation in the Canadian specimens is consistently different. Three new species, Rhaetogonyaulax testacea, R. tortuosa and R. uncinata are proposed and the generic diagnosis of Rhaetogonyaulax Sarjeant, 1966 is emended.
3687705|This paper reports the palynology of the Huincul Formation, a lower unit of the Pehuenche Group (= "Neuqun" Group, = "Dinosaurian Beds"). Angiosperm pollen grains of monosulcate, tricolpate, tricolporoidate and tricolporate types are the prevailing forms in this assemblage. The Huincul microflora, which includes 40 taxa, is here compared with other Cretaceous pollen assemblages from Patagonia as well as from other regions of the world. An Albian?-Cenomanian age is here suggested for the Huincul assemblage.
3687468|A new miospore genus, Laiphospora Playford, Wicander, & Wood gen. nov. is here instituted for a morphologically distinctive species of dispersed trilete miospores, originally named Geminospora (?) membrana Sanders 1968. Based on our detailed redescription and illustrations the original, albeit tentative, generic assignment is now regarded as inappropriate. Accordingly, the species forms the monotypic basis of this new miospore genus. Additionally, its Middle to Late Devonian (i.e., late Givetian to late Frasnian) distribution in the United States and Canada is documented.
3687334|Late middle Eocene to early late Eocene spores and pollen from the Werillup Formation in the Bremer Basin of Western Australia are diverse, generally abundant, and well preserved. The assemblage from the Fitzgerald River area is strikingly similar to assemblages of comparable age from southeastern Australia, to which it is correlated on the co-occurrence of several stratigraphically restricted species. Moreover, a significant number of species, previously known only from southern and southeastern Australia, are recorded for the first time in Western Australia and thirteen new species are described. These are Clavatipollenites glarius, Liliacidites phormoides, Proteacidites bremerensis, P. cumulus, P. rugulatus, P. rynthius, P. scitus, Propylipollis tegillis, Tetracolporites palynius, Tricolporites adelaidensis, Triporopollenites apiculatus, T. delicatus and T. vargus.
3687684|Specimens of the well known and distinctive Jurassic (typically Oxfordian) dinoflagellate cyst species Scriniodinium crystallinum from Australia and New Zealand vary from being nonparatabulate to paratabulate. Where present, the paratabulation, which is manifested by low parasutural ridges on the periphragm, shows a clear dextral torsion, indicating affinity with the gonyaulacacean subfamily Cribroperidinioideae. Other species of Scriniodinium, such as S. pharo and S. playfordii confirm that this genus unequivocally belongs in the subfamily Cribroperidinioideae. Scriniodinium and S. crystallinum are both emended in order to note the cribroperidinioid paratabulation. Endoscrinium, however, exhibits neutral torsion and thus belongs in the subfamily Leptodinioideae. Endoscrinium and its type, E. galeritum, are emended to note this paratabulation style. On the basis of this clear paratabulation difference between Scriniodinium and Endoscrinium, ten species are transferred to the most appropriate genus. Endoscrinium anceps is transferred to Scriniodinium as it has dextral torsion. Endoscrinium acroferum, E. attadalense, E? hauterivianum, E. heikeae, E. indicum, E. irregulare, E? novissimum, E. obscurum and E. reticulatum are all new combinations of taxa with neutral torsion which were previously placed in Scriniodinium. Additionally, Aldorfia warringtonii is transferred to Apteodinium because it displays dextral torsion. Scriniodinium and Endoscrinium peaked worldwide during the late Callovian to early Kimmeridgian. There are differences in the stratigraphical ranges of species of Scriniodinium and Endoscrinium between the Northern and Southern hemispheres. For example, Scriniodinium crystallinum has a younger range top in Australasia than in Europe. However, there are many strong global consistencies with these two important genera and some potential evolutionary trends have been discerned. Endoscrinium has the older range base and this is consistent with the phylogeny of the subfamilies Leptodinioideae and Cribroperidinioideae.
3687594|An actualistic investigation has been conducted on palynofacies recovered from a limited sample set of water column and grab samples in freshwater fluvial, brackish water fluvial, and estuary mouth (kuala) environments of the Rajang River and delta, Sarawak, East Malaysia. Palynofacies are overwhelmingly dominated by Unstructured Organic Matter (OM), with varying amounts of Structured OM, Palynological OM, and an insignificant amount of Indeterminate OM (black opaques). Non-parametric statistical analyses (Chi-Square and Mann-Whitney rank sum) were conducted to determine if different physical processes operating in the delta (tidal range, time of sample collection, water chemistry, and depositional setting) affected assemblage composition. Palynofacies assemblages were evaluated using UPGA clustering techniques to determine if distributional patterns existed in the study area. No statistical relationship was found between the OM particle category and sediment-grain size within the delta. In general, assemblages from water-column samples recovered from freshwater sites have significantly higher proportion of Unstructured OM than do assemblages from saltwater influenced sites. A similar distribution is seen in grab samples, except that river channels active during the dry season possess the same palynofacies assemblages at the sediment-water interface and differ from abandoned, tidally flushed channels. The abandoned channels have higher proportions of Structured OM both in the water column and at the sediment-water interface than do OM assemblages from freshwater collection sites. There is no 1:1 relationship between the OM assemblages found in the water column, at the sediment-water interface, and sediment recovered from the subsurface (using vibracores) from the same generalized collection area. Early diagenetic alteration in sites influenced by marine waters alters the character of the acid-resistant organic constituents with the production of Black Opaque Indeterminates, resulting in a different acid-resistant organic assemblage.
40072696|Crawford Lake, Ontario, Canada (4328.1' N, 7956.9' W, 278 masl) has varved and AMS dated sediments containing fossil pollen that record native Iroquoian farming ca. AD 1268 to 1520. From before AD 1000 to 1268, bioturbating organisms caused poor varve preservation but since then, well-preserved varves and dung pellets reflect anoxic bottom water due to meromixis. The onset of varve preservation coincides with the occurrences of pollen grains of Zea (maize), Helianthus (sunflower), Phaseolus (bean), Cucurbita (squash) and Portulaca (purslane), and spores of Ustilago cf. maydis (maize smut). These pollen grains and spores are more abundant in pellets between varve laminae than in the surrounding sediment matrix. Analyses of DNA from five pellets demonstrate that they are dung from wild Canada geese (Branta canadensis). In the autumn, as geese foraged in Iroquoian fields, they inadvertently ingested pollen and spores before flying to the lake. There they roosted and cast the pollen-rich dung pellets, which became part of the sediment. This study demonstrates that birds, wild geese and perhaps ducks, can be important vectors of pollen to lake sediments located near agricultural settlements.
3687311|Early geologic work by H. D. Rogers (1859) recognized that coal was a heat sensitive recorder of thermal events in the geologic record, and that increased temperature was the mechanism by which oil and gas were generated from vegetable debris. Subsequent coal oriented observations by Hilt (1873), White (1915, 1935) and Seyler (1943), plus many other individuals expanded on these original concepts, which were then applied in exploration for oil and gas. Once the concept was widely accepted that hydrocarbons were thermally generated from specific types of organic matter, development of methods to measure these changes in coal and particulate organic matter rapidly followed. Techniques used to interpret past thermal history of organic matter in general use today include: palynomorph color, spore translucency, vitrinite reflectance and fluorescence microscopy. Additional methods applicable in specific situations include: electron spin resonance of kerogen, liquid inclusions in minerals, conodont coloration and infra-red spectra analysis.
3687627|The lower part of the Dawan Formation (lower Arenig) from both the Huanghuachang and the Daping sections (Yangtze Platform, Hubei Province, South China) has yielded rich acritarch assemblages dominated by the "cold water taxa" which are characteristic of the high latitude Perigonwanan (or "Mediterranean") Acritarch Paleoprovince. New findings show that the top of the Dawan Formation (uppermost Arenig) is characterized by a very different scenario. Here, elements of the Perigondwanan microflora are missing, while the phytoplankton communities have typical "Baltic" affinities. This change in the microfossil composition within the Dawan Formation may be attributable to a variety of different constraints, such as a modification in the pattern of oceanic currents (influenced by changing paleogeography) or sea level fluctuations (related to eustatic cycles).
3687406|During the last ten years the activities of the C.I.M.P. working group concerned with Stratigraphical Palynology have been in part directed to the compilation of data relating to the stratigraphical distribution of miospores within the Carboniferous. As a result, several local schemes for the palynological subdivision of parts of the system have been proposed by a number of workers, i.e., Neves et al (1972, 1973), Clayton et al (1974) and Becker et al (1974) for the Dinantian; Neves (1961), Owens et al (1977) and Jachowicz (1968) for the Namurian; and Smith and Butterworth (1967) and Loboziak (1974) for the Westphalian. During the same period comparable studies have been carried out in the U.S.S.R., in the area of the Donetz Basin by Teteriuk et al, and in the area west of the Urals by Byvsheva, Kedo et al, from which broadly comparable results have been obtained. The opportunity for a detailed comparison of these results was taken in 1975 during the C.I.M.P. meeting held in Moscow and the present paper is based on the conclusions reached at that meeting. The compilation of all available data allows for the recognition of a number of significant palynological events which appear to have a widespread geographical occurrence, i.e., the disappearance of Hymenoznotriletes lepidophytus within the lower part of the Tournaisian, the appearance of significant numbers of Lycospora spp. close to the Tournaisian-Visen boundary, the appearance of the Rotaspora-Tripartites suite of spores in the upper Visen and the disappearance of Schulzospora spp. at the top of Westphalian A. Finer subdivisions of the succession are readily recognizable but the criteria utilized for their establishment are frequently of a more local nature.
3687611|The dinoflagellate cyst genus Willeidinium gen. nov., from the Middle Jurassic of France, shows an unusual, fundamentally gonyaulacacean paratabulation pattern with a reduced number of epicystal paraplates. The most important features are the presence of only five precingular and three apical paraplates, and one of two anterior intercalary homologues reaching the apex. The fifth precingular and the third apical paraplates are extremely large. This is interpreted as a result of fusion of adjacent paraplates (5 + 6 and 3 + 4) in a gonyaulacacean paratabulation pattern with A/ai-arrangement. The obvious relationship of Willeidinium with other Middle Jurassic leptodinioidean dinoflagellate cysts required the emendation of the families Gonyaulacaceae and Ceratocoryaceae. The application of the plate labeling systems of Kofoid and Taylor-Evitt is discussed. The type species, W. baiocassinum sp. nov., seems to be a good stratigraphic marker for the latest Bajocian to early Bathonian of Europe.
3687674|The new Traill  Group comprises the uppermost Devonian to Carboniferous sedimentary rocks in East Greenland. Palynologically productive intervals contain material described as five palynological zones and four assemblages, and suggest that the rocks are of Tournaisian to mid-Visan and early Westphalian age. The Retispora lepidophyta Abundance Zone (1) correlates to the Tournaisian <tex-math>$({\rm Tn}_{1{\rm a}\text{-}{\rm b}})$</tex-math> lepidophyta-explanatus Miospore Zone, and the Spelaeotriletes spp.-Lophozontriletes malevkensis Concurrent Range Assemblage (2) correlates to the Tournaisian <tex-math>$({\rm Tn}_{1{\rm b}})$</tex-math> lepidophyta-nitidus Miospore Zone, both of Devonian age. The Bascaudaspora spp. Assemblage (3) has features shared with the hibernicus-distinctus to pretiosus-clavata Miospore zones, and the Grandispora uncata Assemblage (4) correlates to the pretiosus-clavata Miospore Zone, both are of Tournaisian <tex-math>$({\rm Tn}_{2\text{-}3})$</tex-math> age. The Verrucosisporites spp.-Lycospora spp. Assemblage (5) and the Lycospora Abundance Zone (6) both correlate to the Visan Lycospora pusilla Miospore Zone. The Waltzispora sagittata-Reticulatisporites variolatus Abundance Zone (7) and the Densosporites spp., Schulzospora rara-Murospora spp. Abundance Zone (8) both correlate to the Visan nigra-marginatus Miospore Zone. The Potonieisporites spp., Radiizonates aligerens-Schulzospora rara, Savitrisporites nux Concurrent Range Zone (9) correlates to the Radiizonates aligerens Miospore Zone which is of Westphalian A age. This youngest assemblage relates more closely to the Arctic upper Bashkirian-Moscovian deposits than to those of the lower Westphalian of Western Europe.
3687612|The unique archeopyle in the dinoflagellate cyst (dinocyst) genus Caligodinium Drugg has previously been regarded as apical gonyaulacalean with the operculum consisting of three partially or completely separated pieces, despite there being a problem with determination of the paraplate relationships. A more logical interpretation would be to regard the opercular pieces as representing the three fundital plates in a peridinialean tabulation, making the archeopyle hypocystal. The apparent stratigraphic range of the Caligodinium type of archeopyle is Albian to Early Miocene, although there is some uncertainty over the archeopyle morphology in the Cretaceous forms.
40072743|Lignites from the Red Hills Mine in Mississippi, U.S.A. contain pollen and spores derived from paratropical swamp vegetation on the U.S. Gulf Coast during the Late Paleocene. Most previous studies of the Gulf Coast sporomorph record have been limited to a restricted taxonomic group, or merely those taxa that are relevant to biostratigraphy, meaning that the true sporomorph diversity may be higher than previously appreciated. Eight samples were collected for palynological analysis from the Red Hills Lignite Mine in Ackerman, Mississippi. All the taxa observed during counting (a minimum of 300 grains per sample) were included in the sample count. Rarefaction, relative abundance distributions, and non-metric multidimensional scaling were used to analyze floral composition, richness, and evenness. The lignite samples are heterogeneous in terms of composition and relative abundances, indicating patchiness in the swamp communities. Clay horizons representing temporary marine incursions contain significantly higher proportions of bisaccate pollen, which may have originated a considerable distance inland from the swamps. These samples therefore represent a much larger source area (regional to sub-continental), compared to the local signal contained in the lignite samples. Richness in the Red Hills Mine assemblage is higher than has previously been recorded for the Late Paleocene of the eastern Gulf Coast. This, combined with the recognition of 23 previously undescribed taxa, suggests that a detailed reappraisal of the Gulf Coast Paleocene sporomorph record is needed to improve understanding of the evolution of the North American vegetation type.
3687554|Forty-two species of organic-walled microphytoplankton (acritarchs) and a single specimen of a spore-like microfossil are documented from the Dicellograptus complanatus graptolite Zone in the Vaureal Formation on Anticosti Island, Quebec. Our samples are from cored intervals in the New Associated Consolidated Paper #1 well. These cores contain biostratigraphically useful chitinozoans and graptolites which precisely correlate these intervals with lower to middle Ashgillian. Conodonts, ostracodes, and megafossils from outcrops of the Vaureal Formation on Anticosti Island support this lower to middle Ashgillian correlation for our sampled interval. The acritarch assemblages obtained from the sampled interval contain abundant well-preserved specimens. Of these, some forms considered diagnostic of the Dicellograptus complanatus (graptolite) Zone are Multiplicisphaeridium bifurcatum, M. irregulare, Orthosphaeridium insculptum, Poikilofusa spinata, Sylvanidium paucibrachium, and Veryhachium hamii. Four species of acritarchs were described from these same cores more than twenty years ago. At that time, the rocks were erroneously considered Middle Ordovician and this resulted in an incorrect extension of the ranges for Eupoikilofusa striata, Multiplicisphaeridium bifurcatum, M. irregulare, and Poikilofusa spinata. Two new genera, Cornuferifusa and Uranidium, and five new species are described: Cornuferifusa bifidipertica, Comasphaeridium lanugiferum, Disparifusa borea, Multiplicisphaeridium wrightii, and Uranidium semicalvum. A new combination is proposed for Hogklintia radicosa. This abundant and well-preserved lower to middle Ashgillian acritarch assemblage is apparently widespread. Thus this stratigraphically well-controlled sampling from Anticosti Island may prove a useful reference for this portion of the Upper Ordovician, as the European stratotype for the Ashgillian has not yielded acritarchs.
3687568|Bedrock samples from the floor of Hudson Strait, recovered during a CSS Hudson cruise in 1985, contain a diverse assemblage of acritarchs and chitinozoans. One of the acritarchs, Velatasphaera hudsonii gen. et sp. nov., is spherical and has a bilayered wall, with short tubiform processes separating the two layers. This acritarch is unique because the processes open distally and coincide with perforations in the outer wall. The excystment structure is a micropylome. V. hudsonii is a component of a largely undescribed acritarch and chitinozoan assemblage, which is interpreted to be late Ordovician in age.
3687792|Density gradient centrifugation was used to fractionate mixtures containing either modern or fossil palynomorphs. In addition it removed detrital organic material from fossil preparations without significantly altering palynomorph proportions. A taxonomic aspect to fractionation was observed: it was possible to separate both fossil and modern mixtures of palynomorphs into groups, some of which were composed of related taxa. We conclude that density gradient centrifugation could be used to extract palynomorphs from the organic matrix, and/or to isolate individual groups of taxa.
3687313|Vitrinite reflectance of Phillips Petroleum Company's ASM-1X indicates that the strata penetrated by this well have experienced a moderate amount of thermal alteration. Samples dated by palynology as Late Permian, Early Triassic and Early Cretaceous have reflectance values which place them at the initial stage of thermal maturity for peak generation of liquid hydrocarbons. Studies of relative abundance of amorphous kerogen indicate a lack of potential source material for liquid hydrocarbons within the studied interval of the ASM-1X. Palynology data indicate that a major unconformity has resulted in marine Lower Cretaceous strata being directly superjacent to non-marine Lower Triassic and Upper Permian strata. A possible location of liquid hydrocarbon source material within Lower Triassic and Upper Permian strata could be in time equivalent marine facies.
3687546|A new dinoflagellate cyst genus, Stoveracysta, is proposed to accommodate forms superficially resembling Alisocysta but differing in having a sexiform rather than a quinqueform hypocystal plate topology. The type species, Stoveracysta kakanuiensis sp. nov., is described from the upper Eocene/lower Oligocene boundary sequence exposed at Kakanui River mouth, south of Oamaru, New Zealand. The new combination S. (formerly Eisenackia and Alisocysta) ornata (Cookson & Eisenack 1965) is proposed. Both species may occur widely throughout the southern hemisphere but appear to be confined to a narrow stratigraphic interval, close to the Eocene/Oligocene boundary.
3687598|We describe a peat core sampler which uses one cutting head on as many coring tubes as necessary. We also offer practical suggestions to overcome difficulties of labeling sample tubes when working in wet conditions.
3687706|The field of spatial analysis is a rapidly developing applied science. One area where this scientific approach can contribute to the analysis and interpretation of field sampling is in the study and distribution of pollen and spores. Pollen grains and spores have distinct spatial distributions that can be identified, analyzed, and modeled in association with significant environmental changes that have influence on resource appraisal and management. In this work the pollen is perceived as a regionalized variable and modeling procedures are used to reproduce spatial distribution patterns, and the continuity of pollen and spore data. As an example, we examine the spatial analysis of surface pollen rain from a desert environment in the Big Bend National Park region located in west Texas (Text-Figure 1).
3687610|The previously undescribed morphological development of resting cysts of the living marine dinoflagellate Lingulodinium ("Gonyaulax") polyedrum has been observed in laboratory cultures. Referred to as L. machaerophorum in cyst-based taxonomy, this species has a fossil record extending back at least to the Early Eocene. In our cultures, planozygotes preparing to encyst showed a distinctive interstice in the peripheral cytoplasm and often displayed a characteristic swimming behavior. The transition from motile planozygote to morphologically mature hypnozygote (resting cyst) took approximately 10-20 minutes. Encystment began with several events occurring simultaneously: (1) the cell stopped swimming and came to rest at the bottom of the observation chamber, (2) flagella were expelled from their respective thecal grooves, (3) localized swelling of a membrane external to the theca formed bubble-like protrusions on the surface of the cell, (4) the theca began to dissociate along one or more plate sutures, and (5) a single layer of globules appeared in the interstice between the theca and cytoplasm. External protrusions then enlarged and merged to liberate a continuous membrane which surrounded the entire cell. Subsequent expansion of this membrane gav the encysting cell the appearance of an inflating balloon. In most cases, the outer membrane remained partially attached to the theca so that expansion caused thecal sections to pull away from the underlying globules and cytoplasm. As the outer membrane enlarged, globules on the surface of the cytoplasmic mass grew radially outward (i.e., centrifugally) beneath the dissociating theca to form processes. Morphological development of the resting cyst ended when the expanding membrane ruptured. The maximum lateral dimension attained by this membrane was about twice the diameter of the internal body of the cyst. In these cases, cysts developed the distinctive processes characteristic of Lingulodinium. Premature rupture of the balloon-like membrane, however, resulted in processes showing considerable variation in size and morphology. Based on the variability of process morphology observed in laboratory cultures of L. polyedrum, three morphotypes currently designated as separate species of the genus Lingulodinium are here synonymized with L. machaerophorum.
27784284|Cotton pollen is thought to exist in the gut of boll weevils for at least 24 hours. Because finding whole or broken cotton pollen grains are valuable clues in determining when boll weevils were living in cotton, the retention of cotton pollen in the gut of the weevil was examined. Boll weevils were fed cotton buds, cotton flowers, and water for five days, then they were placed into cleaned cages without any food. However they were allowed to drink water freely. Weevils were examined at 0, 24, 48, 72, 96, and 120 hours after the buds and flowers were removed. One hundred weevils were dissected at each time interval, and each gut was placed onto a glass slide. Light microscopy was used to determine the presence or absence of cotton pollen. More weevils (63%) at 0 hours contained pollen than weevils at any other interval. Whole pollen grains were not found in weevils after 24 hours. The 120 hour interval contained a single weevil with pollen. In the laboratory test, whole cotton pollen grains indicated that feeding on cotton occurred within 24 hours. When only halves and fragments of pollen were found, cotton feeding occurred 48-120 hours earlier. Additionally, when six or more cotton pollen grains were found in a weevil, it had fed on cotton within 24 hours. This information narrows the boll weevil dispersal times and distances from cotton fields and over-wintering areas.
3687565|Chert samples collected at six outcrops of the Manitoulin Formation in southern Ontario contain a unique assemblage of palynomorphs. Twenty-six species of acritarchs, attributed to thirteen genera, are recognized and systematically described. The presence of the genus Hoegklintia in the assemblage distinguishes the Manitoulin Formation from other formations of Silurian age in southern Ontario. Spore tetrads are documented, presenting possible evidence for one of the earliest known occurrences of non-vascular land plants in southern Ontario. The palynomorph assemblage is compared to coeval Early Silurian palynomorph assemblages from North America.
3687336|A continuing investigation of the biostratigraphy of Tertiary dinoflagellates of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains has led to the recognition of three new Eocene species of the genus Pentadinium Gerlach 1961: P. favatum n. sp., P. polypodum n. sp., and P. goniferum n. sp. A fourth species, Hafniasphaera goodmanii n. sp., is closely allied to Pentadinium and is a probable ancestor of Pentadinium favatum n. sp.
3687498|Representative types of exine corrosion, based on transmission electron microscopy, are illustrated from a sample from the corrosion experiment of Havinga (1964). Exines examined came from a nylon pouch filled with a mixture of pollen, spores and sand buried in leaf mold in a greenhouse for 6 years. Deterioration was evident for most exines and had become extreme for many exines, some being corroded beyond recognition. The common denominator apparently is thinning of exines. Surprisingly, exine thinning involves loss of substance from the interior of the tectum and foot layer of the ectexine while surfaces of these layers remain intact. Early phases of thinning involves exine tunneling in rosette and other well-defined patterns, as seen using light microscopy. These tunnels seldom actually open to the external environment. Exine thinning is accompanied by detachment of endexine. Endexines were apparently not degraded but were seen either isolated or in relatively large aggregations. Small (10-40 nm in diameter) tubules from exine substructure were recovered with very high frequency around degraded exines. Spheres outside but attached to exines are interpreted as blisters in the surface of the exine of both spores and pollen. There were no direct indications from observations made with transmission electron microscopy for microorganisms within the sites of exine deterioration. Corrosion features seen in exines from the leaf mold sample are structurally comparable with results of chemical experiments.
3687484|A procedure that modifies standard preparation techniques was developed to concentrate pollen and spores from intractable sediments. These modifications include sieving samples suspended in 0.001 M sodium pyrophasphate through 7m nylon screens prior to and following chemical treatments. If siliceous sediments require reprocessing with hydroflouric acid (HF), samples are sieved through 7 m screens between HF treatments, using sodium pyrophosphate as a suspension. Samples with large amounts of undigested, fine-grained organic matter are slowly oxidized with a sodium chlorate mixture. Continuously monitored use of these techniques produces statistically-significant sums of pollen from sediments which otherwise would be of little value to palynologists.
3687788|Two examples of morphological change in fossil dinoflagellate cysts through successive strata are described and discussed. Firstly, the morphological trend among specimens from the lower part of the stratigraphic range of Eatonicysta ursulae is examined. The oldest known specimens are atypical; however, gradual morphological changes over a relatively short period of time led to typical morphologies. Secondly, a transitional morphological series from Rottnestia borussica to Hystrichosphaeropsis sp. is described. The morphological changes appear to coincide with environmental changes, such that the observed morphological trends may represent phenotypic adaptations within single species. In addition, the transformation between Rottnestia and Hystrichosphaeropsis seems to have occurred in both directions, and may have occurred twice in geological history. Conversely, changes in cyst shape may represent speciation events. Such may be the case with Eatonicysta ursulae, where the observed morphological trend was both unidirectional and unique.
40072698|The Oligocene to Lower Miocene of Site 1148, Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Leg 184 was investigated palynologically to explore environmental change within the newly formed rifted South China Sea. The basin first developed 32.8 Ma ago during an initial rifting phase, and before sea floor spreading. Palynomorph Assemblage A contains abundant coastal and neritic dinoflagellate cysts (for example, Lingulodinium and Spiniferites) and a small number of oceanic Impagidinium species, together with abundant pollen, spores, and terrigenous phytoplankton. Offshore transportation induced by basement subsidence played an important role in the makeup of this assemblage. Paleoenvironments during the earliest Oligocene include shallow shelf, shelf/slope boundary, and mid slope regimes. The latter is indicated by the intermittent and rare occurrences of Impagidinium. Later, in the Early Oligocene to earliest Late Oligocene, there was a deepening of the basin with increasing influence of lower slope environments, indicated by increasing abundances of Impagidinium. A barren zone corresponding to a period of sea floor spreading during the latest Oligocene to the earliest Miocene effectively separates assemblages A and B. The Early Miocene environment deepened to a lower slope (>1500 m) regime, indicated by Assemblage B with consistent Impagidinium. This regime was relatively stable with much less terrigenous input, indicated by the rare occurrence of pollen and spores, and the absence of terrigenous phytoplankton.
3687416|Ultra-fine-grained, high-contrast prints that have a limited but usable tonal range can be obtained from Kodak High Contrast Copy film. Using this film, exposures are made at an ASA of 6, and the film is developed in normal developer concentration for 85 seconds, then transferred to a water bath for 5 minutes 5 seconds. The method is presented as a means of obtaining high-quality photomicrographs with a minimum expendition of time and effort, using an inexpensive combination of film and developers. A series of photomicrographs are presented that compare prints made by this method with those made from Panatomic-X.
3687373|Shale layers from molasse deposits in the Intrasudetic Basin (northeastern periphery of the Bohemian massif) in southwestern Poland contain latest Carboniferous (Stephanian) to Early Permian (Autunian) palynological assemblages. Gradual climatic changes between the Stephanian and Autunian caused qualitative and quantitative changes in the assemblages. The late Stephanian assemblage (from the Plate sandstone) is relatively rich in spores indicative of a lowland flora. Progressively more arid conditions are indicated by the early (lower and upper Anthracosia shale) to late (Walchia shale) Autunian assemblages. In spite of some previous views, an Autunian rather than Stephanian age for the lower Anthracosia shale is indicated by the palynological evidence. The assemblages are similar in general to those from other western European coal basins.
3687462|Williamsidinium banksianum, a new fossil peridinioid dinoflagellate cyst is described from the Maastrichtian of Banks Island, N.W.T., Canada. The genus is distinguished by a combination archeopyle type <tex-math>$3\ \overline{{\rm IP}}_{@}$</tex-math> which has not been previously described. A new symbol "@" is designated for use in the archeopyle formula to show attachment of plates involved in archeopyle formation.
3687733|New photographs of 27 species of fossil fungal spores from various publications, and new descriptions of eight of these, are presented in order to substantiate the basis for some nomenclatural changes in the Synopsis of fossil fungal spores, mycelia and fructifications (Kalgutkar and Jansonius, 2000).
3687566|A palynological investigation of the Upper Jurassic Kimmeridge Clay in its type area (Dorset, southern England) identified twenty-five stratigraphically useful dinoflagellate cyst datums (range tops and bases). These have enabled the Kimmeridgian dinoflagellate cyst zonation of Woollam and Riding (1983) to be substantially refined. Eleven subzones are established within Woollam and Riding's Gonyaulacysta jurassica - Scriniodinium crystallinum (Gj/Sc), Scriniodinium luridum (Sl) and Glossodinium dimorphum - Dingodinium tuberosum (Gd/Dt) zones, which span part of the Oxfordian and the entire Kimmeridgian stages. The indices of these zones, and the overlying Ctenidodinium culmulum - Ctenidodinium panneum (Cc/Cp) Zone, are amended and their definitions revised. The dinoflagellate cyst floras are broadly comparable to others from northern Europe, but show certain differences with coeval Tethyan assemblages. Two new skolochorate dinoflagellate cyst species are described, Oligosphaeridium patulum sp. nov. and Systematophora daveyi sp. nov.
3687387|Two simple experiments show that mechanical pollen damage is not caused by pollen-clast collisions during transport, but that wet-dry cycles may be very effective at degrading pollen. These experiments suggest that horizons of damaged pollen in subaqueous sediment more likely result from redeposition of pollen previously exposed to subaerial weathering, rather than from damage incurred during transport.
3687689| Chitinozoans from Middle and Upper Devonian strata have been investigated from the Paran Basin in southern Brazil and eastern Paraguay. These sequences are present in the Alto Garas (north) and Apucarana (south) sub-basins in Brazil, and the "East Paraguay Sub-basin" in eastern Paraguay. Marine communication between the sub-basins was established during the early Givetian. Of the 49 chitinozoan species encountered, 28 species are retained in open nomenclature, and Ancyrochitina simplex is newly described. A chitinozoan biozonation, with five zones, is proposed for the investigated interval. The zones are from oldest to youngest: concurrent range zone of Alpenachitina eisenacki and Spinachitina biconstricta (late Eifelian?-early Givetian); the interval range zone of Ancyrochitina taouratinensis (latest early-middle Givetian); concurrent range zone of Fungochitina pilosa and Ancyrochitina langei (late Givetian); concurrent range zone of Hoegisphaera glabra and Ramochitina derbyi (early Frasnian); and total range zone of Lagenochitina avelinoi (early late Frasnian). 
27784287|The acritarch Ninadiacrodium gen. nov. is erected to include forms with a basically triangular outline, but with a clearly bipolar arrangement of processes. It belongs to the 'diacrodian' clade; these are morphotypes with ornament and/or processes at the two opposite poles of the central body. They were extremely abundant and highly diverse during the Late Cambrian and Early Ordovician. The new genus includes the two widely-cited species Ninadiacrodium caudatum (Vanguestaine 1973) comb. nov. and Ninadiacrodium dumontii (Vanguestaine 1973) comb. nov. Both taxa are emended here. Ninadiacrodium is easily recognizable due to its elongate triangular shape, but is clearly differentiated from Veryhachium Deunff 1954, which appears in the Ordovician. Ninadiacrodium is apparently confined to the Late Cambrian, and has a global distribution. It is therefore an index fossil for the Late Cambrian.
3687605|In this study we examine the nature of microforaminifera test linings found in palynological preparations and demonstrate the potential of these palynomorphs for paleoenvironmental interpretation. Sediment samples from four marsh salinity zones of the Barataria Basin, Mississippi Delta, were processed by conventional palynological techniques which included HCl and acetolysis treatments. Taxonomic identification was not attempted, but it is assumed that Rotalidae forams, Miliammina fusca and Ammonia beccari, are important constituents of the test lining assemblages. Multi-chambered forms were classed by morphotype, size, number of chambers, spacing of chambers, and condition. The absence of a relationship between size and chamber number within each morphotype implies the presence of multiple species populations. There is also no relationship between foram concentration and salinity. Using stepwise discriminant analysis, six classes were selected which enable successful discrimination among the four salinity zones.
3687443|This paper presents the observed stratigraphic ranges of 99 sporomorph (spore and pollen) taxa in the lower Paleocene to upper Oligocene part of the core from the U.S. Geological Survey Clubhouse Crossroads corehole 1 near Charleston, South Carolina. Morphologic and taxonomic data are given for some of these taxa, and three new species are proposed: Nyssapollenites paleocenicus, Osculapollis? colporatus, and Triporopollenites microgranulatus. Fifty-four sporomorph taxa in the core samples also are found in significant numbers in Gulf Coast Paleogene deposits. The Gulf Coast Paleogene section is divided into 18 provisional sporomorph assemblage zones by using occurrence data from the literature on these 54 taxa. Each South Carolina sample is compared numerically with each Gulf Coast assemblage zone, producing a binary SCMC (presence-absence Similarity Coefficient Matrix Contour) diagram. Use of this method indicates that sporomorph correlation of "packages" of Paleogene strata is generally feasible between South Carolina and the Gulf Coast with the data now available. Sporomorph correlations are also possible using a binary Shaw diagram and a ranked relative-frequency SCMC diagram, but neither of these two methods suggests such detailed correlations as the binary SCMC diagram.
40072708|The 'Middle' Cretaceous of the Northern California Coast Ranges has yielded unusually well-preserved specimens of Litosphaeridium, some of which (Litosphaeridium arundum, Litosphaeridium bacar, Litosphaeridium conispinum, and Litosphaeridium siphoniphorum subsp. glabrum) have been analyzed in detail previously. Two other species, which were discovered later, are Litosphaeridium adnatum sp. nov. and Litosphaeridium gaponoffiae sp. nov. Litospheridium adnatum sp. nov. is most similar to Litosphaeridium siphoniphorum, but has an adnate operculum, sulcal processes, a more elongate central body, and less of the central body is covered by processes. The other, Litosphaeridium gaponoffiae sp. nov., is most similar to Litosphaeridium arundum and Litospheridium fucosum, but has goblet-shaped processes, a free operculum, a more spherical central body, and its cingular processes are not reduced as they are in Litospheridium arundum. The two species are from the late Albian based on the associated dinoflagellate cysts.
3687590|Palynological evidence currently used to determine the global eustatic cycles of Haq et al. (1987) requires the existence of sediments from both continental and marine environments. The present work is a contribution to sequence analysis using sediments of continental nature. The boundaries of palynological zones help to locate and date sequence boundaries (SB) and maximum flooding surfaces (MFS); the SB is characterized by hiatuses and/or sudden floral changes (type 1 SB) and barren intervals with oxidized kerogen (type 2 SB), while the MFS may have a few brackish or marine water representatives. When marine fossils are absent, only paleovegetational criteria can be used. In this case, multivariate methods are used to find the most reliable pollen associations. Among them, the coastal and the more inshore associations are selected to compute an index that estimates the position of the tidal limit (TLI). The lateral movements of this tidal limit are recorded and correlated with corresponding sea level fluctuations, thus inferring the SB and MFS from paleovegetational data. The application of these methodologies to two wells from the Maracaibo Basin (western Venezuela) allowed determination of Maastrichtian to Eocene 3rd order cycles from the supercycle sets Upper Zuni A and Tejas A, as well as reconstruction of the local paleogeography of the coastal area.
3687570|Diverse palynomorph assemblages of late early Miocene age were obtained from 19 conventional core samples taken from the Robulus "L" #2 and #5 sands of Texaco Well #6, located offshore Vermilion Parish, Louisiana. Approximately 60 dinocyst, 100 miospore and 17 fungal spore taxa were recovered. Seven palynofacies were defined in the sands. These palynofacies are characterized sedimentologically by lithofacies distribution and palynologically by dinocyst distribution. The depositional sequences of the Robulus "L" sands were the result of cyclic deposition influenced by high energy events.
40072733|Five new species of angiosperm pollen described from three localities in south-central Minnesota support a Cenomanian age for the Dakota Formation in this area. The new taxa,Cupliferoidaepollenites microscabratus, Dryadopollis minnesotensis, Nyssapollenites microfoveolata, Phimopollenites striolata, and Tricolpites labeonis, are described using both light and scanning electron microscopy, are easily recognizable, and are useful age indicator species. Because of the extent and transgressive nature of the Dakota Formation, age determination has been difficult. The new angiosperm pollen species described here may help to support age determination for the Dakota Formation over a broader geographic area.
41319061|Pollen grains from 16 species of Vernonanthura H. Rob. were studied. All the species exhibit the type 'A' pollen characteristic of the genus. These grains are spheroidal to prolate-spheroidal, subechinolophate, tricolporate, with a continuous tectum which is densely microperforate, exhibiting lophae surrounding irregular depressions and having prominent spines. Despite most of the species having a similar pollen type, some taxa can be recognised by the morphology of the spines. According to the spine index (length/width), the species analysed can be divided into three groups having respectively short, medium and long spines. In addition to the size of the spines, some taxa can be distinguished by spine shape. Vernonanthura pinguis (Griseb.) H. Rob. has spines which are constricted at the base, while V. oligactoides (Less.) H. Rob. exhibits small conical spines. Vernonanthura nudiflora (Less.) H. Rob. and V.schulziana (Cabrera) H. Rob. have spines with rounded apices. This study confirms that Vernonanthura is a well-defined group based on pollen characteristics and that pollen morphology is a significant feature in the characterisation of species and genera of Vernonieae.
3687439|There is palynological evidence that the broad structure of terrestrial floras was greatly modified in a relatively short period of time near the end of the Carboniferous or beginning of the Permian Period. This major plant evolutionary event is marked by a sharp increase in abundance and diversity of gymnosperm pollen, especially taeniate forms, near the base of the Orenburgian Stage and its stratigraphic equivalents in the U.S.S.R., and within the Autunian in Western Europe. A similar trend is also apparent in the standard United States sequence, perhaps coinciding more or less with the base of the Wolfcampian Stage. In Australian sedimentary basins, analogous changes coincide with the beginning of post-glacial sedimentation and have been used to define the base of palynostratigraphic units in Western and eastern Australian sequences. The Western Australian unit, currently referred to informally as Unit III, contains early Sakmarian ammonoids in its upper part. It is concluded that the base of Unit III, and that of the generally equivalent Stage 3a in eastern Australia, correlate, within acceptable limits, with the base of the Orenburgian (= Occidentoschwagerina Zone) of Russia and may be accepted, for the present, as defining the base of the Permian in Australia.
3687410|The major groups of siliceous microfossils found in oceanic surficial bottom sediments of the Gulf of Mexico include: diatoms, radiolaria, sponge spicules and phytoliths. Silico-flagellates, pyrrophytic endoskeletons (Actiniscus), resting spores of diatoms and fresh-water Chrysophyte cysts are present as minor components in the sediments. Throughout most of the Gulf the siliceous forms are subordinate in abundance to calcareous forms (coccolithophytes and foraminifera). Diatoms, radiolaria and sponge spicules display high relative frequencies in the southeastern Gulf, especially off the West Florida and Campeche carbonate platforms. All three groups show low relative frequencies in the northwestern part of the basin and have a patchy distribution in areas of the eastern Gulf on a line from the mouth of the Mississippi River southeastward toward Cuba. This pattern reflects water mass productivity, terrigenous input and silica dissolution in the Gulf. Phytoliths display higher relative frequencies in the western Gulf than in the eastern Gulf reflecting the predominance of terrigenous sedimentation in that part of the basin. Analysis of the displaced (i.e. freshwater, marine benthonic) diatom species depicts the effects of the Mississippi Rio Grande and Mexican rivers into the deep Gulf of Mexico. The silicoflagellates and Actiniscus are present in low relative frequency on the West Florida and Campeche Slopes and essentially absent from other areas of the Gulf. The distribution patterns of the siliceous microfossils in surficial bottom sediments of the Gulf of Mexico provide information concerning plankton productivity, silica dissolution and terrigenous sedimentation in this area.
3687368|In an earlier study, detailed analysis (sample interval 15-20 cm) of the Hula LO7 core, northern Israel, resulted in the recognition of 15 late Quaternary palynological zones representing oxygen isotope stages 5 to 3. In order to determine the minimum sampling intervals required, exponential smoothing was applied to the original data set of arboreal pollen proportions and to subsamples of it. In the lower part of the core, subsamples of every fourth, or even every fifth sample adequately reproduced the trends of the original and smoothed data. In the upper part of the core, subsamples representing every third sample seem reasonable. Because compaction seems to act as a natural smoother, more widely spaced samples can be used with increasing depth. It is recommended that one should first sample the core, study in detail a few sequences from various depths, smooth their graphs, evaluate the desirable amounts of subsampling, and only then proceed with the analysis of the other, remaining sequences, each with its appropriate subsampling strategy.
3687515|Of the palynological zones proposed for the Cretaceous System of the Middle Atlantic Coastal Plain, the species composition of zones IV, V, and VII are the least known. Previous studies have shown that zones IV, V, and VII occur within the Raritan and Magothy Formations of northern New Jersey. Therefore, in order to characterize the assemblages that constitute these zones, a principal coordinates analysis was run on the Normapolles and triporate pollen from selected lithologic units of the Raritan and Magothy Formations. Results of the analysis suggest the presence of four assemblage zones within this stratigraphic interval. The zones are formally named and described in this report. In ascending stratigraphic order, the zones are referred to as the Complexiopollis-Atlantopollis Zone, the Complexiopollis exigua-Santalacites minor Zone, the Pseudoplicapollis longiannulata-Plicapollis incisa Zone, and the ?Pseudoplicapollis cuneata-Semioculopollis verrucosa Zone. The nominate species of these zones are also formally described herein. The Complexiopollis-Atlantopollis Zone occurs in the Woodbridge Clay and Sayreville Sand Members of the Raritan Formation. The only Normapolles or triporate species observed in this zone belong to the nominate genera. The zone is dated as middle to possibly late Cenomanian in age. The Complexiopollis exigua-Santalacites minor Zone occurs in the South Amboy Fire Clay Member of the Raritan Formation and the basal part of the Old Bridge Sand Member of the Magothy Formation. The zone is dominated by species of Complexiopollis, Santalacites minor n. sp., and Momipites fragilis Frederiksen & Christopher 1978, with Labrapollis spp. becoming a dominant element in the uppermost part of the zone. A major biostratigraphic break apparently occurs between this and the underlying zone. The Complexiopollis exigua-Santalacites minor Zone is considered middle to late Turonian in age. The Pseudoplicapollis longiannulata-Plicapollis incisa Zone occurs in the uppermost part of the Old Bridge Sand and the Amboy Stoneware Clay Members of the Magothy Formation. Although the genera Plicapollis, Pseudoplicapollis, Trudopollis, and Osculapollis first occur in the underlying Complexiopollis exigua-Santalacites minor Zone, they all show an increase in species diversity and abundance in the Pseudoplicapollis longiannulata-Plicapollis incisa Zone. This zone is considered Coniacian(?) to early Santonian in age. The ?Pseudoplicapollis cuneata-Semioculopollis verrucosa Zone occurs in the "Morgan" and "Cliffwood beds" of the Magothy Formation. This zone contains the largest number of biostratigraphically useful species of any of the zones discussed. In contrast to the underlying zones, many of these species occur commonly in the ?Pseudoplicapollis cuneata-Semioculopollis verrucosa Zone. The age of the zone is considered early to late Santonian. The biostratigraphic fidelity of each species was calculated in order to quantitatively determine its usefulness as a guide to a particular zone. Assemblage plates of the biostratigraphically significant species that characterize each zone are presented.
27784303|More than one thousand specimens of a morphological complex including Galeacysta etrusca Corradini & Biffi 1988 from 11 Upper Miocene and Lower Pliocene localities of the Paratethyan and Mediterranean realms have been studied using a biometric approach in part relating to the degree of separation between endocyst and ectocyst. Four stable biometric groups have been distinguished statistically, the occurrence or prevalence of which appears closely linked to environmental conditions irrespective of the realm. Group 'a' is related to brackish conditions, group 'b' to marine conditions, group 'c' to freshwater, and group 'd' to high nutrient levels. Based on an accurate chronology provided by calcareous nannoplankton bioevents and recognition of the Messinian Erosional Surface, this study reveals:
3687504|Different forms of Normapolles from four anthers, retrieved from fluvial sediments in southeastern Sweden, have been studied by photomicroscopy, scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. The exines are extremely resistant to staining and chemical treatment, probably as a result of increased polymerization, due to heating under oxygen-deficient conditions in a wildfire (in combination with processes during fossilization and long burial). Substructurally, short straight or coiling structures and 10 nm wide sites, visible in transmission electron micrographs, are interpreted as fragments of helical strands constituting the bulk of the exine. Similar structures can be seen in scanning electron micrographs of pollen in chemically untreated anthers. Both scanning and transmission electron micrographs indicate that the 10 nm strands are formed by still smaller helical elements and that they may combine to form wider coiling structures. The exine has two main layers-tectum and solum-separated by a thin layer of discrete components, thicker at the protruding apertures. The tectum is penetrated by radial canals of varying width, probably equivalent to the microchannels found in the pollen of extant plants. The solum is massive. An endexine, formed by stain-resistant elongate constituents embedded in a readily contrasted matrix, has been observed in transmission electron micrographs.
3687591|Palynological studies of the Lower Toarcian Pozzale section of central Italy (Tethyan Realm, Mediterranean province) have revealed significant differences between palynomorph assemblages from the Boreal and Tethyan realms and marked similarities between the two bioprovinces of the Tethyan Realm (Mediterranean and Sub-Mediterranean). The Pozzale dinoflagellate cyst assemblages differ from coeval north European assemblages because of the earlier first occurrence of dinoflagellate cysts belonging to the Parvocysta suite, the abundance of the genus Mendicodinium and the absence of Nannoceratopsis. These features have also been recorded in Tethyan localities belonging to the Sub-Mediterranean province (e.g. Portugal) and in transitional areas between the Tethyan and the Boreal domain (e.g. southern France and Hungary). The Pozzale sporomorph assemblages differ from coeval associations from northern Europe, Portugal, northeast Italy and Israel chiefly due to the low relative proportions of the pollen genus Classopollis. This scarcity in central Italy may be a composite effect of the gradual spread of humid conditions in western Europe during the Early Jurassic and/or of the shifting of the paleoenvironment toward distal conditions due to eustatic rises.
3687467|Cappasporites L. Urban 1966, a Pennsylvanian spore genus, has been commonly overlooked or misidentified during descriptions of Pennsylvanian palynofloras. Numerous spores of this genus were found in the Middle Desmoinesian Croweburg coal of Oklahoma and subsequently in other Desmoinesian coals. The genus includes spores varying from 35m to 90m in longest dimension and ranging from broadly oval (polar) to spindle shaped (equatorial) in outline. The spore is further characterized by a thickened exine over the distal surface, generally ornamented with scattered blunt granules. Trilete laesurae are rarely evident. The spores are produced in cones of an arborescent lycopod, are most commonly associated with Lycospora and Laevigatosporites, and appear to be characteristic of the Pennsylvanian.
3687593|Two new palynomorph taxa are described, and several existing taxa are discussed from the Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous Byers Group of Livingston and Snow islands, South Shetland Islands, Antarctic Peninsula. Oligosphaeridium byersense sp. nov., a dinoflagellate cyst species, is found in the Valanginian interval of the Byers Group. Globorotundata acrita gen. et sp. nov., a palynomorph of unknown affinity, is a reliable indicator of dysaerobia-anaerobia and/or shallow marine paleoceanographic conditions, when present in moderate to high numbers. This paper includes the first description and discussion of focused ion beam milling preparation of palynological material.
3687320|The peridinioid dinoflagellate Diconodinium and morphologically similar species are reviewed, following extensive microscopic examination of Australian holotypes and abundant Australian specimens. Descriptions are emended of all species for which the holotype has been studied, and for the genera Diconodinium and Dioxya. Accepted in Diconodinium are D. arcticum, D. cristatum, D. davidii, D. dispersum, D. multispinum, D. pelliferum and D. psilatum sp. nov. D. acutum and D. pussilum are junior synonyms of D. arcticum and D. multispinum, respectively. ?D. caulleryi, ?D. glabrum, and ?D. rhombiforme are too poorly known for confident assignment. "D. dabendorfense", "D. inequicorrutum" and "D. fehmarnense" do not belong to Diconodinium, but are too poorly known for confident assignment elsewhere. D. minutum is a synonym of Alterbia balmei. D. firmum, D. inflatum and D. tenuistriatum are transferred to Laciniadinium. Dioxya is a senior synonym of Vozzhennikovia. Accepted in Dioxya are D. apertura comb. nov., D. armata, ?D. extensa comb. nov., ?D. filigrana comb. nov., D. rotunda comb. nov., ?D. tenella comb. nov. and D. villosa.
40072720|Rich and diverse assemblages of dinoflagellate cysts were recovered from the Gearle Siltstone in the Boologooro-1 stratigraphic well, Southern Carnarvon Basin, Western Australia. The cored interval through the Winning Group is proposed as a reference interval for the Canninginopsis denticulata, Endoceratium ludbrookiae, Dioxya armata and Xenascus asperatus dinoflagellate cyst zones of the Australian dinoflagellate cyst zonal scheme. The ranges of sixty-three dinoflagellate cyst species are documented in detail over this interval. Apart from the bioevents that define the widely-used dinoflagellate cyst subzones, the highest occurrences of Endoceratium turneri, Craspedodinium indistinctum and Litosphaeridium arundum, and the lowest occurrences of Nematosphaeropsis densiradiata, Canninginopsis denticulata, Leberidocysta chlamydata, Aptea? sp. cf. Aptea polymorpha, Litosphaeridium siphoniphorum, Balcattia cirribarbata and Stephodinium australicum are recognized as potential biostratigraphic datums in the Southern Carnarvon Basin. Species diversity increased in the highest Canninginopsis denticulata Zone at approximately the horizon where Diconodinium spp. become dominant. Foraminiferal data indicate the interval from 361.15 m to 312.12 m is marginally inner neritic and corresponds with an interval of abundant Diconodinium spp., and fewer Spiniferites spp. Diversity increased in the Xenascus asperatus Zone with an increase in Spiniferites spp., and a shift to middle neritic paleobathymetry. The age of the top of the Xenascus asperatus Zone is constrained by calcareous nannofossils and dinoflagellate cyst correlations to the latest Albian, or possibly the early Cenomanian. The age of the base of the Canninginopsis denticulata Zone is constrained by dinoflagellate cyst and foraminiferal data to the early Albian, above the earliest Albian. One new species, Chlamydophorella haigii, is erected and aspects of several other dinoflagellate cyst taxa are reviewed.
3687787|Palynological analysis of the Los Cuervos, Mirador and Carbonera formations in western Venezuela suggests that changes in the composition and diversity of the microfloral assemblages are related to the nature and dynamics of the paleoenvironments of deposition. The palynological assemblages of the Los Cuervos and Mirador formations are characterized by the mixing of different palynological assemblages, related to the proximity to coastal areas of the low-delta plain environments (Los Cuervos Formation) and the energy and vegetation present in the drainage area of the fluvial system (Mirador Formation). On the other hand, the assemblages of the Carbonera Formation are considered to be representative of the autochthonous vegetation growing nearby extensive swamps in a low delta plain located far behind coastal areas. The palynological data also permitted the age assignment for each of the stratigraphical units; Paleocene for the upper part of Los Cuervos Formation, Early to Middle Eocene for the Mirador Formation and Middle Eocene to Oligocene for the Carbonera Formation. The results of this study do not support the occurrence of a significant interformational (between the Mirador and Carbonera formations) or intraformational (within the Mirador Formation) hiatus, as has been proposed by other authors. A preliminary comparison with other Middle Eocene microfloras reported in eastern Colombia and the Maracaibo Basin allows us to propose a tentative model for the distribution of the flora and the taphonomic processes that could have affected the sporomorph distribution in the area.
3687502|The Cullen Formation is exposed in the northeastern part of Tierra del Fuego Island; it is dated as Late Eocene to middle Oligocene on the basis of palynology. In this paper, 21 palynomorphs from the type locality of the formation are recorded, 13 of which have been previously described. Notable taxa include Baculatisporites comaumensis (Cookson 1953) Potoni 1956, Catinipollis geiseltalensis Krutzsch 1966, Crassiorites australis gen. et sp. nov., Lycopodiumsporites eminulus Dettmann 1963, Malvacipollis argentina sp. nov., Nothofagidites suggatei (Couper 1953) Hekel 1972, Phyllocladidites mawsonii Cookson 1947 ex Couper 1953, and Reboulisporites fuegiensis gen. et sp. nov. All of these species can be assigned to extant families with a high degree of confidence. The occurrence of M. argentina and C. australis is consistent with the hypothesis of a southern origin of Malvaceae and Onagraceae.
3687494|Two previously established Upper Devonian species of trilete, cavate miospores-Auroraspora torquata Higgs 1975 and Teichertospora cuvierica Balme 1988-are discussed in detail and are judged to be conspecific. They are, accordingly, united under the binomen Teichertospora torquata (Higgs) comb. nov. et emend. T. torquata, an eponym of the torquata-gracilis Assemblage Zone, is present in the Carnarvon Basin of Western Australia, well beyond its previously recognized southern Euramerican geographic range. Limited lithologic and palynological evidence suggests that the Australian strata containing the species may be late, even latest Frasnian and representative of a younger part of the Gneudna Formation, the lower portion of which has been well-documented palynologically and paleozoologically. Thus, the Western Australian occurrence of T. torquata could be near-synchronous with or somewhat older than its established latest Frasnian inception in Euramerica. The geographic distribution of T. torquata, as currently understood, supports paleoclimatic and paleontological indications of Late Devonian proximity or contiguity between Euramerica and Gondwana.
3687520|A study of Chytroeisphaeridia chytroeides Sarjeant 1962, the type species of the genus, from the type locality indicates that the archaeopyle is precingular in position and not apical as originally defined. The generic diagnosis of Chytroeisphaeridia is therefore emended and the species previously assigned to this genus are reassessed - C. dictydia, C. euteiches and C. reticulata are transferred to Batiacasphaera; C. variabilis is transferred to Gonyaulacysta; and C. pocockii is transferred to Lithodinia. The genus Tapeinosphaeridium is considered to be a junior synonym of Chytroeisphaeridia and the type species, T. pericompsum, is transferred to the latter genus; ?T. granulatum is tentatively transferred to Tectatodinium.
27784288|A single sample from the Springhill Group of well 2 at La Posesin in the Manantiales oilfield, southern Chile at 1752 m yielded a rich spore-pollen assemblage. The sample is from the base of approximately 32 m of medium- to coarse-grained sandstone with streaks of brown-gray clay and occasional carbonaceous streaks. Forty-nine species of pollen and spores in 36 genera are documented. On the basis of the occurrences of Aequitriradites plicatus, Appendicisporites jansonii, Contignisporites multimuratus, Cyclusphaera sp. A, Muricingulisporis annulatus, and Ornamentifera echinata, the age of the sample is considered to be Early Cretaceous (Hauterivian). The absence of marine palynomorphs indicates that the horizon sampled was deposited in a non-marine setting, close to araucarian and fern vegetation. The spore genus Sphagnites Cookson 1953 is emended, and the species Sphagnum antiquasporites Wilson & Webster 1946 is transferred to Sphagnites.
40072736|Late Jurassic and Cretaceous palynomorph assemblages were recovered from the Macomia, Pemba, and Mifume formations from the onshore Rovuma Basin, northern Mozambique. These assemblages provide new evidence for an Aptian-Albian age for the Macomia Formation and the upper member of Pemba Formation, and confirm that these two stratigraphic units are coeval and laterally continuous. The lower member of the Pemba Formation contains Kimmeridgian-Tithonian palynomorphs, thus documenting for the first time the existence of Upper Jurassic strata north of Nacala in the onshore Rovuma Basin. The rich and diverse dinoflagellate cyst assemblage recovered from the Mifume Formation is of late Campanian age. This indicates an early Late Cretaceous hiatus between the sandstones of Pemba Formation, and the marls of the overlying Mifume Formation. The hiatus corresponds to a break in sedimentation prior to a rapid, global marine transgression, recognised in the Rovuma and Mozambique basins, during the middle Campanian, associated with the onset of Gondwana fragmentation. Earlier, Late Jurassic faulting produced local half-grabens filled with continental debris, for example the N'Gapa Formation of northern Mozambique.
40984157|A small but diverse assemblage of pollen, spores and marine phytoplankton recovered from a single, lignitic clay sample of the lower to middle Eocene strata from a deep injection well on Pine Island, Florida represents the oldest land flora described from the state. The assemblage contains 17 terrestrial forms and four to five brackish to marine forms of dinoflagellate cysts or algal taxa. Angiosperm pollen forms are comparable to extant taxa including the palms, Bombacacidites (Bombacaceae), Corsinipollenites (Onagraceae), Milfordia (Restioniaceae), Tiliaepollenites (Tiliaceae), and Retitricolporites sp. (Lisianthius Gentianaceae). These suggested affinities point to a mild, warmtemperate to subtropical, probably lowland, environment. No new pollen taxa are described. This is the earliest report of terrestrial vegetation and near marine vegetation of Florida and documents the presence of a Florida landmass during the early Eocene.
3687358|Well cuttings from the 8300-9500 ft (= 2530-2896 m) levels of the Hinton No. 1 Snider well in Falls County, east-central Texas, were studied palynologically. The cuttings were prevailingly gray to reddish-brown shales, and most samples were productive of palynomorphs. The undoubted indigenous palynoflora of the rock indicates late Carnian (Late Triassic) age for the Eagle Mills Formation, representing sedimentation in a Newark-Basins-style rift basin. The flora of most of the sampled interval was dominated by monosaccate and bisaccate conifer pollen and spores supporting late Carnian age. These forms also indicate relatively dry climatic conditions. Above 8650 ft the palynoflora is dominated by Corollina (al. Classopollis) pollen, and spores, indicating terminal Triassic to Early Jurassic age. However, the upper levels contain abundant dinoflagellates and spores and pollen of Jurassic to Late Cretaceous age, which clearly came from up-well caving. It is therefore probable that the post-Carnian indicators are from up-well, and that the indigenous flora is exclusively Carnian.
27784280|Large acritarchs were recovered from the Awaynat Wanin II Formation in the A1-69 borehole, western Libya at 394.4 m. This sample has been dated by acritarchs and spores as Givetian (Middle Devonian). Two species of acanthomorph acritarchs were recovered that are unusually large for the Paleozoic. The first type, represented by a single specimen, is a new occurrence of a previously described but unnamed form from the Middle Devonian of the Sahara. The second type, which is more abundant, is named as Vanguestainidium cucurbitulum gen.et sp.nov. Biogeochemical analysis using infrared microspectroscopy shows that the wall composition of this new taxon is close to algaenans isolated from the green alga Botryococcus braunii Ktzing 1849 although these forms are not morphologically similar. The presence of well-preserved fragile palynomorphs, abundant terrestrially-derived palynomorphs including large megaspores, and rare marine palynomorphs suggests deposition in a low-energy nearshore environment such as a coastal swamp.
3687685|Geochemical analyses of specimens of Reduviasporonites suggests that it is most likely of algal, rather than fungal origin. As a probable alga, Reduviasporonites is unlikely to be integral to the process of mass extinction occurring at or near the Permian-Triassic boundary, as suggested by Visscher and other workers because it cannot have acted as a saprophytic metaboliser of dead vegetation resulting from that event. Moreover, it ranges outside the postulated time of mass extinction by at least 10 million years. Optical and electron microscopy of topotype material confirms that Reduviasporonites Wilson 1962 is the senior synonym of Chordecystia Foster 1979, and Tympanicysta Balme 1980. Moreover the type species of the last two genera, assigned in 1999 to Reduviasporonites by Elsik as R. chalastus (Foster) and R. stoschianus (Balme), are conspecific. The type species, R. catenulatus Wilson 1962, differs from R. chalastus in that its constituent cells are significantly smaller, more rounded, and have less well developed connecting areas (terminal rims) between cells. Brazilea helbyi forma gregata Foster 1979, recorded only from the type material of R. chalastus, is likely to be a junior synonym of that taxon. The stratigraphic occurrences of the species of Reduvia-sporonites suggest that R. catenulatus is most common in the Wordian (Kazanian) of Oklahoma, though specimens of the size range associated with R. catenulatus are present very rarely in the Early Triassic Mazzin Member of the Werfen Formation, Austria. R. chalastus is present in Capitanian to Griesbachian rocks spanning at least 10 million years, and outside the more narrow age span of the Permian-Triassic boundary. The size of the constituent cells present in R. chalastus appears to be related to paleolatitude with large examples occurring in the paleotemperate Permian of China, Russia, and Australia (Moura) and smaller specimens occurring in the paleotropical and paleoequatorial Permian of northern Australia, Saudi Arabia, United Kingdom and Austria.
3687506|Forensic palynology is the science of applying modern and fossil pollen and spores (palynomorphs) to help solve legal problems. Although knowledge of this technique has been known for many years, it has been used rarely. Surveys conducted of major law enforcement agencies in the United States show that little is known about this area of forensics. Only law enforcement agencies in New Zealand, among the major countries of the world, routinely collect and use forensic pollen studies in civil and criminal cases. Palynomorphs recovered from dirt, clothing, hair, rope, baskets, and materials used as packing can reveal geographical origin or can link an individual or item with the scene of a crime. Likewise, the palynomorphs found in illegal drugs, like marijuana and cocaine, can link those drugs with their source area and can show which shipments of drugs originated from the same, or from different, source areas. Techniques used for collection, processing, and analysis of forensic pollen samples are discussed. Actual case studies using forensic pollen evidence are included as examples.
3687721|Specimens of Pseudorhombodinium lisbonense gen. et sp. nov., the type species of the new fossil dinoflagellate genus Pseudorhombodinium gen. nov., were recovered from an outcrop of the lower part of the Lisbon Formation (middle Eocene) in Little Stave Creek, Clarke County, Alabama. The sample containing P. lisbonense gen. et sp. nov. is a calcareous glauconitic sand bed located approximately 104 ft above the Jackson Fault, the reference datum for the base of the Paleogene section exposed in Little Stave Creek. Whether Pseudorhombodinium gen. nov. is a dinoflagellate cyst (dinocyst) or the remains of a thecate, motile dinoflagellate is uncertain. However, for convenience it will be treated as a dinocyst in this paper. Pseudorhombodinium is established to accommodate organic-walled, subrhombic to subpentagonal shaped, circumcavate dinocysts with a hexa paratabulation style and 2a intercalary archeopyle, Type Ia/Ia. The periarcheopyle is iso-deltaform, the endoarcheopyle is eury-deltaform, and the operculum of each is adcingularly adnate. In addition to its shape and unusual archeopyle, P. lisbonense is characterized by its large size, complex flagellar pore structure, an incised paracingulum and parasulcus, the absence of lateral horns and by the presence of closely spaced, very diminutive antapical horns. Associated dinocysts, foraminifers and calcareous nannofossils indicate that the sample containing P. lisbonense is early middle Eocene in age. The depositional paleoenvironment was characterized by water temperatures close to those of the modern northern Gulf of Mexico (mean annual surface temperature is approximately 26C/77F), a hard sandy bottom and water depths of less then 50 m (164 ft). No specimens of P. lisbonense were observed in 87 other samples studied from the Little Stave Creek section (middle Eocene-late Oligocene).
3687624|Material from shallow cores drilled through the uplifted and truncated deposits near the Svalis Dome in the Barents Sea contains Lower and Middle Triassic palynomorphs and ammonoids. Eight miospore assemblage zones have been established in this paper, and six of them are calibrated by ammonoids: Svalis-1 is dated by ammonoids of the late Griesbachian commune Zone. The assemblage is recovered from the Havert Formation overlying the Permian limestone. Svalis-2 is dated by ammonoids to the late Smithian tardus Zone. The deposits belong to the lower and middle parts of Klappmyss Formation. The unit represents the transgressive systems tract of a Smithian-early Spathian T-R Sequence. Svalis-3 is recorded from the youngest part of Klappmyss Formation which is missing age conclusive faunal evidence. The palynological assemblage is correlated as early Spathian in age. The deposits represent the regressive systems tract of the Smithian-early Spathian T-R Sequence. Svalis-4 is recovered from rocks deposited above the lowest part of the Steinkobbe Formation. Ammonoids of the subrobustus Zone date the deposits to the late Spathian. The main part of the unit represents the transgressive systems tract of the Spathian T-R sequence. Svalis-5 is recovered from a thin interval representing the middle part of the Steinkobbe Formation. Ammonoids restricted to the arkhipovi and evolutus zones date the assemblage as early Anisian. The deposits represent the lowest part of the lower-middle Anisian transgressive systems tract. Svalis-6 is dated by ammonoids of the middle Anisian varium Zone. The assemblage is recovered from deposits representing the middle part of Steinkobbe Formation. The deposits comprise the upper part of a transgressive systems tract as well as the regressive systems tract of the lower-middle Anisian T-R sequence. Svalis-7 is dated by ammonoids related to the late Anisian laqueatus Zone. The assemblage is recovered from the youngest part of Steinkobbe Formation, a unit which is interpreted as comprising the upper Anisian T-R sequence and the Ladinian transgressive systems tract above it. Svalis-8 is recovered from deposits representing the middle part of Snadd Formation. The deposits are dated as Ladinian on the basis of polynological correlation. They represent the regressive systems tract of the Ladinian T-R sequence.
3687341|Phlebopteris smithii (Daugherty) Arnold is a palmate fern leaf that appears to be monopodial, with an odd number (5 to 15) of spreading pinnatifid pinnae. The sori occur in a single row on either side of the pinnule midrib and presumably are not protected by indusia. Each sorus typically contains 14 to 20 sporangia which have oblique annulii. The spores are triangular in polar view with psilate walls and trilete laesurae with straight radii which extend almost to the equatorial margins. They most closely resemble the dispersed spores Dictyophyllidites harrisii which ranges from the Carnian Stage of the Late Triassic to the Bathonian Stage of the Middle Jurassic. Phlebopteris smithii is widely distributed in Upper Triassic to Lower Jurassic units of the United States and is particularly common in the Upper Triassic (middle Carnian) Chinle Formation in the Southwest. Dispersed spores similar to those produced by P. smithii occur also in the same units. P. smithii is one of the oldest representatives of the genus and demonstrates that most of the basic characteristics of the Matoniaceae were present by the middle of the Carnian Stage of the Late Triassic.
3687446|Modern pollen samples were collected from seven major woody plant communities across the Edwards Plateau, Texas. Arboreal pollen averaged 70% of the total pollen, and Quercus, Juniperus and Pinus were dominant arboreal types. Pinus and Quercus were overrepresented in the modern pollen spectra in comparison to their abundance in the vegetation, while Juniperus pollen was underrepresented. Predominant non-arboreal pollen types were Gramineae, Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthaceae and Compositae. Arboreal and non-arboreal pollen were significantly correlated to vegetation canopy cover. Quercus was the only arboreal genus that showed a significant relationship between canopy cover and pollen. Results from this study were compared to modern pollen data from the Post Oak Savanna and western Edwards Plateau. No samples from any region equalled the abundance of Quercus found in this study. Two modern pollen samples showed strong similarities to several fossil pollen records from the western Edwards Plateau. Data from this study supported the hypothesis that Pinus was more abundant in the vegetation at least 8000 years BP which indicates a more mesic environment at that time.
3687762|The Bag Formation includes up to approximately 400 m of paralic, lacustrine and alluvial deposits without marine macrofossils. Detailed palynological and sedimentological studies have been undertaken of all available cored boreholes and exposures of the formation. A total of 150 palynological samples were examined from partially overlapping sections amounting to a total of ca. 650 m. The palynomorphs recovered, some of which are stratigraphically important, comprise very diverse and well-preserved assemblages from which 130 species including 67 spore, 32 pollen and 31 microplankton species are identified. The assemblages are subdivided into the Chasmatosporites, Spheripollenites-Leptolepidites and Callialasporites-Perinopollenites miospore zones and the Mendicodinium reticulatum, Luehndea spinosa and Nannoceratopsis gracilis dinoflagellate cyst zones. Three of these, the Chasmatosporites, Callialasporites-Perinopollenites and Mendicodinium reticulatum zones, are newly proposed here. The Bag Formation spans the late Pliensbachian, Toarcian, Aalenian, Bajocian and Bathonian time intervals. This has an important implication for the recognition of the regional NW European mid-Jurassic unconformity on Bornholm, which is shown to occur within the formation and not at the base as previously thought. The unconformity divides the formation into a lower part with brackish-marine influence and an upper, non-marine part. The recognition of both the unconformity and late Pliensbachian-Toarcian marine incursions facilitate a close correlation with other Jurassic sections in the region. The study illustrates the value of combining palynology and sedimentology in interpreting the depositional history of non-marine and marginal marine successions.
27784278|Numerous environmental factors as well as oceanic circulation patterns and geographic constraints all contribute to the abundance, distribution, and diversity of present-day marine phytoplankton assemblages. These same factors presumably affected the Paleozoic marine phytoplankton, which was dominated by organic-walled acritarchs and prasinophytes. During the Late Silurian (Gorstian, Ludfordian, and Pdol) and earliest Devonian (Lochkovian), important paleogeographic, paleooceanographic, and geochemical changes were occurring as well as major compositional changes and diversity fluctuations in the marine organic-walled phytoplankton. Innovative morphologies appeared during the Late Silurian, in both low and high latitude assemblages, but with significant quantitative differences. This was followed by a turnover in assemblage composition during the Silurian/Devonian transition, and an initial radiation of new acritarch and prasinophyte taxa in the Early Devonian. Observed changes in total phytoplankton diversity during the Gorstian through earliest Lochkovian are based on organic-walled microphytoplankton data derived from published and unpublished key stratigraphic sections where independent age control has been firmly established. These key sections are from: Missouri and Oklahoma, U.S.A. and western Newfoundland, Canada (Laurentia); Gotland, Sweden, and Podolia, Ukraine (Baltica); the Welsh Basin and Borderland (Avalonia); northern France and northern Spain (Armorica); and Libya in northern Africa, and Argentina and Bolivia, South America (Gondwana). Regional biodiversity changes for the organic-walled microphytoplankton were determined for the warm low latitude areas (Baltica, Laurentia, and Avalonia) and temperate to cool higher latitude areas (northern and southern Gondwana). The Late Silurianearliest Devonian organic-walled phytoplankton was divided into three major categories to facilitate comparison of compositional fluctuations, both with stratigraphic sections as well as between geographic areas. The three categories, based on overall morphology, are marine chlorophytes and prasinophytes, marine acritarchs, and nonmarine types, including coenobial forms. This triparate grouping is both broad and detailed enough to mark critical changes in both the phytoplankton assemblages, as well as the paleoenvironment. In general, high phytoplankton diversity peaks occurred during the Early and Late Gorstian in the warm low latitude areas, followed by varying fluctuations during the Ludfordian and Pdol for both the warm low latitude and cool high latitude areas. An initial radiation of new phytoplankton taxa and the appearance of more cosmopolitan assemblages mark the beginning of the Lochkovian.
3687316|This paper presents and illustrates an informal palynological zonation of the pre-Magothy continental Cretaceous sediments of the Atlantic Coastal Plain (Potomac Group, Raritan Formation), based primarily on new and previously published studies of angiosperm pollen from two wells near Delaware City, Delaware, and from outcrop samples from Virginia through New Jersey, following lines established by Brenner (1963). Monosulcate angiosperm pollen (with columellar exine structure) is present from the base of Brenner's Zone I (Patuxent Formation and Arundel Clay equivalents, Barremian-lower Albian?). Reticulate tricolpates enter in upper Zone I and diversify in Brenner's Subzones II-A and II-B (Patapsco Formation equivalents, middle-upper Albian?); tricolporoidates appear in Subzone II-B. Very small, psilate tricolporoidates and Rugubivesiculites rugosus enter in our Subzone II-C (uppermost Albian?), larger triangular tricolporates and new tricolpates in Zone III (lower Cenomanian?); these two units are represented in "Maryland Raritan" or Elk Neck beds. The first triporate Normapolles (Complexiopollis, Atlantopollis) appear in Zone IV (lower part of the true Raritan Formation of New Jersey, middle Cenomanian-lower Turonian?), additional Normapolles in Sirkin's Zone V (upper part of the Raritan, middle Turonian-lower Santonian?). Application of this zonation shows that all but the top of the very thick continental-nearshore marine section in three deep wells in the Salisbury Embayment (Hammond, Bethards, Taylor) is of Early Cretaceous age (though in part older than the outcrop Potomac Group), including "red beds" previously considered Triassic or Jurassic. Maximum marine incursions occurred in the late Albian and early Cenomanian. Equivalents of the Raritan Formation of New Jersey (Zone IV), lacking at the Maryland-Delaware outcrop, are identified for the first time in the Taylor and Bethards wells. Potomac and lower Raritan equivalents are separated from overlying Magothy Formation equivalents (upper Santonian-Campanian?) by a regional unconformity.
3687426|Pollen and sediments have been analyzed from a 5.5 meter-length core of lacustrine sediments from Tangle Lakes, in the Gulkana Upland south of the Alaska Range (63 01 46 N. latitude, 146 03 48 W. longitude). Radiocarbon ages indicate that the core spans the last 4700 years. The core sediments are sandy silt and silty clay; the core shows distinct rhythmic laminations in the lower 398 cm. The laminae appear to be normally graded; peat fibers and macerated plant debris are more abundant near the tops of the laminae. Six volcanic-ash layers are present in the upper 110 cm of the core. Present-day vegetation of the Tangle Lakes area is mesic shrub tundra and open spruce woodland, with scattered patches of shrub willow (Salix), balsam poplar (P. balsamifera), spruce (Picea), paper birch (Betula papyrifera), and alder (Alnus). Pollen analysis of 27 core samples suggests that this vegetation type has persisted throughout the past 4700 years, except for an apparently substantial increase in Picea beginning about 3500 years B.P. Percentages of Picea pollen are very low (generally 1-3 percent) in the lower 2 meters of core (ca. 4700 to 3500 years B.P.), but rise to 13-18 percent in the upper 3.4 meters (ca. 3500 years B.P. to present). Previously reported data from this area indicate that Picea trees initially arrived in the Tangle Lakes area about 9100 years B.P., at least 2.5 to 3 thousand years after deglaciation of the region. The present investigation suggests that Picea trees became locally scarce or died out sometime after about 9000 years B.P. but before 4700 years B.P., then reinvaded the area about 3500 years B.P. If this extrapolated age for the Picea reinvasion is accurate it suggests that local expansion of the Picea population coincides with the onset of a Neoglacial interval of cooler, moister climate. This is an unexpected result, because intervals of cooler climate generally coincide with lowering of the altitudinal limit of trees. In this case, improved moisture conditions may have promoted spruce growth and reproduction in spite of somewhat cooler temperatures. Previous pollen records from Alaska suggest that Artemisia pollen contributed little to the pollen rain of most taiga and tundra sites during Holocene time. The pollen record from Tangle Lakes, however shows rather high percentages (7-13 percent) of Artemisia deposited during the approximate time interval 4700 to 3500 years B.P. Local habitats that have well-drained soils derived from glacial deposits support patches of Artemisia telesii and other Artemisia species. These local habitats may account for the source of Artemisia pollen deposited in the Tangle Lakes area during Holocene time.
3687744|The results of a pollen study of 77 American species of Acacia (tribe Acaciae) characterizes pollen among the different New World taxa of the compound-pollen Mimosoideae on the basis of the most relevant morphologic and structural features. Two pollen types and five subtypes are recognized and summarized in the diagnostic key presented herein. As a result of the species studied, some newly observed structural features are now utilized; these features modify the previous characterization of the pollen of Acacia, and include frequent ornamentation of the suprasubreticulate or supramicrorugulate exine, presence of subpseudocolpi in some species, and presence of a bistratified granular infractectal layer in the subgenus Aculeiferum but not in the section Filicinae.
3687369|The Albert Formation, in the southeastern part of New Brunswick, contains oil shales from which oil and gas are produced (Stoney Creek field). The fauna and palynoflora of the formation suggest a terrestrial environment of deposition; there is no evidence of marine influence. The strata indicate a relatively shallow lacustrine environment with an associated fluvial deltaic sequence. The preservation of palynomorphs in subsurface core samples from the lower member and middle oil shale member of the formation (Dawson Settlement and Frederick Brook Members, respectively) varies from very poor to very good, whereas preservation of palynomorphs in outcrop samples from the upper member (Hiram Brook Member) is very good. The poor preservation is probably the result of deposition under anoxic conditions, with the subsequent growth of pyrite on the exines; corrosion by microorganisms such as anaerobic bacteria or fungi may also have occurred. No significant qualitative taxonomic variations were discernible in the palynoflora vertically throughout the formation. Quantitatively, most samples are dominated by Punctatisporites irrasus Hacquebard and P. planus Hacquebard; Spelaeotriletes pretiosus (Playford) Neves & Belt is common to abundant in two of the Hiram Brook samples. Dominance of a few species may indicate an arid climate consistent not only with Atlantic Canada's position of low latitude in the various paleocontinental reconstructions for the Early Carboniferous, but also with the local presence of evaporites in upper beds of the Albert Formation. Comparison with assemblages from the Horton Group of Nova Scotia favors a correlation with the Horton Bluff Formation. The Albert Formation assemblages may be correlated with the Spelaeotriletes pretiosus-Raistrickia clavata (PC) Spore Zone of Tournaisian, late Tn2 to early Tn3, age of western Europe. The organic matter consists of significant amounts of algae (Botryococcus sp.) along with exinous, woody, and coaly fragments. The spores are yellow-orange to orange-brown, indicating a Thermal Alteration Index (on a five point scale) of 2- to 2+. This low level of maturation and the type of organic matter suggest some potential for the generation of liquid hydrocarbons.
27784302|New species of the fungal form-genus Mediaverrunites Jarzen & Elsik 1986 ex Nandi & Sinha 2007 are described from tropical to warm temperate Neogene strata. Mediaverrunites fournierii sp. nov. and Mediaverrunites magnus sp. nov. occur in the Lower Miocene of Colombia. Mediaverrunites invaginatus sp. nov. is from the Upper Miocene to Lower Pleistocene, offshore Louisiana. The form-genus is also represented by an apparently undescribed extant species occurring in recent sediment.
3687505|Several studies of Oxfordian marine palynomorphs have been published over the last twenty years, but most include only the dinoflagellate cyst fraction of the assemblages. This paper is an attempt to more fully document the palynology of the British Oxfordian stage by describing acritarchs, prasinophytes and scolecodonts from two outcrop sections on the Isle of Skye, Scotland, and in Dorset, southern England. The species Solisphaeridium stimuliferum (Deflandre 1938) Staplin et al. 1965 is emended, and the new subspecies S. stimuliferum retinum subsp. nov. is described.
40072719|Neotypes are designated herein for certain Paleocene species of juglandaceous pollen that were originally described in 1978. The microscope slides bearing the holotypes have been lost, eliminating the possibility of designating lectotypes and necessitating, instead, the designation of neotype specimens to stabilize the nomenclature of the species, which are biostratigraphically significant. The species for which neotypes are designated are Momipites wyomingensis, Momipites waltmanensis, Momipites ventifluminis, Momipites actinus, Momipites anellus, Momipites leffingwellii, Caryapollenites prodromus, Caryapollenites imparalis, Caryapollenites inelegans, and Caryapollenites wodehousei.
3687413|The cyst-based and the theca-based dinoflagellate classification systems were compared using Peridinium faeroense Paulsen, 1905, and species of Ensiculifera Balech, 1967, Scrippsiella Balech ex A. R. Loeblich III, 1965, and Peridinites Lefvre, 1933. Cyst differences were more obvious, including "acritarchs", and calcareous and siliceous-walled forms, whereas equivalent thecal differences included only "minor" features such as cingular and sulcal plate details. This supported Balech's recent subdivision of the genus Peridinium based on these minor thecal features; it also showed that comparable subdivisions were suggested by cyst morphology. The two classification systems appeared more similar than in previous comparisons which neglected such minor thecal features. Both cysts and thecae are considered to be equally valid taxonomic criteria. The implications for dinoflagellate systematics suggested by this are that both cysts, where known, and thecal features should be included in species descriptions establishing a holomorph. Quaternary and Recent cysts should ultimately be classified under a unified system based on the holomorph. In the interim, cyst nomenclature should reflect known paleontologic and biologic information. New cyst-based nomenclature should not be created just to "artificially" maintain dual classification.
3687742|Twenty-two species of dinoflagellates and acritarchs, and thirty species of spores and pollen are reported from twenty Lower Cretaceous core samples of shale and siltstone from the South Barrow Test Well No. 1 in Point Barrow, Alaska. The stratigraphic distribution of the fifty-two species is summarized, and four stratigraphic intervals are established. Based on diagnostic dinoflagellate cysts, the geologic age for the Torok Formation is suggested to be Aptian-Albian, and the age of the "Pebble Shale" unit is suggested to be Barremian-Aptian. The depositional environment is considered to be marine.
3687741|The paper presents a new study of the Paleogene dinoflagellate cysts from a borehole in central Western Siberia. The presence of stratigraphic markers from the European zonations permitted recognition of six dinoflagellate zones in this section: the Cerodinium speciosum, Apectodinium hyperacanthum and Apectodinium augustum zones in the Paleocene interval; and the Dracodinium varielongitudum, Charlesdowniea coleotrhypta and Charlesdowniea clathrata angulosa zones in the Eocene section. This sequence permits precise age assignment of the Siberian lithological formations, as well as interpretation of the presence of stratigraphic gaps in the marine Siberian Paleogene section. The Late Eocene-Oligocene boundary is characterized by the successive disappearance of the Siberian marine basin and by a significant floristic change.
3687479|Grapnelispora evansii, a new megaspore genus and species from the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) of Australia and New Zealand, is described and illustrated. Although superficially similar to the Paleozoic ancyrospores in possessing appendages with anchor or grapnel-like tips (a feature not reported previously on Mesozoic megaspores), the new form has significantly longer appendages and a more complex internal wall structure. Specimens have been recovered from wells in the Bass Strait Basins of southeastern Australia, basins along the southern margin of the continent, the Bonaparte Gulf Basin of northern Australia, and from New Zealand surface sections.
3687734|Salt Core DV93-1, from Badwater Basin in California's Death Valley, is a nearly complete sedimentary record of mud and evaporite deposits spanning the past 192 ka. Fossil palynomorph assemblages from core depths of 151.8 m (ca. 166 ka) to 103.5 m (ca. 114 ka) have been analyzed as part of a larger study which will eventually include all of core DV93-1. The palynological analysis discussed here reveals four pollen zones between 151.8 m and 103.5 m. Zone 1, the "Cheno-Am" zone (151.8 m to 143.5 m depth, 166-154 ka), has high percentages of Chenopodiaceae/ Amaranthus (Cheno-Am) pollen, and is correlative with the end of marine Oxygen Isotope Stage (OIS) 7. Zone 2, the juniper zone (143.5 m to 117.3 m, 154-124 ka), correlates with OIS 6, as evidenced by high percentages of juniper (Cupressaceae) pollen and low percentages of Ambrosia pollen. Equivalent pollen assemblages are found at higher elevations in Death Valley today, where temperatures are 11 C cooler and rainfall is eight times greater. At the top of Zone 2 (124 ka), a simultaneous drop in juniper and increase in oak (Quercus) pollen occurs, followed by a replacement of Artemisia with Ambrosia in Zone 3, the oak zone. This event corresponds to warming associated with Termination II. The estimated age of this warming event is in agreement with the Termination II event visible in the pollen record from nearby Owens Lake (Litwin et al., 1997). Zone 4, the Asteraceae zone (108.8 m to 103.5 m, 119-115 ka), contains higher percentages of Asteraceae and Cheno-Am pollen, indicating further warming during this time.
3687421|The Fredericksburg Group of the southern United States consists of the Walnut Formation, the Goodland Formation, and the Kiamichi Formation in ascending stratigraphic order. The Walnut Formation and most of the Goodland Formation are of middle Albian Age and the Kiamichi Formation is late Albian in age. The middle/upper Albian boundary falls within the Goodland Formation on the basis of ammonite zones, and at the base of the Kiamichi Formation according to foraminiferal evidence. The spore-pollen assemblages indicate late middle Albian to early late Albian Age for the Fredericksburg Group. The total stratigraphic ranges of eighty-four spore-pollen species included in the fifty genera recognized in the Fredericksburg Group assemblages were determined by considering their previously recorded occurrences. Twenty-two species of eighteen genera are indigenous to the Fredericksburg Group. Eleven Jurassic species occur throughout the Cretaceous, whereas fourteen such species became extinct in the Middle Cretaceous. Eleven species first appear in the Lower Cretaceous and either persist throughout the Cretaceous or extend into the Tertiary. Five species are restricted to strata of Aptian-Albian Age and five to the strata of Albian-Cenomanian Age. Asteropollis asteroides, Cicatricosisporites spiralis, Crybelosporites pannuceus, Gemmatricolpites gemmatus, Impardecispora texensis, Phimopollenites augathellaensis, P. pannosus, Rousea georgensis, Striatopollis paraneus, Tappanispora loeblichii, T. reticulata, Tricolpites sagax are characteristic species in strata of Albian-Cenomanian Age and have an inter-regional correlation potential.
3687665|Multivariate statistics have been used to identify the paleoclimatic-paleoecological affinities of most European Jurassic (Toarcian to Kimmeridgian) dinoflagellate cyst taxa. These analyses were then used to construct dinoflagellate cyst diagrams (abbreviated to 'cyst diagrams'), which are analogous to pollen diagrams. The marine and terrestrial records were then correlated using both pollen (miospore) and cyst diagrams. These plots appear to include many biostratigraphically significant paleoclimatic events which augment, and in some cases refine, the ammonite-based biostratigraphy. The integration of the terrestrial spore-pollen based correlations with the oceans, via dinoflagellate cysts, appears to prove that the oscillations in the palynomorph diagrams reflect widespread temperature changes. This is because the 'cold' group of dinoflagellate cysts includes several taxa with north-polar paleogeographic distributions, and equivalent fluctuations can be matched in the terrestrial spore-pollen diagrams, which in turn are correlated between the northern and southern hemispheres. In the early mid Jurassic, warming events were noted above the Toarcian-Aalenian boundary and in the early Bajocian. The paleoclimatic signals in the Bathonian appear to be difficult to interpret consistently. The Callovian-Oxfordian boundary is characterized by a marked cooling event. The Late Jurassic following the early Oxfordian appears to have been a time of increasing ambient paleotemperatures with a thermal zenith in the Kimmeridgian. This generally rising paleotemperature trend for the Callovian to Kimmeridgian interval, including specific variations, is consistent with other Jurassic paleoclimatic results derived using different methods such as clay mineral analyses, isotopic methods, miospore eco-groups and macropaleobotany.
3687547|Diporoconia n. gen. is proposed for diporate subisopolar smooth to perforate pollen grains having annuli or tumescence. Diporoconia iszkaszentgyoergyi (Kedves) n. comb. (the type species), D. nnewiensis (Jan du Chne et al.) n. comb., and D. spp. 1 and 2 are included in the genus. Distinctive characters of the pollen are the large pores that are at the ends of the grain but appear offset toward one face (interpreted to be the proximal face) and the greater convexity of the distal face than the proximal face, both features that indicate curving or arching of the equatorial axis that extends from pore to pore. Diporoconia is known from Hungary, France, England, Nigeria, Alabama, California, and Alaska. It is probably confined to the Eocene. Plants producing Diporoconia pollen probably lived in coastal environments in which the soil water was brackish or even marine. Statistical analyses of British assemblages containing this pollen indicate that it may have been produced by herbs or low shrubs. The climatic affinity of the genus is paratropical to tropical. Previous authors have suggested that Diporoconia pollen has affinities with Daemonorops (Palmae) or Alyxia (Apocynaceae). In this paper we examine modern pollen of these two genera in detail and conclude that the fossils do not belong to either genus; transmission electron micrographs are critical for these comparisons. However, several lines of morphological evidence indicate that the fossil grains are monocotyledonous.
3687330|Assemblages of dinoflagellate cysts in Recent sediments from the southern Barents Sea are dominated by the cyst species Operculodinium centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) Wall, but also contain numbers of elongate Spiniferites specimens referable to both S. elongatus Reid and S. frigidus Reid & Harland. There is considerable intraspecific variability within these Spiniferites species particularly with regard to the amount and form of membrane development. This Arctic dinoflagellate cyst thanatocoenosis differs from dinoflagellate assemblages previously described from the North Atlantic in lacking Bitectatodinium tepikiense Wilson and such Spiniferites species as S. lazus Reid, S. mirabilis (Rossignol) Sarjeant and S. ramosus (Ehrenberg) Loeblich & Loeblich. The apparently unique character of Recent Arctic dinoflagellate cyst assemblages offers the potential of recognizing similar assemblages in the late Quaternary record.
3687539|The pollen flora of the mid-Tertiary Weaverville Formation complements the leaf flora described in 1937 by MacGinitie in recording numerous additional taxa from the regional flora that allow a fuller reconstruction of the vegetation and paleoenvironment and a refined interpretation of the age. Sediments of the Weaverville Formation comprise tuffs, lacustrine shales, and fluvial auriferous conglomerates that are preserved in small fault-bounded basins. Stratigraphic sections from two basins 25 km apart yielded a total of 151 types of palynomorphs, which include 85 genera or tribes in 51 families. The pollen and leaf floras have few elements in common, due to variable pollen production and differential preservation of pollen and leaves. The most notable floral elements derived from the pollen flora are Betulaceae, Onagraceae, Ericaceae, Sterculiaceae, Carya, and several groups of gymnosperms. By comparison with modern taxa, the Weaverville flora represents a mixed broad-leaved evergreen and deciduous forest and a mixed coniferous forest, with a Taxodium-Nyssa swamp forest near the site of deposition. A subtropical to warm temperate climate is inferred, although the flora also includes taxa that today are tropical to subtropical (Bombacaceae, Sterculiaceae) and others that are temperate to boreal (Larix, Picea). This seemingly anomalous composition may have resulted from depositional mixing of pollen from several vegetational units or from less distinct ecological zonation of vegetation in the Tertiary. An interesting association of typically Eocene taxa (Pistillipollenities, Bombacaceae, Triumfetta) with Oligo-Miocene taxa (Compositae, Malvaceae, Polygonaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Gramineae) occurs in both measured sections, and these types are not restricted stratigraphically. Overall, the stratigraphic ranges of Weaverville taxa and the diversity of herbs suggest that the age of the Weaverville Formation is Early to early Middle Miocene.
3687412|The retention of Cymbosphaeridium Lister as a valid taxon is supported by studies on Cymbosphaeridium pilar (Cramer) Lister, 1970. Multiplicisphaeridium pachymurum sp. nov. superficially resembles C. pilar but possesses only a single, thick vesicle wall, unlike the double, thin walled, cyst bearing C. pilar. Further, the processes of M. pachymurum constantly flare proximally whereas they are of a tubular nature in C. pilar. From this difference in wall structure and process morphology, the two species are considered to represent different generic taxa. C. pilar cannot be considered as the cyst bearing form of M. pachymurum.
3687765|Palynomorph data from two localities in southwestern Alabama and southeastern Mississippi have been used to interpret the palynofloral succession of six of the seven lithostratigraphic units of the Vicksburg Group, to test the current sequence stratigraphic framework for the area, and to infer paleoclimatic conditions during the Early Oligocene. The samples group statistically by multivariate methods according to sporomorph types and relative frequencies, and two broad groups of high and low diversity assemblages have been identified. Quercoidites, Carya, Momipites, Siltaria sp. cf. S. scabriextima, Cupressacites hiatipites and Cupuliferoipollenites dominate the high diversity assemblage in the Bumpnose Limestone, Red Bluff Clay, Forest Hill Sand and Bucatunna Clay. These lithostratigraphic units have previously been interpreted as deposits of a highstand systems tract. The main difference between the Bucatunna sporomorph assemblage and that of the other units is the absence of the two taxodiaceous conifer pollen species resembling Sequoia. The Mint Spring Marl, which is considered the lower part of a transgressive systems tract, is slightly less diverse than the highstand deposits, but the assemblage is rich in the two Sequoia type pollen species. In southwestern Alabama, nonmarine palynomorphs outnumber marine palynomorphs in this unit, whereas the marine palynomorphs are the dominant constituents in southeastern Mississippi. This a reflection of transgression progressing from southeast to northwest that resulted in a thinner, older and more marginal Mint Spring facies in Alabama. The low diversity assemblage is present in the transgressive Marianna Limestone and highstand Glendon Limestone. The Marianna Limestone has fewer sporomorphs than the underlying Mint Spring Marl, with Sequoia type pollen also accounting for >70% of counted sporomorphs, but the unit is much richer in marine palynomorphs than nonmarine palynomorphs. The Glendon Formation has the poorest recovery of nonmarine and marine palynomorphs among the sediments, and this poor recovery may be related to diagenetic processes. The Early Oligocene paleoclimate was evidently warm temperate. Prominent in the Vicksburg assemblage are pollen elements related to Quercus, Taxodium, Sequoia, Cyrilla, and Castanea which suggest that the paleoclimate was cooler than the Gulf Coast Early and Middle Eocene subtropical conditions.
3687564|Morphological study of Aquilapolles fossil pollen, long conducted at the light microscopic level, is significantly enhanced by the greater depth of field and magnification obtainable with scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The use of SEM-generated stereo pairs provides a three-dimensional image revealing spatial relationships of body form, sculpture and aperture arrangement. A tetrad consisting of individual grains referrable to Integricorpus reticulatus (Mtchedlishvili) Stanley, from the Hell Creek Formation (Maastrichtian) of North Dakota, is examined using stereo pairs and standard SEM imaging. This marks, as far as we know, the first SEM examination of an isopolar triprojectate tetrad. Comparison with previously published heteropolar spinulose Aquilapollenites tetrads of possible proteacean affinity provides additional clues to the polyphyletic nature of the Aquilapolles group.
3687395|Pollen analysis of sediments from Small Momela Lake indicates that grass savanna or thicket savanna covered the surrounding Mt. Ujamaa (Mt. Meru) Lahar in northern Tanzania from about 6000 to 1700 yr B.P. and since 600 yr B.P. The interval from 1700 to 600 yr B.P. is marked by peaks in the percentages of Olea and Justicia pollen and a drop in the percentage of grass pollen. At this same time changes in the diatom assemblage (Hecky, 1971) suggest a freshening of the lake while radiocarbon dates indicate an increase in the sediment accumulation rate. The changes in the pollen record for the last 1700 years may indicate disturbance of the vegetation, perhaps by humans, but this interpretation must be viewed with caution. This study illustrates the difficulties in inferring ecological or anthropological changes from pollen data in regions dominated by grassland vegetation.
3687357|Holotypes and some other illustrated specimens of Jurassic and Early Cretaceous dinoflagellate cysts from Canada, published by S. A. J. Pocock (1962, 1972), were reexamined for new detail and redescribed; their nomenclature has been adjusted to current usage. Not all holotypes could be located; two new lectotypes were designated. One new species, Leptodinium perornatum, is named and fifteen new combinations are proposed: Chytroeisphaeridia gochtii; Circulodinium brevispinosum, C. distinctum; Endoscrinium? variable; Evansia opeasatos, E. reticulopilosa, E. tripartita, E. tripartita subs. rotunda, E. zabra; Rhynchodiniopsis canadensis, R. downiei, R. gochtii; Scriniocassis klementii, S. reticulata; Sentusidinium asymmetricum.
3687778|This work presents a detailed study of the pollen and spore distribution in the Paleocene-Eocene Lisama and La Paz Formations on the eastern border of the Middle Magdalena Valley, Colombia. One hundred and forty-seven samples obtained from cores and outcrops were prepared for palynological research, fifty-nine of which were rich in pollen and spores. Three hundred spore and pollen taxa were identified. The studied stratigraphic interval is a 2000 m thick coastal and fluvial deposit formed in a variable subsiding tectonic setting. The Lisama Formation is characterized by the dominance of the Proxapertites group. Some typical Paleocene forms start to disappear toward the upper part of the Lisama Formation (e.g. Bombacacidites annae, Ephedripites vanegensis, Retidiporites magdalenensis), and are followed by a barren interval probably linked to intense oxidation during paleosol development (the uppermost 266 m of the Lisama Formation). In the La Paz Formation there is a progressive appearance of early and middle Eocene species (e.g. Cyclusphaera scabrata, Foveotriporites hammenii, Monoporopollenites annulatus, Perfotricolpites digitatus, Spirosyncolpites spiralis, Striatopollis catatumbus, Bombacacidites gonzalezii). This biostratigraphic evidence indicates that an early-middle Eocene hiatus in the eastern area of the Middle Magdalena Valley basin is not present, as many authors have previously suggested. One new pollen genus, Foveomonoporites, and two new pollen species, Foveomonoporites variabilis and Psilamonocolpites operculatus are described and illustrated.
3687567|Bulk maceration and sieving of terrestrial and marginal marine sediments from the Dakota Formation (Cretaceous, Cenomanian) of Kansas yielded a diverse assemblage of dispersed plant fossils, including 16 species of lycopod and heterosporous fern megaspores, six species of seed and fruit cuticles, four types of bilobed cuticular structures which may be reproductive structures from some unknown Mesozoic seed plant, and two species of algal cysts. The megaspore and seed cuticle flora is similar to other North American floras of Cenomanian age, and some of the species found are index fossils for the Cenomanian, thus reconfirming the age of these deposits. The botanical affinities of many of these fossils have been investigated, based on evidence from megaspore wall ultrastructure, morphology, associated microspores, and occurrence in-situ in megafossils. The suggested affinities of some of the megaspores, based on this and previous studies, are as follows: Arcellites and Molaspora - Marsiliales; Ariadnaesporites - Salviniales; Paxillitriletes and Minerisporites - Isoetales; Erlansonisporites - Selaginellales.
3687499|Three new dinoflagellate cyst species are described from Albian sediments penetrated at Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 363, located in the South Atlantic Ocean, offshore Namibia. The new species are Endoscrinium tabulatum sp. nov., Walvisia woodii gen. et. sp. nov., and Gordiacysta coronota gen. et. sp. nov.
3687427|Spiniferites cysts with 2P archeopyles were recovered from Recent unconsolidated detrital material in Hidden Basin, British Columbia, Canada. Viable cysts were excysted to produce two possibly new species of Gonyaulax, G. sp. 1 and G. sp. 2. These cysts, which were also found in palynologically treated samples, are described as species of Spiniferites. Gonyaulax sp. 1 is similar to G. alaskensis Kofoid. G. sp. 2 may be an "immature" example of G. sp. 1 or it may be a separate species. The cysts of G. sp. 1 and G. sp. 2 are indistinguishable and are part of a large group of Spiniferites 2P cysts found in Hidden Basin.
3687754|The Lower-Middle Jurassic dinoflagellate cyst Fromea elongata Beju 1971 is superficially similar to the typically Lower Cretaceous species Wallodinium cylindricum (Habib 1970) Duxbury 1983. Fromea elongata is transferred to Phallocysta Drhfer & Davies 1980 by virtue of its anterior intercalary periarcheopyle; the specific diagnosis is emended to include this periarcheopyle type. Andreedinium Below 1987 is considered to be a junior synonym of Phallocysta and A. arcticum Below 1987 is transferred to Phallocysta. The uppermost Jurassic-Cretaceous Wallodinium cylindricum is emended largely to note the loose mutual contact of the two cyst walls and the apical peri- and endoarcheopyles, the principal periarcheopyle suture of which appears to be indicative of a gonyaulacacean paratabulation. Wallodinium Loeblic & Loeblich 1968 is therefore emended to include epicavate forms and to note its apparent gonyaulacacean paratabulation. The range of Phallocysta elongata is uppermost Toarcian (Lower Jurassic) to lower Bajocian (Middle Jurassic); all known records are from Europe. Wallodinium cylindricum has been observed from the Kimmeridgian (Upper Jurassic) to the lowermost Cenomanian (Upper Cretaceous) of the North Atlantic, Europe and North Africa; it is most common and persistent in the Lower Cretaceous.
3687339|A palynological sequence is described from the Neocomian of the Carpentaria Basin in Northern Queensland. Emphasis is given to the dinoflagellate biostratigraphy in the oldest marine Cretaceous sequence known from eastern Australia. The phytoplankton documentation includes 72 species (and 2 lower categories) assigned to 38 genera. Three informal intervals are described in chronological succession as zones DK1, DK2, and DK3, and their lower limits are marked by the oldest stratigraphic appearances of certain widely known dinoflagellate species; namely Chlamydo-phorella nyei, Dingodinium cerviculum, Muderongia tetracantha, M. staurota, Odontochitina operculata, and Canningia colliveri. Restricted stratigraphic occurrences of certain dinoflagellate species in Australia, Europe, and North America are taken as evidence for tentatively dating zone DK1 as latest Jurassic-Berriasian, zone DK2 as Valanginian, and zone DK3 as Hauterivian. Contemporaneous spore and pollen subzones of the Murospora florida Zone in Queensland are dated by direct association with the dinoflagellate record. Geological age and paleoenvironments of the associated Gilbert River Formation, Helby Beds, and basal part of the Rolling Downs Group are briefly summarized. Palynology indicates that the base of the Rolling Downs Group becomes progressively younger to the south, reflecting diachronous facies boundaries as a Neocomian sea gradually transgressed in that direction.
3687585|The pollen wall of Ephedra foliata was examined by LM, SEM and TEM. The pollen wall consists of three layers: ectexine, foot layer and endexine. The ectexine has a solid tectum underlain by infratectal processes. The infratectal components appear granular in dried grains but there are columellae-like rods in fresh fixed grains that were not subject to dehydration and the elevation of ridges. The Ephedra foot layer is part of the ectexine and has the same contrast. There is a white line lamellation between the foot layer and outer component of the endexine that is probably a junction plane between units of the foot layer and the endexine. The endexine consists of many cylindrical sheets that extend parallel with the long axis of the pollen grain. These sheets appear interconnected and may be branched or recurved in some sites. In pollen that had been acetolyzed the endexine was stained lighter than the ectexine, the reverse of most fresh grains. This is due to the endexine being porous and the material held in it is easily extracted by washing, acetolysis, etc. In dried and acetolized pollen grains the ridges are elevated and the lamellae of the endexine are generally appressed. While in fresh fixed pollen the ridges are flattened and the endexine shows gaps between the lamellae. The intine is thick in fresh fixed mature pollen but we have seen no indication of areas having an exceptionally thick intine that could be considered apertural. The microsporangium of Ephedra is surrounded by a peritapetal lamellation, as in angiosperms. This lamellation extends between tapetal cells as "tapetal (cell) markers." The orbicules of Ephedra show a lamellation like those of conifers and angiosperms where such a lemellation results from the formative process. Orbicules of Ephedra are generally large and easily removable from the anthers, therefore they could be favorable objects for study of exine chemistry, function and structure. There is great variation in pollen morphological characteristics such as size, number and shape of ridges and outline of pollen grains from an individual plant and even within a single microsporangium. This would make it difficult to determine affinities of fossil polyplicate pollen with extant species.
40072745|Palynology is the main method of correlating the subsurface glaciogenic Al Khlata Formation (Pennsylvanian to Lower Permian) of Oman due to the extreme lateral variability of facies and poor seismic resolution. The chief operating company in Oman, Petroleum Development Oman (PDO), has developed a robust in-house palynozonation during almost 40 years of exploration and production based on thousands of samples and hundreds of well sections. In this paper, the formal definitions of the biozones are published and the biozones are correlated in detail with faunally-calibrated palynomorph biozones in Western Australia. This allows correlation to the standard Russian stages. Seven biozones are distinguished. The oldest two subdivisions, biozones 2159A and 2159B, of probable Late Pennsylvanian age, are characterized by low diversity assemblages of Punctatisporites and monosaccate pollen. Biozone 2159A has a lower proportion of monosaccate pollen than Biozone 2159B. Biozone 2165 A, of probable Asselian age, is characterized by common cingulicamerate spores and the Microbaculispora Group. Biozone 2165B contains common Horriditriletes Group, and is likely to be Asselian-Sakmarian in age. The Biozone 2141A is characterized by common taeniate and non-taeniate bisaccate pollen and Cycadopites cymbatus, particularly toward the top. The succeeding Biozone 2141B is recognized by common Microbaculispora Group and Cycadopites cymbatus. Biozones 2141 A to 214 1C are believed to be Sakmarian in age. The youngest unit, Biozone 2141C, is characterized by the Microbaculispora and Horriditriletes groups, with the former being more abundant. This seven-fold subdivision is a significant improvement on previous palynozonations of the Al Khlata Formation, which only allowed three- or four-fold subdivisions. However, there still remain considerable uncertainties in dating the lowermost biozones, 2159A and 2159B. Improvements in the dating of the Al Khlata Formation are most likely to come from palynological correlations with radiometrically-or faunally-dated successions in South America, eastern Australia, and southern Africa.
3687516|The recovery of numerous, well-preserved dinoflagellate specimens representing a population of Alterbia acutula (Wilson) Lentin & Williams from the Maestrichtian Monmouth Formation of Maryland has made possible, an assessment of the morphological variability of the species. The close affinity of A. acutula and A. asymmetrica (Wilson) Lentin & Williams is discussed. A. recticornis (Vozzhennikova) Lentin & Williams and A. curvicornis (Vozzhennikova) Lentin & Williams are herein considered junior synonyms of A. acutula.
3687735|Palynomorphs record the establishment of modern conditions in the subtropical North Atlantic during the early Pleistocene. Prior to 1.4 Ma, muds on both the New Jersey shelf and the Iberia Abyssal Plain contained relatively few terrestrial palynomorphs, and had a dinocyst flora rich in Operculodinium israelianum and other dinocyst taxa recording warmer surface waters than at present (e.g., Tectatodinium pellitum, Lingulodinium machaerophorum, and Polysphaeridium zoharyi). Over a span of 250 ka, this palynological assemblage was succeeded by one rich in pollen and with a dinocyst flora similar to the "modern" flora, i.e. rich in Operculodinium centrocarpum, Bitectatodinium tepikiense, Spiniferites spp. (predominantly S. ramosus), and Brigantedinium spp. (predominantly B. simplex). The synchronous palynological changes in such different geological settings in the eastern and western subtropical North Atlantic are attributed to global climatic deterioration and the expansion of ice sheets in the northern hemisphere. Climatic cooling increased the velocity of the Gulf Stream and other surface currents in the subtropical gyre, causing the gyre to contract and pull away from the continents. Glacioeustatically lowered sea levels also exposed a large percentage of the continental shelf areas, and together with other bathymetric highs like the Charleston Bump, deflected the gyre boundary currents (like the Gulf Stream) offshore. Consequently, surface waters of polar origin were able to penetrate between the warm waters of the gyre and the North American continent north of Cape Hatteras in the west, and Iberia in the east, around 1.4 Ma. This paleoceanographic change increased the area of "neritic" sedimentation at mid latitudes in the North Atlantic, allowing greater terrestrial influx beyond the shelfbreak.
27784297|A palynological analysis was undertaken on 16 samples from seven piston cores collected along two offshore transects near Seymour and James Ross Islands. Diverse assemblages of reworked marine microplankton (including organic-walled dinoflagellate cysts, cymatiosphaerids, leiospheres, and other acritarchs) and terrestrial palynomorphs (including pollen and spores) were recovered from glacio-marine sediments of late Pleistocene age. Among the reworked taxa, four species belonging to the acritarch genus Palaeostomocystis Deflandre 1937 comprise up to 17% of all palynomorphs. Highest abundances were recorded from sites close to the coast. The potential use of Palaeostomocystis as a proxy for early ice-sheet development on the Antarctic margins is evaluated in light of earlier studies. This evaluation suggests that the high abundances of Palaeostomocystis on the Antarctic Peninsula reflect neritic-type environments (shallow waters, bay-like areas, or marginal seas) and sub-polar to polar conditions as exist in the Bering Sea, Greenland margins, and other subarctic to arctic areas today.
3687376|Packrat (Neotoma spp.) middens contain abundant and well-preserved pollen. Pollen analysis complements macrofossil analysis of these biogenic deposits because it reflects both local and regional vegetation patterns. However, variability among and within middens is high, and the accuracy with which midden pollen reflects vegetation is lessened by this variability. The variability results both from midden inhomogeneity and from differences in the relative importance of the four major sources of pollen in middens: the air, plant material collected by the packrat, packrat feces, and the pelt of the packrat. The variability due to midden inhomogeneity is reduced by analyzing aliquots from large (ca 500 g) middens rather than the small (ca 10 g) subsamples used by previous researchers. The comparison of fossil sequences from Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona, and Owl Canyon, Colorado, demonstrates the value of this procedure.
3687374|Rationalization of the taxonomy of pollen grains referable to Papillopollis has been necessary so that the majority of specimens encountered in the Senonian succession of Portugal can be identified. Revised diagnoses are provided for P. aradaensis Kedves & Pittau, P. aveiroensis Kedves & Pittau, P. minimalis Pacltov & Krutzsch, P. rugulatus Kedves & Pittau and P. santonius Pacltov & Krutzsch; one new species, P. barbosae, is erected. The degree of morphological variation allowed for these species is greater than in previous descriptions of forms of Papillopollis and enables the removal of seventeen other taxa which lack reliable distinguishing characters by placing them in synonymy. The sculpture of the pollen grains described ranges from essentially granulate to minutely papillate. The sexine at the poles is typically fissured or reduced to small granular or papillate masses or bodies, but can be absent altogether. These areas of modified exine may have had a harmomegathic function. Thin sections of several species reveal that their wall structure is similar, both adjacent to the apertures and elsewhere. It resembles most closely the composition of the exine of grains produced by extant members of the wind-pollinated Juglandales-Myricales complex. Hitherto, most records of Papillopollis species, all of which are European, are from strata dated as Santonian and/or Campanian. In Portugal, where they are particularly varied, they are also common in deposits that are likely to be early Maastrichtian in age.
40984155|Palynomorph Darkness Index (PDI) is proposed as a new thermal maturity indicator. PDI is calculated from measurement of the red, green and blue (RGB) intensities of light transmitted through palynomorphs, using standard palynological microscopes and digital cameras. PDIs determined by different microscope and camera combinations show excellent correlation, suggesting that the method is largely platform-independent, though calibration is required, preferably using photographic filters as standards. Investigation of PDI from experimentally heated Tasmanites reveals a progressive increase with increasing temperature, suggesting that the technique is applicable through a broad temperature range encompassing the whole of the oil window and at least part of the zone of dry gas generation. Potential applications of this inexpensive method include the estimation of thermal maturity of rocks deficient in vitrinite, such as the Lower Palaeozoic rocks of Arabia and the Upper Devonian black shales of North America.
40072706|A palynological study of the Cerrejon Formation was conducted in order to date the formation and understand the floristic composition and diversity of a Paleocene tropical site. The Cerrejon Formation outcrops in the Cerrejon Coal Mine, the largest open cast coal mine in the world. Two cores (725 m) were provided by Carbones del Cerrejon LLC for study. Two hundred samples were prepared for palynology, and at least 150 palynomorphs were counted per sample where possible. Several statistical techniques including rarefaction, species accumulation curves, detrended correspondence analysis, and Anosim were used to analyze the floristic composition and diversity of the palynofloras. Palynomorph assemblages indicate that the age of the Cerrejon Formation and the overlying Tabaco Formation is Middle to Late Paleocene (ca. 60-58 Ma). Major structural repetitions were not found in the Cerrejon Formation in the Cerrejon coal mine, and there is little floral variation throughout. The floral composition, diversity, and lithofacies do not change significantly. Lithofacies associations and floral composition indicate deposition fluctuating from an estuarine-influenced coastal plain at the base to a fluvial-influenced coastal plain at the top. There are, however, significant differences in the composition and diversity of coal and siliciclastic samples. Coal palynofloras have fewer morphospecies, and a distinct and more homogeneous floral assemblage compared to assemblages from the intervening sisliciclastic strata, suggesting that tropical swampy environments supported fewer plant species and had a distinct vegetation adapted to permanently wet environments.
3687669|Specimens of the fungus Reduviasporonites stoschianus (Balme 1980) Elsik 1999 were recovered from the Copacabana Formation of Peru. Biostratigraphic data from smaller foraminifera, fusulinids and associated calcareous microfossils indicate that occurrences are 'Early-Middle' Pennsylvanian ('Morrowan-Atokan'). This is the oldest record of R. stoschianus, a fungus whose quantitative dominance and geographic breadth at the Permian-Triassic boundary is believed to represent an ecological crisis event. The presence of these fungi in a stratigraphically restricted interval of the Peruvian Pennsylvanian suggests a similar interpretation.
3687715|This paper discusses the results of a palynological examination of thirty-three dredge samples from sediments exposed on the sea floor, offshore Western Australia. The samples are dated as latest Triassic to Early Cretaceous, and represent marine to coastal nonmarine environments. They are integrated with the geological framework of the Rowley Terrace, Wombat and Exmouth plateaus, and Carnarvon Terrace, on the basis of palynological evidence derived from regional petroleum exploration wells and deep sea (ODP) drilling. Biostratigraphic affinity of the dredge samples is given in terms of zonal schemes for spores, pollen grains, and dinoflagellate cysts, currently in use for the Mesozoic of the Australian region. The ages of certain zonations are reviewed on the basis of fresh evidence from ammonites, conodonts, ostracodes, foraminifera, and nannofossils. Details are given of the distribution of species, and several species are described and discussed. New spore-pollen species Clavifera deformans and Cycadopites dejersey, and a possible algal species, Bartenia helbyi, are proposed.
3687785|The western part of the North American Cordillera is thought to be made up of a collage of allochthonous crustal fragments formed in a variety of tectonic settings at some distance west of their present location. Paleontological and radiometric age dating of the rocks associated with these terranes is critical in understanding their geological history. The basal conglomeratic unit of the Hornbrook Formation (Klamath River Conglomerate) and isolated exposures of some unnamed, undated conglomerates at the Pythian Cave locality, 40 km northwest of Mt. Shasta and south of the twon of Yreka, California, both lie nonconformably over the basement rocks that form the Yreka-Trinity composite microplate in Hornbrook Basin. Palynological data indicate that the geologic age of the unnamed conglomerates at Pythian Cave is middle Albian, and that of the Klamath River Conglomerate is middle Cenomanian. This study also shows that the Pythian Cave conglomerates have a different source, and have formed in a different environment of deposition. The Pythian Cave conglomerates seem to be the oldest preserved sedimentary blanket deposits over the Yreka-Trinity composite terrane in Hornbrook Basin. Radiometric data indicate that the Yreka-Trinity composite terrane accreted to the North America continent no later than Hauterivian-Barremian time.
3687720|Representative types of exine corrosion, seen on scanning electron micrographs, are illustrated from a leaf mold sample from the corrosion experiment of Havinga (1964). This work complements earlier transmission electron microscopy of the same sample (Rowley et al., 1990). Corroded areas are among the most dramatic indicators and products of exine destruction in samples of pollen and spores from Havinga's leaf mold material. Severely corroded regions, as seen using the secondary emission mode of the SEM, were most often found on exines with a continuous tectum (Myrica, Betulaceae, Corylaceae, Ulmus), but they also occurred to some degree in Fagus and on spores of Lycopodium. In taxa having pollen with a more or less continuous tectum the surface of the tectum was not destroyed but instead became depressed to the level of the floor of corroded areas. This "sunken tectum" aspect of corrosion results from tunneling within the tectum without destruction of the surface. Muri of reticulated exines showed little indication of corrosion. Muri of Lycopodium, considered by Havinga as the most resistant exine in his experiment, were, however, often seen to be somewhat corroded and in some spores severely so. Fractures or tears, common to exines of many of the 19 taxa in Havinga's material, are illustrated for Fraxinus, Fagus, Quercus, Tilia, Pinus, and Lycopodium. Isolated sectors fractured from some taxa, e.g., Pinus and Tilia, are identifiable, but others are difficult to identify. In Pinus, where a portion of a sacculus was broken off, the surface of the foot layer showed hemispheroidal unit-structures. Examples of folding and collapse were especially prominent in Taxus, Juniperus, Salix and Acer. Exines of these taxa were extremely difficult to recognize as pollen grain exines under oil immersion or with moderate SEM magnifications, although at higher magnifications exine structural details were seen to be intact. Small pit-like circular holes were frequent on exines of Myrica and other betuloid grains, Fagus, Acer, Polypodium, and Lycopodium. These small holes may be of special interest since in Lycopodium they have been reported following abiological experiments.
3687501|Maceral analysis of a thick, argillaceous dominated-section from the Wilcox Group of western Louisiana revealed that these litho-logically homogeneous sediments can be differentiated based on maceral spectra. Analysis of the data using quantitative univariate and multivariate statistical techniques resulted in the definition of eight maceral facies. Comparison of the maceral facies with those from modern environments, coupled with a lithostratigraphic model, resulted in a refined paleoenvironmental interpretation: the sediments in the studied section were deposited on the Sabinian continental shelf to the upper continental slope environments and show evidence of deposition influenced by a fluvial plume associated with the western lobe of the Holly Springs delta complex and correlative Upper Wilcox delta complexes. Based on maceral facies, the stratigraphic section can be subdivided into an upper heterogeneous unit and a lower homogeneous unit. The upper unit reflects shallower water depths and more oxic bottom conditions than the lower unit. Maceral facies present in the upper unit may reflect either changing degradational environmental conditions, or may be a result of a change in the source of the terrestrial (phytoclastic) material. The organic matter is comprised predominantly of terrestrial macerals indicating a Type III kerogen. Thermal Alteration Indices (TAI) range from 2- to 2, indicating that the material is marginally mature.
3687461|The geology and inferred depositional environment of the Wannagan Creek site are discussed. The occurrence of Minerisporites mirabilis, Azolla stanleyi, and Dictyothylakos sp. are discussed within this context. A great deal of variation is noted in M. mirabilis, both in the dispersed population and in populations recovered from individual sporangia of Isoetites horridus, the parent plant. Vegetative remains of A. stanleyi are described, and anomalous megaspores and microspores without attached floats or massulae that were associated with the vegetative portion are discussed. Three forms of Dictyothylakos are described, and affinities with the Trichoptera (Insecta) are suggested. The habitats of these organisms are inferred using an interpretation of the geology of the Wannagan Creek site.
3687476|Species assigned to the genus Danea Morgenroth 1968 are characterized as proximate-proximochorate, ellipsoidal cysts that have a gonyaulacacean paratabulation defined by penitabular and intratabular septa and processes of variable height. Two new species, D. abbreviata n. sp. and D. manicata n. sp., are herein described. Detailed analysis of these and previously described species of Danea has resulted in a slightly modified generic concept. Species of Danea may be distinguished on the basis of septal or process elevation, and by the "complete" or "incomplete" development of the septa along the adcingular paraplate boundaries of the pre- and postcingular paraplates. A conspicuous feature of this genus is the relatively small size of the paraplates in and adjacent to the parasulcus (6, as, ps, 1, 2, 1p). As a result, the dorsal configuration of paraplates in Danea and several other genera (e.g. Achilleodinium, Hystrichokolpoma, Muratodinium, and Turbiosphaera) is strikingly different from that of a "standard" gonyaulacacean dinoflagellate. In the "standard" paratabulation pattern, the fourth postcingular paraplate (4) occupies a mid-dorsal position on the cyst. In Danea and other genera discussed here it is the parasuture between paraplates 4 and 5 which occupies the mid-dorsal position.
40072746|Based on the lithology of the Izucar de Matamoros (IzM) sections, and the occurrence of index taxa such as Armeria, Cicatricosisporites dorogensis, Corsinipollenites, Eucommia, Momipites coryloides, Momipites tenuipolus, Mutisiapollis , and Ranuculacidites operculatus, a correlation between the IzM sections and the Cuayuca Formation stratotypes is proposed. The IzM sections are Late Eocene-Early Oligocene, and they are part of the evaporitic member (Mcy) of the Cuayuca Formation. These new data are consistent with the paleoenvironmental interpretations proposed for the formation. It was probably deposited under local xeric conditions in a semiarid climate that allowed the development of grassland (Gramineae with Amaranthaceae-Chenopodiaceae and Ephedra) and a thorn shrub community with Acacia, other Leguminosae, Linum, and Plumbaginaceae. The neighboring communities were probably tropical deciduous forests, low tropical deciduous forest, thorn forest, and chaparral. There were also regional temperate vegetations such as a Picea-Pinus forest, and a cloud forest community. Using parsimony analysis of endemicity, a biogeographic method, a palynofloristic relationship between the Cuayuca Formation and the Pie de Vaca Formation (Late Eocene-Early Oligocene) is proposed. Both formations are within the Balsas Group, and are correlated with San Gregorio Formation (Oligocene) of southern Baja California.
3687314| Quantitative spectrofluorometry is employed to determine the degree of artificial coalification of exinites. Fluorescence spectra of thermally altered exinite (sporinites) vary systematically with increased temperatures of thermal alteration. The wavelength of the fluorescence maximum,  max shifts toward longer wavelength as a result of thermal alteration. These maxima shift from 560 nm in untreated lignite to 640 nm after the lignite was heated to 350C. Numerical values, such as the fluorescence maximum,  max, and spectroquotient, Qs, can be used as rank parameters for coals. 
3687534|A continuing palynological investigation of more than forty exploratory wells drilled in the central Sudan began in 1978. Prior to this time, no deep drilling had been undertaken in the Sudan interior. The subsurface geology of this vast area was almost unknown because of the lack of outcrops. As a result of the new drilling and extensive geological and geophysical studies, central Sudan is now known to be part of the Central African rift system. The wells have penetrated thick nonmarine sand and shale sequences which reflect fluvial and lacustrine deposition in rift basins. A five-part spore/pollen zonation of these sediments has been established as a result of study of more than 4000 well samples. Early, "middle," and Late Cretaceous, Paleogene, and Eocene/Oligocene subsurface floral units have been recognized and palynologically defined. The Sudan floras are related to the Africa-South America floral province.
3687356|Moderately rich dinoflagellate cyst floras were recovered from shales and sandstones underlying the Hibernia sandstone member in the Jeanne d'Arc subbasin of the East Newfoundland basin. Based on these dinoflagellate cysts this interval is provisionally dated as Portlandian to early Valanginian. Two dinoflagellate cyst assemblage zones are recognized in this interval: the Amphorula metaelliptica assemblage zone underlying the Endoscrinium campanulum assemblage zone. Amphorula delicata sp. nov. and Cantulodinium arthuriae sp. nov. are described from the Amphorula metaelliptica assemblage zone and the generic diagnosis of Cantulodinium is emended.
3687540|This paper presents data on the stratigraphic ranges of all known Mesozoic and Tertiary megaspores from around the world and demonstrates the potential of these palynomorphs for dating and correlating sedimentary sequences. Forms referable to more "natural" genera such as Ariadnaesporites and Paxillitriletes, as opposed to those that are based solely on sculptural morphology, are particularly important because not only are they among the most reliable of biostratigraphic indicators but they also have the greatest value to biologists concerned with the evolution of heterosporous plants. There is, however, much work to be done before megaspores can be used on a regular basis for solving geological problems.
3687318|Epicephalopyxis indentata Deflandre and Cookson 1955 was described from Paleocene to Miocene strata of Australia. Recovery of closely comparable specimens from the Tertiary of the Gulf of Alaska area allows a broader characterization of this unique marginal marine to marine organism, which is probably a dinocyst. Specimens exhibit a variable layered outer wall, a distinct inner body and an obscure to distinct structure which may represent either a sulcus or cingulum. The gaping opening seen in many specimens can be interpreted as an epitractal archeopyle; or alternatively there is one missing lateral half, the halves separating along a peripheral flange which obscures the position of a sulcus. Paralecaniella indentata is transferred from the Chlorophyta to the Pyrrhophyta on the presence of an inferred cingulum/sulcus. Fromea staveia n. sp. is described to document the type of obscure cingula possible in some dinocysts.
3687422|A new species of dinoflagellate from the Mid-Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf, Phthanoperidinium brooksii, is illustrated and described. The 1 paraplate of this species is widely spatulate and is in broad contact with paraplate 6, a feature not previously reported from the fossil record. The endophragm and periphragm grade into a cancellous filling which completely fills the space between these layers. The major morphologic features of all the accepted and provisionally accepted species of the genus Phthanoperidinium are compared critically, resulting in the emendation of the genus.
40072703|A new biozone for the late Visan miospores from the Cortaderas Formation in western Argentina is proposed. It is the Reticulatisporites magnidictyus-Verrucosisporites quasigobbettii (MQ) Interval Biozone. The base of the biozone is defined by the range bases of Apiculiretusispora microseta, Dibolisporites disfacies, Reticulatisporites magnidictyus, Rugospora australiensis, and Verrucosisporites quasigobbettii. The upper limit of the MQ Interval Biozone is marked by the appearance of monosaccate pollen. Two distinct associations are recognized; Association A is characterized by the range bases of the diagnostic species, and the presence of a group of long-ranging species. Association B is characterized by the range bases of Anapiculatisporites austrinus, Anapiculatisporites kekiktukensis, Apiculatisporis variornatus, Crassispora kosankei, Cristatisporites menendezii, Kraeuselisporites tendatus, Kraeuselisporites volkheimerii, Raistrickia paganciana, Raistrickia rotunda, and Spinozonotriletes hirsutus, and is represented in the upper part of the Cortaderas Formation.
3687337|The ranges of twenty selected species of palynomorphs define the palynostratigraphic framework of Cretaceous strata of the central overthrust belt of the Rocky Mountains. The palynostratigraphy is based on local ranges of dinocysts, spores, and pollen determined from more than 300 samples from independently dated outcrop reference sections in Fossil Basin, southwestern Wyoming. The stratigraphic succession in Fossil Basin is essentially continuous from middle Albian to upper Maestrichtian, except for a hiatus in the Campanian, and includes about 4500 meters of marine and nonmarine rocks. The most reliable biostratigraphic zonation for the region is one based on local ranges of palynomorphs. Use of both marine and nonmarine palynomorphs not only permits correlation between facies, but also can refine zonation of the total interval. Ratios of marine to nonmarine palynomorphs in the interval studied show a pattern that represents transgression and regression of the Western Interior Cretaceous seaway overprinted by local depositional events. The dinocyst species, which occur in marine intervals of Albian to earliest Campanian age, are: "Muderongia" sp. A, Spinidinium vestitum, Cribroperidinium edwardsii, Ovoidinium verrucosum, Alterbia sp. A, Palaeohystrichophora infusorioides, Surculosphaeridium sp. cf. S. longifurcatum, Chatangiella sp. cf. C. victoriensis, Dinogymnium sp. A, and Alterbia sp. B. Some of these forms appear to be new species. The spores and pollen, which also include some new species, occur variously throughout the stratigraphic succession in both marine and nonmarine rocks. The species of spores and pollen are: Asteropollis asteroides, Januasporites spiniferus, Appendicisporites unicus, Appendicisporites auritus, Tricolpites sp. A, Quadripollis krempii, Proteacidites retusus, Pseudoplicapollis newmanii n. sp. ("Sporopollis laqueaeformis"), Aquilapollenites quadrilobus, and Wodehouseia spinata. Evidence is presented to support our contention that the genus Proteacidites is a guide for the Senonian (Coniacian to Maestrichtian) in the Western Interior and that the "Proteacidites datum" is early Coniacian.
3687607|Nearly 1,400 samples from over 50 sources have been assembled and analyzed to characterize the contemporary pollen rain of the arid western U.S.A. Of the nearly 300 pollen types recorded, Pinus, Quercus, and Cupressaceae are the most common arboreal types; Chenopodiaceae - Amaranthus, Gramineae, Artemisia, Ambrosia, and "Other Compositae" are the most frequent non-arboreal pollen types. Forest vegetation is represented by 661 samples, steppe by 450 samples, and desert by 116 samples. Ambrosia, Cactaceae, Cruciferae, Leguminosae, Larrea, Malvaceae, Nyctaginaceae, and Prosopis achieve maximum percentages in hot - dry climate (>20C mean annual temperature and <250 mm mean annual precipitation); Artemisia, Juniperus, Sarcobatus, Caryophyllaceae, Liguliflorae, Other Compositae, and Polygonaceae have minor peaks in cold dry climate (<15C and <250 mm); Arceuthobium, Abies, Picea, Pinus, Pseudotsuga, Sequoiadendron, Tsuga heterophylla, and T. mertensiana reach maxima in cool moist climate (10-15C, 500-2000 mm); and Cyperaceae, Umbelliferae, and Salix reach maxima in cold wet climate (<5C and >2000 mm). The frequency distribution of dissimilarity values among vegetation types is similar to that of other surface sample studies, with squared-chord-distances <0.15, five times more likely to be same-type comparisons than different-type. Holocene temperature and precipitation curves for three western U.S.A. sites, based on the closest analogs in the contemporary surface samples, exhibit the "early Holocene Xerothermic" of the Pacific Northwest and early Holocene moistness of the Southwest.
3687600|An integrated biochronological and physical stratigraphic approach was used as the basis to determine the stratigraphic position of the "Faja Gris" of the Mealla Formation at Garabatal Creek, NW Argentina. The relative dryness that influenced the sediments and the palynological assemblage of the "Faja Gris" can be correlated with an episode of relative low sea level in the marine Atlantic basins during the Riochican Land Mammal Age (Middle to Late Paleocene). The comparison of fossil genera with extant taxa permits recognition of several paleocommunities, namely marsh, lacustrine, fluvial, montane forest, cloudy forest, transitional forest and steppe. The megaspore species Grapnelispora evansii has its youngest and northernmost occurrence in the Mealla Formation. Based on the palynological and sedimentological results, the analyzed profile would be located on the calcareous pelite plain environment defined by Gomez Omil et al. (1989) for the "Faja Gris."
3687740|Cooling paleoclimates over the period ca. 42 Ma to ca. 33 Ma were the driving force for the gradual disappearance of tropical and subtropical elements and the appearance of cooler elements in the palynofloras of east Texas. As a consequence, 11 palynomorph assemblage zones, one range zone and three biohorizons are recognized in 209 samples from 15 sections of the Crockett, Yegua, Caddell, Manning and Catahoula formations. From oldest to youngest, the succession of biozones is: middle Eocene Nuxpollenites crockettensis Assemblage Zone, Bombapollis texensis Assemblage Zone, Bursera Assemblage Zone, Friedrichipollis claibornensis Assemblage Zone, and Reticuloidosporites pseudomurus Assemblage Zone; late Eocene Sequoiapollenites Assemblage Zone, Rhizophora FAD, Rhizophora Assemblage Zone (which contains an ancestral Mutisieae pollen type in its lower part here designated the Mutisiapollis FAD and Mutisiapollis Zone), Nudopollis terminalis Assemblage Zone, Nudopollis terminalis LAD, Bombacacidites Assemblage Zone, and Pseudolaesopollis ventosus Assemblage Zone; and the early Oligocene Hypoxylonites Assemblage Zone. The age of the lower Catahoula Formation is early Oligocene based on the occurrence of Kallosphaeridium biornatum from a locality northwest of Huntsville, Texas. A short-term cooling event near the end of the Eocene set the stage for further changes in the early Oligocene. Use of these assemblage zones greatly increases the age resolution available for late middle Eocene to early Oligocene strata of the Gulf Coast.
3687550|The dinoflagellate cyst genus Discorsia Duxbury and its type species Discorsia nanna (Davey) Duxbury are emended. The morphological reinterpretation of the genus is proposed on the basis of new material from core samples of an exploratory bore hole drilled at Puduvoyal, Tamil Nadu, southern India, as well as on re-examination of the holotype. The Discorsia cysts are interpreted as gonyaulacacean possessing a four plate apical archeopyle (tA). The redefined paratabulation of the genus as indicated by intratabular processes is 4, 6, (as), Oc, 5-6, ps, 1p, 1.
40072741|The morphology and ultrastructure of megaspores, microspores, and massulae of Salvinia Sguier 1785 species from Argentina, Bolivia, southern Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay have been analyzed. The analyses were performed using light microscopy, stereo microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. The taxa studied were Salvinia auriculata Aublet 1775, Salvinia biloba Raddi 1825, and Salvinia minima Baker 1886. The spores of Salvinia biloba are described and illustrated here for the first time. The spores of Salvinia adnata Desvaux 1827 were not described here because all the specimens analyzed had megasporangia and microsporangia which had not developed, or were aborted. The megaspores in all the species analyzed are trilete, 224-402 micrometers in polar diameter and 179-378 micrometers in equatorial diameter, with a circular outline, an irregular margin in polar view, and are ovoid in equatorial view. The surface is ridged and perforated and the sporoderm in cross section comprises a compact, two-layered exospore and a thick lacunose epispore which is projected proximally. The apertural area has unique characteristics in each species. The microspores are enclosed in spheroidal to elliptical massulae 145-240 micrometers in diameter. The individual microspores are trilete, regulate, 15-36 micrometers in diameter, and spheroidal. In cross section, the exospore is two-layered. Both types of spores produced by the species analyzed exhibit little interspecific and intraspecific variability. Differences in general shape and proximal characteristics were found in megaspores at the species level. According to these, and previous, results Salvinia is a genus with stable palynological characteristics, all of them related to its adaptation to the aquatic environment.
3687639|The Upper Cenomanian 'black shales' at Aksudere in Crimea contain a distinct palynological association dominated by prasinophyte phycomata, mainly leiospheres and tasmanitids, and peridinioid dinoflagellate cysts, mainly Trithyrodinium suspectum ukrainense subsp. nov. Prasinophyte dominated assemblages have not previously been reported from Cenomanian-Turonian boundary organic rich deposits. Their presence confirms probable deposition under oxygen-deficient bottom waters in this area.
3687806|A study of the Homerian type section in the upper Beluga Formation (Upper Miocene) of the Kenai Group of southern Alaska has yielded two surprising discoveries: (1) warmth-loving taxa and (2) the presence in Alaska of a 'new' gymnosperm family, Podocarpaceae. A well-preserved pollen and spore flora is present in Upper Miocene coal beds of the Kenai lowland, near Homer, Alaska. Stump horizons, abundant wood fragments, wood grain, and amber within the coal attest to a forested swamp. Pollen assemblages from the Homerian type section include elements of both Mixed Northern Hardwood and warm-temperate Mesophytic forests and are far richer than the flora previously defining the Homerian type section, which had suggested a less diverse, cooler assemblage. Within the Homerian type section, the flora exhibits no definite taxonomic chronology; in general, Alnus dominates, with up to 45% of the total counts, followed by Pinaceae and Taxodiaceae pollen types (30 to 35%) and thermophiles (c. 14%). At least 36 genera are represented, including Carya type, Corylus, Ilex, Juglans, Myrica, Ostrya/Carpinus, Pterocarya, Quercus/Quercus-type, and Ulmus/Zelkova, eight dicot genera have not previously been reported from the type Homerian. Presence of these hardwoods in moderate to minor amounts suggests that the climate during the Homerian (Late Miocene) was only slightly cooler than that of the Seldovian (Early to Middle Miocene). Unexpectedly, Dacrydium and Podocarpus are present as minor elements in most of the samples. They apparently coexisted with the other Miocene taxa, because the pre-Paleogene Kenai-Chugach terrane to the southeast, which supplied sediments to the Kenai Group, is mostly of oceanic plate provenance and is unlikely to have been the source of the pollen. A uniform orange fluorescence of all the pollen, including the podocarps and any potentially reworked pollen, also suggests a contemporaneous origin for all the taxa. The flora from the Homerian type section may precede or coincide with uplift of the Alaska Range to the north. Thus, further comparison with Homerian taxa at localities north and south of the Alaska Range will be important as it may reveal a possible rain shadow effect.
3687319|Nine species of Dinogymnium [including D. elongatum n. sp., D. lanceolatum n. sp., D. pustulicostatum n. sp., and D. westralium (Cookson and Eisenack) Evitt et al 1967 emended herein] from the Upper Cretaceous Monmouth Group of Atlantic Highlands, New Jersey, are discussed. Scanning electron microscopy reveals in detail the fine structure of D. pustulicostatum and D. westralium. Wall canals (Evitt, Clarke, and Verdier, 1967) pass through the single-layered wall, and their arrangement at the surface appears to be of taxonomic value. Flagellar pore structures and associated curved ridges and grooves suggest motility and that the fossil tests are not cysts (Evitt and Davidson, 1964, p. 8). The type of flagellar pore structures present on a given species also appears to be of taxonomic value. Dominance of D. pustulicostatum (45-64 percent) combined with low phytoplankton species diversity (19 species average per sample) suggests an estuarine paleoenvironment for the upper Mount Laurel Sand (samples 204-206). Wall canals and the corrugate structure of some Dinogymnium tests may have functioned to prevent cell damage caused by cell volume change during rapid and extreme fluctuations in salinity which occurred in the estuarine paleoenvironment.
3687464|A peridinioid dinoflagellate with just two intercalary paraplates is reported from the basal several meters of the upper Albian Kiowa Formation in southern Kansas. Umbodinium crustov gen. et sp. nov. is a single-walled, subspherical cyst with a combination apical and intercalary archeopyle. Interpreted epicystal paratabulation is 4, 2a, 7. This tabulation pattern has modern thecal representatives among both marine and freshwater dinoflagellates, respectively Protoperidinium (subgenus Archaeperidinium), and the Peridinium umbonatum and P. palatinum groups. Peridinioid plate patterns are reassessed in relation to a primary hypothetical pattern and proposed subsequent plate divisions and migrations, with symmetry considered as an important throughgoing theme. It is suggested that intercalary plates could have resulted from latitudinal division of pre-equatorial primary plates, except in the Diplopsalis group where they more likely derived from division of a polar plate.
3687649|An automated imaging system is described that determines fragment numbers, areas, and size classes of microscopic charcoal in pollen preparations. Charcoal counts made with the scanner are similar to counts made using standard visual methods of charcoal estimation.
40072697|Most pre-Quaternary palynology samples are currently prepared by demineralization of the sediment/sedimentary rock matrix using hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids (HCl and HF respectively). If a consistently effective alternative to this procedure can be developed, palynological processing will be made significantly less hazardous to both laboratory personnel, and to the wider environment. Furthermore, most non-acid processing methods are normally quicker and cheaper than matrix dissolution using acid. Some authors have previously used hydrogen peroxide (HO) to extract palynomorphs by the physico-chemical disaggregation of the clay fraction. However, HO is a powerful oxidizing agent and hence can potentially destroy sedimentary organic material, including palynomorphs. A new method using hot HO, where exposure of the sample material to the HO is minimized, has been developed. Crushed sample material in a suitable vessel is placed on a hot plate for one minute , treated with 15-30% HO for 10 minutes , then the residue is diluted with cold distilled water. Disaggregated sample material tends to float, and is decanted into a large vessel containing distilled water to further dilute the HO. If any undisaggregated sample remains, the procedure is repeated several times if necessary. Relatively indurated sedimentary lithotypes normally require several treatments. The reason for this stepwise treatment is that the organic material is not exposed to HO for sustained periods, thereby reducing the possibility of palynomorph damage/degradation due to oxidation. When the sample matrix has been fully disaggregated, the residue can be further processed as appropriate. In this study, eight samples of Carboniferous, Jurassic, Paleogene, and Quaternary age were prepared quantitatively using the new HO method. These were all prepared using 30% HO. For comparison, they were also prepared quantitatively using HCl/HF and/or sodium hexametaphosphate [(NaPO)]. Quantitative preparations allow the concentration of palynomorphs extracted to be determined, and therefore the effectiveness of the techniques used can be compared objectively. The palynomorph residues derived from these three techniques varied markedly. The HO method does not consistently disaggregate all the sample material, particularly the older and more indurated lithotypes. Some evidence of oxidation effects was observed. Two samples of Mississippian mudstone from the U.S.A. were prepared using HO and (NaPO). Both methods produced abundant miospores , however the HO procedure yielded far higher palynomorph concentrations than the (NaPO) technique. Minor degradation of palynomorphs in the HO preparation was noted. The HO and HCl/HF methods were compared directly on a palynomorph-rich sample of Upper Carboniferous mudstone from offshore Scotland. Both preparations produced abundant miospores. The HCl/HF method had significantly higher recovery levels than the HO procedure. It appears that the HO method simultaneously macerates the matrix, and oxidizes any amorphous organic material (AOM) present. In this sample, the HCl/HF residue was relatively rich in AOM. By contrast, the HO preparation is virtually clear of this phytoclast type, which partially obscures palynomorphs. Two samples of the Middle Jurassic Grantham Formation of eastern England were processed using HO and HCl/HF. The two methods produced abundant palynofloras of similar palynomorph concentrations. Two dinoflagellate cyst acmes within the Danian (Paleogene) part of the Lpez deBertodano Formation of Seymour Island, Antarctica were also tested using HO, (NaPO), and HCl/HF. The HO preparation completely destroyed the dominant taxon,Palaeoperidinium pyrophorum,in one sample. By contrast, the (NaPO) and HCl/HF preparations produced abundant, fully representative palynofloras. In the other sample, the acme of Spinidinium spp. is completely unaffected by the HO preparation procedure. The final sample of this study is an unconsolidated clay of Late Pleistocene age from offshore Scotland. Both the HO and HCl/HF preparations proved similar in both taxonomic content and overall palynomorph yield. The new method of preparation using hot HO has proved to be extremely effective. In particular, it appears to be superior to the (NaPO) procedure for indurated lithotypes. However care should be taken because HO can destroy certain dinoflagellate cysts and kerogen macerals which are especially susceptible to oxidation. Further development work, and more comparative testing of the HO, (NaPO), and HCl/HF procedures, should be undertaken.
41319058|Fourteen samples of the Valga-10 drill core, south Estonia, from the lower Jelgava Formation (middle Pirgu Regional Stage, Upper Katian) to the lowermost hne Formation (lowermost Juuru Regional Stage, Lower Rhuddanian) were investigated for acritarchs. The section is biostratigraphically and chemostratigraphically well constrained; it comprises the rugata, taugourdeaui and scabra chitinozoan zones, the ordovicicus and giradeauensis conodont zones and the Hirnantian Isotopic Carbon Excursion (HICE). The good preservation allowed the identification of three prasinophyte phycomata and 52 acritarch species including the four new species Evittia porkuniensis, Helosphaeridium tongiorgii, Nexosarium leherissei and ?Veryhachium bulliferum. One new combination is proposed: Poikilofusa obliquipunctata (Uutela & Tynni 1991) comb. nov. Comparison with contemporaneaous palynofloras shows that eastern Laurentia and Baltica share a high number of species during the latest Katian-Hirnantian. Some of these species show a potential for future improvement of biostratigraphical correlation between the uppermost Katian-Hirnantian strata of low to mid-latitude carbonate platforms in eastern Laurentia and Baltica. Conversely, significant taxonomic differences exist between the assemblage studied and typical Gondwanan palynofloras. These results suggest that the Laurentian/Baltic and Gonwanan phytoplanktonic palaeoprovinces existed during latest Ordovician times. Published data reveal similar distribution pattern for chitinozoans and graptolites during the Hirnantian. A bathymtrie ridge rise associated with the opening of the Rheic Ocean, coupled with the Hirnantian glacially-driven sea-level fall might have prevented water mass exchange and mixing/migration of phytoplankton between Gondwana and Laurentia/Baltica, thus being at the origin of the observed acritarch bioprovincialism. Additionally, distribution and diversity patterns of acritarchs are compared to those of other microfossils in the Valga-10 section. Near the base of the Hirnantian (Porkuni Regional Stage), benthic organisms (ostracods and scolecodonts) and phytoplankton (acritarchs) show increasing diversity with appearances of new taxa and new morphologies. Planktonic (chitinozoans) and nektonic (conodonts) organisms show a different pattern, with a decline in diversity during the earliest Hirnantian and a marked increase in the later part of the stage. Two alternative hyptotheses are proposed to explain these differences in diversification patterns: (1) the development of a shallower, proximal environment in the locality studied during the Hirnantian glaciation may have been more favourable to the diversification of benthonic organisms; (2) the planktonic and nektonic organisms suffered the effects of glaciation more than benthonic ones.
3687465|The historical development of the study of the Jurassic dinocyst (dinoflagellate cyst) genera Ctenidodinium Deflandre 1938 and Dichadogonyaulax Sarjeant 1966 is outlined, and various aspects of their paratabulation and archaeopyle structure are discussed. The gonyaulacoid paratabulation is topologically constant, with the exception of the insertion of two small anterior intercalary paraplates and/or several pre-apical paraplates in some species. This is true despite geometric changes to individual paraplates, particularly on the ventral area of the hypocyst and on the hypocyst in general. The mode of excystment consists of a principal archaeopyle suture which runs along a line immediately anterior to the paracingulum, the operculum (the complete epicyst) remaining attached at the parasulcus, with no accessory archaeopyle sutures occurring. The generic concepts of Ctenidodinium and Dichadogonyaulax are emended, and two new genera, Bradleyella gen. nov. and Korystocysta gen. nov. are proposed. Each genus is characterized by their overall cyst morphology, including the presence or absence of an apical horn, paracingular crest symmetry or asymmetry and overall crest development, in conjunction with paratabulation (geometric) detail.
3687793|A new genus of Late Triassic palynomorph, Froelichsporites, is created and designated here for azonate, obligate tetrahedral spore tetrads which characteristically are found in Upper Triassic continental (fluvial, interfluvial, and lacustrine) strata of the Newark Supergroup of the eastern United States and Canada, the Dockum Group of Texas and New Mexico, and the Chinle Formation of New Mexico, Arizona, and Utah. This palynomorph is restricted geologically to strata comprising the upper Carnian and Norian Stages of the Upper Triassic, and is a geographically widespread form. This monotypic palynomorph, Froelichsporites traversei (Dunay & Fisher) comb. nov. et emend., is most abundant in the conterminous U.S., but it also has been found in portions of eastern Canada and possibly may be present in Upper Triassic strata of Portugal.
3687743|A number of well-preserved megaspores of Paxillitriletes fairlightensis (Dijkstra) Potoni & Dijkstraisporites helios (Batten) Nicholson & Hall from the terrestrial Barremian (Lower Cretaceous) of Brilon-Nehden (Germany) have been investigated in detail using electron microscopy. Morphology and ultrastructure is compared to that of known examples of Mesozoic megaspores and this, combined with the presence of adherent monolete microspores, indicates an isoetalean affinity for both species. Furthermore, the reticulate body ornament, laesural and equatorial elaboration, and wall ultrastructure suggest a close systematic relationship between these two species. This is new evidence in support of the view that most Mesozoic and Tertiary megaspores with expanded laesural lips and/or zona belong to this order of heterosporous lycopsids.
3687511|Macerations of greenish shales from the Tuscarora Formation (Llandoverian) and Clinton? strata (Wenlockian) in central and eastern Pennsylvania yield a remarkable assemblage of spores and probable spores, dyads, spore tetrads, tubular and cuticle-like structures. These are considered as remains of a pre-vascular plant, terrestrial flora and are discussed according to this interpretation. Although this study is preliminary in nature, we have described the following new taxa: Rugosphaera tuscarorensis (n.gen., n.sp.), Tetrahedraletes medinensis (n.gen., n.sp.), Nodospora burnhamensis (n.gen., n.sp.), Nodospora rugosa (n.sp.), Nodospora oyleri (n.sp.), Dyadospora murusattenuata (n.gen., n.sp.) and Dyadospora murusdensa (n.sp.).
3687804|The Brora Coal, Brora Argillaceous, Brora Arenaceous, Balintore and Kimmeridge Clay formations of the onshore Moray Firth Basin represent an important Middle to Upper Jurassic (Callovian to Lower Kimmeridgian) reference section close to hydrocarbon-rich North Sea basins. This composite succession at Brora and Balintore is c. 233 m thick; it is mudstone/siltstone-dominated and largely rich in zonal and subzonal ammonites. For example, the Callovian succession at Brora is virtually complete, with coverage of all seven ammonite zones. All the five formations examined have yielded abundant palynofloras. The lithostratigraphic units sampled, except the Brora Coal Formation, have yielded rich associations of dinoflagellate cysts. The majority of the Inverbrora Member of the Brora Coal Formation at its type section at Brora is of early Callovian age based on dinoflagellate cysts; this member yielded Meiourogonyaulax caytonensis and Mendicodinium groenlandicum and these species preclude a Bathonian age. This member has been previously attributed to the late Bathonian. Dinoflagellate cysts are diverse and abundant in the overlying Brora Argillaceous to Kimmeridge Clay formations, therefore indicating open marine conditions. The stratigraphic distributions and relative proportions of these Callovian to Lower Kimmeridgian dinoflagellate cyst floras are largely consistent with those reported elsewhere in northern Europe, and the established dinoflagellate cyst biozonations can be readily applied to the Inner Moray Firth Basin. Some taxa, such as Gonyaulacysta dentata, are of distinct Boreal affinity. Furthermore, some minor stratigraphic anomalies were noted, including the range base of Scriniodinium crystallinum being in the early Oxfordian at Balintore. In England and Germany, this bioevent occurs in the late Callovian. Some notable dinoflagellate cyst abundance phenomena were observed. An example of this is the prominence of Korystocysta spp. in the Middle Callovian. This and other quantitative phenomena are of correlative significance. Marine palynomorph diversity increased markedly during the Callovian, stabilizing in the Lower Oxfordian. A suite of characteristic dinoflagellate cysts became extinct in the Middle Oxfordian, and some typically Late Jurassic elements became more prominent at this time. The early Kimmeridgian palynofloras from Ethie are entirely typical of this interval elsewhere in Europe.
3687343|Twelve acritarchs (organic-walled microphytoplankton incertae sedis) including Comasphaeridium caesariatum n. sp. and Medousapalla choanoklosma n. gen. et sp., are described and illustrated. This is the first assemblage to be reported from the Lower Cambrian of the United States. These acritarchs were recovered from the Murray Shale (Chilhowee Group), of Tennessee, a well-dated stratigraphic unit which also yields the oldest known skeletal fossils from the eastern United States.
3687514|Fifty-five commonly occurring acritarch species of limited stratigraphical range and one long-ranging species have been utilized to establish a biostratigraphic zonation of the Shineton Shales (L. Ordovician) in the Wrekin district, Shropshire, England. The succession in the Wrekin district has been divided into eight concurrent local range zones (1-8) based on first occurrence and association of selected acritarch taxa. Thirty-one new species are described.
3687359|The publications of Matsuoka (1983) and Bujak (1984) on dinoflagellate cysts from the Neogene of Japan and the Paleogene-Neogene of the Bering Sea-northern North Pacific areas, respectively, resulted in the erection of two new species by each author which are synonymous. Impagidinium pacificum Bujak and Spiniferites ovatus Bujak are therefore designated junior synonyms of Impagidinium japonicum Matsuoka and Spiniferites hexatypicus Matsuoka. Another species, Spiniferites ovatus Matsuoka, does not occur in the material examined by Bujak. Specimens assigned by Matsuoka to Nematosphaeropsis labyrinthea and Tectatodinium pellitum are reassigned to Nematosphaeropsis lemniscata Bujak and Filisphaera filifera Bujak, respectively. The species Reticulatosphaera stellata Matsuoka, which Matsuoka designated the type species of his new genus Reticulatosphaera, is designated a subjective junior synonym of a species originally named by Benedek (1972) as Cleistosphaeridium actinocoronatum. C. actinocoronatum is transferred to Reticulatosphaera and becomes the type-species of this genus. Specimens assigned to Areoligera senonensis Lejeune-Carpentier sensu Gocht 1969 by Matsuoka (1974, 1983) and Tanyosphaeridium fusiform by Matsuoka (1974) are reattributed to Systematophora ancyrea and Distatodinium fusiforme (Matsuoka) comb. nov., respectively. Bujak also erected eight Eocene to Pleistocene concurrent-range zones, two of which were named the I. pacificum and Spiniferites ovatus Zones. These are renamed the I. japonicum and S. hexatypicus Zones, and the zonation is modified to extend the Trinovantedinium boreale Zone into the early Oligocene, and to restrict the S. hexatypicus Zone to the Miocene.
3687718|Scanning electron microscopy of polished, slightly etched rock surfaces provides excellent observation conditions for palynomorphs. In the present study, samples from micritic limestone-marl alternations in the Silurian of Gotland, Sweden, and from Pliocene limestones of the Bahamas are used. The Silurian limestones contain three-dimensionally preserved acritarchs, chitinozoans, and prasinophytes, allowing the study of the outer and inner wall surfaces. In contrast, siltstones and marls provide slightly to strongly deformed, partly damaged specimens, which become completely flattened and crushed when the sediment is highly compacted. The observation of palynomorphs in polished surfaces can be considered as a complementary method to the standard preparation technique of hydrofluoric and hydrochloric digestion of rock samples, where it is possible that parts of the palynological spectrum may be lost during heavy-liquid separation, filtering, centrifugation, or bleaching procedures. The detailed observation of the polished rock surface covers the complete spectrum of organic-walled microfossils, including very small specimens (smaller than 10 m). In addition, the method allows a view on the palynomorphs within the sediment (in situ) and provides information on the compaction and diagenetic alteration.
3687656| Spores of pteridophytes and bryophytes, and pollen of gymnosperms and an angiosperm are described from nine outcrop samples from the Lefipn Formation, Barranca de los Perros, in the Chubut Province of southern Argentina. The material was collected from a section in the lower part of the Lefipn Formation that contains a marine fauna of Maastrichtian age. Twenty-eight species of trilete and monolete spores, seven gymnosperm pollen species (saccate, colpate and plicate types), and one sulcate (Monosulcites) angiosperm(?) pollen species are described. One new spore species, Rugulatisporites chubutensis n.sp., is proposed. The samples also contain a varied angiosperm flora, in addition to fungal spores, algae (Botryococcus), and rare dinoflagellate cysts. 
40072724|The decline in Ulmus pollen frequencies that occurred ca. 5000 C years ago before present (BP) is a key biostratigraphic marker horizon in northwest European pollen diagrams, although its causes are still a subject of debate. To investigate this event further, fungal spore analyses were carried out across the Ulmus decline at Moely Gerddi, north Wales, United Kingdom. The Ulmus decline was in three phases, with a primary decline with low cereal and Rumex pollen records as the only agricultural indicators. This was followed by a more significant decline, with general forest opening and the grassland/pasture indicator Plantago lanceolate. A third, less significant, decline was again accompanied by cereal-type pollen. Tree pollen frequencies subsequently recovered, with cereal-type pollen remaining well represented. The fungal data recorded woodland taxa and a background level of the obligate dung fungus Sporormiella, a proxy for local herbivore abundance. Sporormiella frequencies increased greatly after the main Ulmus decline, around which there were high percentages of the ascospores of the wood rot fungus Kretzschmaria deusta. The neoecology of Kretzschmaria deusta, and the behavior of its spore curve suggests the colonisation of local populations of already severely wounded trees. At this site Ulmus, and perhaps Tilia were infected at a time of markedly increased inferred herbivore concentrations. Neolithic farming techniques could have provided mortally wounded trees while enhancing livestock grazing, although the role of disease must also be considered. Elevated Kretzschmaria deusta values may be of ecological significance in the interpretation of the causes and nature of the Ulmus decline and similar forest disturbance events, and the indicator role of this fungus in forest paleoecology requires further study.
3687625|The dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from four Lower Cretaceous sections from Melville Island, Axel Heiberg Island and Ellesmere Island in the Northwest Territories, Canada are described. The sections represent the upper part of the Isachsen Formation and the Christopher Formation. The strata studied comprise a composite stratigraphic section of approximately 1400 m of shale and siltstone deposits. The study of 33 samples yielded 83 dinoflagellate cyst species, which date the strata as late Barremian to early late Albian. The flora discussed is correlative with assemblages described from other parts of the arctic area. This study provides new and detailed palynological information about the Lower Cretaceous of the Arctic Islands. Comments are included on the morphology and ranges of: Acanthaulax sp. aff. A.? tenuiceras, Apteodinium sp. cf. A. maculatum ssp. grande, Balmula sp. cf. B. tripenta, Batioladinium longicornutum, Batioladinium shaftesburiense, Canningia reticulata, Catastomocystis spinosa, Circulodinium sp. cf. C. attadalicum, Conosphaeridium sp., Cribroperidinium sp. aff. C. conopium, Fromea triquetra, Muderongia pariata, Nyktericysta davisii, Nyktericysta? vitrea, Nyktericysta sp., Pseudoceratium sp. aff. P. toveae, Pseudoceratium sp., Rhombodella paucispina, Senoniasphaera microreticulata, Vesperopsis mayi and Vesperopsis nebulosa.
3687447|Reconstructions of Quaternary environmental history based upon modern pollen/vegetation/climate calibrations are more tenable if the factors responsible for variation in pollen assemblages are evaluated. Examination of the state of preservation of Quaternary palynomorphs provides quantitative data concerning the degree of information loss due to alteration of pollen assemblages by syndepositional and post-depositional deterioration. The percentage, concentration, and influx values for total indeterminable pollen are useful criteria in providing an objective and quantitative basis for evaluating the comparability of pollen spectra within and between sites. Supporting data concerning sediment particle-size distribution, organic matter content, and concentration, influx, and taxonomic composition of both determinable pollen and plant macrofossils aid in reconstructing past depositional environments. The potential is high for deterioration of pollen in sediments from the southeastern United States, although considerable variation is found in both kind and degree of deterioration between lacustrine and alluvial sites of different ages and in different latitudes. Modern analogs are a basis for late Quaternary environmental reconstructions when pollen deterioration has not significantly biased the information content of fossil pollen assemblages.
3687700|One of the goals of melissopalynology is to determine the floral sources utilized by honeybees in the production of honey. Because some types of commercial honey are preferred over others, the preferred types are in high demand and are sold at much higher prices. Verification of these preferred (premium) types of honey is often difficult because many of them come from plant sources that are either weak pollen producers or have pollen that is under-represented in honey. In an effort to verify these premium honey types, researchers developed various methods for correcting the pollen data. These methods produce what are known as pollen coefficient (PC) values. Pollen coefficient values are used to verify honey types produced from floral sources that are over or under-represented in the relative pollen counts of a honey sample. We examine the historical development of PC values, the reliability of PC data, the flaws inherent in the development of various types of PC data, and the steps needed to formulate new types of PC values that would become universally accepted for the verification of honey types.
40072725|A comprehensive review of the lithology, megafloras and palynology of the Dubrajpur Formation of the Rajmahal Basin, eastern India indicates that this important unit comprises strata of Early and Late Triassic, late Early to early Mid Jurassic and latest Jurassic to Early Cretaceous age. The age range of the Dubrajpur Formation is concluded to be Early Triassic (Induan) to Early Cretaceous (Berriasian-Hauterivian) based on palynological evidence. It is hence a profoundly diachronous succession.
40072721|The extraction of palynomorphs from sedimentary rocks and unconsolidated sediments has traditionally used hydrochloric acid (HCl) and hydrofluoric acid (HF) to remove the matrix by dissolution. The use of these, and other, acids in palynological preparation requires significant laboratory infrastructure, and may produce hazardous and potentially environmentally damaging waste. An effective technique of palynomorph preparation using sodium hexametaphosphate [(NaPO)] was recently developed. This technique was initially demonstrated on a suite of samples of Early Jurassic to Quaternary age. In this study, non-acid preparation techniques were tested on 11 samples of Ordovician, Carboniferous, Jurassic and Paleogene age from the UK. In four of the six case studies described herein, the rock was prepared quantitatively using both the traditional mineral acid technique and the (NaPO) procedure. In the Carboniferous case study, the two samples were prepared quantitatively using HCl/HF, (NaPO) and hydrogen peroxide (HO). In the quantitative preparations, the concentrations of palynomorphs can be directly compared. Two non-quantitative case studies were undertaken using (NaPO) only, in order to demonstrate that this method is of practical utility. The (NaPO) and HO methods generally proved to be as effective as the mineral acid procedure. However the results from the three Paleozoic samples proved somewhat variable. The Early Ordovician sample 1 did not break down in (NaPO), and consequently the palynomorph yield from this sample was extremely poor, compared to the acid preparation. Two Lower Carboniferous samples were prepared using all three methods. In sample 2, all the methods were effective, although the HO technique proved less effective than those using mineral acids and (NaPO). In this sample, both the non-acid methods produced palynomorph assemblages cleaner of extraneous woody material than the residue produced by the acid digestion method. By contrast, in Carboniferous sample 3, the acid preparation was far better than those from the two non-acid preparations. It appears that mudrocks which are relatively indurated are not consistently disaggregated using (NaPO) and/or HO. It may be possible to adapt these non-acid techniques so that they are more efficient on these relatively hard lithotypes. The samples would need to be softened prior to treatment with (NaPO) and/or HO. Even on relatively hard lithotypes, some palynomorphs were extracted using (NaPO) and HO. This confirms that non-acid methods can be used on harder rocks if a preliminary age assessment is required and/or the full laboratory facilities are unavailable. The (NaPO) technique proved extremely effective in the two quantitative Jurassic case studies. These were on the Oxford Clay and Kimmeridge Clay formations (Callovian-Oxfordian and Kimmeridgian respectively). In samples 4, 6 and 7, both methods gave similar palynomorph yields. However in sample 5 from the Oxford Clay Formation, the acid preparation proved less palynologically productive than the material prepared using (NaPO). Palynomorph diversity was also higher in Oxford Clay Formation samples 4 and 5, prepared with (NaPO). In samples 6 and 7 from the Kimmeridge Clay Formation, the palynomorph diversity, preservation and yield were closely comparable. However, the HCl/HF preparations proved extremely rich in amorphous organic material as compared to the (NaPO) slides. It therefore appears that (NaPO) is effective at disaggregating amorphorgen in addition to clay minerals. This means that this reagent may be used as an alternative to nitric acid (HNO) and other strong oxidizing agents for cleaning organic residues of amorphous organic material. More studies should be done using (NaPO) to prove its effectiveness in dispersing amorphogen. The two non-quantitative case studies prepared only using (NaPO) were also successful. Three samples (8-10) of Early, Mid and Late Jurassic age and sample 11 of Paleogene age all produced abundant, well-preserved and diverse palynofloras. This indicates that the (NaPO) procedure can prepare palynomorph assemblages from Mesozoic and Cenozoic mudrocks as effectively as the HCl/HF procedure.
3687497|A diverse assemblage of monosulcate pollen was recovered from the Triassic Chinle Formation of southern Utah. Three taxa, Bharadwajipollenites wielandii, Granamonocolpites luisae (small verrucate form) and G. luisae (large verrucate form) are investigated ultrastructurally. The dispersed pollen taxon G. luisae exhibits some features that are convergent on the pollen morphology of the monocot Barbaretta (Haemodoraceae). Other dispersed pollen taxa from the Chinle Formation also exhibit features that are commonly associated with angiosperms (e.g., Equisetosporites chinleana). The occurrence of pre-Cretaceous dispersed pollen from the Chinle Formation with convergent angiosperm characters suggests that these Triassic palymomorphs may have been functionally similar to some angiosperms.
3687518|Six distinctive stratigraphically sequential dinoflagellate cyst communities in the Lower Eocene Nanjemoy Formation (Wood-stock Member) of Maryland, possibly relate to fluctuations in local environmental conditions. Individual species most commonly are not stratigraphically restricted to a single community; however, their relative abundances (in particular, of the dominant species), as illustrated by rank abundance analysis, are unique to each of the six communities. Major changes in species composition and relative abundances are, for the most part, correlative with pronounced changes in the number of species per sample for the sections. Cluster analyses of the ten most abundant species in each sample, which comprise from 76 to 100 percent of all the dinoflagellates in each sample, also tend to demonstrate the existence of the same six diagnostic cyst communities.
3687587|Maize (Zea mays subsp. mays) dominates the record of prehistoric agriculture in the Neotropics. Nonetheless, many significant questions of Zea systematics and evolution persist. Palynology provides a record central to addressing those questions, but determining pollen grain diameter remains a significant methodological issue: diameter is a key characteristic in identification, and diameter seems to be space-time dependent - the latter phenomenon but little understood. One issue in analyzing diameter is the confounding effect of microscope-slide mounting media. This study provides correction factors to normalize diameter among silicon oil, glycerine jelly, and acrylic resin (du Pont Elvacite), the last coming into increasing use without previous study of its effect on pollen grain size.
3687704| The Arisaig Group in northern mainland Nova Scotia has the most complete sequence of Silurian, fine grained, siliciclastic, near-shore marine sediments in Western Avalonia. In this setting, the Arisaig Group received a nearly continuous supply of autochthonous marine and allochthonous nonmarine palynomorphs. One hundred and seventy-seven samples, ranging in age from latest Ordovician?-early Llandovery to Pdol (Beechhill Cove to Stonehouse formations) yield the most diverse spore assemblage yet known from the Silurian of North America. This paper describes the spores and cryptospores and reexamines age relationships of the Arisaig Group, placing both within context of early land plant evolution. Thirty-six species of spores and cryptospores were found in the Arisaig Group. Six new species are Ambitisporites marginatus sp. nov., A. capitaneus sp. nov., Scylaspora asperverruca sp. nov., Chelinospora textilis sp. nov., Hispanaediscus scabiosus sp. nov., and Hispanaediscus imbricatus sp. nov. A new genus, Vermiverruspora is created and the original description of Chelinospora Allen 1965 is resurrected. Six species of Chelinospora are reassigned to Vermiverruspora gen. nov. (C. paravermiculata Loboziak et al. 1988, C. vermiculata Chaloner & Streel 1968, C. ?vermiculata McGregor & Camfield 1976, C. retorrida Turnau 1986, C. rumneyi Burgess & Richardson 1995, C. vermoluta Burgess & Richardson 1995) and one species transferred to Stellatispora (pattersonii Wellman 1993). Four additional sporomorphs believed to be new, are not formally named because better preserved specimens are needed. The Arisaig Group (West Avalonia) is similar to sporomorphrich type sections in the Anglo-Welsh Basin (East Avalonia). Four assemblage zones (avitus-dilutus, brevicosta-verrucatus, libycus-poecilomorphus, and tripapillatus-spicula), and four assemblage sub-zones (A. brevicosta, E. protophanus, C. obscura, and S. inframurinata var. inframurinata) have been recognized. Sporomorphs indicate that the contacts between the Lower and Upper Members of the McAdam Brook Formation and Green Member of the Moydart Formation may be one to two graptolite biozones older than previously reported. The Arisaig palynomorphs support the theory that a major radiation of vascular land plants occurred during the latter half of the Silurian Period. Llandovery and early Wenlock deposits at Arisaig contain only a few species of smooth walled spores and cryptospores. Sixteen trilete spore and fifteen cryptospore species appear between the Homerian and the late Pdol. The tempo and composition of this diversification reflect evolutionary events observed elsewhere in the world. 
3687761|This paper is based on study of angiosperm pollen from (1) 75 upper Paleocene samples from eight coreholes in the Lower Indus coal region of southern Pakistan, (2) two middle Paleocene and two upper Paleocene outcrop samples from the northern part of this coal region, and (3) eight middle Paleocene samples from the Surghar and Salt ranges of northern Pakistan. Forty-five formally named pollen species are illustrated as well as a number of informally named taxa. The known stratigraphic distributions are given particularly for the new species and for taxa that appear to have restricted stratigraphic ranges. The taxa studied include two new genera, Crassivestibulites and Rhombipollis, and 21 formally named new species: Triporopollenites ranikotensis, T. parviannulatus, T. cracentis, T. trilobus, Triatriopollenites rectus, Spinizonocolpites adamanteus, Longapertites psilatus, L. punctatus, L. discordis, L. dupliclavatus, Brevitricolpites vadosus, Myrtacidites secus, Warkallipollenites? medius, W.? solox, W.? exilis, Porocolpopollenites? duplex, Compositoipollenites dilatus, Crassivestibulites karii, Yeguapollis prolatus, Rhombipollis geniculatus, and Polycolporopollenites calvus. Most taxa found in the upper Paleocene of southern Pakistan range throughout that subseries or are too rare to be useful as zonal indicators. However, three species do have range bases or tops that may be used for zoning or subzoning that interval. According to data of pollen and other fossils, the upper part of the Bara Formation of southern Pakistan is probably lower Selandian, whereas the lowermost part of the formation is probably upper Danian. More species of the brackish-water palm pollen genus Spinizonocolpites are now known from the middle and upper Paleocene of Indo-Pakistan than perhaps anywhere else in the world. Normapolles pollen is reported for the first time from the upper Paleocene of Indo-Pakistan. This pollen, the previously reported Normapolles pollen in the Upper Cretaceous of India, and the apparent lack of Normapolles pollen in the middle Paleocene of Pakistan, support the hypothesis of sporadic filtered migrations from Eurasia to the Indo-Pakistan island before the collision of the two continents in the middle Eocene.
3687716|A diverse and relatively well-preserved palynological assemblage has been recovered from the Los Monos Formation in the Quebrada Galarza well, northwestern Argentina. Ninety-eight species of palynomorphs are represented. Thirty-four are miospores (with two dubiously placed), fifty-one are acritarchs, eight are chitinozoans and five are scolecodonts. Two new genera of acritarchs, Crucidia and Hemiruptia, are proposed herein. Seven new species are described: one spore, Acinosporites ledundae; four acritarchs, Ammonidium garrasinoi, Cymatiosphaera apiaria, Hemiruptia legaultii and Polygonium barredae; and two chitinozoans, Angochitina galarzae and Belonechitina holfeltzii. Previously described species of palynomorphs suggest a late Givetian-early Frasnian age for the Los Monos Formation in the Quebrada Galarza well. Stratigraphic and phytogeographic implications of the palynological assemblage are discussed. The presence of several terrestrial species previously recognized in northern Gondwana and in the Northern Hemisphere reinforces currently accepted paleogeographical reconstructions of the upper Middle through lower Upper Devonian. Acritarch data corroborate the existence of important phytoplanktonic links between Gondwana and the Northern Hemisphere via a relatively temperate marine realm.
3687686|This paper describes, illustrates, and interprets Eocene palynomorph assemblages from the North Slope of Alaska, mainly from 31 outcrop samples from seven stratigraphic sections at Franklin Bluffs on the Sagavanirktok River. The top of the Sagwon Member of the Sagavanirktok Formation is shown to be a thin, coaly, apparently nonmarine sequence almost certainly of early Eocene age; the remainder of the member has long been known to be Paleocene in age. The remaining six sections at Franklin Bluffs contain silty, sandy, and clayey strata and are in the Franklin Bluffs Member of the Sagavanirktok Formation in the type area of this member. Dinocyst and pollen data from the Franklin Bluffs Member suggest mainly an early Eocene age, but some strata might be middle Eocene. In all samples from the type Franklin Bluffs Member that contained reasonably well preserved dinocyst assemblages, the environment of deposition was nearshore marine or estuarine. The Franklin Bluffs Member is the temporal equivalent of the marine Mikkelsen Tongue of the Canning Formation, whose type locality is approximately 90 km to the east-northeast. Previous pollen and plant megafossil data from the Arctic showed that the early to middle Eocene climate of the North Slope of Alaska was warm temperate, perhaps nearly subtropical. At least 20 pollen taxa present in the Eocene of the North Slope also occurred as far south in North America as the Gulf Coast and therefore had enormous latitudinal ranges. Several of these taxa appear to have migrated north to the Arctic Coast, probably mainly in the latest Paleocene, at the beginning of the climatic thermal maximum for the Tertiary. However, there is also evidence that plants producing modern-looking grains of Carya, Juglans, and Liquidambar migrated southward from the Arctic to the Gulf Coast after the early Eocene.
3687431|Analysis of fossil pollen from Lake Wabamun sediments record a Late Quaternary vegetational record for the last 16,000 years and indicates that the area between the Laurentide and Cordilleran ice centers was ice free since at least 16,000 years B.P. Pollen influx and pollen percentage data indicate a vegetational sequence beginning with a tundra vegetation from 16,000-11,750 years ago. By 11,750 years B.P., birch and alder colonized the area but was soon followed by a cold climate type coniferous forest composed primarily of spruce with some elements of birch and poplar. A warming trend begins around 9250 years B.P. which culminates in the Hypsithermal. However, pollen preservation is too poor during this portion of the record for direct vegetational reconstruction. Immediately following the Hypsithermal, a spruce-poplar vegetational association was present that was similar to some present boreal forest areas in northern Alberta. Around 2000 years B.P. the pollen influx values decline and suggest a shift to a poplar-dominated vegetation with spruce still abundant. This vegetation assemblage seems to have marked the beginning of the present aspen grove and parkland vegetation found in central Alberta today.
3687589|Decahedrella martinheadii gen. et sp. nov. is a marine palynomorph consisting of ribbon-like bars outlining two quadrangles each encircled by four pentagons forming a spheroidal network to which an internal sac is loosely connected. It is demonstrated mathematically that the observed organization of quadrangles and pentagons is the only possible given the total number of ten. The taxon has been recorded amongst Miocene dinocysts from eight deep sea coreholes (DSDP/ODP) in the northern Atlantic Ocean, sometimes with high relative frequencies. A dinoflagellate affinity could not be demonstrated.
27784277|Variations in palynomorph concentrations and relative abundances, including pollen and spores, organic-walled dinoflagellate cysts, and amorphous organic matter (AOM), were studied in sediment core NC Core 2 from the upper slope (1,030 m water depth) of the Nile Cone, southeastern Mediterranean, Egypt. Each sample represents palynomorph deposition for intervals of around 5001,000 years, and this study provides the first detailed palynological record for the Nile Cone. The dinoflagellate cyst assemblages and AOM production reflect changes in surface water temperature and river discharge in response to climate forcing as marked by variations in pollen and spore indicators of semi-desert vegetation and tropical Monsoon intensity. The basal sediments (approximately 14,6009,500 yr before present [BP]) contain high concentrations and relative abundances of Polysphaeridium zoharyi, Polysphaeridium spp., Spiniferites elongatus, and Spiniferites spp. during the transition from postglacial to interglacial conditions. Variations in these taxa and total Impagidinium spp. suggest a gradual temperature increase, interrupted by a pre-Holocene cool interval around 11,000 yr BP. The high African monsoon index for this pre-Holocene time corresponds with pollen evidence of relatively high Nile discharge. The organic-rich S1 sapropel sediments, dated as around 9,5006,270 yr BP, were deposited several thousand years later, during a time of lower Monsoon index, warmer surface water, and increased dinoflagellate cyst production. This was accompanied by moderate Nile flooding and oxygen-deficient or anoxic bottom water on the upper Nile Cone, mainly supporting the increased production and carbon import hypothesis for eastern Mediterranean S1 formation. Dinoflagellate cyst assemblages in the Nile Cone S1 differ from those of the deeper, more northern Levantine and Cretan basins in the near absence of heterotrophic protoperidinioid cysts, despite the uniformly high organic S1 carbon content. The prevailing climate during the formation of sapropelic sediments in the southeastern Mediterranean was tropical to subtropical, but was interrupted by an early cooler interval with reduced humidity, as marked by re-appearance of Spiniferites elongatus and increased Ephedra pollen. The carbonate-rich surface layers were probably deposited under warm dry climatic conditions with minimum Nile input, but evidence of oxidation prevents detailed interpretation.
3687573|This paper presents the information gained from a palynological analysis of 38 coprolites from the lower Pecos region in southwestern Texas. The study was conducted to determine the subsistence and diet of a group of hunter-gatherers inhabiting Baker Cave, Val Verde County, at approximately A.D. 900. The Baker Cave inhabitants used what was available in their environment for their subsistence and medicinal needs. The probable economic pollen types observed in the samples include the mustard family (Brassicaceae), sotol (Dasylirion), a sunflower type (high-spine Asteraceae), sagebrush (Artemisia), and grass (Gramineae). An important aspect of this study also provides an example of the application of pollen concentration to coprolite studies. This study indicates that coprolite samples containing over 100,000 pollen grains per gram of material usually contain high frequencies of a few pollen types, most of which are economic and were ingested only a few days before the sample was deposited. Samples which contain under 100,000 pollen grains per gram of material may contain pollen types which were ingested many days before the sample was deposited, or are only background, uneconomic, pollen types.
27784304|A multidisciplinary project on an archaeological site on the Mitchell River, which feeds into Choctawhatchee Bay on the Florida panhandle, was designed to understand human adaptations to a dynamic hydrological environment during the Middle and Late Archaic period (ca. 80003000 B.P.). Now in a freshwater environment, on a sandy terrace above the Mitchell River floodplain, the Mitchell River 1 archaeological site contains an oyster-shell midden and other features indicating human exploitation of an estuarine environment. Estuarine exploitation at the site occurred over a long span of time, from around 7300 to 3400 2cal B.P., although the site was abandoned two or three times over the millennia. The site was more permanently abandoned after 3400 B.P. Because estuarine shellfish, such as oysters, are low trophic level species, they have been considered marginal resources, and archaeologists modeling collector strategies assume that people will not travel far to obtain them. Under an optimal foraging model, estuarine resources should have been closer to the site than at present. A multidisciplinary team was assembled to address whether a mid-Holocene sea-level highstand had produced estuarine conditions in the Mitchell River floodplain during the Archaic. Using microfossils and stratigraphy from a dated core taken in the floodplain due south of the site, the project members attempted to correlate the changing paleoenvironment with human occupation and abandonment of the area. Results indicate that, at ca. 7300 cal B.P., when the Mitchell River 1 site was first inhabited, the floodplain was a shallow, open, sedge marsh. The site inhabitants must have traveled some distance to gather the oysters and other estuarine species that were discarded on the site. The earliest occupation was brief, but the site was reoccupied between 5900 and 5300 cal B.P., when the floodplain had become a Taxodium/Nyssa swamp. Site deposits indicate intensive exploitation of oyster and to a lesser extent Rangia, which may have been closer to the site than at 7300 B.P. but still would have required some travel. At some point, the mouth of the Mitchell River was forced eastward, and the bayhead delta, recognized as a 2-meter-deep wedge of sand in the core, was located adjacent to the site. By 4700 cal B.P., brackish water conditions prevailed, although direct evidence of oyster beds in the immediate area is lacking. Unfortunately, scouring of the core sediments sometime after 4700 cal B.P. destroyed the paleoenvironmental record for the last part of the Archaic occupation of the site. However, some evidence in Core 1, along with research elsewhere on the Florida panhandle, suggests that catastrophic storms may have played a part in the more permanent abandonment of the site after 3400 B.P.
3687495|A new miospore genus, Trimurornatispora, is proposed to accommodate forms which possess a triangular outline with concave sides, thickened apices, and an ornament of membraneous muri which form an irregular reticulum. The type species, Trimurornatispora studleyensis gen. et sp. nov., is described from a thin coal in the Cornbrook Sandstone Formation. Associated taxa indicate a Pendleian (Namurian) age for the assemblage.
3687764|Analysis of fossil pollen from the Maya site of Colha, Belize, revealed a complex history of human-caused forest and land modification. Evidence of forest clearing, irrigation canal and raised field construction, and prehistoric domesticated plant use are apparent in the fossil pollen assemblages. Radiocarbon dates attest to a widespread clearing and the early cultivation of manioc (Manihot esculentum) and probably maize (Zea mays) by 2500 BC, with later Maya populations growing cotton (Gossypium) and chilies (Capsicum). The use of pollen analysis at this tropical archaeological site provides a wealth of data unavailable through other means.
3687615|The acritarch (organic-walled microphytoplankton) Bimerga bensonii gen. et sp. nov. has an elongate, bilaterally symmetrical vesicle with the poles bisected into two broad-based processes possessing homomorphic or heteromorphic terminations. This acritarch was first illustrated, and named in open nomenclature, from the subsurface of Ghana and is reported here from an outcrop sample of the Devonian Los Monos Formation and subsurface cuttings samples from Bolivia. The presence of Bimerga bensonii gen. et sp. nov. in both Africa and South America further supports the existence of an oceanic connection between these Malvinokaffric areas and indicates that palynomorphs may provide a key to intra- and intercontinental correlations for the Gondwanan Devonian.
3687703|The quantitative reconstruction presented in this paper documents paleoecological trends of the northern Maracaibo basin (western Venezuela), during the Early Miocene, through pollen analysis of drill core samples from the La Rosa (shallow marine) and Lagunillas (coastal plain) formations. Palynological assemblages were grouped statistically into three assemblages representing mangroves, herbaceous back-mangrove swamps, and inland palm/fern swamps. Mangroves were the local vegetation during the deposition of La Rosa Formation and, after a regressive event, were replaced by herbaceous back-mangroves during the sedimentation of Lagunillas Formation. The palynological assemblage representing palm/fern swamps dominates the entire sequence and is interpreted as a large background signal reflecting transport by rivers. Mangrove communities had few species, and represented a transitional phase in the mangrove community evolution, after the terminal Eocene biotic crisis.
3687621|A new morphologically distinct polygonomorph acritarch, Metaridium solidispinum sp. nov. occurs in the Hauterivian-lowermost Barremian (Lower Cretaceous) strata of eastern England and the southern North Sea Basin. This morphotype is small and rectangular with a simple, long and solid process emanating from each corner and a large pylome. This species is persistent, relatively common and confined to the Hauterivian-lowermost Barremian, and hence is deemed to be a reliable stratigraphic marker. Metaridium solidispinum is, however, most characteristic of the upper Hauterivian.
27784286|A diverse and well-preserved dinoflagellate cyst and acritarch record, comprising 35 genera and 104 species of dinoflagellate cyst and 14 acritarch taxa, is presented for the Lower Pliocene through Middle Pleistocene (4.000.53 Ma) of eastern North Atlantic Deep Sea Drilling Project Hole 610A. The Pliocene samples contain twice as many dinoflagellate cyst taxa than the Quaternary samples but far lower cyst concentrations. The disappearance of taxa during the latest Pliocene is likely to have been associated with global cooling. Eight biozones and four subzones are established, representing a level of detail that surpasses earlier studies. The zones are based mostly on highest occurrences, as these are most prevalent in the Pliocene and Lower Pleistocene. The subzones, based on both the acme and highest persistent occurrence of Habibacysta tectata, appear regionally useful within the Lower Pleistocene. The lowest occurrence of Impagidinium cantabrigiense is a potential marker for the uppermost Gelasian Stage (Lower Pleistocene). While this biozonation is intended primarily for use in the eastern North Atlantic, elements will be applicable across the higher-latitude North Atlantic where calcareous microfossil zonations have reduced reliability and resolution. Most of the stratigraphically useful taxa are illustrated, and selected species are described informally.
3687349| Elongate forms of Spiniferites are a characteristic feature of dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from north-temperate and arctic environments. Assemblages from the Firth of Forth, Scotland; the Norwegian Sea; and the Barents Sea are described and illustrated to document the variation in morphology of these cysts, particularly in the development of the parasutural membranes. Although clearly elongate, these Spiniferites cysts may be distinguished both qualitatively and semi-quantitatively from each other: those from the Norwegian Sea are usually smaller with stouter processes, whereas those from the Barents Sea possess more highly pronounced parasutural membranes than the Firth of Forth forms. It is suspected that either a series of ecophenotypes is present or that there is some morphological gradient within the group. All the cysts described have an identical paratabulation and are, for the moment, assignable to the dinoflagellate Gonyaulax spinifera (Claparde & Lachman) Diesing. The significance of these observations for the fossil record is potentially important in both the recognition of species and the possibility of increasing the usefulness of paleoecological analysis. 
3687763|Togachitina eamesi gen. et sp. nov. is described and illustrated from the Devonian Iquiri Formation of Bolivia. This new chitinozoan is flask-shaped (ancyrochitinid-like) and has a distinctive outer wall enclosing the entire vesicle. This is the second bilayered member of the Lagenochitinidae to exhibit an outer sleeve with pronounced separation of wall layers but the first with an ancyrochitinid vesicle shape. A new subfamily, the Togachitininae, is proposed for cylindro-conical chitinozoans with separated wall layers.
3687755|The application of a commercially available, microwave digestion system to hydrofluoric acid digestion of rock samples for palynological analysis allows considerable savings of time, laboratory space, chemical costs and waste disposal costs. The system offers several advantages in terms of workplace safety and environmental hazard over existing rapid silicate digestion techniques.
3687364|Direct evidence for the location of microchannels within larger diameter structures in modern pollen grain exines is provided by selective oxidation of the exine bordering the microchannels. These large structures form a three-dimensional network that can be seen throughout exines in all transmission electron microscope studies involving experimental degradation of the exine in extant taxa and also in some fossil exines. From our results we conclude that components forming this reticulated pattern must be aligned around channel-containing structures and that the superpositioning of the network of loops can be expected to be mostly radial in orientation, like the microchannels. Our approach was to oxidize the exines of Betula verrucosa and Chenopodium album after first causing the exines either to expand or contract. In expanded exines microchannels were etched out, creating cylindrical cavities 40-50 nm in diameter and the entire exine became highly acceptable to staining. Compaction of exines restricted the tunneling of oxidant into the exine more or less to microchannels. Microchannel zones became 40-70 nm wide and strongly stainable while the rest of the exine remained only weakly stainable. Penetration of stain throughout expanded but not contracted exines indicates the opening or closure of microcapillary space within structures of the exines.
3687672|The Oligocene/Miocene boundary interval at Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Site 959 on the Cte d'Ivoire-Ghana Transform Margin is characterized by cyclical variations in siliceous and mixed calcareous-siliceous deposits. This cyclical pattern is reflected in the distribution of dispersed organic matter in the deposits, which shows an alternation between dominantly marine organic matter and mixed marine-terrestrial matter. There is some correlation between the composition and abundance of dispersed organic matter, dinoflagellate cysts (dinocysts), and calcareous and siliceous microfossils in the deposits. A study of the dinocysts revealed (1) an abundance of inner neritic forms in a deep marine (bathyal) setting, and (2) a pattern of cyclical alternation of the dominant dinocysts between gonyaulacalean and peridinialean forms. Spiniferites spp., and to a much lesser extent Hystrichokolpoma rigaudiae, are the most common gonyaulacoid dinocysts. One sample contains a noticeable proportion (6%) of the outer neritic to oceanic dinocyst Nematosphaeropsis labyrinthus. Peridinioid dominated sections are characterized by large numbers of protoperidinioid cysts. The cyclical patterns of dispersed organic matter, dinocysts, and calcareous and siliceous microfossils are probably indicative of transportation by current systems, climatic changes, and paleoproductivity.
3687340|The stratigraphic distribution of Callovian to middle Oxfordian (macrocephalus-plicatilis ammonite zones) dinocysts from several localities in England, Scotland and France is evaluated. Using 41 selected species and their relative abundances, this chronostratigraphic interval is divided into four zones and five subzones. The zonal scheme is considered to be applicable throughout the northwest European Boreal Province, and is of proven value in offshore hydrocarbon exploration. The following taxonomic combinations are proposed: Cassiculosphaeridia dictydia (Sarjeant) comb. nov., Chytroeisphaeridia hyalina (Raynaud) comb. nov., Acanthaulax areolata (Sarjeant) comb. nov., and Lithodinia borealis (Sarjeant) comb. nov.
41319052|A pollen and spore assemblage of 50 species was recovered from the late Paleocene (pollen zone P5) Almont locality in the Williston Basin, central North Dakota, USA. This palynoflora was extracted from the same layer containing a diverse megaflora preserved in a silicified shale with compressed leaves, and anatomically preserved fruits and seeds.More than 44 megafossil genera assignable to 26 extant plant families thus far have been recognized. The palynomorphs, which are of exceptional preservation, were examined using the same-grain technique with both light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Additional LM and SEM studies augmented the same grain studies to provide an understanding of sculptural features, and additional, rare taxa. Of particular note are the in situ pollen types known from catkins and pollen cones, allowing for confirmation of the dispersed pollen's systematic position by tying it to its parent plant. Taxa for which in situ pollen is known from Almont include taxodiaceous conifers, Betulaceae, Hamamelidaceae, Juglandaceae, and Platanaceae, and several catkins of uncertain affinities, some with monosulcate grains. This study emphasizes the role of palynology in providing an expanded view of the flora from palynomorphs for comparison with a rich megafossil assemblage.
3687606|The Late Cenozoic lacustrine and fine-grained sediments from the south-central United States should contain abundant, well-preserved pollen assemblages; unfortunately, many are entirely devoid of pollen, while others contain only corroded pollen in low concentrations. The absence of pollen in the southern Great Plains is widespread, encompassing many lacustrine and alluvial deposits. This absence or poor preservation of pollen and other organic matter within these materials is probably the result of post-depositional biotic or chemical oxidation, perhaps related to drying out of the deposits and subsequent movement of meteoric or ground water through the sediments. Among southern Plains localities barren of pollen are the type sections of the Clarendonian, Hemphillian, and Blancan North American Land Mammal ages in Texas. Other localities barren of pollen or containing low concentrations of poorly preserved grains include the Laverne (Miocene), Camp Rice (early Pleistocene), and Tule (early-middle Pleistocene) formations, sediments below the Pearlette O ("Lava Creek B") and Bishop ashes (middle Pleistocene), the Slaton (Illinoian), Easley Ranch (Sangamon), Quiteque, Jones, Howard Ranch (Wisconsinan), Clovis, Lubbock Lake, and Plainview sites (late Wisconsin-Holocene), and several early Holocene lacustrine and alluvial localities. Only a few localities in the region have provided reliable pollen records. The Rita Blanca beds in the Texas Panhandle have yielded the only Pliocene pollen record in the region; it indicates a cool-climate sagebrush grassland vegetation. The only pre-Illinoian Pleistocene pollen record is Hansen Bluff, south-central Colorado, which shows local shifts from sagebrush grassland to forest vegetation. Illinoian-age pollen assemblages from northwestern Oklahoma and southwestern Kansas indicate a sagebrush grassland with significant percentages of pine and spruce, possibly signaling the presence of pine and spruce populations in the central Plains. Well-preserved Wisconsin-age pollen assemblages also document a full-glacial sagebrush grassland on the southern High Plains.
3687592|The qualitative and quantitative characteristics of the Toarcian sporomorph assemblages from the Umbria-Marche domain, are consistent with those of the palynological phase VI (late Pliensbachian, Toarcian, earliest Middle Jurassic) as defined by Visscher et al. (1980) in the Germanic realm. The presence of compositional similarities among palynological assemblages from widely separated areas emphasizes the potential of palynology in correlation problems. The Umbria-Marche sporomorph assemblages correspond to an advanced stage of phase VI, where first occurrences of some index taxa, such as Leptolepidites spp., Trilites spp., Ischyosporites spp., Foveosporites spp. are observed, and the genus Callialasporites was represented by only one species, with low relative abundance. By means of qualitative analyses, together with species richness variation trends of older and younger sporomorphs, the Toarcian portion of phase VI in the Umbria-Marche area can be subdivided into two assemblages. The variation trends concerning the relative abundances of bisaccate pollen and pteridophytic spores in the Northern Hemisphere, deduced by comparison with previous data, were related to palaeoclimatic causes.
3687622|Pollen analysis from a sedimentary section in the valley of the Sauce Grande River (southwestern Buenos Aires Province) and a peat core from the Andorra Valley (southern Tierra del Fuego) provides evidence for the apparent large-scale synchroneity of major past vegetational changes and inferred climatic trends during the late Pleistocene and Holocene in this region. Climate before 10,000 years B.P. was relatively cold and dry, both in southwestern Buenos Aires Province and in southern Tierra del Fuego. A climatic amelioration to warmer and wetter conditions during the late Pleistocene and early Holocene is recorded in both regions. Late Holocene climates show greater variability and they suggest the onset of modern environmental conditions as represented by cool and wet conditions in southern Tierra del Fuego, and by arid to semi-arid conditions in southwestern Buenos Aires Province.
3687513|The stratigraphic ranges of seventy-four previously described, readily identifiable species of Devonian miospores that occur in more than one sedimentary basin, are plotted graphically using symbols to distinguish between relatively well dated and less precisely dated records. Gedinnian, Siegenian, Eifelian, and Famennian miospores have been little studied in North America. Four North American sections for which miospores have been illustrated and/or described are in the Famennian and "Strunian" of Ohio, the Gedinnian to Givetian of northern Ontario, the lower Emsian to middle Eifelian of Gasp, and the Siegenian to lower Famennian of the Queen Elizabeth Islands. Until more is known about the distribution of miospores in reliably dated continuous sections, and the ecological and sedimentological factors that control their distribution, attempts to establish a refined zonation based on miospores would be premature, except possibly for the Emsian-lower Eifelian and the uppermost Famennian-"Strunian".
40072739|The palynology of the Upper Cretaceous to Neogene non-marine succession in the Melut Basin, southeast Sudan was investigated. The palynomorphs are overwhelmingly of terrestrial origin, but rare brackish water dinoflagellate cysts and scolecodonts were encountered from the Lower Miocene and Oligocene-Miocene. Mangrove pollen, which is common in coeval West African coastal basins, is rare and inconsistent. Examples are Spinizonocolpites (Nypa) from the Campanian-Maastrichtian to Eocene and Rhizophoraceae (Zonocostites ramonae) from the Neogene. Based on the stratigraphic distribution of selected pollen and spores from four exploration wells, eight informal palynozones from the Campanian to the Neogene are proposed. The zones, in stratigraphically ascending order, are as follows: Assemblage Zone I, Campanian (lower Melut Formation); Assemblage Zone II, Campanian-Maastrichtian (middle Melut Formation); Assemblage Zone III, Maastrichtian (upper Melut Formation); Assemblage Zone IV, Paleocene (Yale Formation); Assemblage Zone V, Eocene (upper Yale and Adar formations); Assemblage Zone VI, Oligocene-Early Miocene (Jimidi and lower Miadol formations); Assemblage Zone VII, Early Miocene (uppermost Miadol and lowermost Daga formations); and Assemblage Zone VIII, Late Miocene-Pliocene (Daga Formation). The ages are based on stratigraphic positions and a series of first downhole appearances of key species such as Foveotricolpites cf . giganteus (Zone l),Auriculiidites reticulatus (Zone II), Ariadnaesporites spinosus (Zone III), Periretisyncolpites giganteus (Zone IV), Retistephanocolpites williamsii (Zone V), Cricotriporites camerounensis (Zone VI), Perfotricolpites digitatus (Zone VII), and Peregrinipollis nigericus (Zone VIII). Palynofacies investigations indicated differences between the Late Cretaceous and Paleogene-Neogene paleoenvironments of the sections studied. The coexistence of structured organic palynodebris with pteridophyte spores, including those of water ferns (Ariadnaesporites), in the Upper Cretaceous strata suggests swampy conditions within a predominantly fluvial setting. The frequent occurrence of Palmae pollen indicates warm, humid conditions during the Late Cretaceous, although seasonal or hinterland aridity is suggested because of the occurrence of ephedroid pollen. Late Paleogene and Neogene assemblages are characterized by amorphous organic matter, fern spores, freshwater algae, and Gramineae pollen. Deposition in lacustrine habitats under warm, humid conditions is inferred. The occurrence of Gramineae pollen, mainly in the Neogene, indicates the development of grassy areas in a seasonally dry climate. A short marine incursion may have taken place during the Oligocene-Miocene, due to the rare occurrence of brackish water dinoflagellate cysts and scolecodonts.
3687620|Study of Palaeoperidinium pyrophorum and P. cretaceum leads to the conclusion that the principal fossilized wall in both species (here termed the exophragm) formed in an extrathecal position in intimate contact with the exterior surface of the theca. Specimens of P. pyrophorum from ten widespread Late Cretaceous and Paleocene localities and of P. cretaceum from the Early Cretaceous of Alaska were examined with light and scanning electron microscopy. An electronic technique for inverting an SEM image (i.e., exchanging light for dark pixels) and a manual microcasting technique provide support for this interpretation. In some specimens, the exophragm encloses a two-walled intrathecal cyst, like the conventional periphragm and endophragm of many fossil peridiniacean dinoflagellates. A minute but elaborately configured structure in a midventral position on the exophragm apparently includes the insertion points of the two flagella; it is illustrated with SEM stereopairs. Pillar-like projections produced where material of the developing cyst wall partially filled trichocyst pores of the theca are especially distinctive features on the interior surface of the exophragm. Comparable structures occur on the exterior of the periphragm in some species of other genera (e.g., Deflandrea, Subtilisphaera, Mikrocysta, and Phanerodinium), where they appear to have originated similarly; that is, from material that formed the periphragm. Such an interpretation accords with the intrathecal position generally attributed to the periphragm. However, the conclusion that the pillar-like structures interconnecting the two walls in still other dinoflagellates (e.g., certain species of Charlesdowniea, Chlamydophorella, Gardodinium, and Dinopterygium) are also trichocyst pore fillings has an unexpected implication: the outer-most wall in many species of fossil dinoflagellates is an exophragm comparable to that in Palaeoperidinium. The further critical study of the exophragm that this interpretation invites may lead to a better understanding of homologies among cyst wall structures and to a more consistent descriptive terminology for cysts with multiple walls. Concepts of the genus, Palaeoperidinium, and two species, P. pyrophorum and P. cretaceum, are emended to accord with observations in the SEM and the interpretation of their principal wall as an exophragm. Nineteen other species-18 listed as species of Palaeoperidinium by Williams et al. (1998) and P. eurypylum, which is reattributed herein to Palaeoperidinium from Saeptodinium-are provisionally accepted in the genus pending clarification of their characters in the SEM.
3687658|The Shanwang Formation, which is late Early to early Middle Miocene based on radiometric dates and vertebrate fossils, was deposited in a small intermontane lake basin (N. Lat. 36.5) and contains a rich assemblage of plant and animal fossils. The chief plant families represented by pollen taxa are Fagaceae, Juglandaceae, Betulaceae, Ulmaceae, Hamamelidaceae and Pinaceae. The combined pollen and leaf data indicate that the Miocene vegetation of the Shanwang area was mixed deciduous and evergreen broad-leaved forest with a humid warm-temperate to subtropical climate. In contrast, the modern vegetation is a deciduous broadleaved forest, that contains very few subtropical elements. The average annual temperature at Shanwang was similar to that of today. The main difference between the modern and Miocene climates is that the annual temperature range has increased (colder winters), and precipitation which was evenly distributed is now highly seasonal (winter dry). A comparison between the fossil pollen and leaf evidence reveals that the chief families of both assemblages are almost identical. Various evidence implies the fossil leaf assemblages are derived chiefly from a local or an autochthonous community; however, the pollen assemblage reflects a more regional character of vegetation and climate. The leaf fossil assemblage, which includes more insect-pollinated plant taxa, affords a better picture of the local ancient flora.
3687390|The genus Atopodinium, described by Drugg (1978), is herein emended. Atopodinium is a senior synonym of Maghrebinia Below 1981 emend. Masure 1988 and of Bejuia Stover & Williams 1987. A re-examination of the holotype and isotypes of the type species Atopodinium prostatum Drugg 1978 emend. and of A. haromense Thomas & Cox 1988, shows that the gonyaulacoid paratabulation is incompletely delineated by ornamental features, and the archeopyle is apical, type (tA)a, with precingular accessory parasutures. Analysis of species previously attributed to Bejuia (Atopodinium polygonalis Beju 1983 nov. emend.), and to Maghrebinia (Atopodinium chleuh (Below 1981) comb. nov., Atopodinium mirabilis (Below 1984) comb. nov., Atopodinium perforatum (Clarke & Verdier 1967) comb. nov.), and here assigned to Atopodinium, suggests that a similar pattern of gonyaulacoid paratabulation can be discerned in each of them. Species of Atopodinium may be distinguished by a large non-ornamented ventral area. The paratabulation is delineated by penitabular and apparently parasutural ornament features (grana, folds, septa, processes). Only four postcingular parasutures are marked by relief: II/III, III/IV, IV/V, and V/VI. The precingular 4/5 parasuture is aligned by the postcingular IV/V. A conspicuous feature of Atopodinium is the operculum adnate to the sulcal as, and precingular 2 and li paraplates. The inferred thecal tabulation is sexiform gonyaulacoid. Species of Atopodinium have been found in Jurassic and Cretaceous strata.
3687650|Dinoflagellate cysts are abundant in modern and Late Quaternary sediments from the southeastern Australian continental shelf and slope. Modern shelf sediments are characterized by abundant Protoperidinium spp., while those from the outer shelf and slope contain significant numbers of Impagidinium and Nematosphaeropsis species. Abundance of the latter taxa provides a useful signature for interpreting sea-level change within Late Quaternary sequences.
3687397|The cryptospores are a class of sporomorphs which is distinct from trilete and monolete spores, pollen grains and acritarchs. These spore-like palynomorphs are similar in many respects to spores of embryophytes. Because immediate biological affinity is unknown for species of cryptospores, their classification is most effectively achieved through the construction of an artificial system. The schema presented here is an artificial one based on morphology and does not represent a phylogenetic classification which groups species on the basis of ancestor-descendant relationships. One new species, Tetrahedraletes grayii is described as the oldest known permanent tetrad cryptospore from North America. Three species of dyads, Dicryptosporites radiatus gen. et sp. nov., D. minus, and Confossuspora reniforma gen. et sp. nov. are also described.
3687463|Of the total of 11 described species of the form-genus Atlantopollis which occur in Cenomanian and Turonian deposits of Portugal, ten were examined with light microscopy, six with the SEM, and ten with the TEM. The outer surface of the foot layer in the apertural region was observed with the SEM. Based on observations with the TEM, the endexine is absent in the germinal area, and the lamellar ultrastructure of the endannulus produces the unusual form of the foot layer. Both the stratigraphic occurrence and regional distribution of these species are limited, as they have been reported only from Cenomanian and Turonian deposits of Europe and the Atlantic Coast of North America. The species composition is different between these two regions, and as yet the so-called typical reticulate forms have not been reported from North America. In both Europe and North America, species of Atlantopollis have been used for age determination.
3687805|Rich and well-preserved assemblages of organic walled dinoflagellate cysts in 50 samples from a 154 m thick and almost complete, Middle Eocene to ?lowermost Oligocene section from the Kysing Research Borehole in eastern Jylland, Denmark are systematically described. One genus Costacysta gen.nov., and twelve species Chiropteridium eocaenicum sp.nov., Costacysta bucina gen.et sp.nov., Distatodinium pilosum sp.nov., Echinidinium? lucidum sp.nov., Hapsocysta kysingensis sp.nov., Horologinella? pentagonalis sp.nov., Operculodinium eisenackii sp. nov., Phthanoperidinium cornutum sp. nov., Selenopemphix septum sp. nov., Svalbardella partimtabulata sp. nov., Thalassiphora gracilis sp.nov. and Thalassiphora microperforata sp.nov. are formally described. The genus Hapsocysta is emended, and is considered to be a senior synonym of Piccoladinium. The gradual change of the dinoflagellate cyst assemblages in this section demonstrates that sedimentation was almost continuous during the time span of ca. 12 Ma. The biostratigraphic resolution based on dinoflagellate cyst events is generally finer than the calcareous nannofossil NP biozonation. A comparison with published dinoflagellate cyst data from the Norwegian-Greenland Sea shows that several important events are mainly synchronous throughout the region, suggesting a general similarity of the water masses. An isolated occurrence of Svalbardella suggests a short cooling event during early Bartonian times. The palynofacies in most of the section is almost purely of pelagic type. A more proximal, mid shelf palynofacies and a distinctive episode of reworking coincide with the Upper Eocene Moesgaard Clay and indicate a brief, but rather large sea level fall during the deposition of this unit. The Eocene/Oligocene boundary is tentatively identified near the base of the Viborg Formation, and approximately coincides with increased reworking of dinoflagellate cysts and a strong increase in bisaccate pollen, indicating more proximal conditions and possibly also a climatic cooling.
3687519|The Coastal Belt of the Franciscan Complex in northern California is now known to contain strata of Early Cretaceous to Eocene age, with the majority of over one hundred samples dated yielding early Tertiary palynomorphs. A single sample collected southwest of Ukiah, Mendocino County, California, has yielded an interesting assemblage of dinoflagellates which was not previously known from the Coastal Belt. The occurrence of several diagnostic species indicates a Danian age for this sample. This assemblage, consisting of some twelve species, is compared to one of Danian age described by Drugg (1967) from the Moreno Formation, Fresno County, California. Genera which the two assemblages have in common include Alisocysta Stover and Evitt 1978, Areoligera Lejeune-Carpentier 1938, Cannosphaeropsis O. Wetzel 1933, Cyclonephelium Deflandre and Cookson 1955, Danea Morgenroth 1968, Deflandrea Eisenack 1938, and Spiniferites Mantell 1850. Five new species are herein described: Alisocysta rugolirata n. sp., A. reticulata n. sp., Areoligera crescentis n. sp., Impagidinium pentahedrias n. sp., and Cannosphaeropsis franciscana n. sp.
3687445|Late-glacial pollen and plant macrofossil assemblages from the Brayton gravel pit in southwestern Iowa, Nichols silts in southeastern Iowa, and Sumner Bog in northeastern Iowa indicate that a spruce-larch forest was present between about 12,500 and 11,500 radiocarbon years before present (RCYBP). Some forest openings probably existed at Brayton and during the lower zone recognized at Sumner Bog, but not at Nichols. All Sites contain pollen of thermophilous species; macrofossils of Quercus rubra (northern red oak) and Corylus cornuta (beaked hazel) at Brayton and of Acer negundo (box elder) at Nichols indicate that some thermophilous plants were locally present. Fir trees were present in small numbers, but pine was absent.
3687350|Fifty-five forms of fungal palynomorphs including spores, fragments of hyphae, and fruiting bodies were recovered from recently deposited sediments of the Luangwa River in Zambia. Twenty forms (36%) are comparable to the propagules of known living genera. The diversity of form and wall structure indicates the kinds of fungal palynomorphs which can be expected to withstand standard palynological techniques employed in the processing of fine grained siltstone and mudstone sediments. The known habitat and host preference of many of the identified forms can conceivably be used to deduce the environmental conditions of similar fossil fungal floras recovered from Neogene sediments. No new taxa are proposed.
40072735|During a detailed palynological study of the Milk River Formation in southern Alberta, Canada, a diverse and well-preserved assemblage of fungi including dispersed fungal spores and isolated fragments of microthyriaceous fruiting bodies were encountered and these are described. Based on ammonites, magnetostratigraphy, and palynomorphs,these strata are dated as latest Santonian to ?earliest Campanian (Late Cretaceous).This palynomorph assemblage represents one of the few documented occurrences of fungi of this age. Eighteen genera of fungal spores and three of microthyriaceous thyriothecia, comprising 45 species are recorded. The fungal assemblage is characterized by species of toruloid spores in chains, and cylindrical spores belonging to Dicellaesporites, Diporicellaesporites, Pluricellaesporites, Reduviasporonites,and Scolecosporites that mainly occur as saprophytes today. Helicoid spores belonging to Involutisporonites and Paragranatisporites are also represented and these generally occur in marshy and swamp-like conditions in an open environment mainly characterized by taxodiaceous forest. Microthyriaceous thyriothecia are represented by several specimens of Asterothyrites menonii, Phragmothyrites eocaenicus, and Trichothyrites sp. Although the assemblage consists of diverse fungal taxa, the dispersed spores and fruiting structures are not abundant, and only a few scattered specimens for many species were recorded. One reason for the low frequency may have been the unfavorable paleoenvironmental conditions which prevailed in these marine to nearshore terrestrial depositional settings. In spite of the low abundances, it is thought that documentation of the fungal occurrences in these strata will be of importance in future biostratigraphic and evolutionary studies of fungi. Many of the fungal species encountered are distinctive and probably restricted stratigraphically, being different from those recorded from the better documented Paleogene/Neogene assemblages, and may prove to be biostratigraphically useful.
3687714|Ninety-one samples from three sections at Fossilryggen in the Vestfjella mountain range of Antarctica have been investigated palynologically. Sixty-six taxa are recognized in forty-eight productive samples from two of these sections: the southern section at Fossilryggen and the NW Nunatak section. The palynomorphs have been subjected to contact metamorphosis and display various grades of thermal maturity, ranging in color from light brown to black. They also display various degrees of preservation. Among the spores found are Didecitriletes ericianus, D. uncinatus, Dictyotriletes labyrinthicus (Anderson) comb. nov., Horriditriletes filiformis, Microbaculispora trisina, M. villosa, Osmundacidites wellmanii and Gondisporites raniganjensis. Taeniate and non-taeniate bisaccates are dominant and include Scheuringipollenites ovatus, S. maximus, Vitreisporites pallidus, Protohaploxypinus spp., Striatopodocarpidites spp. and Guttulapollenites hannonicus. Other pollen-grains present are Weylandites lucifer, Praecolpatites sinuosus and Bascanisporites undosus. Although the sections have been interpreted as being deposited in a near-shore marine environment, acritarchs and algae are rare in these assemblages and include the forms Peltacystiavenosa, P. monile, Cymatiosphaera gondwanensis, Leiosphaeridia sp. B and Brazilea scissa. These assemblages are regarded as being of Late Permian age, Kazanian to Tatarian, and are correlated with Upper Stage 5 palynofloras in Australia, and with similar assemblages in Africa and India. Correlations are also made with other Late Permian palynofloras within Antarctica.
3687551|The use of both miospores and dinoflagellate cysts allows fine stratigraphic subdivision of the Lias in Portugal. Seven miospore Oppel-zones and seven dinoflagellate cyst Oppel-zones are recognized from the late Sinemurian to Aalenian of the Lusitanian Basin, west-central Portugal. These have been independently dated by ammonites, foraminifers, and nannofossils. Notes on assemblages from the Bajocian to Oxfordian indicate a similar potential. Liassic assemblages from northwestern Europe demonstrate a similar yet distinctive dinoflagellate succession and a strongly contrasting miospore succession. Comparisons with the Liassic zonation of offshore eastern Canada indicate a strongly correlative succession with slightly discordant ages.
3687675| The diacromorph acritarch genus Arbusculidium Deunff 1968 is characteristic of Upper Cambrian acritarch assemblages in southern Scandinavia, and of Lower Ordovician assemblages in South America, northern Africa, eastern Newfoundland, South China, and in western, central and northeastern Europe. The morphologic variability within two populations of Arbusculidium filamentosum from Lower Ordovician of Bohemia and China was investigated. A critical review of the literature regarding all established species of the genus and an evaluation of published information concerning about ten Lower Ordovician genera which are morphologically comparable with Arbusculidium, has resulted in an emendation of the diagnosis of Arbusculidium and the following new combinations: A. destombesii var. destombesii Deunff 1968 autonym, A. destombesii var. frondiferum Deunff 1968 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. destombesii var. striatulum Volkova 1988 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. filamentosum (Vavrdov 1965) Vavrdov 1972, A. filamentosum var. coronatum Fang 1987 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. gratiosum Cramer & Dez 1977 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. latum Fang 1987 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. sutile Cramer & Dez 1977 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. yunnanensis (Gao 1991) stat. nov., comb. nov., Ladogella mamillosa (Welsch 1986) stat. nov., comb. nov., Arbusculidium? bicrure (Burmann 1968) comb. nov., Arbusculidium? fulcratum (Burmann 1968) comb. nov., Arbusculidium? fulcratum procerum (Burmann 1968) comb. nov., Arbusculidium? retiforme (Burmann 1968) comb. nov. 
3687688|The Lower Cretaceous Alam El Bueib and Alamein formations in the Ghazalat-1 (GTX-1) well, Western Desert, Egypt, consist of marginal marine siliciclastic sediments, overlain by the Aptian evaporites (dolomite of the upper Alamein Formation). Angiosperm species diversity is reasonably high, and account for 8.0-22.0% of the total palynomorphs. Most of these species might belong to monosulcate, zonasulculate, and inaperturate pollen. The genus Afropollis is emended herein to include forms with monosulcoid aperture. The following two new subspecies and seven new species are described: Afropollis operculatus operculatus, Afropollis operculatus microreticulatus subsp.nov., Afropollis schrankii sp.nov., Arecipites microfoveolatus sp.nov., Retimonocolpites bueibensis sp.nov., Retimonocolpites ghazalii sp. nov., Stellatopollis dejaxii sp. nov., Stellatopollis doylei sp. nov. and Stellatopollis limai sp.nov. In addition, one new combination is proposed: Arecipites pereensis (Juhsz and Gczn) comb. nov. Three palynomorph assemblages (A1-A3) are assigned to the upper Barremian and lower-middle Aptian. These assemblages show close correlation and similarity with the palynozones C-VI, C-VIIa and C-VIIc of the "Cocobeach System", West Africa and Zone I of the Potomac Group, USA. Sediments of the Alam El Bueib and basal Alamein formations accumulated in a marginal shallow marine environment under arid to semiarid climatic conditions.
40984160|To determine the relationship between the spatial dinoflagellate cyst distribution and oceanic environmental conditions, 34 surface sediments from the Eastern and Western Mediterranean Sea have been investigated for their dinoflagellate cyst content. Multivariate ordination analyses identified sea-surface temperature, chlorophyll-, nitrate concentration, salinity, and bottom oxygen concentration as the main factors affecting dinoflagellate cyst distribution in the region. Based on the relative abundance data, two associations can be distinguished that can be linked with major ocanographie settings. (1) An offshore eastern Mediterranean regime where surface sediments are characterized by oligotrophic, warm, saline surface water, and high oxygen bottom water concentrations (Impagidinium species, Nematosphaeropsis labyrinthus, Pyxidinopsis reticulata and Operculodinium israelianum).Based on the absolute abundance, temperature is positively related to the cyst accumulation of Operculodinium israelianum. Temperature does not form a causal factor influencing the accumulation rate of the other species in this association. Impagidinium species and Nematosphaeropsis labyrinthus show a positive relationship between cyst accumulation and nitrate availability in the upper waters. (2) Species of association 2 have highest relative abundances in the Western Mediterranean Sea, Strait of Sicily/NW Ionian Sea, and/or the distal ends of the Po/Nile/Rhne River plumes. At these stations, surface waters are characterized by (relative to the other regime) higher productivity associated with lower sea-surface temperature, salinity, and lower bottom water oxygen concentrations {Selenopemphix nephroides, Echinidinium spp., Selenopemphix quanta, Quinquecuspis concreta, Brigantedinium spp.and Lingulodinium machaerophorum). Based on both the absolute and relative abundances, Selenopemphix nephroides is suggested to be a suitable indicator to trace changes in the trophic state of the upper waters. The distribution of Lingulodinium machaerophorum is related to the presence of river-influenced surface waters, notably the Nile River. We suggest that this species might form a suitable marker to trace past variations in river discharge, notably from the Nile.
3687701|Diverse and relatively well preserved palynological assemblages from five outcrop sections sampled in the Numidian Flysch of northern Tunisia are presented and discussed. They provide valuable information for age determination and correlation within the Numidian succession. The dinoflagellate cyst zonation scheme of Wilpshaar et al. (1996) for the Oligocene through earliest Miocene of the central Mediterranean area is successfully applied. The basal portion of the Numidian Flysch, which exhibits a faulted contact with the underlying units, crops out in the El Gassaa and Tabarka sections and is dated as early Early Oligocene (Areosphaeridium diktyoplokum-Reticulatosphaera actinocoronata Zones of Brinkhuis and Biffi, 1993), thus definitely older than previously inferred on the basis of scarce foraminiferal faunas. The youngest beds analysed in the Cap Serrat section are dated as Aquitanian in age (Membranilarnacia ?picena Zone of Brinkhuis et al., 1992) but, as the topmost portions of the Cap Serrat and Ras El Korane sections comprise palynologically barren sandstones and conglomerates cut by the topographic surface, accurate biostratigraphic information concerning the top of the Numidian Flysch is still lacking. Dinoflagellate cyst distribution in the examined sections suggests that the first appearance of Tuberculodinium vancampoae may be used as a confirmatory event for recognition of the Reticulatosphaera actinocoronata Zone of Brinkhuis and Biffi (1993) in the Early Oligocene at low paleolatitudes, whereas the extinction of Wetzeliella gochtii may be used for recognition of the Chiropteridium lobospinosum Zone of Wilpshaar et al. (1996). Furthermore, the first appearance of the trilete spore Magnastriatites howardii Germeraad, Hopping & Muller 1968 and the abrupt increase of bisaccate pollen prove to be locally important for the delimitation of the Eocene/Oligocene boundary.
40984070|Pollen concentrations containing abundant Zea mays pollen grains are AMS radiocarbon dated 3940  40 to 2450  40 C years BP. The maize pollen is from two prehistoric woodrat (Neotoma) middens that occur in fractures in the south-facing sandstone cliff at Chaco Culture National Historical Park. The diameters of the Archaic-age maize pollen grains are significantly larger than Puebloan and modern maize pollen. The size distributions of the earliest Zea grain populations are not normal, suggesting the possibility that more than one variety of maize is represented by the pollen. The occurrence of large numbers of maize pollen grains as well as pollen from weedy plants indicates the nearby presence of an Archaic cornfield, now buried in alluvial fill adjacent to the cliff. It was also found that the AM S radiocarbon ages of the pollen concentrations differ significantly from the age of twigs from the same woodrat middens. Because of the strong age differences of components of woodrat middens, pollen assemblages should be dated independent of plant macrofossils.
3687436|Five chitinozoan species, Conochitina exilis n. sp., C. kryos n. sp., C. poumoti Combaz & Peniguel 1972, Lagenochitina boja n. sp., and L. esthonica Eisenack 1955, are described from the Ordovician (Arenig-? Llanvirn) Valhallfonna Formation at Ny Friesland, Spitsbergen, using scanning electron microscopy. Morphological variation within species includes substantial variability in length. Both species of Lagenochitina possess a prosome and an operculum. The distribution of species seems to be facies dependent, and varies in accordance with trilobite faunas. Abundance of chitinozoans and numbers of species are low compared with other recorded occurrences. The distribution of species is compared with that in faunas from Estonia, Sweden, England, Western Australia, and Eastern New York.
3687483|Four species of Lagenicula: L. clavata, L. expansa, L. multiapicalis, and L. microechinata, and two species of Hystricosporites: H. pseudoporatus and H. varius, from the Tuttle Formation are described as new. These megaspores are collectively assigned to the Multiapicalis Assemblage Biozone which, utilizing associated miospores (e.g. Retispora lepidophyta), may be correlated to the Tnla zone of the Tournaisian of Belgium. Two megaspore assemblage biozones, the Magnifica (lower) and the Multiapicalis Zones (upper) are recognized in the Tuttle Formation in the study. The Multiapicalis Assemblage Biozone is described as new.
3687802| Palynomorph assemblages from an extended succession of Mississippian (Visan) sediments ranging in age from probable late Arundian to the latest Brigantian exposed on the East Fife coast of Scotland, United Kingdom have been investigated. The stratigraphical distribution of miospores closely reflects that established elsewhere in central and southern Scotland. The occurrence of certain stratigraphically significant miospore taxa permits the assignment of chronostratigraphic ages to locally defined lithostratigraphic units. The latest Asbian to Brigantian (VF miospore Biozone) age of the upper part of the Sandy Craig, Pathhead and Lower Limestone formations is confirmed. The Pittenweem Formation and remainder of the Sandy Craig Formation are both assigned to the NM miospore Biozone of Asbian age and the Anstruther Formation is assigned a late Arundian or Holkerian (TC miospore Biozone) age. The Fife Ness Formation, originally assigned to the early Asbian and considered older than the Anstruther Formation, yielded evidence of both the uppermost part of the TC and lower NM miospore biozones and is suggested to be a member of the Pittenweem Formation. 
3687574|The description of a new palynological preparation method is given. Conventional acid maceration using hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids is applied to dissolve mineral components. The acid resistant microfossils are then concentrated on a filter made of polyester screening cloth which is fitted onto a membrane filtering apparatus. The filtering apparatus is in turn attached to a device which permits fast removal of small kerogen and mineral particles using moderate, normal and inverted vacuum. The resulting organic residue is virtually free both from small kerogen particles and from mineral precipitates, thus making this technique particularly well-suited for concentrating organic-walled microfossils from potentially poorly fossiliferous samples.
41319051|Records of the past climate and vegetation of Australia are frequently constructed using data generated from the analysis of pollen and pteridophyte spores alone, or in association with sedimentology. We demonstrate that the organic residue prepared for pollen analysis yields other organic-walled microfossils that can be used to provide additional and independent palaeoenvironmental information. These non-pollen palynomorphs (NPP) include microscopic remains of algae, cyanobacteria, fungi, insects, other invertebrates and cormophytes. Our study of the NPP from two Late Quaternary lake records from western Victoria, Australia, provided additional information on water quality, salinity, depth, temperature and nutrient levels to the general environmental interpretation derived from pollen data. From a review of the ecological preferences of taxa, and comparison of the NPP results with pollen and spore curves from the lake records, ecological indicator values were derived. The study confirms the utility of NPP in enhancing environmental reconstructions in Australia, and encourages their routine examination in palynological studies.
3687425|A novel and easily constructed drive mechanism has been used to obtain core samples from much greater depths than has been possible using hand coring techniques. The mechanism was used to drive a modified and strengthened piston type corer to the bottom of Lima Bog, Rock County, Wisconsin, at a depth of 19.67 meters. Earlier attempts to core Lima Bog had failed to penetrate beyond the upper 10 meters.
41319063|Small forest hollows represent a specialised site type for pollen analysis, since they mainly record the vegetation within an approximate radius of 20100 m from the hollow. We discuss how to choose the most appropriate small forest hollow for pollen analysis. Hollow size, site topography, location, sediment type, drainage aspects and disturbance characteristics of the specific hollows should be considered during site selection. Guidelines are developed on how to take the core and outline the special characteristics of small hollow palynology that influence data interpretation.
27784296|The Mahakam Delta is a tropical, fluviotidally dominated delta prograding onto a mixed siliciclasticcarbonate shelf. Surface sediments were collected from 12 distinctive depositional environments extending from the head of the Mahakam Delta to the shelf edge. Organic matter was extracted from 200 samples by acid digestion, and seven palynomorph types (pollen, embryophyte spores, fungal spores, foraminiferal linings, copepod eggs, tintinnomorphs, and dinocysts) were identified and counted, and their percentages and concentrations calculated. Total organic carbon (TOC), lithology, and depositional environments were recorded for each sediment sample. The amounts of terrestrial palynomorphs in sediments can be explained by transport and depositional processes, and four groups of environments are identified (tidally influenced, detrital peat beach, lowland rain forest, and marine shelf). Because of tidal flushing of the delta plain, pollen, embryophyte spores, fungal spores and soft plant debris from the soil litter are deposited together with clastic mud at slack-water periods. As a result, all tidally-influenced environments exhibit constant numbers of pollen, embryophyte spores, and fungal spores per unit of TOC. In lowland rain forest sediments, there is minor clastic dilution and the numbers of pollen and spores are three to 10 times higher per unit TOC than in tidally-influenced sediments. In detrital peat beach and marine shelf sediments, the number of sporomorphs per unit TOC is lower than expected because of the selective removal of sporomorph-sized particles by wave action and of dilution with autochthonous marine organic matter respectively. In contrast, the amounts of marine palynomorphs in sediments are related to the depositional environments. Relative amounts of marine palynomorphs increase gradually offshore, as both the sporomorph percentages and concentrations decrease simultaneously. Once in fully marine conditions, concentrations of marine palynomorphs are comparable in all shelf environments. The marine assemblages are mainly represented by zooplankton (copepod eggs) and benthic protists (foraminiferal linings), the phytoplanktonic constituent (dinocyst) playing a subordinate role.
3687408|This paper discusses the morphology, taxonomy, and stratigraphic occurrences of 24 species and species groups of triatriate pollen. The material is from uppermost Paleogene rocks of the U. S. Geological Survey Charleston Project Deep Corehole No. 1 (Clubhouse Crossroads corehole), Dorchester County, South Carolina. The 24 pollen types are assigned to seven genera: Momipites, Plicatopollis, Platycaryapollenites, Platycarya, Subtriporopollenites, Carya, and Casuarinidites. The definitions of the first three of these genera are emended in this paper, and five new species are proposed: Momipites fragilis, Momipites strictus, Momipites? annulatus, Plicatopollis cretacea, and Casuarinidites sparsus. The stratigraphically lowest occurrence of juglandaceous triatriate pollen in the core is in rocks of Austinian (possible Santonian) Age, and altogether seven triatriate types are known from the Upper Cretaceous. The maximum diversity of these pollen types is in the upper Paleocene and lower Eocene (13-15 forms per stratigraphic level). Eleven apparently significant pollen-stratigraphic events have been determined on the basis of first, last, and peak occurrences of triatriate pollen in the Austinian-Chickasawhayan interval of the core.
27784281|An Early Devonian (Pragian) plant, Hueberia zhichangensis gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Posongchong Formation, Wenshan district of southern Yunnan, China. It is characterized by stems < 2 mm wide and closely helically-arranged enations. A creeping habit is suggested due to K-type branching. No fertile organs are preserved. Hueberia gen. nov. resembles Drepanophycus and Kaulangiophyton, but is much smaller and has a more regular phyllotaxy.
3687388|A study of miospore assemblages from Upper Coal Measures of late Westphalian age of north Staffordshire, England, reveals a microflora assignable to the Thymospora obscura Assemblage XI of Smith and Butterworth (1967). Samples were collected from shales at the base of the Newcastle Group, which is of Westphalian D age; they contain abundant, diverse and well-preserved palynomorph assemblages. They contain several species of miospores which were originally described from Pennsylvanian strata in North America. The occurrence of Elaterites triferens, Hymenospora multirugosa, Latipulvinites kosankei and Columnisporites ovalis are described for the first time from assemblages of dispersed miospores from the British Isles in Silesian strata of north Staffordshire, England.
3687457|Modern pollen data (394 samples from 98 sites) from north coastal California and eastern Oregon show differences in pollen percentages among the major vegetation regions sampled. Isopoll (contours of pollen percentages) maps for 12 pollen types show the influence of vegetational and non-vegetational factors in patterns of pollen distribution. Regional patterns correlate between Sequoia sempervirens pollen and coastal redwood forest, Quercus pollen and oak woodlands, Tsuga heterophylla and western hemlock forests, and Picea sitchensis pollen and Sitka spruce forests. Factor analysis of the pollen data synthesizes the pollen rain in the major units of the natural vegetation, and produces distinctive pollen signatures (groups of covarying pollen types) for regional vegetational units, ranging from lowlying coastal redwood forests and oak woodlands through mixed evergreen forests, montane forests and alpine environments of the Coast Range and Cascade Mountains.
3687549|Large numbers of a new species of megaspore, Paxillitriletes vittatus, have been recovered through bulk maceration of a sample from the Dakota Formation (Cenomanian) of Kansas. Transmission electron microscopy has revealed a spore wall ultrastructure similar to both modern and fossil lycopod megaspores, consisting of a spongy reticulum of sporopollenin threads which are more compact towards the interior. The wall structure is similar to that of modern Isoetes, as well as another Mesozoic genus, Minerisporites, which has been found in situ in Isoetites megafossils. Monolete microspores, similar to those of Isoetes, were found entangled in the capilli of P. vittatus. The Paxillitriletes megaspores were found in great abundance in a dark brown, organic-rich clay which has been interpreted sedimentologically as a marshy lake-margin deposit. This abundance of a single species of megaspore suggests that the parent plants were a conspicuous part of this marsh community, similar to the habitat occupied by many species of Isoetes. The combined morphological, ultrastructural, and paleoecological evidence suggests that the systematic affinities of Paxillitriletes is with the Isoetales.
3687637|Reworking of Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian palynomorphs into the Lower Triassic of western Canada, Yukon, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and Alaska has been documented by a number of workers. The phenomenon occurs in other northern circumpolar localities, such as East Greenland and the Barents Sea, and was probably widespread. Examples are given from western and eastern Europe, Russia, the Middle East, Pakistan, China, Brazil and Australia. The abundance and diversity of reworked palynomorphs from a number of stratigraphic units of different ages into the Lower Triassic is an important palynostratigraphic phenomenon of chronostratigraphic value. It may be the result of a major regional regression in the late Permian, followed by a widespread marine transgression in the Early Triassic, or it may be due to tectonic activity resulting in eustatic sea-level rise. Whatever the mechanism, the advancing transgression resulted in erosion of exposed Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian rocks, but by Mid-Triassic times most pre-Triassic rocks had been covered by sediment, and the supply of reworked material much reduced. Reworked Devonian taxa belong to a variety of suprageneric groups including cavate trilete spores (lycopsids), acavate trilete spores (ferns) and monolete spores; Lower Carboniferous taxa include cingulate trilete spores. Possibly reworked Upper Carboniferous and Permian pollen includes that of Gymnosperms-Cordiates, conifers, pteridosperms (taeniate bisaccate and polyplicates), and cycads and gnetophytes. Lower Triassic palynomorphs, possibly in situ, may include (sometimes abundant) acanthomorph acritarchs such as Micrhystridium breve, M. setasessitante, M. fragile and Wilsonastrum colonicum. Lack of recognition of reworking has many implications concerning chronostratigraphy, palynostratigraphy, paleoenvironments, paleoclimates, coal petrography, thermal maturity, geochemistry, and chemostratigraphy. For example, if the Upper Permian and Lower Triassic Densoisporites playfordii, D. complicatus, D. nejburgii, Lundbladispora obsoleta and Aculeisporites variabilis are not in situ, but reworked specimens of the Devonian progymnosperm cavate morphon Geminospora lemurata, one has to question the commonly held view that a lycopsid dominated macroflora, with a large biomass, recolonised the land in the Early Triassic. Lower Triassic assemblages in which reworking occurred but has not been recognised may give the impression of palynofloral diversity, whereas low diversity and low abundance would be more consistent with the hostile arid environment of the Lower Triassic. One Upper Permian and Lower Triassic plant entity, well-adapted to harsh conditions, was the algal cyst Chordecystia chalasta. Nevertheless, some higher plants must have survived the Permian-Triassic crisis as witnessed by the presence of gymnosperm pollen in the Mesozoic. This is Geological Survey of Canada (Calgary), Contribution no. 2004237.
41319062|Early Cambrian acritarchs from the Lkati Formation of Estonia are described, based on new material, and their biological affinities reviewed. The phenoty pical variants and the inferred function of their vesicles are indicative for recognising zygotic/resting cysts and vegetative cells. They represent the Chlorophytes in the class Prasinophyceae, which reproduce asexually (forming resting phycoma cysts), and Chlorophyceae, which reproduce sexually (zygotic cysts). Some species had a complex life cycle, with alternating vegetative and reproductive generations that differed morphologically. Based on acritarch records from the Baltica palaeocontinent, of which the Lkati Formation assemblage is a part, and the global PhytoPal Taxonomic Database (PhytoPal Project, Leverhulme Trust, Leicester University, 20032006), the early Cambrian diversification of phytoplankton is reviewed. The initial Cambrian diversification, and a recovery after the end-Ediacaran extinction, was rapid and exhibited a stepwise pattern of radiation episodes covering short intervals equivalent to biochrons lasting a few million years, estimated from the numerical ages of the strata containing them and the current time scale of the early Cambrian. However, the first appearance datum (FAD) of new species within the biozones/biochrons appears in a succession rather than at one stratigraphical level, indicating true biological speciations. The only genera surviving from the Proterozoic Eon are Leiosphaeridia, Tasmanites, Pterospermella and Pterospermopsimorpha; these are Lazarus genera radiating new species in the early Cambrian. All other Cambrian genera and species are new, morphologically innovative, and much smaller.
41319059|Hydrocarbon exploration in the Llanos Foothills of Colombia has intensified during the past several decades.Exploration in this region is problematic owing to structural complexities, rapid lateral facies changes, and the difficulties of acquiring good seismic imaging. These elements increase the uncertainties about the prognosis and subsequent drilling of exploratory wells. Under these conditions, biostratigraphy can play a significant role in the exploratory process. In the Llanos Foothills, palynology is the most useful biostratigraphic tool because pollen is the most abundant fossil group. In this study we analyze pollen information from 70 sections (624,744 palynomorph grains from 6707 samples) to construct a biostratigraphic zonation for the Llanos Foothills and Llanos basins.Using both graphic correlation and constrained optimization in our analysis, we propose 18 palynological zones for the Cenozoic of the Llanos and Llanos Foothills. These zones are tied to the geological timescale using 18 calibration points that include carbon isotopes, foraminifera, and magnetostratigraphy.
40984068|Carboniferous rocks in the Joggins area, Nova Scotia, and the Maringouin Peninsula, New Brunswick, are world renowned for their well-preserved macroflora, but this paper is the first detailed study of the palynoflora. The section is comprised of the Mississippian Windsor and Mabou groups overlain disconformably by the Lower Pennsylvanian Cumberland Group. The Windsor Group rocks proved to be barren of palynomorphs but the Mabou Group yielded spores and pollen of Brigantian (late Visean) to Arnsbergian age (early Namurian = early Serpukhovian). The assemblages are assigned successively to the Schopfipollenites acadiensis-Knoxisporites triradiatus, the Grandispora spinosa-Ibrahimispores magnificus, and the Reticulatisporites carnosus Zones. A major palynofloral change takes place between the Mississippian Mabou and the Pennsylvanian Cumberland assemblages. This is believed to reflect a significant regional hiatus in the Joggins section and elsewhere in eastern Canada. The Cumberland Group is characterized by an abundance of Lycospora spp. and monosaccate gymnosperm species of Yeadonian? (Late Namurian = middle Bashkirian?) to late Duckmantian (late Bashkirian?) age. The palynological succession is divided into the Raistrickia saetosa, the Raistrickiafulva, and the Vestispora magna zones. Age determinations of the zones, based on comparisons with Western Europe and the North Sea, are tentative because the Cumberland assemblages lack diversity and many taxa diagnostic in Western Europe are absent in the assemblages of the Joggins area, possibly due to environmental and climatic differences.
3687458|A paleoclimatic chronology for southern South America is suggested by comparison of dated pollen records from Argentina (lat 32 to 34S, 41S and 51 to 54S). The paleoenvironmental phases distinguished for the last 13,000 years are interpreted as paleoclimatic phases and explained as latitudinal shifts of atmospheric circulation anomalies by using the correlation of modern precipitation patterns with atmospheric circulation anomaly patterns over Argentina and Chile. The lateglacial type environment is characterized at all sites in the high southern latitudes by pollen assemblages of grasses, composites, sedges, and heath, suggesting climates as cold and wet as the modern Magellanic Moorland uniformly throughout Tierra del Fuego and southern Patagonia. At latitude 41S the lateglacial pollen assemblages are dominated by rainforest types west of the Andes, suggesting cold and wet conditions, while east of the Andes grasses and herb pollen dominated the assemblages, suggesting conditions colder and drier than today. Lateglacial pollen assemblages at latitude 32S are dominated by grasses, composites, and desert shrub pollen, suggesting colder and wetter climates than today. Postglacial type environments replaced the lateglacial ones at 12,000 yr B.P. at latitudes 32 and 41S, but only at 8,500 yr B.P. at latitudes 51 to 54S. The postglacial environments at all latitudes resemble the modern environments, with Nothofagus pollen dominating at high southern latitudes and latitude 41S and desert scrub pollen at latitude 32S, suggesting precipitation and temperature values similar to the modern ones. Environmental changes during the Holocene occurred at 8,500 yr B.P., 6,000 yr B.P., 5,000 yr B.P., and 3,000 yr B.P., but are of much smaller amplitude than the change from lateglacial to postglacial environments.
3687636|New evidence from taxonomically rich and age-diagnostic acritarch assemblages is used to recognize Upper Cambrian and Tremadoc strata in the Bugrino 1 and North-Western 202 boreholes on Kolguev Island, Arctic Russia. The position of the boundary between the Cambrian and Ordovician systems in the sedimentologically continuous successions is inferred, as are stratigraphic intervals equivalent to the Late Cambrian Peltura and Acerocare trilobite zones of Baltica. This is the first paleontological documentation of Cambrian strata on the island and, on a regional scale, within the Pechora Basin and northeastern Europe. The newly established biostratigraphy provides the maximum relative age for the basal portion of the sedimentary cover overlying the Timanian angular unconformity, which separates the sediments from deformed and metamorphosed basement. In turn, it constrains the time-span of the hiatus as pre-Late Cambrian and thus is significant for reconstructing the timing of the major tectonic events in this region of the Baltica palaeocontinent. Twenty-seven acritarch species are described in detail and 10 taxa are left under open nomenclature. The taxonomic attribution of several species is revised. The diagnosis of the genus Acanthodiacrodium is restricted, and those of Dasydiacrodium and Polygonium are emended. New combinations are proposed for the species Actinotodissus crinitus, A. formosus and Solisphaeridium akrochordum, and new emendations and combinations for Actinotodissus polimorphus, A. secundarius, and A. spinutisus. A new species, Solisphaeridium chinese, is recognized. The stratigraphic ranges of taxa are compiled from global records and extension of some species ranges is suggested.
3687699|The new species Microdinium avocetianum from the Tithonian (Upper Jurassic) of Australia is described. It is a small partiform gonyaulacalean cyst with a distinctive paratabulation style, dark autophragm and low, irregularly denticulate crests. The species may be relatively prominent in the late Tithonian (Pseudoceratium iehiense Range Zone) of the Timor Sea, offshore northwestern Australia and the Carnarvon Basin, offshore Western Australia.
41319054|Descriptions and photomicrographs of pollen grains from 245 angiosperm species commonly found in contemporary plant communities of the upland savannas of Guayana, Venezuela are presented. Most of the species are frequent in woody communities as shrublands, evergreen montane and gallery forest of the premontane altitudinal belt (400-1800 m above sea level). In contrast with previous contributions which emphasised species from highland and/or flooded environments, most species considered here grow on lowland to upland well-drained soils. The high numbers of taxa considered herein means that the utility of this contribution transcends palaeoecology and impinges on, for example, reproductive biology, forensic palynology, aerobiology and melissopalynology in Guayana and the wider Neotropical realm.
3687533|Fossil pollen counts from Iowa and western Illinois ranging in age from 30,000 yr B.P. to the present were compared with the modern pollen rain of eastern North America using dissimilarity coefficients (squared chord distances). The fossil samples came from several sites to give a general representation to the major vegetational changes in the region. The best analogs were for the period from 28,000 to 25,000 yr B.P., when Picea-Pinus forests existed that were apparently comparable to the modern boreal forest. Some acceptable analogs also exist for samples dating from full-glacial time (about 25,000 to about 15,000 yr B.P.), when open spruce forests and parklands similar to the northern edge of the present boreal forest were present, and from late Holocene time (the last 6000 yrs), when the modern prairie and oak savanna were developing. Many samples from late-glacial (about 15,000 to 10,000 yr B.P.) and early Holocene (10,000 to 6,000 yr B.P.) time have no acceptable analogs. Reconstructions from dissimilarity coefficients do not always correlate well with those based on other plant macrofossils, insects, and other biotic and physical data. Variability in types of sample sites, surrounding vegetation, pollen production, and taphonomy from site to site may be responsible for these discrepancies. Dissimilarity coefficients are another useful tool in paleoecological reconstructions, especially when used in conjunction with other types of paleoecological information.
3687614|The new phallocystean dinoflagellate cyst genus Weiachia is described from the Toarcian of Switzerland. In contrast to the genus Moesiodinium Antonesu 1974, the new genus is characterized by an intercalary archeopyle with an adnate operculum. The type species, W. fenestrata, has openings in the periphragm which correspond in geometry and topology to paraplates. For this kind of opening a new morphological term, "fenestrae" (sing. "fenestra"), is introduced. The generic value of the free versus adnate operculum, used by Below (1987) for differentiating phallocystean dinoflagellate cyst genera, is discussed. It is a stable character for the group and is therefore considered to be a better classificatory criterion than either wall structure or the degree of expression of paratabulation by ornamentation and protuberances; both are variable characters which have been used previously in generic differentiation. The differentiation of genera using a free versus adnate operculum seems to be useful in palynostratigraphy for the late Early to early Middle Jurassic.
3687411|A restudy of the type material of Arpylorus antiquus Calandra, 1964, a presumed dinoflagellate reported from Silurian sediments of Tunisia, confirms that this taxon is indeed a dinophycean cyst. Features considered crucial to this judgment are the character of the excystment aperture, the presence of a paracingulum and vestiges of a tabulation, and the tendency of the cyst to split into pieces resembling in size, shape and relative position the plates of a thecate dinoflagellate. A new dinoflagellate family, Arpyloraceae, is proposed; and emended diagnoses are formulated for the genus Arpylorus and its type species A. antiquus. Examination of the other microfossils in the assemblages has established a late Ludlow (uppermost Silurian) date for the type material. This is in accord with the stratigraphic range quoted for this species by Jardin (1972). It is suggested that the phragma of Arpylorus is different in character from that of later dinoflagellate cysts, perhaps more prone to organic decay and with paraplates less firmly attached together; and it is postulated that this may account for the lack of records of comparable dinoflagellate cysts from other Palaeozoic localities.
3687335|Arachnodinium antarcticum gen. et sp. nov., a distinctive trabeculate dinoflagellate cyst, is described from erratics of probable Eocene Age in the McMurdo Sound area. Additional records of the taxon are provided from Lower Tertiary localities in South America, from DSDP sites in the south Tasman Sea, and from other Antarctic localities.
3687677|To date, the only published comprehensive zonation for dating and correlating late Tertiary non-marine sequences in Australia is that developed in the 1970s for the offshore Gippsland Basin on the extreme southeastern margin of the continent. In this paper an analogous zonation scheme is presented for the Murray Basin, a large intracratonic basin that covers some <tex-math>$300\ 000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of inland New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. Major spore and pollen sequences identified within this basin correspond with major periods of marine transgression-regression, in the middle Eocene to early Oligocene, early Oligocene to middle Miocene and late Miocene to Pliocene. Presence/absence data allow the first two sequences to be subdivided into palynological zones that can be confidently correlated with zones established for the Gippsland Basin, viz., equivalents of the middle to late Eocene lower, middle and upper Nothofagidites asperus zones, and the Oligocene to middle Miocene Proteacidites tuberculatus and Canthiumidites bellus zones, respectively. Late Miocene-early Pliocene and late Pliocene-Pleistocene intervals are assigned to the Monotocidites galeatus Zone and Tubulifloridites pleistocenicus Zone, respectively. Changes in the relative abundance of commonly occurring species support the above subdivisions in a general way only and are not reliable as a basis for basin-wide correlations. Until some independent geological or geophysical datum is found to allow a direct comparison of species time distributions across the basin, further formal subdivision of the zones is not recommended.
3687803|Dinoflagellate cysts and associated aquatic palynomorphs have been recovered from the dinosaur-bearing Tendaguru Beds (Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous) at Tendaguru, a hill in southeast Tanzania. Palynofloras from these beds are generally dominated by pollen grains of Mesozoic conifers (mainly Classopollis), but dinoflagellate cysts occur sporadically throughout the succession. They attain highest relative abundances and diversities in the marine intercalations between the Saurian Beds, namely in the Nerinea Bed (between the Lower and Middle Saurian Beds) and even more so in the Trigonia smeei Bed (between the Middle and Upper Saurian Beds). Peak levels of dinoflagellate cysts correspond to times when the shallow marine environments of the Nerinea and Trigonia smeei Beds had access to the open sea, while scarcity or absence of dinoflagellate cysts in the Saurian Beds is related to intervals of restricted access to the sea in tidal flat and coastal plain environments. Four informal dinoflagellate cyst assemblages can be distinguished in the Tendaguru Beds: (1) the Rigaudella aemula-Chlamydophorella wallala assemblage from the Nerinea Bed (Oxfordian to Kimmeridgian); (2) the Endoscrinium attadalense-Ctenidodinium sellwoodii group assemblage from the Middle Saurian Bed (late Kimmeridgian); (3) the Dingodinium jurassicum-Kilwacysta assemblage from the Trigonia smeei Bed (Tithonian); (4) the Muderongia-Oligosphaeridium assemblage probably from the Trigonia schwarzi Bed at Namunda Plateau, 8 km south of Tendaguru (late Valanginian to Hauterivian). The age determinations are based on correlation with known dinoflagellate cyst ranges and zonations in Australia, Europe and elsewhere. However, the stratigraphic position and previous biostratigraphic interpretations of the Tendaguru Beds based on ammonites, charophytes and ostracods were also taken into consideration. One new genus (Kilwacysta), three new species (Kilwacysta multiramosa, Kilwacysta semiseptata and Protobatioladinium lindiensis) and the new combination Barbatacysta capitata are proposed.
41319055|The biostratigraphical ranges, geographical distribution and taxonomy of 45 dinoflagellate cyst species are described based on the analysis of 99 samples from the Upper Cenomanian-Lower Turonian outcrop sections of Puentedey, Fuentetoba, Condemios and Tamajn in northern Spain. A specific rank for Coronifera hebospina (formerly Coronifera ocenica subsp. hebospina ) and the new combination Exochosphaeridium majus are proposed. The generic assignment of Implestosphaeridium? clavulum and Implestosphaeridium? polytrichum are questioned. Early Turonian range tops for Coronifera albertii, Cyclonephelium vannophorum and Palaeohystrichophorapalaeoinfusa are confirmed.
3687348|A classification of organic particles based upon their degradational state and biological origin is outlined for use in palynological analysis. The classification has been used in various forms since 1969 and has proved useful in analyzing organic matter from clastic rocks ranging from the Devonian to the Modern. The organic particles are referred to as macerals and are divided into phytoclasts (plant derived), zooclasts (animal derived), protistoclasts (protistan derived), and scleratoclasts (fungal derived). In addition, the term receptorclasts is used to include precipitated organic matter. Phytoclasts are subdivided into the following categories based upon their level of decay: well preserved, no evidence of biodegradation; poorly preserved, minor biodegradation; infested, highly disrupted cell walls; amorphous structured, remnant cell structure only; amorphous non-structured, blocky mass. In addition to the amorphous non-structured phytoclasts there are the amorphous non-structured protistoclasts (fluffy masses), and amorphous infested indeterminate macerals (masses with inclusions). Other techniques of classifying macerals such as reflectance and UV-fluorescence can be integrated into this classification. The residence time of an organic particle in the surficial environment affects its level of degradation. Prolonged exposure to an aerobic biocoenosis particularly enhances the decay rate of all organic matter. Among the plant fragments the proportion of the degraded matter is used to determine a "degradational index." The degradational index of ancient sediment is comparable to the carbon:nitrogen index of modern sediment as it measures the level of degradation which took place during deposition. Because organic matter from different environments shows different degradational indices as well as different biological origins for their entombed organic particles, it is possible to use the assemblage of organic particles as an indication of depositional environment. Maceral facies analysis clearly has a contribution to make in paleoenvironmental analyses. Using the dual approach of biologic origin and degradational level, maceral assemblages provide clues to the depositional environment as well as the petroleum generating potential (kinds and amounts of hydrocarbons) of a specific source rock. Changes in the attributes of macerals associated with thermal maturation are generally known for clastic environments. Important changes occur in vitrinite reflectance, fluorescence, and color and are used as a measure of thermal maturation level. Volumetric changes in macerals are associated with thermal maturation through catagenesis, and may cause micropressuring as hydrocarbons are generated.
40984067|Two informal sporomorph assemblage zones can be distinguished in the dinosaur-bearing Tendaguru Beds of southeast Tanzanian. The first zone, the Classopollis-Araucariacites-Shanbeipollenites Assemblage Zone, ranges from the Lower to the Upper Saurian Bed, and a mid-Oxfordian to Tithonian age is suggested based on the presence of Shanbeipollenites quadratus. The second zone, the Classopollis-Cicatricosisporites-Ruffor'diaspora Assemblage Zone, is restricted in the Trigonia schwarzi Bed, which overlies the Upper Saurian Bed. The combined ranges of Cicatricosisporites hughesii, Ruffordiaspora australiensis and Trilobosporites obsitus would be consistent with a late Berriasian to Hauterivian age of this zone. This is refined further to late Valanginian to Hauterivian on the basis of already existing evidence from fauna and dinoflagellate cysts. From a phytogeographic point of view the Tendaguru locality belongs to the southern Gondwana Trisaccates Province because of the presence of trisaccate podocarpaceous pollen. The quantitative composition of the palynofloras is characterized by the dominance or abundance of pollen produced by the two conifer families Cheirolepidiaceae (Classopollis) and Araucariaceae (mainly Araucariacites). Pollen of Cheirolepidiaceae, typically xerophytic, drought-resistant, thermophilic plants, is dominant throughout the Tendaguru Beds except in parts of the Middle Saurian Bed where pollen of Araucariaceae, a presumably mesic group, becomes most abundant. Classopollis attains the highest degree of dominance in the shallow marine deposits associated with the saurian beds. This may be related to paleoecological and taphonomic factors, namely abundance of Classopollis-produc'mg plants in low-lying coastal environments close to the lagoonlike depositional sites and transportational sorting of sporomorphs leading to a relative enrichment of small and/or anemophilous pollen. The abundance o Araucariacites in the Middle Saurian Bed suggests that araucarians existed in coastal plain environments that were stable enough to allow the growth of large trees. This open araucarian forest, which may have been a source of food for high-browsing dinosaurs, was situated landward of the cheirolepidiacean belt not far from the depositional sites. Pteridophytes and bryophytes were concentrated at moist places and around water bodies. Podocarpaceous conifers producing bisaccate and trisaccate pollen grew in local uplands, while gnetaleans related to Ephedra and Welwitschia may have been present in dry places. The palynological evidence is consistent with a seasonally dry, tropical to sub-tropical paleoclimate. Three new combinations, Equisetosporites certus (Bolkhovitina), Jugella caichigiiensis (Volkheimer and Quattrocchio) and Trichotomosulcites microsaccatus (Couper), are proposed, and Jugella semistriata is described as a new species.
3687409|Miospore assemblages are examined of strata located just above the basal lavas to the Upper Coal Group of possible Arnsbergian (Namurian, E<sub>2</sub>) age. Macrofossil evidence and earlier palynological evidence for the ages of these strata is sparse yet the present studies suggest that the oldest sediments belong to the Posidonia zone of the Visen series and thus confirm the earlier recognition of the Main Coal horizon as the possible boundary between the Visan and Namurian series (Wilson and Robbie, 1966). The Upper Coal Group spore assemblages are more consistent with a Pendleian ( E<sub>1</sub>) age than with the hitherto postulated Arnsbergian ( E<sub>2</sub>) age, although they have certain similarities with spore assemblages in coals from the lowest part of the Upper Limestone Group ( E<sub>2</sub>) in Fife.
3687603|Fifty conventional core samples from the Ragley Lumber #D1 well located in Allen Parish, Louisiana (Sec 29, T5S, R7W) were analysed for terrigenous palynomorphs. The sediment was deposited during the Sabinian in a marine environment as evidenced by the presence of in situ dinocysts and acritarchs in every sample. One hundred twenty-nine terrigenous taxa are recognized as compared with marine palynomorph diversity of 46 taxa. Single sample diversity among the terrigenous palynomorph component ranged from 23 to 65 taxa, while single sample marine palynomorph diversity ranged from 7 to 25 taxa. High terrigenous diversity intervals possibly indicate sourcing from multiple onshore environments or a single onshore environment with a very diverse flora. Because the terrigenous component is reworked from the onshore environments to the offshore ones, intervals of terrigenous abundance possibly indicate deltaic progradation associated with changes in sediment supply or sea-level. Confirmation of this interpretation awaits regional studies. The subdivision of the section into palynofacies based on the terrigenous portion of the palynoflora shows general correspondence with the palynofacies of Gregory (1991) based on the total palynoflora. In general, mean percentages of palynomorphs used in the process of discrimination were lowered by the exclusion of the marine portion of the palynoflora. The Sabinian-Claibornian boundary is not present in the cored interval, based on consistant occurrences of Thomsonipollis magnifica (Thomson & Pflug 1953) Krutzch 1960 at the top of the core. The absence of diagnostic middle and late Paleocene indicator pollen, such as Momipites dialatus (Fairchild) Stover et al. 1966 and Holkopollenites chemardensis (Fairchild) Stover et al. 1966 along with other characteristic palynomorphs, suggests that the entire Sabinian is not present in the core as was previously believed based on lithostratigraphic studies (Lowery, 1987). Due to the lack of regionally significant taxa with restricted temporal distributions, a biozonation for the Ragley Lumber #D1 well is proposed based on the constrained palynomorphs from the principle components and discriminant function analyses.
40072732|The relationship between wall layers in dinoflagellate cysts was investigated with transmission electron microscopy. A simple method is described in which small cysts (>100 micrometers) were identified, isolated, and encapsulated in colored agarose. The individual cysts, now visible to the naked eye, were easy to track throughout the multi-step protocol. The routine TEM protocol for biological material was modified and simplified for dinoflagellate cysts, and is described in detail. This method ensures that all samples can be retained, an important consideration when working with rare or unique specimens. Specimens of Hystrichosphaeropsis Deflandre 1935 were orientated for sectioning relative to the natural plane of settlement of the cyst. Serial sections demonstrated that the relationship between the endophragm and periphragm is complex and irregular. Interpretation of micrographs and some common misinterpretations of artifacts are illustrated and discussed. The protocol is presented in detail and illustrated so that an inexperienced person, with the assistance of an electron microscopy unit, could successfully carry out the procedure. The technique has been used with minor adaptations to prepare a range of biological materials and palynomorph specimens for transmission electron microscopy.
3687737|A cool, arid climate featuring steppe vegetation characterizes the modern day temperate zone of northwestern China. In contrast, palynofloras indicate that the paleoclimate there was warmer and wetter during the Pleistocene than during the Holocene. To document vegetational and climatic changes during the Quaternary, fossil pollen and spores were systematically studied in sediments from the Qaidam Basin in the Qinghai Province at the northeastern margin of the Tibetan (Qinghai-Xizang) Plateau. Pollen and spores in four cores from the Quaternary lacustrine deposits in the Qaidam Basin showed four distinctive pollen zones. The basal assemblage, Zone Q1, is dominated by taxa having tropical or subtropical warm, wet climatic affinity and is probably Early Pleistocene in age. The overlying assemblage, Zone Q2, is dominated by taxa having warm-temperate and semi-wet climatic affinity and is probably Middle Pleistocene in age. Zone Q3 is dominated by taxa having temperate and semiarid climatic affinity and is probably Late Pleistocene in age. The uppermost assemblage, Zone Q1, is dominated by taxa having cool-temperate, arid climatic affinity and is Holocene in age. The modern vegetation of the high plateau is dominated by xerophytic and halophytic herbs and shrubs. The palynofloral assemblages show that this modern vegetation became established during the Holocene, when cool, dry conditions prevailed following Pleistocene deglaciation. This climatic cooling is interpreted as the result of continued Himalayan-Tibetan Plateau uplift in the Holocene. Modern vegetation zones are used as a basis for comparison with the fossil assemblages and suggest that the Qaidam Basin might have been elevated at least 2,000 to 3,000 m since the Early Pleistocene. Dabuxun Lake in the basin may have been elevated about 700 m in the past half million years. The pollen data therefore allow more precise dating of Himalayan-Tibetan uplift. Intense uplift at the end of Early Pleistocene is indicated and further uplift probably occurred in the middle substage of the Middle Pleistocene. The results of this study contribute to understanding Himalayan-Tibetan Plateau evolution, regional Quaternary correlations, and climatic changes around the globe.
40072700|A melissopalynological study of Omani honeys was undertaken to determine floral sources, and identify pollen types, that would indicate the ecological origins. The study comprised the analysis of 48 honey samples collected during 2001-2003 from 14 locations in the Muscat and Al Batinah regions of Oman. The beehives and nests examined were either those of Apis florea or Apis mellifera bee colonies. A total of 122 pollen types, representing 50 plant families, were identified. Each taxon was categorized as representing a major or minor source of nectar and pollen. Thirty-two honey samples are unifloral types, and the remaining 16 are multifloral. Honey is harvested twice a year in Oman, once in the summer and again in the winter. The pollen data indicate that Ziziphus spina-christi, Prosopis juliflora, Prosopis cineraria and constitute the chief nectar and pollen sources for honeybees in this area during the winter. By contrast during the summer, Acacia tortilis, Citrus sp., Maerua crassifolia, Phoenix dactylifera, Prosopis cineraria,and Prosopis juliflora are the more important nectar sources. This study has identified a wide range of foraging plant sources for honeybees and demonstrates adequate potential for expanding and sustaining beekeeping in Muscat, and in the Al Batinah region. A modern pollen reference collection of 105 local floral species enabled the identification of the pollen types. Seventy-four pollen types were found in the 48 honey samples. The identifications of pollen types are based on both light and scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies of the pollen in the honey and reference samples.
3687608|Shallow marine deposits of the Paleocene Turtle Mountain Formation on the northeastern flank of the Williston Basin, southwestern Manitoba, yielded dinoflagellate assemblages which include Senegalinium microgranulatum, S. obscurum, Senegalinium sp., Spinidinium densispinatum, S.? pilatum, Cerodinium speciosum, Isabelidinium viborgense and Phelodinium magnificum. The assemblages indicate that the Turtle Mountain Formation is Early to early Late Paleocene in age. Low species diversity and high dominance of a few species are characteristics of the assemblages and suggest a nearshore depositional environment for the formation. Additional investigation of dinoflagellates of the Cannonball Formation in southcentral North Dakota confirms an early Late Paleocene age which permits correlation of the Cannonball Formation with the upper part of the Turtle Mountain Formation. Distinct similarities are present in dinoflagellate assemblages of Paleocene marine deposits within the Williston Basin. The assemblages also have marked similarities with Paleocene assemblages of the eastern Gulf Coastal Plain, U.S.A., which suggests extension of the Gulf sea into the Williston Basin during the Paleocene.
40072744|A new acanthomorph acritarch genus, Auritusphaera, is erected to accommodate a distinctive form whose processes form a pseudoreticulum on the surface of a spherical vesicle. The genus is present in, and restricted to, the Upper Shale Member of the Nolichucky Shale in eastern Tennessee, U.S.A., where it is found in two cores drilled in the grounds of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. The Upper Shale Member corresponds to the upper part of the Cedaria-Crepicephalus biozone and the lower part of the Aphelaspis biozone, and is Late Cambrian in age . The distinctive morphology of this acritarch may render it a potential marker for the Upper Cambrian Marjuman/Steptoean Stage boundary.
3687323|One of the problems in Quaternary pollen studies is the difficulty, in certain genera, of identifying fossil pollen grains to species by surface morphology. Often identifications are possible only to family or, at best, generic levels. However, through the use of scanning electron microscopy (SEM), it is possible to distinguish details of surface morphology which separate recent pollen grains to species in some cases. Recent SEM analyses of Pinaceae pollen from Late Quaternary peat deposits in the Pacific Northwest suggest that it is also possible to morphologically distinguish certain species of fossil conifer pollen. Specifically these include: Abies grandis, A. lasiocarpa, Picea engelmannii, P. glauca, Haploxylon pollen of Pinus albicaulis, P. monticola and P. monophylla, and Diploxylon pollen of Pinus contorta and P. ponderosa. Diagnostic morphological criteria used to separate recent Pinaceae pollen grains to species are generally present in fossil Pinaceae pollen, although certain of the finer morphological features tend to be distorted, obscured or lacking, as compared to recent pollen reference material. Modified pollen extraction procedures, and techniques such as critical point drying, are essential in order to identify fossil conifer pollen grains to species. Use of SEM for statistical counts in pollen analysis may be practicable as an alternative to the light microscopy statistical analysis procedure.
3687657|The spores and pollen from the basal Cretaceous Helez Formation in the Kokhav 2 well from the coastal plain of Israel have been studied and compared with those from the basal Cretaceous in the Zeweira Formation of the Zohar 1 well from the northern Negev of Israel. All sediments in the Early Cretaceous are within the Kurnub Group. The spores and pollen from the Oxfordian-Callovian Kidod Formation in the Zohar 1 well were also studied and compared with the above Cretaceous assemblages. Thirtyfive core samples from four wells have yielded 91 distinct sporomorphae. One new form genus, Retimonoporites, and three new species-Retimonoporites operculatus, Bullasporites bifidum, and Cicatricosisporites negevus - are erected. The palynological data were analyzed and assemblage differences between the Kidod, Helez, and Zeweira formations presented. The microflora from cores in the Helez 1 and 3 wells that had previously been dated with marine microfauna is compared with the microflora from the basal Cretaceous in the Kokhav 2 well (coastal plain) and the basal Cretaceous in the Zohar 1 well (northern Negev). All samples from the Lower Kurnub Group in the coastal plain that had previously been dated as Valanginian to Hauterivian, using marine microfauna, contain a spore and angiosperm pollen assemblage that is quite different from those assemblages found in the basal Kurnub from the northern Negev. The angiosperm pollen in the Valanginian to Hauterivian horizons are extremely rare, typically small, microreticulate, columellate, round, and inaperturate to weakly monosulcate. The angiosperms in the basal Kurnub from the Negev have more advanced monosulcates and some rare tricolpates that suggest a late Barremian to Early Aptian age. A new model for the morphological development of the earliest angiosperm pollen is proposed. It appears then that there is a 10-15 million year gap between the deposition of the initial shallow marine and lagoonal deposits of the Kurnub Group along the present day coastal plain of Israel and the oldest Cretaceous in the northern Negev. The younger age of the basal Cretaceous in the northern Negev indicates that a transgression of the Tethys Sea took place from west to east during the Early Cretaceous.
3687355|Dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from the upper Albian Kiowa Formation in Kansas contain 13 species assignable to the Ceratiaceae. Three genera, Nyktericysta, Vesperopsis, and Balmula, are described as new, as are eight species, Odontochitina ancala, O. rhakodes, Pseudoceratium interiorense, Nyktericysta davisii, N. arachnion, Vesperopsis mayi, V. nebulosa, and Balmula tripenta. Several of these species occur elsewhere in the Western Interior in mid-Cretaceous sediments. Morphologically, ceratioid cysts fall into three groups. The first contains Odontochitina Deflandre 1935 and Xenascus Cookson & Eisenack 1969 (which differs only in bearing spines) and is characterized by uncompressed cysts with one lateral horn. The second group contains Pseudoceratium Gocht 1957 (herein emended to include Aptea Eisenack 1958), Endoceratium Vozzhennikova 1965, and possibly some species of Cyclonephelium Deflandre & Cookson 1955 in which cysts are dorso-ventrally compressed and have one (or no) lateral horn. The third group encompasses compressed cysts with paired lateral horns and contains Muderongia Cookson & Eisenack 1958, Phoberocysta Millioud 1969, Australisphaera Davey 1978, and the three new genera described herein. Some specimens of Nyktericysta davisii are fully paratabulate, combining plate relationships variously observed on other fossil and modern Ceratiaceae. The contrast between ceratioid paratabulation and that exhibited by dorso-ventrally compressed gonyaulacoid cysts is stressed. For nontabulate cysts, a difference in plate relationships revealed by the archeopyle suture appears useful in distinguishing the two groups. In the ceratioids the first precingular paraplate is planate, whereas in the gonyaulacoids it is typically camerate.
3687312|The combination of organic matter and hydrocarbon analysis of sediments which led to the concept of hydrocarbon metamorphic facies by Evans and Staplin (1971) is reviewed. Methods of presenting the data in map and section form are discussed. Three facies of organic metamorphism develop with increasing temperature/time. The immature facies has abundant methane, trace quantities of <tex-math>${\rm C}_{2}\text{-}{\rm C}_{14}$</tex-math> hydrocarbons and a <tex-math>${\rm C}_{15+}$</tex-math> fraction with abundant non-hydrocarbon compounds. Organic debris has not been altered geothermally, but shows the effects of physical and biochemical degradation. In the mature facies a complete spectrum of hydrocarbons indicates the functioning of oil generation. Organic particulate debris shows progressive changes in color, light transmission, reflectivity and other properties which reflect chemical change, especially loss of volatiles. In the metamorphic facies, methane, only traces of heavier hydrocarbons, and very little non-hydrocarbon material in the <tex-math>${\rm C}_{15+}$</tex-math> fraction signify the thermal destruction of previous oil potential. The particulate organic matter is now low in volatiles, is very dark brown to black in color, has high reflectivity and lowered light transmission, and is often visibly degraded in structure. Color of organic matter, especially exinite, tested against and combined with hydrocarbon analysis, has proved to be a rapid method of evaluating and mapping the metamorphic state of a frontier area.
3687555|Three new species of chitinozoans are described from the Ordovician Simcoe Group in southern Ontario, Hercochitina lindsayensis sp. nov., H. pinguis sp. nov., and H. spinetum sp. nov. In addition, two new combinations, Hercochitina concava (Finger 1978) and Hercochitina repsinata (Schallreuter 1981), are proposed. Hercochitina lindsayensis and H. pinguis appear to be evolutionarily intermediate forms between Hercochitina repsinata (Schallreuter) n. comb., and H. crickmayi (Jansonius 1964) and H. minuta (Achab 1977), respectively. This evolutionary transition is manifest as a change in surface ornamentation. This lineage is compared with a previously described evolutionary lineage involving similar species of Belonechitina and Hercochitina. Some taxonomic revisions are made on taxa in this latter lineage in which H. spinetum is an intermediate form between B. robusta (Eisenack 1959) and H. normalis (Achab 1977). This evolutionary transition also involves changes in the surface ornamentation. The genus Hercochitina is therefore diphyletic. The known North American stratigraphic ranges of the species involved (Champlainian-Cincinnatian) are presented.
3687628|Surface pollen samples collected along three transects that cross the southern margin of the Sonoran Desert east of the Gulf of California reflect regional vegetation gradients but also show strong local variability, notably within the southern desert. Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthaceae (Cheno-Am) and Gramineae pollen dominate in tropical deciduous forest; Pinus and Quercus in temperate-climate vegetation at high elevations; and Gramineae and High-Spine Compositae in the central Sonoran Desert (>29 N). The ERA group (composed largely of Euphorbiaceae, Rutaceae, Anacardiaceae), Gramineae, Cheno-Am, and High-Spine Compositae pollen inter-vary but dominate as a group in the southern desert; Cheno-Am here may signal irrigated agriculture. Coastal sites differ from the above, with Cheno-Am pollen strongly dominant in saline conditions.
40072740|Four new dinoflagellate cyst species from the Lower and Middle Miocene strata of the Porcupine Basin, offshore southwest Ireland, are formally described. Batiacasphaera edwardsiae sp. nov. was previously described under open nomenclature from the Miocene of the adjacent Rockall Plateau. Lejeunecysta challengerensis sp. nov. is recorded sporadically from the Burdigalian and Serravallian. Selenopemphix porcupensis sp. nov. and Trinovantedinium henrietii sp. nov. are large-sized dinoflagellate cysts with maximum dimensions of approximately 100 micrometers. Selenopemphix porcupensis sp. nov. is recorded in the uppermost Burdigalian and Langhian, and Trinovantedinium henrietii sp. nov. is present in the Langhian and lowermost Serravallian. Batiacasphaera edwardsiae sp. nov. is possibly biostratigraphically significant for the Middle Miocene.
40072742|The late Early to Mid Permian palynomorph biozones OSPZ5 and OSPZ6 for the Arabian Peninsula sporadically contain diverse and well-preserved pollen and spore assemblages. These are described here for the first time, concentrating on taxa used in the recognition of biozones. Some of these forms were previously assigned to informal morphotypes. The new spore species Indotriradites ater, Indotriradites mundus, Kendosporites robustus, and the new pollen species Kingiacolpites subsaccatus and Tiwariasporis? granulatus are described and illustrated. These distinctive palynomorphs may be useful in future biostratigraphic studies. For example, the first uphole occurrences of Indotriradites mundus and Tiwariasporis? granulatus are close to the base of OSPZ6. Indotriradites ater and Kingiacolpites subsaccatus have relatively narrow ranges within OSPZ5. Hamiapollenites dettmannae and Hamiapollenites karrooensis are common in the lower part of OSPZ5.
3687713|The pollen from five packrat middens from the White Mountains region of California were analyzed and compared to previously analyzed macrofossils from the same middens. The middens span the time from ca. 20,000 yr B. P. to the middle Holocene. While there are similarities in the pollen and macrofossil data, there are some subtle differences between the two types of data. The pollen data would support the macrofossil evidence that indicates the arrival of Pinus by the early Holocene. In spite of this general agreement, the pollen evidence suggests that Pinus was not common in the vicinity of the early Holocene midden sites. The results of this study would indicate the importance of using both the macrofossil and pollen evidence from packrat middens.
3687366|This paper provides palynostratigraphic information concerning the Late Paleozoic Gondwana glaciation in the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula, based on examination of several sections of glacial deposits in the Al Khlata area of Oman. Two distinctive Assemblage Groups were recognized: Group A which is characterized by common trilete zonate spores and rare bisaccate pollen; and Group B which contains common striate and nonstriate bisaccate pollen along with common trilete zonate spores. Both groups contain common aquatic forms such as Botryococcus spp. Similar microfloras are known from Saudi Arabia and the Yemen Arab Republic. The palynological assemblages from the Arabian Peninsula have been interpreted within the wider context of regional Gondwana floras. Assemblage Group A of Oman, and related assemblages from Saudi Arabia and the Yemen Arab Republic, can be referred to the (Western) Australian Unit II and are interpreted as middle to late Stephanian in age. Assemblage Group B of Oman can be compared with Australian Unit III and is interpreted as Sakmarian in age. Two isolated assemblages which occur immediately below palaeontologically dated Sakmarian/Artinskian limestone units in Oman and undated limestones in Saudi Arabia can also be referred to Australian Unit III, and are interpreted as Sakmarian in age. In addition, paleogeographic and paleophytogeographic implications of the assemblages are briefly discussed. The microfloral data from the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula supports the notion that this area is part of the Gondwana floral province.
3687651|The type material of "Meiourogonyaulax" staffinensis Gitmez 1970 and Hexagonifera sp. Gitmez 1970 (later "H." jurassica Gitmez & Sarjeant 1972) from the earliest Kimmeridgian (Late Jurassic) of Scotland and England has been restudied. The former species is a small (42-51 m), camocavate to circumcavate gonyaulacacean cyst with an apical archeopyle and a median parasulcus and is herein questionably attributed to Ambonosphaera Fensome 1979. Sirmiodiniopsis frisia (Raynaud 1978) Lentin & Williams 1981 is deemed to be a subjective junior synonym of Ambonosphaera? staffinensis. Senoniasphaera jurassica (Gitmez & Sarjeant 1972) Lentin & Williams 1976 is a larger (63-105 m), circumcavate species also with a gonyaulacacean paratabulation and an apical archeopyle, but with a markedly offset parasulcal notch. The specific diagnoses of these two Late Jurassic species are emended to include new information on morphology and paratabulation.
3687790|The Dalton Coal of north-central Texas yields a palynomorph assemblage characteristic of basal Late Pennsylvanian (Stephanian) coals from the Midcontinent U.S.A., and also indicative of an allochthonous origin for the greater part of the seam. The most common miospore taxa are Laevigatosporites spp., Cyclogranisporites orbicularis, Punctatosporites minutus and Endosporites globiformis. The miospores tend to be poorly preserved and relatively homogeneous in population frequencies and vertical distribution within the coal. The overall coal assemblage also closely resembles a vertical miospore spectrum from adjacent shales. These palynological characteristics and the high ash content of the coal suggest that the Dalton is mainly an allochthonous deposit. Only the top layer, which contains coal balls, appears to have formed autochthonously in a peat swamp.
40072705|The application of palynology to forensic investigations relies on the similarity of pollen assemblages from forensic items, such as footwear, with control samples from a crime scene. The pollen from material adhering to footwear is likely to reflect some combination of pollen from the locations where the boots/shoes have been worn most recently. This study investigated the changes in pollen assemblages on footwear that had been worn at different sites. Six rural sites in the East Midlands of England, United Kingdom were visited wearing pristine boots (i.e. no mixing), and boots that were previously worn at other localities (i.e. potential mixing). Samples of adherent soil from these items of footwear, and control samples, were analysed palynologically in order to assess the degree and significance of mixing of the pollen assemblages. With the exception of one sample, the pollen adherent to footwear or in the soil samples from each of the six sites (no mixing) had a characteristic signature. This supports the general distinctiveness of pollen from individual sites, the concept of widespread palynological heterogeneity, and the utility of palynology in forensic geoscience. The data from this study show that when mixing occurs from wearing footwear at different sites, the pollen/spore content of the boots etc. dominantly reflects that of the last site. This was evident from a visual examination of the raw data, and was confirmed using detrended correspondence analysis applied to the eleven dominant taxa. These data showed clustering of samples based on the last site visited. The more abundant the pollen/spores, the closer the samples were clustered. The clustering was less convincing at localities that yielded relatively sparse palynomorphs. However, sample material from footwear that was potentially contaminated with soil from previous localities typically exhibited some subtle differences. These were normally slight increases in diversity, and small variations in certain pollen types. The relative insignificance of these differences means that they would be difficult to discern consistently and quantify. It is thus critical that, in relevant forensic investigations, footwear belonging to suspects is seized as soon as possible after a crime is committed.
3687393|A palynological investigation of the Toarcian to Bathonian Raasay Ironstone Formation, Bearreraig Sandstone Formation and Great Estuarine Group of the Inner Hebrides has provided an important Scottish reference section, with many stratigraphically useful dinoflagellate cyst and miospore datums. The Raasay Ironstone Formation and the Dun Caan Shales Member of the Bearreraig Sandstone Formation dinoflagellate cyst assemblages are dominated by Nannoceratopsis with the Parvocysta suite present in lower proportions. The latter suite appears to be consistent with a species diversity gradient, increasing from England northwards to Spitsbergen. Representatives of the earliest sexiform gonyaulacacean dinoflagellate cysts have their inceptions in the early Bajocian Bearreraig Sandstone Formation at its type section: possible Carboniferous spores were also recovered from this formation. The youngest member of the Bearreraig Sandstone Formation, the Garantiana Clay Member, yielded Acanthaulax crispa and other species indicative of the late Bajocian. These palynofloras are similar to coeval northwest European associations which support open marine connections southwards and eastwards at this time. The palynomorphs from the majority of the overlying Great Estuarine Group indicate a Bathonian age for these paralic strata. Palynofacies analyses are consistent with interpretations based on macrofaunas and sedimentology. The dinoflagellate cyst floras of the Duntulm Formation support a nearshore, marginal marine setting. Four new species, Parvocysta ampulla, P.? tricornuta, P.? triquetra and Jansonia manifesta are described. The latter, from the Duntulm Formation, is a small, thick-walled form which has a clear partiform gonyaulacacean paratabulation. It appears to be an opportunistic species as it is abundant in marine beds immediately overlying a freshwater intercalation.
3687613|The new term "galeate" acritarchs is proposed for Lower Paleozoic taxa characterized by a hemispherical vesicle outline and with a large polar excystment opening closed by an operculum. Included in the "galeate" acritarch plexus are such common genera as Caldariola Molyneux in Molyneux & Rushton 1988, Cymatiogalea Deunff 1961, Priscogalea Deunff 1961, and Stelliferidium Deunff et al. 1974. An historical overview, a revision of the taxonomic concept, and proposals for a classification scheme at the generic level are presented. The following "galeate" taxa are described from the late Tremadoc to early Arenig subsurface of Rgen (NE-Germany): Caldariola glabra (Martin 1973) Molyneux in Molyneux & Rushton 1988, Caldariola sp. cf. C. glabra, Cymatiogalea deunffi Jardin et al. 1974, Cymatiogalea messaoudi Jardin et al. 1974, Cymatiogalea sp. cf. C. cristata (Downie 1958) Rauscher 1974, "Stelliferidium?" sp. 1, and "Stelliferidium?" sp. 2.
3687521|Peat cores taken from Okefenokee Swamp tree-islands ("houses") and analyzed by peat petrography and pollen stratigraphy permit us to reconstruct the plant successions which led to the "house" formation. The peats are believed to be autochthonous and their petrology has been shown to provide an accurate record of plant successions in cores. Because of differences among pollen grain transportation and sedimentation, the reliability of pollen profiles from the islands was initially questioned. The profiles may not represent an accurate record of "house" vegetational history. Analysis of pollen assemblages collected in the marsh area around an island indicates two distinct assemblages: one derived from shrubs found on the island (Ilex, Cyrilla, Ericaceae); another derived from the surrounding marsh, consisting of aquatic herbs and arboreal genera (Nymphaea, Pinus, Myrica). Palynological analysis of island peats show that shrub pollen is deposited primarily on the island with little contamination from the aquatic herb pollen of the marsh. This indicates the reliability of these data for vegetational history reconstruction. Where the "house" assemblage occurs above or below a marsh assemblage in core profiles, we observed an actual change of successional communities.
3687719|Beromia rexroadii gen. emend. et sp. nov. (algae incertae sedis) is described and illustrated from the Red Mountain Formation of Alabama and Georgia, the Lulbegrud Shale Member of the Noland Formation (Crab Orchard Group) of Kentucky, and the Lower Sodus Shale of New York. The wide geographic distribution and apparent short stratigraphic range of this new acritarch suggests it may be significant index fossil for correlation of Upper Llandovery strata of the eastern North American Platform. B. rexroadii gen. emend. et sp. nov. occurs with a diverse and abundant acritarch assemblage suggesting deposition in normal marine, nearshore to open-shelf environments. The genus Beromia is emended here to incorporate morphologies having more than three processes and a new type of combination excystment structure. This new structure has an epityche on the epiderm, here termed an endodermal epityche. The periderm, in contrast, has a simple lateral split immediately adjacent to the endodermal epityche.
3687760|A method is described for collecting soil pollen from mineral soil horizons, using a root corer and copper sampling tubes. The method is faster than traditional methods, which rely on the digging of a soil pit, and has the additional advantage of simultaneously providing large volume soil samples for companion analyses of macroscopic charcoal or other soil components.
40072699|Six new species of dinoflagellate cysts and one new combination from the Paleocene to ?lowermost Eocene succession in the Alo-1 well, southeast Nigeria, are proposed herein. The new species are Achomosphaera quadrata, Diphyes bifidum, Ifecysta fusiforma, Ifecysta heterospinosa,Palaeocystodinium rafii, and Wilsonidium stellatum. Furthermore, Fibrocysta lappacea (Drugg 1970) Stover & Evitt 1978 is transferred to Ifecysta, and the diagnosis of Ifecysta is emended.
3687394|Three chitinozoan species are described from the rich assemblage present in the Lower Silurian Vargas Pea Shale, Paraguay. Plectochitina paraguayensis and Eisenackitina bejui are newly established. A new species of Pterochitina is described in open nomenclature. The Vargas Pea chitinozoans differ from those previously described from the Lower Silurian of South America and are the first to be illustrated from the Paraguayan Silurian. Acritarchs from the Vargas Pea Shale are interpreted to represent a middle Llandovery age, closely comparable to that determined using graptolites.
3687553|Information about Silurian Chitinozoa from stratigraphic sampled sections in the United States is very scanty. To assess the stratigraphic significance of Silurian chitinozoans, 70 samples from 5 section in southern Ohio and northern Kentucky were selected. About two-thirds of the samples analyzed yielded chitinozoans, and most of these contained diagnostic assemblages. A total of 13 species have been identified. On the whole, the chitinozoans show close similarity to those from Baltoscandia and are less similar to faunas from, for instance, Anticosti Island, Spain, and North Africa. Chitinozoans with restricted ranges suggest correlation in agreement with those indicated by graptolites, conodonts and other fossils. The chitinozoans are most diverse and abundant in subtidal rocks, while intertidal rocks contain few and mostly planktic taxa. The water depth was an important ecological factor, but also other controlling factors were involved. The study has confirmed that the chitinozoans have great stratigraphic potential as index fossils in the Early Silurian of the Midcontinent United States.
3687404|The megaspores Minerisporites subcrassulus Tschudy, Erlansonisporites spinosus sp. nov., Horstisporites harrisii (Murray) Potoni, and Ricinospora cryptoreticulata gen. et sp. nov. from the Maestrichtian Hell Creek Formation of south central North Dakota, U. S. A. are studied with light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. In this manner, it is possible to achieve a more complete understanding of the total complement of morphologic features than is possible by using light microscopy alone. These megaspores are composed of two basic wall layers: an inner thin, often lamellated exine, and an outer, often multizoned perine. The perine appears as a uniformly granular layer when intact spores are observed with the light microscope. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrates that the perine is composed of variously oriented sporonin bodies.
3687428|The exine according to our model, consists of filamentous subunits (15-40nm in diam.), each containing an axially orientated tubule (10-15nm in diam.) with numerous lateral branches. Relatively few lateral branches are exposed at the surface of exinous subunits so that most of the polysaccharide-, protein-, and lipid-containing tubular complex embedded within the sporopolleninous subunit is protected from degradation and unavailable to stains or ions that could cause molecules of the complex to swell or contract. In the intact exine, the few branches of the tubular complex (glycocalyx units) that are exposed at surfaces of subunits may affect exine size and staining, but their effect is not discernible from exogenous and nonstructural endogenous substances in the microcapillary space between exinous subunits. The existence of glycocalyx units is evident following treatment that etches the sporopollenin from exinous subunits (and eliminates exogenous and endogenous substances), without inactivating glycocalyx units exposed by the removal of sporopollenin. After sporopollenin is partially removed the exine remnant is osmophilic, filamentous in appearance, and the exposed glycocalyx units stain intensely for acidic polysaccharides and moderately for protein. The polyacid groups in exposed glycocalyx units expand when ionized in hydroxide solutions and force exinous subunits to separate, increasing the size of the exine and its reaction to stains but decreasing resistance to degradation. In acid solutions and dehydrating solvents the glycocalyx units contract. Sporopollenin contracts elastically with reduction of microcapillary spaces; exine size and stainability are minimal and resistance to degradation is increased. Theoretically, the glycocalyx units embedded in sporopollenin and protected from degradation even in some sediments of great age are specific in composition and can be used to aid in delimiting past as well as present plant relationships.
3687722|Upper Jurassic strata exposed within the northeastern Chiricahua Mountains, southeastern Arizona, contain a transitional to open marine facies consisting of supratidal sediments, intrabasinal turbidites, pelagic sediments, and submarine volcaniclastics. This sequence is underlain unconformably by the Permian Concha Limestone and is thrust to the southwest over the Cretaceous Bisbee Group. These marine strata were deposited during a period of active rifting accompanied by a northwest transgressive incursion into a half-graben depositional depression known as the Bisbee Basin. Progressive infilling of Cretaceous Bisbee Group sediments resulted in a succession of Upper Mesozoic strata that is unique to this region of the southwestern cordillera. Fifteen genera and thirteen species of dinoflagellate cysts date this sequence from middle Oxfordian to early Kimmeridgian. Ammonites Idoceras striatum (Imlay), Perisphinctes ("Discosphintes"), and Dichotomosphinctes cf. D. wartae (Bukowski) substantiate this age, as well as questionably establishing the Oxfordian-Kimmeridgian boundary within this section. The presence of dinoflagellate cysts, in conjunction with Tethyan ammonites, indicates a time of normal-open marine conditions within this region and documents the northernmost incursion of the Tethyan Seaway into this region of southeastern Arizona.
3687759|Eocene dinoflagellate cysts from five exploration wells in the Liaohe Depression, northeast China, have been examined with particular emphasis regarding their morphology and taxonomy. Sixteen genera and 29 species of fossil dinoflagellates, including one new genus, Songiella, and two new species, Bohaidina tuberculata and Protoellipsodinium minutus, are described and illustrated. Songiella gen. nov. is proposed herein to include those dinoflagellate cysts which were originally described as Bipolaribucina huanghuaensis (Song et al., 1978). Four peculiar proximate cyst genera - Bohaidina, Parabohaidina, Conicoidium and Prominangularia - are discussed and emended on the basis of archeopyle morphology and overall shape. The emendation of Bohaidina suggests that it has a variable archeopyle (I, 3I or 3Ia) and that its shape varies from rhomboidal to approximately conical; this emendation makes Prominangularia a junior synonym of Bohaidina. Furthermore, Conicoidium is considered to be a junior synonym of Parabohaidina for similar reasons.
3687522|The percentages of Ambrosia-type pollen increase in the upper few centimeters of many North American cores of lake sediments or bog peats. For much of eastern North America south of 50N, this increase is easily recognizable in pollen diagrams and indicates the time when persons of European origin settled in an area. The actual biostratigraphic proof that this "Ambrosia rise" occurs with settlement requires correlating the Ambrosia rise with the first appearance or the rise in abundance of pollen types from both cultivated and non-native plants. This requirement is particularly important in the Midwest where Ambrosia is a native weed. Our results illustrate the potential of Cannabis/Humulus pollen as an indicator of settlement and cultivation in Iowa. Pollen of Cannabis/Humulus increases in abundance at or just after the initial rise in Ambrosia-type pollen in sediments from two Iowa lakes. It first occurs in the sediments of Lake West Okoboji at ca. 1910 AD, which is after the initial Ambrosia-type pollen rise but approximately dates when Cannabis sativa was introduced into the state for cultivation for fiber. A similar rise in Cannabis/Humulus pollen at Blackhawk Lake is correlative with the Ambrosia rise. Cultivation of Cannabis sativa for fiber ceased in Iowa in 1940, but the plant has escaped from cultivation and now grows in waste places.
3687532|Samples of mudstone and wackestone from the Middle Ordovician Gull River and Bobcaygeon formations of southern Ontario, Canada, yielded a new species of Dicommopalla herein designated as Dicommopalla rissae n. sp. Thus the total range of the genus Dicommopalla, which was previously Edenian to Rocklandian, is extended to older sediments of Blackriveran age. The distribution of the new species within these sediments suggests that it may have had a preference for shallow water lagoonal environments, but it is also found in association with acritarchs indicative of deeper water.
40072704|An exploration well drilled at the Middle Eocene fossil site of Messel, near Darmstadt, Germany proved that the famous Messel oil shale was deposited in a maar lake. During a quantitative palynological investigation of the entire succession of lake sediments, a monospecific population of dinoflagellate cysts was encountered. Based on transmitted light and scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies, they are assigned to the new peridinioid taxon Messelodinium thielepfeifferae gen. et sp. nov. because they are acavate and lack distinct apical or antapical horns. The dinoflagellate cysts exhibit considerable intraspecific variation in surface ornamentation. Messelodinium thielepfeifferae gen. et sp. nov. is abundant in sediments of the early holomictic stage of Lake Messel, but generally is reduced in frequency in the oil shale which represents the meromictic stage. These dinoflagellate cysts appear in peak abundances in mass flow and debris flow deposits in which material from the lake shore was transported downslope to the basin center. Thus, major concentrations of Messelodinium thielepfeifferae gen. et sp. nov. occurred in nearshore environments either due to primary population density of the parent motile stage, or due to secondary cyst accumulation by wind and wave action. The dinoflagellate cysts are notably absent in the uppermost 25 m of the core, where Botryococcus dominates. This shift in algal populations is interpreted as a response to changes in the chemistry of the water body.
3687430|A biostratigraphic zonation is proposed for the Cretaceous System of the Mid-Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf that is based on the observed stratigraphic distribution of spores, pollen, and palynomorphs Incertae Sedis in two wildcat and two Continental Offshore Stratigraphic Test (COST) wells. Ten zones are described: nine assemblage zones, and one peak zone. In descending stratigraphic order, the zones are referred to as the Holkopollenites sp. B-"Retitricolpites" sp. K zone (Campanian), the Dicotetradites sp. 2-Pseudoplicapollis longiannulata zone (Santonian), the Complexiopollis funiculus-Nevesisporites simisclaris zone (Coniacian), the Atlantopollis verrucosa-Phyllocaladidites inchoatus zone (Turonian), the Perinopollenites elatoides-Vitreisporites pallidus zone (Cenomanian), the Coronatispora valdensis-Trilobosporites humilis zone (Albian), the Auritalinasporites deltaformis-Cerebropollenites mesozoicus zone (Aptian), the Callialasporites sp. 4-Cicatricosisporites australiensis zone (Barremian), the Trilobosporites bernissartensis-T. domitus zone (Hauterivian-Valanginian), and the Rogalskisporites cicatricosus zone (Berriasian). Also presented are range data and illustrations for 142 palynomorph species.
3687415|The meanings of three terms applied originally to tabulation patterns in thecae of modern peridinoid dinoflagellates are reviewed and the need for caution in extending them to paratabulation patterns of dinoflagellate cysts is emphasized. Two new terms are proposed.
3687537|The Upper Cretaceous rocks in five New Jersey wells (all conventional cores) can be informally subdivided using dinoflagellates. The seven zones and three subzones are, in ascending stratigraphic order: the Trithyrodinium suspectum concurrent range zone (Cenomanian); Canningia sp. A abundance zone (latest Cenomanian to earliest Santonian); Chatangiella micracantha concurrent range zone (earliest Santonian to latest Santonian or earliest Campanian); Spinidinium mariae interval zone (latest Santonian or earliest Campanian to late early or early late Campanian); Palaeohystrichophora infusorioides interval range zone and its three subzones - Chatangiella manumii subzone (late early Campanian to early late Campanian), Chatangiella porata subzone (early late Campanian to late late Campanian) and Diconodinium wilsonii subzone (late late Campanian to early Maastrichtian); Chatangiella? robusta interval zone (Maastrichtian) and Deflandrea galeata interval zone (middle or late to latest Maastrichtian to Early Tertiary). This dinoflagellate zonation is correlated with the standard planktonic foraminiferal zonation, thus allowing correlation with the standard European and North American sections. Based upon this integration of dinoflagellate and foraminiferal biostratigraphy, the unconformity separating the Raritan and Magothy formations appears to range from late Turonian through Coniacian. The analyses of two additional wells provide a means of evaluating the areal applicability of this New Jersey dinoflagellate zonation. One, the Delaware 904 well (also a conventional core) makes possible the correlation of Delaware lithostratigraphy with that of New Jersey. The second is the COST B-2 well, located in the northern Baltimore Canyon Trough due east of Atlantic City. Analysis of selected samples from this well are supportive of a Campanian-Eocene bounded unconformity as determined from foraminifers.
3687552|A stratigraphically important but poorly preserved assemblage of organic-walled microphytoplankton and chitinozoans was recovered from the Boyle Dolomite (Givetian) of Kentucky. The acritarch genera represented are Baltisphaeridium, Cymatiosphaera, Diexallophasis, Dictyotidium, Duvernaysphaera, Estiastra, Exochoderma, Gorgonisphaeridium, Hapsidopalla, ?Leiosphaeridia, Lophosphaeridium, Multiplicisphaeridium, Navifusa, Oppilatala, Palacanthus, Polyedryxium, Stellinium, Tunisphaeridium, and Veryhachium. Chitinozoans are assigned to ?Alpenachitina, Ancyrochitina, ?Angochitina, Hoegisphaera, and Sphaerochitina. These palynomorphs were recovered from lithofacies representing shallow water carbonate environments, and their presence, along with conodonts indicative of the Lower Polygnathus varcus Subzone, may aid in interpreting the complex stratigraphic relationships in the Devonian of the Appalachian Basin.
3687353|A new genus and species of peridinioid dinoflagellate, Satyrodinium bengalense, is described from Campanian sediments beneath the Bay of Bengal, Indian Ocean. The morphology of the new form suggests a relationship to genera with extreme development of the intercalary plates which creates the "broad shoulder" effect in some species. One new combination is included. Because all of the forms under discussion come from sediments of approximately the same age, no evolutionary significance is attached to the morphology.
3687391|Recent morphological analysis of Triprojectacites indicates the need to elevate the subgenus Striatocorpus Krutzsch to the generic level. The combination of parallel striae and an angled (V-shaped in equatorial view) "heteropolar" body are unique to Striatocorpus among all Triprojectacites thus far examined. The known stratigraphic range of Striatocorpus is from upper Campanian to middle Maastrichtian in the western United States, Canada, Siberia, and northern China. Species included are Striatocorpus kurtos (Zhou & Wang) comb. nov., S. pyriformis (Norton) Farabee, and S. striatus (Funkhouser) comb. nov. We propose that Striatocorpus evolved from parallel-striate, non-angled-body, long-colpate pollen similar to Translucentipollis plicatillis Chlonova. Alternate hypotheses are also discussed and evaluated.
3687331|Ovoidites is an ovoid zygospore or aplanospore of the Zygnemataceae which is found in sediments of Cretaceous to Holocene age. Spores typically exhibit a prominent line of dehiscence that allows them to split in half lengthwise. The variety of sizes, shapes, and sculpturing suggests that several natural species may be included within Ovoidites. Studies of sediment cores from marine, brackish, and freshwater sequences beneath islands in Florida Bay and at the mouth of the Harney River in Everglades National Park demonstrate the close association which the spores have with freshwater peats and related pollen assemblages. Palynological study of freshwater peats from the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia shows additionally that Ovoidites occurs preferentially with open-water marsh peat and pollen assemblages. The spores typically are not found in tree- or shrub-dominated areas, and, therefore, are not associated with tree and shrub peats. The apparently narrow range of habitat preferences which the algae display suggests that Ovoidites may be a valuable indicator of ancient freshwater coal deposits.
3687377|Dinoflagellate assemblages are used to delineate three intervals within the upper Ripley Formation and Providence Sand (Maastrichtian), and the lower Clayton Formation (Danian) in the U.S. Geological Survey Albany core, located near Albany, Georgia. Interval A is interpreted as early Maastrichtian in age, interval B is late Maastrichtian, and interval C is early Danian, based on comparisons with dinoflagellate cyst zonations from the type Maastrichtian and Danian regions. Comparison with a dinoflagellate cyst zonation from the Maastrichtian Severn Formation of Maryland indicates that the lower Severn is correlative with the upper Ripley and lower Providence, and that the upper Severn is correlative with the upper Providence. The Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary is marked by a minor turnover in organic-walled phytoplankton species. Some of the uppermost Maastrichtian and lowest Danian may be missing from the section. Variations in the relative abundances of Spiniferites and Manumiella seelandica indicate a shallowing of the marine environment through the Maastrichtian. The species Manumiella druggii is considered to be a junior synonym of Manumiella seelandica.
40072723|A properly documented pollen and spore reference collection is a valuable tool in systematic/taxonomic studies, paleoenvironmental reconstruction, forensic palynology , archaeology, aerobiology and other areas of research. The collection of pollen or spore samples is best made from vouchered herbarium specimens that have been identified by trained systematists. The collection procedure, although simple, requires careful attention to each specimen so that the material collected contains mature pollen or spores, that the relevant, associated data are recorded and that the herbarium specimen is not damaged during the collection procedure.
3687753|Experimental degradation of pollen by repeated wet-dry cycles in saline and desalinated sediments show differences in preservation between taxa and between salinity environments. In desalinated sediment, from which the salts were removed artificially, pollen is rapidly degraded, with a significant net loss of pollen after ten wet-dry cycles. Picea pollen, which remains identifiable even when heavily damaged, suffers greater breakage in desalinated sediments. Artemisia pollen is rapidly rendered unidentifiable by degradation of the sculptural elements in both saline and desalinated sediments. In comparison to desalinated sediments, saline sediments appear to contain less damaged pollen. Growing salt crystals may envelop the pollen grains and stabilize them against mechanical breakage otherwise incurred by flexing of the pollen wall during desiccation. Caution should be exercised when analyzing sediments subject to wet-dry cycles, and laboratory procedures modified if necessary to avoid desiccation of pollen during processing.
3687405|A palynological investigation of three boreholes in the Lower Karroo of the Kazinze area of the Siankondobo coalfield (GS 31, 35 and 36), has indicated pollen and spore assemblages in the coal measures and underlying arenaceous beds. The arenaceous sediments occuring at the bottom of the Karroo succession, are part of the Siankondobo Sandstone Formation. They are relatively unfossiliferous, although rare thin mudstone intercalations found in one of the boreholes (GS 36), contain assemblages dominated by monosaccate forms (Cannanoropollis obscurus and Plicatipollenites indicus). The Gwembe Coal Formation, (Ecca series), which rests unconformably on the Siankondobo Sandstone Formation contains at its base a dominantly arenaceous member (Maamba Sandstone), and in one of the boreholes (GS 31) carbonaceous shale intercalations contain mainly trilete spores e.g. Punctatisporites gretensis, Acanthotriletes filiformis and Apiculatisporis levis. Overlying the Maamba Sandstone is a coal seam (Main Seam), which in turn is overlain by carbonaceous mudstones with thin coal seams. The Main Seam and the carbonaceous mudstones, are generally dominated by trilete and striate and non-striate disaccate forms e.g. Punctatisporites gretensis, Acanthotriletes filiformis, A. tereteangulatus, Apiculatisporis levis, Leiotriletes directus, Protohaploxypinus limpidus, P. goraiensis, Vesicaspora ovata and V. potoniei; one notable exception to this is the upper part of GS 31 where Incertae sedis forms are the most common. The information obtained from the three wells suggests that three concurrent range zones can be recognized and a tentative zonation has been proposed. The Siankondobo coalfield assemblages show many similarities to those recorded from the lower and upper part of the Luwumbu Coal Formation some 1,000 kilometers to the north-east, in the north Luangwa Valley of Zambia. Common to both areas is the high proportion of monosaccates in the beds underlying the carbonaceous sediments, followed by a general dominance of triletes and disaccates (striate and non-striate) throughout most of the carbonaceous sediments, although dominance of triletes does occur in some instances in the lowermost carbonaceous beds.
3687442|Twenty pollen species recovered from auger samples of an isolated pod of sediment within the Piedmont Province of Meriwether County, Georgia, indicate a late Paleocene (early Sabinian) age for the deposit. The age assignment is based on the concurrent ranges of the species as they occur in the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains. No dinoflagellate cysts or acritarchs were observed in the samples examined, and their absence supports stratigraphic and sedimentologic evidence for a nonmarine origin of the sediments. The sediments have been protected from erosion by faulting along the southern margin of the basin containing them. The structural relationships and the Paleocene age for the deposit provide evidence of Cenozoic tectonic activity within the Piedmont Province of Georgia. Regional stratigraphic and sedimentologic evidence suggests that the deposit was probably a northward extension of the bauxite districts of Andersonville, Georgia, and Eufaula, Alabama. Illustrations of the twenty biostratigraphically important pollen types are presented, as are illustrations of other angiosperm pollen from the deposit.
41319053|Samples from the upper 84 m of a 125 m thick section of the Tobra Formation at Zaluch Nala, western Salt Range, Pakistan yielded palynomorph taxa including the spores Horriditriletes sp. and Microbaculispora tentula, abundant monosaccate pollen including Barakarites cf. rotatus, Cannanoropollis janakii and Plicatipollenites malabarensis, and rare taeniate and non-taeniate bisaccate pollen. Converrucosisporites grandegranulatus, Cycadopites cymbatus, Horriditriletes ramosus, Horriditriletes tereteangulatus and Microbaculispora tentula indicate the South Oman 2165B Biozone (Late Pennsylvanian), suggesting that the Tobra Formation in Zaluch Nala is equivalent to the middle part of the Al Khlata Formation of South Oman (Petroleum Development Oman (PDO) Al Khlata production unit AK P5). Brevitriletes leptoacaina, Brevitriletes parmatus, Horriditriletes ramosus and Microbaculispora tentula indicate the lower part of the Oman and Saudi Arabia Palynological Zone 2 (OSPZ2). The Tobra Formation assemblages are also correlated with those from Stage 2 and the eastern Australian Microbaculispora tentula Oppel-zone, based on the occurrence of Brevitriletes cornutus, Brevitriletes parmatus, Cycadopites cymbatus, Horriditriletes ramosus, Horriditriletes tereteangulatus and Microbaculispora tentula. The Tobra Formation in Zaluch Nala lacks the dglaciation sequence that is present in several other palaeogeographically nearby basins such as those of south Arabia and Western Australia. This is an indication of either non-deposition during the dglaciation period or erosion associated with the unconformity between the Tobra Formation and the overlying Warchha Formation.
3687687|A new dinoflagellate cyst, Pterocysta cruciformis Rochon gen. et sp. nov., is described from glacial Late Pleistocene sediments of the southwestern Black Sea and the central Marmara Sea. Pterocysta cruciformis is distinguished by a S-type paratabulation, the cruciform shape of the endocyst and the presence of a prominent narrow wing-like periphragm on the ventral side. Similarities between Pterocysta cruciformis and other camocavate cysts are discussed. The new species is associated with cold climatic conditions and probably indicates brackish to fresh water conditions.
40984158|Alder (Alnus: Betulaceae) pollen grains are common in coal beds of the Miocene Beluga and the Pliocene Sterling formations exposed in the Kenai lowland, Alaska. All alder pollen grains of the Beluga Formation and the lower part of the overlying Sterling Formation are dominated by 4-pored grains (42-67% of total alder), with no exceptions. There is a striking transition to a 5-pored dominance (32-67%) with an accompanying increase in 6-, 7-, and even 8-pored grains in outcrops of the Sterling Formation along the Cook Inlet shore, north of Clam Gulch and at the head of Kachemak Bay, in upper Swift Creek Canyon, and in two canyon tributaries to Fox Creek. The general zone of this transition includes a previously correlated volcanic ash and gives credence to the rock strata being synchronous in these widely separated outcrops. It should thus be possible to correlate these strata across the Kenai lowland by the alder pore numbers combined with the volcanic ash. The cause of the transition to a > 5-pored Alnus dominance in the Pliocene of the Kenai lowland can only be suggested. Using pore numbers to determine alder species is not an accurate method because pollen of different alder species may have similar percentages of pore numbers. Nevertheless, when taking into account percentages of 5-, 6-, and 7-pored grains combined with the presence or absence of polar arci, it can be suggested that a shift occurred from the 4-pore dominated subgenus Alnus, represented by Alnus incana, to the 5-pore dominated, cold-adapted subgenus Alnobetula through dispersion and hybridization of Asian species such as Alnus maximowiczii, Alnus firma, and possibly Alnus sieboldiana. The pollen of these three species contain between 2-40% circular polar arci, which are also present in high-pore-numbered grains above the transition in this study.
27784300|The extinct, organic-walled, proximochorate dinoflagellate cyst Operculodinium? borgerholtense Louwye 2001 was first described from Miocene shallow-marine deposits of northern Belgium, and has since been documented from the Miocene of the eastern North Atlantic, North Sea, Austria, Hungary, and Egypt. Conventional and confocal light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy are used to reveal new details of the archeopyle, wall structure, and ornament. The archeopyle is shown to have well-defined rather than rounded angles, a distinction we consider significant in assigning this species only provisionally to the genus. Operculodinium? borgerholtense was a euryhaline neritic species highly tolerant of environmental stress, a feature consistent with its morphological variability. Present records indicate a tropicalsubtropical to temperate paleoclimatic distribution. It ranges from the upper Lower Miocene to upper Middle Miocene, and promises to be a useful stratigraphic marker particularly in neritic settings where adverse paleoenvironmental factors have excluded other species.
3687664|The Douglas Coalfield of Lanarkshire, Scotland, of early Late Carboniferous age contains a thick sequence of coal-bearing strata of the Limestone Coal Formation. Ten coals occur in an eighty-five meter sequence. Lycopsid megaspores occur abundantly in most of these coals. Ten species of megaspore are recorded from the coals and a discussion of their distribution is presented. The spores are typical of other Namurian A (Pendellian) assemblages and are characterized by the abundance of Lagenicula subpilosa forma major, Setosisporites brevispinosus, S. hirsutus, S. splendidus, Zonalesporites brasserti and Rotatispotites rotatus. Comparisons are made with assemblages from the Lower Limestone Formation and other localities in the Limestone Coal Formation.
3687599|The palynological analysis of an outcrop from the northern Venezuelan Andean flank shows that the palynologically-derived Oligo/Miocene chronostratigraphy and paleoenvironmental succession is consistent with previous sedimentological studies for the section. The sequence studied was deposited in alternating coastal and alluvial plain environments, with a variable influence of brackish water. Brackish fern swamps and freshwater alluvial plain forest swamps were dominant, depending on the proximity of the marine shoreline. Paleosalinity was estimated by a ratio between freshwater algae and marine forms. However, freshwater algae Pediastrum and Botryococcus may also tolerate low ranges of salinity, and this factor must be taken into account in future studies. A Late Oligocene phase of increased tectonic activity, possibly related to the Andean uplift, is suggested. In agreement with previous surveys, a striking evolutionary change was observed in Eocene and post-Eocene lower coastal plant communities. The Oligo/Miocene palynoflora of the region studied is similar to that of the rest of Venezuela.
3687588|Dinocyst assemblages from Ocean Drilling Project (ODP) Leg 113, sites 689 and 690, located at Maud Rise, and Leg 114, Site 698 at South Georgia Basin, are of medium diversity with close to 40 taxa. The floras are dominated by Isabelidinium pellucidum and Odontochitina porifera; common species are Batiacasphaera reticulata, Microdinium cassiculum, Leberidocysta sp. A, Nematosphaeropsis sp. and Valensiella reticulata. The age of these dinocyst-bearing sections has been determined, using paleomagnetics and biostratigraphy, as early Maastrichtian (Chron 32N), correlative to the uppermost part of the B. coronum to the lower part of the B. magnum nannofossil zones. Comparison with equally well-dated Kerguelen Plateau palynofloras indicates an age equivalent to the dinoflagellate Zone C2, and perhaps also Zone D of Mao and Mohr (1992). The precise age model for these dinocyst floras allows better calibration of other Antarctic shallow marine sections from the James Ross Basin. Decreasing species diversity and increasing endemism of these floras can be used to reconstruct environmental conditions. Decreasing diversity is interpreted as response to cooling of the Antarctic water masses, probably caused by the onset of a distinct proto-circum-Antarctic current during the latest Campanian and early Maastrichtian.
3687796|An edited transcript is presented for discussions on more than 24 taxa of Neogene and Quaternary dinoflagellates, chosen either as being in some way taxonomically problematical or because they hold unusual interest concerning their morphology, (paleo)ecology, or biostratigraphy. These discussions took place at the Third Workshop on Neogene and Quaternary Dinoflagellates and are based on observations of numerous holotypes and other type materials, often with the author of the taxon in attendance. Provisional stratigraphic ranges are given for taxa discussed. A taxonomic appendix by M.J. Head deals formally with selected taxa discussed at the workshop. The important Late Cenozoic genus Filisphaera Bujak 1984 is emended to include only those specimens with a septate/microreticulate periphragm. Its type, Filisphaera filifera Bujak 1984, is also emended and the subspecies Filisphaera filifera filifera is created by autonymy and defined. Filisphaera pilosa Matsuoka & Bujak 1988 is emended and reduced in status to Filisphaera filifera subsp. pilosa. The genus Muraticysta Head et al. 1989a is now regarded as a taxonomic junior synonym of Filisphaera Bujak 1984 emend. nov. and the new combination Filisphaera microornata (basionym = Muraticysta microornata Head et al. 1989a) is proposed for its type. Filisphaera(?) minuta Strauss & Lund 1992 is questionably included in this genus pending further information about its wall structure.
3687655|Thirty-six taxa of moderately abundant and relatively well-preserved acritarchs, algae, chitinozoans, scolecodonts and graptolite siculae from the Acoite Formation, northwestern Argentina, are described. Two new acritarch species, Ammonidium ballistum Ottone and Baltisphaerosum peniguelii Ottone, together with one new combination, Adorfia hoffmanensis (Cramer et al. 1974) Ottone, are proposed. Two distinct palynomorph assemblages have been differentiated throughout the unit: (1) a Lower Acoite Palynological Assemblage, early Arenigian in age; and (2) an Upper Acoite Palynological Assemblage, referred to the middle Arenigian. Both palynological assemblages appear to be related to the Mediterranean or Perigondwanian Paleoprovince and thus represent a high latitudinal plankton assemblage.
3687389|A shale intercalated between oolitic ironstone of the middle member of the Shumaysi Formation yielded a palynomorph assemblage having abundant pollen of various coastal palms and mangrove-associated vegetation along with abundant fungal spores. A similar assemblage with the addition of Nypa pollen and a few marine dinocysts occurs in the basal part of the upper member of the formation. These assemblages indicate an early Eocene (late Ypresian or Cuisian) age of the middle and upper members of the Shumaysi Formation. The palynofacies analysis shows that the middle member was deposited in a nonmarine estuarine environment of back-mangroves whereas the lower part of the upper member was deposited in a brackish estuarine environment of front-mangroves. Foraminifera assemblages indicative of prevailing marine estuarine depositional conditions occur only above the siltstone containing the front-mangrove palynological assemblage. Thus, the middle and upper members of the Shumaysi Formation represent a transgressive sequence deposited in ecological conditions evolving from a nonmarine back-mangrove to a marine estuarine deposition under a prevailing tropical humid climate.
40072726|Fifty-seven samples taken from ten piston cores collected along a transect off the continental margin of the Northern Basin, Ross Sea, Antarctica were analyzed for palynomorphs. Moderately diverse assemblages of marine microplankton and terrestrial palynomorphs were recovered. The palynomorph assemblages have been subdivided into two main groups: the in-situ flora (including acritarchs,dinoflagellate cysts, leiospheres and prasinophyte algae mainly composed of cymatiosphaerids), and the reworked flora (including dinoflagellate cysts, pollen and spores). The leiospheres are the most abundant palynomorphs. This prominence in the relative abundance of leiospheres has been reported as typical of assemblages found today at the limit between seasonal and pack ice in the Arctic. In-situ dinoflagellate cysts are sparse. They are mainly represented by Lejeunecysta, which, based on species similarities to those from Cape Roberts, are believed to be of Oligocene to Pliocene age. All other dinoflagellate cysts recovered are the result of reworking from Eocene to Oligocene sediments. Reworked spores and pollen comprise the second most abundant group. They are of moderate diversity and include an Eocene or older assemblage of Nothofagidites, Podocarpaceae and Proteaceae. Other taxa are representative of warmer rainforest vegetation, with Oligocene and Neogene taxa that include representatives of woodland to herbaceous/low shrubby tundra vegetation growing in colder subpolar climate. These assemblages indicate either different periods of deposition or reworking from diverse sources. Through seismic correlation and diatom analysis, the sediments are believed to be Late Pliocene in age. On this basis, it is postulated that the major glacial advance, RSU 2 of Brancolini et al. (1995) or Unconformity 10 (U10) of Bart et al. (2000), occurred before 2.3 Ma, which is the oldest age of in-situ species recovered in units above U10. As both terrestrial and marine reworked taxa include assemblages of Eocene to Oligocene age, it is assumed that those reworked components were yielded from a single source; most probably Eocene to Oligocene shallow marine strata eroded and transported from the area of Ross Island to the shelf margin through ice streams located in the Drygalsky and Joides basins.
3687775|This paper deals with an Oligocene section that is stratigraphically homogeneous from both a lithological and palynological point of view. It has been impossible to subdivide it into discrete units, using either taxon-range analysis or assemblage-zone approach based on the relative abundance of palynomorphs. Furthermore, the common multivariate numerical methods used so far with success in the region (Cluster Analysis, Principal Components Analysis, etc.) gave no useful results in this case. The search for cyclicity using palynocycles and ecologs has been also unsuccessful. Instead of considering the section of low interest, an alternative, high-resolution ecological approach was attempted to extract the information contained in these sediments. Paleoecological trends were deduced from statistical methods commonly used in modern and Quaternary ecology, mainly TWINSPAN and gradient analysis, combined with diversity analysis. As a result, the fine-scale stratigraphic variability of the data could be successfully explained in terms of paleoecological succession taking place in upper delta environments, characterised by a complex mosaic vegetation including morichales, herbaceous fern swamps, and gallery forests. The succession could be reconstructed in detail, and would be of indirect stratigraphic value for high-resolution correlation. This is an example of how the search for narrow or biased objectives can hidden significant information. It is more fruitful to have a wider perspective, and to be open to any information that sediments can provide us, without a priori limitations.
27784305|Experiments are presented here in analysis and depiction of Palynodata records. Palynodata, a database of pre-Quaternary records of fossil palynomorphs compiled from global literature, is now available as Geological Survey of Canada (GSC) Open File 5793. Palynodata is a non-random sample of the distributions of palynomorphs. Hence, for any taxon, occurrence records in Palynodata serve as a proxy for its 'real' distribution in geological time and paleogeographical space. These experiments may be useful starting points for students of palynology in their exploration of Palynodata records. Palynoplot software bins and plots Palynodata taxa retrievals by time, and by the modern latitude of the study sites. It uses geographical co-ordinates for the study localities in Palynodata and the geological time scale. Such plots reveal temporal and latitudinal distribution patterns, and potential taxonomic and data problems such as outliers and inconsistent taxonomy. Taxonomic studies can be supported by considering time by latitude distribution, in addition to traditional morphology and priorities. The modern latitude of the sites studied gives increasing distortion with geological age. Palynodata output and the study locality file was input for PaleoGIS software to depict occurrence records on paleogeographical maps. PaleoGIS software showed changing occurrence patterns on rotated plates. An experimental trend surface model of the JurassicCretaceous transition used binned records of common filicale genera which were evolutionarily sensitive between 180 and 100 Ma. The results demonstrate potential for the technique, and lessons for interpretation and future refinement. Common taxa may become useful for biostratigraphical problems and, by calibration against reference sections, this technique might be refined to provide a useful biostratigraphical standard for geological system boundaries. These manipulations of Palynodata records are a 'proof-of-concept' demonstration of techniques that may help to reveal the biostratigraphical, paleoecological, and paleoclimatological significance of fossil palynomorphs. Such work also reveals desirable improvements in Palynodata. The precision of indexing species in Palynodata may limit the potential level of chronostratigraphical resolution.
3687556|The sediments of the type Llandeilo yield sparse acritarchs that are poorly preserved but of considerable diversity. Thirty acritarch species are recognized and described and their stratigraphic distribution is indicated. One new species and one new combination are proposed: Stellechinatum llandeilum n.sp. and Solisphaeridium lucidum n.comb. No acritarchs of Llandeilo age have previously been described from the British Isles and relatively few reported from elsewhere. The acritarchs in the type Llandeilo section indicate the potential biostratigraphic utility of this group of microfossils although comparison with acritarchs of Llandeilo age elsewhere is different because of the paucity of published information.
3687762|The Bag Formation includes up to approximately 400 m of paralic, lacustrine and alluvial deposits without marine macrofossils. Detailed palynological and sedimentological studies have been undertaken of all available cored boreholes and exposures of the formation. A total of 150 palynological samples were examined from partially overlapping sections amounting to a total of ca. 650 m. The palynomorphs recovered, some of which are stratigraphically important, comprise very diverse and well-preserved assemblages from which 130 species including 67 spore, 32 pollen and 31 microplankton species are identified. The assemblages are subdivided into the Chasmatosporites, Spheripollenites-Leptolepidites and Callialasporites-Perinopollenites miospore zones and the Mendicodinium reticulatum, Luehndea spinosa and Nannoceratopsis gracilis dinoflagellate cyst zones. Three of these, the Chasmatosporites, Callialasporites-Perinopollenites and Mendicodinium reticulatum zones, are newly proposed here. The Bag Formation spans the late Pliensbachian, Toarcian, Aalenian, Bajocian and Bathonian time intervals. This has an important implication for the recognition of the regional NW European mid-Jurassic unconformity on Bornholm, which is shown to occur within the formation and not at the base as previously thought. The unconformity divides the formation into a lower part with brackish-marine influence and an upper, non-marine part. The recognition of both the unconformity and late Pliensbachian-Toarcian marine incursions facilitate a close correlation with other Jurassic sections in the region. The study illustrates the value of combining palynology and sedimentology in interpreting the depositional history of non-marine and marginal marine successions.
27784278|Numerous environmental factors as well as oceanic circulation patterns and geographic constraints all contribute to the abundance, distribution, and diversity of present-day marine phytoplankton assemblages. These same factors presumably affected the Paleozoic marine phytoplankton, which was dominated by organic-walled acritarchs and prasinophytes. During the Late Silurian (Gorstian, Ludfordian, and Pdol) and earliest Devonian (Lochkovian), important paleogeographic, paleooceanographic, and geochemical changes were occurring as well as major compositional changes and diversity fluctuations in the marine organic-walled phytoplankton. Innovative morphologies appeared during the Late Silurian, in both low and high latitude assemblages, but with significant quantitative differences. This was followed by a turnover in assemblage composition during the Silurian/Devonian transition, and an initial radiation of new acritarch and prasinophyte taxa in the Early Devonian. Observed changes in total phytoplankton diversity during the Gorstian through earliest Lochkovian are based on organic-walled microphytoplankton data derived from published and unpublished key stratigraphic sections where independent age control has been firmly established. These key sections are from: Missouri and Oklahoma, U.S.A. and western Newfoundland, Canada (Laurentia); Gotland, Sweden, and Podolia, Ukraine (Baltica); the Welsh Basin and Borderland (Avalonia); northern France and northern Spain (Armorica); and Libya in northern Africa, and Argentina and Bolivia, South America (Gondwana). Regional biodiversity changes for the organic-walled microphytoplankton were determined for the warm low latitude areas (Baltica, Laurentia, and Avalonia) and temperate to cool higher latitude areas (northern and southern Gondwana). The Late Silurianearliest Devonian organic-walled phytoplankton was divided into three major categories to facilitate comparison of compositional fluctuations, both with stratigraphic sections as well as between geographic areas. The three categories, based on overall morphology, are marine chlorophytes and prasinophytes, marine acritarchs, and nonmarine types, including coenobial forms. This triparate grouping is both broad and detailed enough to mark critical changes in both the phytoplankton assemblages, as well as the paleoenvironment. In general, high phytoplankton diversity peaks occurred during the Early and Late Gorstian in the warm low latitude areas, followed by varying fluctuations during the Ludfordian and Pdol for both the warm low latitude and cool high latitude areas. An initial radiation of new phytoplankton taxa and the appearance of more cosmopolitan assemblages mark the beginning of the Lochkovian.
3687316|This paper presents and illustrates an informal palynological zonation of the pre-Magothy continental Cretaceous sediments of the Atlantic Coastal Plain (Potomac Group, Raritan Formation), based primarily on new and previously published studies of angiosperm pollen from two wells near Delaware City, Delaware, and from outcrop samples from Virginia through New Jersey, following lines established by Brenner (1963). Monosulcate angiosperm pollen (with columellar exine structure) is present from the base of Brenner's Zone I (Patuxent Formation and Arundel Clay equivalents, Barremian-lower Albian?). Reticulate tricolpates enter in upper Zone I and diversify in Brenner's Subzones II-A and II-B (Patapsco Formation equivalents, middle-upper Albian?); tricolporoidates appear in Subzone II-B. Very small, psilate tricolporoidates and Rugubivesiculites rugosus enter in our Subzone II-C (uppermost Albian?), larger triangular tricolporates and new tricolpates in Zone III (lower Cenomanian?); these two units are represented in "Maryland Raritan" or Elk Neck beds. The first triporate Normapolles (Complexiopollis, Atlantopollis) appear in Zone IV (lower part of the true Raritan Formation of New Jersey, middle Cenomanian-lower Turonian?), additional Normapolles in Sirkin's Zone V (upper part of the Raritan, middle Turonian-lower Santonian?). Application of this zonation shows that all but the top of the very thick continental-nearshore marine section in three deep wells in the Salisbury Embayment (Hammond, Bethards, Taylor) is of Early Cretaceous age (though in part older than the outcrop Potomac Group), including "red beds" previously considered Triassic or Jurassic. Maximum marine incursions occurred in the late Albian and early Cenomanian. Equivalents of the Raritan Formation of New Jersey (Zone IV), lacking at the Maryland-Delaware outcrop, are identified for the first time in the Taylor and Bethards wells. Potomac and lower Raritan equivalents are separated from overlying Magothy Formation equivalents (upper Santonian-Campanian?) by a regional unconformity.
3687426|Pollen and sediments have been analyzed from a 5.5 meter-length core of lacustrine sediments from Tangle Lakes, in the Gulkana Upland south of the Alaska Range (63 01 46 N. latitude, 146 03 48 W. longitude). Radiocarbon ages indicate that the core spans the last 4700 years. The core sediments are sandy silt and silty clay; the core shows distinct rhythmic laminations in the lower 398 cm. The laminae appear to be normally graded; peat fibers and macerated plant debris are more abundant near the tops of the laminae. Six volcanic-ash layers are present in the upper 110 cm of the core. Present-day vegetation of the Tangle Lakes area is mesic shrub tundra and open spruce woodland, with scattered patches of shrub willow (Salix), balsam poplar (P. balsamifera), spruce (Picea), paper birch (Betula papyrifera), and alder (Alnus). Pollen analysis of 27 core samples suggests that this vegetation type has persisted throughout the past 4700 years, except for an apparently substantial increase in Picea beginning about 3500 years B.P. Percentages of Picea pollen are very low (generally 1-3 percent) in the lower 2 meters of core (ca. 4700 to 3500 years B.P.), but rise to 13-18 percent in the upper 3.4 meters (ca. 3500 years B.P. to present). Previously reported data from this area indicate that Picea trees initially arrived in the Tangle Lakes area about 9100 years B.P., at least 2.5 to 3 thousand years after deglaciation of the region. The present investigation suggests that Picea trees became locally scarce or died out sometime after about 9000 years B.P. but before 4700 years B.P., then reinvaded the area about 3500 years B.P. If this extrapolated age for the Picea reinvasion is accurate it suggests that local expansion of the Picea population coincides with the onset of a Neoglacial interval of cooler, moister climate. This is an unexpected result, because intervals of cooler climate generally coincide with lowering of the altitudinal limit of trees. In this case, improved moisture conditions may have promoted spruce growth and reproduction in spite of somewhat cooler temperatures. Previous pollen records from Alaska suggest that Artemisia pollen contributed little to the pollen rain of most taiga and tundra sites during Holocene time. The pollen record from Tangle Lakes, however shows rather high percentages (7-13 percent) of Artemisia deposited during the approximate time interval 4700 to 3500 years B.P. Local habitats that have well-drained soils derived from glacial deposits support patches of Artemisia telesii and other Artemisia species. These local habitats may account for the source of Artemisia pollen deposited in the Tangle Lakes area during Holocene time.
3687744|The results of a pollen study of 77 American species of Acacia (tribe Acaciae) characterizes pollen among the different New World taxa of the compound-pollen Mimosoideae on the basis of the most relevant morphologic and structural features. Two pollen types and five subtypes are recognized and summarized in the diagnostic key presented herein. As a result of the species studied, some newly observed structural features are now utilized; these features modify the previous characterization of the pollen of Acacia, and include frequent ornamentation of the suprasubreticulate or supramicrorugulate exine, presence of subpseudocolpi in some species, and presence of a bistratified granular infractectal layer in the subgenus Aculeiferum but not in the section Filicinae.
3687369|The Albert Formation, in the southeastern part of New Brunswick, contains oil shales from which oil and gas are produced (Stoney Creek field). The fauna and palynoflora of the formation suggest a terrestrial environment of deposition; there is no evidence of marine influence. The strata indicate a relatively shallow lacustrine environment with an associated fluvial deltaic sequence. The preservation of palynomorphs in subsurface core samples from the lower member and middle oil shale member of the formation (Dawson Settlement and Frederick Brook Members, respectively) varies from very poor to very good, whereas preservation of palynomorphs in outcrop samples from the upper member (Hiram Brook Member) is very good. The poor preservation is probably the result of deposition under anoxic conditions, with the subsequent growth of pyrite on the exines; corrosion by microorganisms such as anaerobic bacteria or fungi may also have occurred. No significant qualitative taxonomic variations were discernible in the palynoflora vertically throughout the formation. Quantitatively, most samples are dominated by Punctatisporites irrasus Hacquebard and P. planus Hacquebard; Spelaeotriletes pretiosus (Playford) Neves & Belt is common to abundant in two of the Hiram Brook samples. Dominance of a few species may indicate an arid climate consistent not only with Atlantic Canada's position of low latitude in the various paleocontinental reconstructions for the Early Carboniferous, but also with the local presence of evaporites in upper beds of the Albert Formation. Comparison with assemblages from the Horton Group of Nova Scotia favors a correlation with the Horton Bluff Formation. The Albert Formation assemblages may be correlated with the Spelaeotriletes pretiosus-Raistrickia clavata (PC) Spore Zone of Tournaisian, late Tn2 to early Tn3, age of western Europe. The organic matter consists of significant amounts of algae (Botryococcus sp.) along with exinous, woody, and coaly fragments. The spores are yellow-orange to orange-brown, indicating a Thermal Alteration Index (on a five point scale) of 2- to 2+. This low level of maturation and the type of organic matter suggest some potential for the generation of liquid hydrocarbons.
27784302|New species of the fungal form-genus Mediaverrunites Jarzen & Elsik 1986 ex Nandi & Sinha 2007 are described from tropical to warm temperate Neogene strata. Mediaverrunites fournierii sp. nov. and Mediaverrunites magnus sp. nov. occur in the Lower Miocene of Colombia. Mediaverrunites invaginatus sp. nov. is from the Upper Miocene to Lower Pleistocene, offshore Louisiana. The form-genus is also represented by an apparently undescribed extant species occurring in recent sediment.
3687505|Several studies of Oxfordian marine palynomorphs have been published over the last twenty years, but most include only the dinoflagellate cyst fraction of the assemblages. This paper is an attempt to more fully document the palynology of the British Oxfordian stage by describing acritarchs, prasinophytes and scolecodonts from two outcrop sections on the Isle of Skye, Scotland, and in Dorset, southern England. The species Solisphaeridium stimuliferum (Deflandre 1938) Staplin et al. 1965 is emended, and the new subspecies S. stimuliferum retinum subsp. nov. is described.
40072719|Neotypes are designated herein for certain Paleocene species of juglandaceous pollen that were originally described in 1978. The microscope slides bearing the holotypes have been lost, eliminating the possibility of designating lectotypes and necessitating, instead, the designation of neotype specimens to stabilize the nomenclature of the species, which are biostratigraphically significant. The species for which neotypes are designated are Momipites wyomingensis, Momipites waltmanensis, Momipites ventifluminis, Momipites actinus, Momipites anellus, Momipites leffingwellii, Caryapollenites prodromus, Caryapollenites imparalis, Caryapollenites inelegans, and Caryapollenites wodehousei.
3687413|The cyst-based and the theca-based dinoflagellate classification systems were compared using Peridinium faeroense Paulsen, 1905, and species of Ensiculifera Balech, 1967, Scrippsiella Balech ex A. R. Loeblich III, 1965, and Peridinites Lefvre, 1933. Cyst differences were more obvious, including "acritarchs", and calcareous and siliceous-walled forms, whereas equivalent thecal differences included only "minor" features such as cingular and sulcal plate details. This supported Balech's recent subdivision of the genus Peridinium based on these minor thecal features; it also showed that comparable subdivisions were suggested by cyst morphology. The two classification systems appeared more similar than in previous comparisons which neglected such minor thecal features. Both cysts and thecae are considered to be equally valid taxonomic criteria. The implications for dinoflagellate systematics suggested by this are that both cysts, where known, and thecal features should be included in species descriptions establishing a holomorph. Quaternary and Recent cysts should ultimately be classified under a unified system based on the holomorph. In the interim, cyst nomenclature should reflect known paleontologic and biologic information. New cyst-based nomenclature should not be created just to "artificially" maintain dual classification.
3687742|Twenty-two species of dinoflagellates and acritarchs, and thirty species of spores and pollen are reported from twenty Lower Cretaceous core samples of shale and siltstone from the South Barrow Test Well No. 1 in Point Barrow, Alaska. The stratigraphic distribution of the fifty-two species is summarized, and four stratigraphic intervals are established. Based on diagnostic dinoflagellate cysts, the geologic age for the Torok Formation is suggested to be Aptian-Albian, and the age of the "Pebble Shale" unit is suggested to be Barremian-Aptian. The depositional environment is considered to be marine.
3687741|The paper presents a new study of the Paleogene dinoflagellate cysts from a borehole in central Western Siberia. The presence of stratigraphic markers from the European zonations permitted recognition of six dinoflagellate zones in this section: the Cerodinium speciosum, Apectodinium hyperacanthum and Apectodinium augustum zones in the Paleocene interval; and the Dracodinium varielongitudum, Charlesdowniea coleotrhypta and Charlesdowniea clathrata angulosa zones in the Eocene section. This sequence permits precise age assignment of the Siberian lithological formations, as well as interpretation of the presence of stratigraphic gaps in the marine Siberian Paleogene section. The Late Eocene-Oligocene boundary is characterized by the successive disappearance of the Siberian marine basin and by a significant floristic change.
3687479|Grapnelispora evansii, a new megaspore genus and species from the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) of Australia and New Zealand, is described and illustrated. Although superficially similar to the Paleozoic ancyrospores in possessing appendages with anchor or grapnel-like tips (a feature not reported previously on Mesozoic megaspores), the new form has significantly longer appendages and a more complex internal wall structure. Specimens have been recovered from wells in the Bass Strait Basins of southeastern Australia, basins along the southern margin of the continent, the Bonaparte Gulf Basin of northern Australia, and from New Zealand surface sections.
3687734|Salt Core DV93-1, from Badwater Basin in California's Death Valley, is a nearly complete sedimentary record of mud and evaporite deposits spanning the past 192 ka. Fossil palynomorph assemblages from core depths of 151.8 m (ca. 166 ka) to 103.5 m (ca. 114 ka) have been analyzed as part of a larger study which will eventually include all of core DV93-1. The palynological analysis discussed here reveals four pollen zones between 151.8 m and 103.5 m. Zone 1, the "Cheno-Am" zone (151.8 m to 143.5 m depth, 166-154 ka), has high percentages of Chenopodiaceae/ Amaranthus (Cheno-Am) pollen, and is correlative with the end of marine Oxygen Isotope Stage (OIS) 7. Zone 2, the juniper zone (143.5 m to 117.3 m, 154-124 ka), correlates with OIS 6, as evidenced by high percentages of juniper (Cupressaceae) pollen and low percentages of Ambrosia pollen. Equivalent pollen assemblages are found at higher elevations in Death Valley today, where temperatures are 11 C cooler and rainfall is eight times greater. At the top of Zone 2 (124 ka), a simultaneous drop in juniper and increase in oak (Quercus) pollen occurs, followed by a replacement of Artemisia with Ambrosia in Zone 3, the oak zone. This event corresponds to warming associated with Termination II. The estimated age of this warming event is in agreement with the Termination II event visible in the pollen record from nearby Owens Lake (Litwin et al., 1997). Zone 4, the Asteraceae zone (108.8 m to 103.5 m, 119-115 ka), contains higher percentages of Asteraceae and Cheno-Am pollen, indicating further warming during this time.
3687421|The Fredericksburg Group of the southern United States consists of the Walnut Formation, the Goodland Formation, and the Kiamichi Formation in ascending stratigraphic order. The Walnut Formation and most of the Goodland Formation are of middle Albian Age and the Kiamichi Formation is late Albian in age. The middle/upper Albian boundary falls within the Goodland Formation on the basis of ammonite zones, and at the base of the Kiamichi Formation according to foraminiferal evidence. The spore-pollen assemblages indicate late middle Albian to early late Albian Age for the Fredericksburg Group. The total stratigraphic ranges of eighty-four spore-pollen species included in the fifty genera recognized in the Fredericksburg Group assemblages were determined by considering their previously recorded occurrences. Twenty-two species of eighteen genera are indigenous to the Fredericksburg Group. Eleven Jurassic species occur throughout the Cretaceous, whereas fourteen such species became extinct in the Middle Cretaceous. Eleven species first appear in the Lower Cretaceous and either persist throughout the Cretaceous or extend into the Tertiary. Five species are restricted to strata of Aptian-Albian Age and five to the strata of Albian-Cenomanian Age. Asteropollis asteroides, Cicatricosisporites spiralis, Crybelosporites pannuceus, Gemmatricolpites gemmatus, Impardecispora texensis, Phimopollenites augathellaensis, P. pannosus, Rousea georgensis, Striatopollis paraneus, Tappanispora loeblichii, T. reticulata, Tricolpites sagax are characteristic species in strata of Albian-Cenomanian Age and have an inter-regional correlation potential.
3687665|Multivariate statistics have been used to identify the paleoclimatic-paleoecological affinities of most European Jurassic (Toarcian to Kimmeridgian) dinoflagellate cyst taxa. These analyses were then used to construct dinoflagellate cyst diagrams (abbreviated to 'cyst diagrams'), which are analogous to pollen diagrams. The marine and terrestrial records were then correlated using both pollen (miospore) and cyst diagrams. These plots appear to include many biostratigraphically significant paleoclimatic events which augment, and in some cases refine, the ammonite-based biostratigraphy. The integration of the terrestrial spore-pollen based correlations with the oceans, via dinoflagellate cysts, appears to prove that the oscillations in the palynomorph diagrams reflect widespread temperature changes. This is because the 'cold' group of dinoflagellate cysts includes several taxa with north-polar paleogeographic distributions, and equivalent fluctuations can be matched in the terrestrial spore-pollen diagrams, which in turn are correlated between the northern and southern hemispheres. In the early mid Jurassic, warming events were noted above the Toarcian-Aalenian boundary and in the early Bajocian. The paleoclimatic signals in the Bathonian appear to be difficult to interpret consistently. The Callovian-Oxfordian boundary is characterized by a marked cooling event. The Late Jurassic following the early Oxfordian appears to have been a time of increasing ambient paleotemperatures with a thermal zenith in the Kimmeridgian. This generally rising paleotemperature trend for the Callovian to Kimmeridgian interval, including specific variations, is consistent with other Jurassic paleoclimatic results derived using different methods such as clay mineral analyses, isotopic methods, miospore eco-groups and macropaleobotany.
3687547|Diporoconia n. gen. is proposed for diporate subisopolar smooth to perforate pollen grains having annuli or tumescence. Diporoconia iszkaszentgyoergyi (Kedves) n. comb. (the type species), D. nnewiensis (Jan du Chne et al.) n. comb., and D. spp. 1 and 2 are included in the genus. Distinctive characters of the pollen are the large pores that are at the ends of the grain but appear offset toward one face (interpreted to be the proximal face) and the greater convexity of the distal face than the proximal face, both features that indicate curving or arching of the equatorial axis that extends from pore to pore. Diporoconia is known from Hungary, France, England, Nigeria, Alabama, California, and Alaska. It is probably confined to the Eocene. Plants producing Diporoconia pollen probably lived in coastal environments in which the soil water was brackish or even marine. Statistical analyses of British assemblages containing this pollen indicate that it may have been produced by herbs or low shrubs. The climatic affinity of the genus is paratropical to tropical. Previous authors have suggested that Diporoconia pollen has affinities with Daemonorops (Palmae) or Alyxia (Apocynaceae). In this paper we examine modern pollen of these two genera in detail and conclude that the fossils do not belong to either genus; transmission electron micrographs are critical for these comparisons. However, several lines of morphological evidence indicate that the fossil grains are monocotyledonous.
3687330|Assemblages of dinoflagellate cysts in Recent sediments from the southern Barents Sea are dominated by the cyst species Operculodinium centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) Wall, but also contain numbers of elongate Spiniferites specimens referable to both S. elongatus Reid and S. frigidus Reid & Harland. There is considerable intraspecific variability within these Spiniferites species particularly with regard to the amount and form of membrane development. This Arctic dinoflagellate cyst thanatocoenosis differs from dinoflagellate assemblages previously described from the North Atlantic in lacking Bitectatodinium tepikiense Wilson and such Spiniferites species as S. lazus Reid, S. mirabilis (Rossignol) Sarjeant and S. ramosus (Ehrenberg) Loeblich & Loeblich. The apparently unique character of Recent Arctic dinoflagellate cyst assemblages offers the potential of recognizing similar assemblages in the late Quaternary record.
3687539|The pollen flora of the mid-Tertiary Weaverville Formation complements the leaf flora described in 1937 by MacGinitie in recording numerous additional taxa from the regional flora that allow a fuller reconstruction of the vegetation and paleoenvironment and a refined interpretation of the age. Sediments of the Weaverville Formation comprise tuffs, lacustrine shales, and fluvial auriferous conglomerates that are preserved in small fault-bounded basins. Stratigraphic sections from two basins 25 km apart yielded a total of 151 types of palynomorphs, which include 85 genera or tribes in 51 families. The pollen and leaf floras have few elements in common, due to variable pollen production and differential preservation of pollen and leaves. The most notable floral elements derived from the pollen flora are Betulaceae, Onagraceae, Ericaceae, Sterculiaceae, Carya, and several groups of gymnosperms. By comparison with modern taxa, the Weaverville flora represents a mixed broad-leaved evergreen and deciduous forest and a mixed coniferous forest, with a Taxodium-Nyssa swamp forest near the site of deposition. A subtropical to warm temperate climate is inferred, although the flora also includes taxa that today are tropical to subtropical (Bombacaceae, Sterculiaceae) and others that are temperate to boreal (Larix, Picea). This seemingly anomalous composition may have resulted from depositional mixing of pollen from several vegetational units or from less distinct ecological zonation of vegetation in the Tertiary. An interesting association of typically Eocene taxa (Pistillipollenities, Bombacaceae, Triumfetta) with Oligo-Miocene taxa (Compositae, Malvaceae, Polygonaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Gramineae) occurs in both measured sections, and these types are not restricted stratigraphically. Overall, the stratigraphic ranges of Weaverville taxa and the diversity of herbs suggest that the age of the Weaverville Formation is Early to early Middle Miocene.
3687412|The retention of Cymbosphaeridium Lister as a valid taxon is supported by studies on Cymbosphaeridium pilar (Cramer) Lister, 1970. Multiplicisphaeridium pachymurum sp. nov. superficially resembles C. pilar but possesses only a single, thick vesicle wall, unlike the double, thin walled, cyst bearing C. pilar. Further, the processes of M. pachymurum constantly flare proximally whereas they are of a tubular nature in C. pilar. From this difference in wall structure and process morphology, the two species are considered to represent different generic taxa. C. pilar cannot be considered as the cyst bearing form of M. pachymurum.
3687765|Palynomorph data from two localities in southwestern Alabama and southeastern Mississippi have been used to interpret the palynofloral succession of six of the seven lithostratigraphic units of the Vicksburg Group, to test the current sequence stratigraphic framework for the area, and to infer paleoclimatic conditions during the Early Oligocene. The samples group statistically by multivariate methods according to sporomorph types and relative frequencies, and two broad groups of high and low diversity assemblages have been identified. Quercoidites, Carya, Momipites, Siltaria sp. cf. S. scabriextima, Cupressacites hiatipites and Cupuliferoipollenites dominate the high diversity assemblage in the Bumpnose Limestone, Red Bluff Clay, Forest Hill Sand and Bucatunna Clay. These lithostratigraphic units have previously been interpreted as deposits of a highstand systems tract. The main difference between the Bucatunna sporomorph assemblage and that of the other units is the absence of the two taxodiaceous conifer pollen species resembling Sequoia. The Mint Spring Marl, which is considered the lower part of a transgressive systems tract, is slightly less diverse than the highstand deposits, but the assemblage is rich in the two Sequoia type pollen species. In southwestern Alabama, nonmarine palynomorphs outnumber marine palynomorphs in this unit, whereas the marine palynomorphs are the dominant constituents in southeastern Mississippi. This a reflection of transgression progressing from southeast to northwest that resulted in a thinner, older and more marginal Mint Spring facies in Alabama. The low diversity assemblage is present in the transgressive Marianna Limestone and highstand Glendon Limestone. The Marianna Limestone has fewer sporomorphs than the underlying Mint Spring Marl, with Sequoia type pollen also accounting for >70% of counted sporomorphs, but the unit is much richer in marine palynomorphs than nonmarine palynomorphs. The Glendon Formation has the poorest recovery of nonmarine and marine palynomorphs among the sediments, and this poor recovery may be related to diagenetic processes. The Early Oligocene paleoclimate was evidently warm temperate. Prominent in the Vicksburg assemblage are pollen elements related to Quercus, Taxodium, Sequoia, Cyrilla, and Castanea which suggest that the paleoclimate was cooler than the Gulf Coast Early and Middle Eocene subtropical conditions.
3687564|Morphological study of Aquilapolles fossil pollen, long conducted at the light microscopic level, is significantly enhanced by the greater depth of field and magnification obtainable with scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The use of SEM-generated stereo pairs provides a three-dimensional image revealing spatial relationships of body form, sculpture and aperture arrangement. A tetrad consisting of individual grains referrable to Integricorpus reticulatus (Mtchedlishvili) Stanley, from the Hell Creek Formation (Maastrichtian) of North Dakota, is examined using stereo pairs and standard SEM imaging. This marks, as far as we know, the first SEM examination of an isopolar triprojectate tetrad. Comparison with previously published heteropolar spinulose Aquilapollenites tetrads of possible proteacean affinity provides additional clues to the polyphyletic nature of the Aquilapolles group.
3687395|Pollen analysis of sediments from Small Momela Lake indicates that grass savanna or thicket savanna covered the surrounding Mt. Ujamaa (Mt. Meru) Lahar in northern Tanzania from about 6000 to 1700 yr B.P. and since 600 yr B.P. The interval from 1700 to 600 yr B.P. is marked by peaks in the percentages of Olea and Justicia pollen and a drop in the percentage of grass pollen. At this same time changes in the diatom assemblage (Hecky, 1971) suggest a freshening of the lake while radiocarbon dates indicate an increase in the sediment accumulation rate. The changes in the pollen record for the last 1700 years may indicate disturbance of the vegetation, perhaps by humans, but this interpretation must be viewed with caution. This study illustrates the difficulties in inferring ecological or anthropological changes from pollen data in regions dominated by grassland vegetation.
3687357|Holotypes and some other illustrated specimens of Jurassic and Early Cretaceous dinoflagellate cysts from Canada, published by S. A. J. Pocock (1962, 1972), were reexamined for new detail and redescribed; their nomenclature has been adjusted to current usage. Not all holotypes could be located; two new lectotypes were designated. One new species, Leptodinium perornatum, is named and fifteen new combinations are proposed: Chytroeisphaeridia gochtii; Circulodinium brevispinosum, C. distinctum; Endoscrinium? variable; Evansia opeasatos, E. reticulopilosa, E. tripartita, E. tripartita subs. rotunda, E. zabra; Rhynchodiniopsis canadensis, R. downiei, R. gochtii; Scriniocassis klementii, S. reticulata; Sentusidinium asymmetricum.
3687778|This work presents a detailed study of the pollen and spore distribution in the Paleocene-Eocene Lisama and La Paz Formations on the eastern border of the Middle Magdalena Valley, Colombia. One hundred and forty-seven samples obtained from cores and outcrops were prepared for palynological research, fifty-nine of which were rich in pollen and spores. Three hundred spore and pollen taxa were identified. The studied stratigraphic interval is a 2000 m thick coastal and fluvial deposit formed in a variable subsiding tectonic setting. The Lisama Formation is characterized by the dominance of the Proxapertites group. Some typical Paleocene forms start to disappear toward the upper part of the Lisama Formation (e.g. Bombacacidites annae, Ephedripites vanegensis, Retidiporites magdalenensis), and are followed by a barren interval probably linked to intense oxidation during paleosol development (the uppermost 266 m of the Lisama Formation). In the La Paz Formation there is a progressive appearance of early and middle Eocene species (e.g. Cyclusphaera scabrata, Foveotriporites hammenii, Monoporopollenites annulatus, Perfotricolpites digitatus, Spirosyncolpites spiralis, Striatopollis catatumbus, Bombacacidites gonzalezii). This biostratigraphic evidence indicates that an early-middle Eocene hiatus in the eastern area of the Middle Magdalena Valley basin is not present, as many authors have previously suggested. One new pollen genus, Foveomonoporites, and two new pollen species, Foveomonoporites variabilis and Psilamonocolpites operculatus are described and illustrated.
3687567|Bulk maceration and sieving of terrestrial and marginal marine sediments from the Dakota Formation (Cretaceous, Cenomanian) of Kansas yielded a diverse assemblage of dispersed plant fossils, including 16 species of lycopod and heterosporous fern megaspores, six species of seed and fruit cuticles, four types of bilobed cuticular structures which may be reproductive structures from some unknown Mesozoic seed plant, and two species of algal cysts. The megaspore and seed cuticle flora is similar to other North American floras of Cenomanian age, and some of the species found are index fossils for the Cenomanian, thus reconfirming the age of these deposits. The botanical affinities of many of these fossils have been investigated, based on evidence from megaspore wall ultrastructure, morphology, associated microspores, and occurrence in-situ in megafossils. The suggested affinities of some of the megaspores, based on this and previous studies, are as follows: Arcellites and Molaspora - Marsiliales; Ariadnaesporites - Salviniales; Paxillitriletes and Minerisporites - Isoetales; Erlansonisporites - Selaginellales.
3687499|Three new dinoflagellate cyst species are described from Albian sediments penetrated at Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 363, located in the South Atlantic Ocean, offshore Namibia. The new species are Endoscrinium tabulatum sp. nov., Walvisia woodii gen. et. sp. nov., and Gordiacysta coronota gen. et. sp. nov.
3687427|Spiniferites cysts with 2P archeopyles were recovered from Recent unconsolidated detrital material in Hidden Basin, British Columbia, Canada. Viable cysts were excysted to produce two possibly new species of Gonyaulax, G. sp. 1 and G. sp. 2. These cysts, which were also found in palynologically treated samples, are described as species of Spiniferites. Gonyaulax sp. 1 is similar to G. alaskensis Kofoid. G. sp. 2 may be an "immature" example of G. sp. 1 or it may be a separate species. The cysts of G. sp. 1 and G. sp. 2 are indistinguishable and are part of a large group of Spiniferites 2P cysts found in Hidden Basin.
3687754|The Lower-Middle Jurassic dinoflagellate cyst Fromea elongata Beju 1971 is superficially similar to the typically Lower Cretaceous species Wallodinium cylindricum (Habib 1970) Duxbury 1983. Fromea elongata is transferred to Phallocysta Drhfer & Davies 1980 by virtue of its anterior intercalary periarcheopyle; the specific diagnosis is emended to include this periarcheopyle type. Andreedinium Below 1987 is considered to be a junior synonym of Phallocysta and A. arcticum Below 1987 is transferred to Phallocysta. The uppermost Jurassic-Cretaceous Wallodinium cylindricum is emended largely to note the loose mutual contact of the two cyst walls and the apical peri- and endoarcheopyles, the principal periarcheopyle suture of which appears to be indicative of a gonyaulacacean paratabulation. Wallodinium Loeblic & Loeblich 1968 is therefore emended to include epicavate forms and to note its apparent gonyaulacacean paratabulation. The range of Phallocysta elongata is uppermost Toarcian (Lower Jurassic) to lower Bajocian (Middle Jurassic); all known records are from Europe. Wallodinium cylindricum has been observed from the Kimmeridgian (Upper Jurassic) to the lowermost Cenomanian (Upper Cretaceous) of the North Atlantic, Europe and North Africa; it is most common and persistent in the Lower Cretaceous.
3687339|A palynological sequence is described from the Neocomian of the Carpentaria Basin in Northern Queensland. Emphasis is given to the dinoflagellate biostratigraphy in the oldest marine Cretaceous sequence known from eastern Australia. The phytoplankton documentation includes 72 species (and 2 lower categories) assigned to 38 genera. Three informal intervals are described in chronological succession as zones DK1, DK2, and DK3, and their lower limits are marked by the oldest stratigraphic appearances of certain widely known dinoflagellate species; namely Chlamydo-phorella nyei, Dingodinium cerviculum, Muderongia tetracantha, M. staurota, Odontochitina operculata, and Canningia colliveri. Restricted stratigraphic occurrences of certain dinoflagellate species in Australia, Europe, and North America are taken as evidence for tentatively dating zone DK1 as latest Jurassic-Berriasian, zone DK2 as Valanginian, and zone DK3 as Hauterivian. Contemporaneous spore and pollen subzones of the Murospora florida Zone in Queensland are dated by direct association with the dinoflagellate record. Geological age and paleoenvironments of the associated Gilbert River Formation, Helby Beds, and basal part of the Rolling Downs Group are briefly summarized. Palynology indicates that the base of the Rolling Downs Group becomes progressively younger to the south, reflecting diachronous facies boundaries as a Neocomian sea gradually transgressed in that direction.
3687585|The pollen wall of Ephedra foliata was examined by LM, SEM and TEM. The pollen wall consists of three layers: ectexine, foot layer and endexine. The ectexine has a solid tectum underlain by infratectal processes. The infratectal components appear granular in dried grains but there are columellae-like rods in fresh fixed grains that were not subject to dehydration and the elevation of ridges. The Ephedra foot layer is part of the ectexine and has the same contrast. There is a white line lamellation between the foot layer and outer component of the endexine that is probably a junction plane between units of the foot layer and the endexine. The endexine consists of many cylindrical sheets that extend parallel with the long axis of the pollen grain. These sheets appear interconnected and may be branched or recurved in some sites. In pollen that had been acetolyzed the endexine was stained lighter than the ectexine, the reverse of most fresh grains. This is due to the endexine being porous and the material held in it is easily extracted by washing, acetolysis, etc. In dried and acetolized pollen grains the ridges are elevated and the lamellae of the endexine are generally appressed. While in fresh fixed pollen the ridges are flattened and the endexine shows gaps between the lamellae. The intine is thick in fresh fixed mature pollen but we have seen no indication of areas having an exceptionally thick intine that could be considered apertural. The microsporangium of Ephedra is surrounded by a peritapetal lamellation, as in angiosperms. This lamellation extends between tapetal cells as "tapetal (cell) markers." The orbicules of Ephedra show a lamellation like those of conifers and angiosperms where such a lemellation results from the formative process. Orbicules of Ephedra are generally large and easily removable from the anthers, therefore they could be favorable objects for study of exine chemistry, function and structure. There is great variation in pollen morphological characteristics such as size, number and shape of ridges and outline of pollen grains from an individual plant and even within a single microsporangium. This would make it difficult to determine affinities of fossil polyplicate pollen with extant species.
40072745|Palynology is the main method of correlating the subsurface glaciogenic Al Khlata Formation (Pennsylvanian to Lower Permian) of Oman due to the extreme lateral variability of facies and poor seismic resolution. The chief operating company in Oman, Petroleum Development Oman (PDO), has developed a robust in-house palynozonation during almost 40 years of exploration and production based on thousands of samples and hundreds of well sections. In this paper, the formal definitions of the biozones are published and the biozones are correlated in detail with faunally-calibrated palynomorph biozones in Western Australia. This allows correlation to the standard Russian stages. Seven biozones are distinguished. The oldest two subdivisions, biozones 2159A and 2159B, of probable Late Pennsylvanian age, are characterized by low diversity assemblages of Punctatisporites and monosaccate pollen. Biozone 2159A has a lower proportion of monosaccate pollen than Biozone 2159B. Biozone 2165 A, of probable Asselian age, is characterized by common cingulicamerate spores and the Microbaculispora Group. Biozone 2165B contains common Horriditriletes Group, and is likely to be Asselian-Sakmarian in age. The Biozone 2141A is characterized by common taeniate and non-taeniate bisaccate pollen and Cycadopites cymbatus, particularly toward the top. The succeeding Biozone 2141B is recognized by common Microbaculispora Group and Cycadopites cymbatus. Biozones 2141 A to 214 1C are believed to be Sakmarian in age. The youngest unit, Biozone 2141C, is characterized by the Microbaculispora and Horriditriletes groups, with the former being more abundant. This seven-fold subdivision is a significant improvement on previous palynozonations of the Al Khlata Formation, which only allowed three- or four-fold subdivisions. However, there still remain considerable uncertainties in dating the lowermost biozones, 2159A and 2159B. Improvements in the dating of the Al Khlata Formation are most likely to come from palynological correlations with radiometrically-or faunally-dated successions in South America, eastern Australia, and southern Africa.
3687516|The recovery of numerous, well-preserved dinoflagellate specimens representing a population of Alterbia acutula (Wilson) Lentin & Williams from the Maestrichtian Monmouth Formation of Maryland has made possible, an assessment of the morphological variability of the species. The close affinity of A. acutula and A. asymmetrica (Wilson) Lentin & Williams is discussed. A. recticornis (Vozzhennikova) Lentin & Williams and A. curvicornis (Vozzhennikova) Lentin & Williams are herein considered junior synonyms of A. acutula.
3687735|Palynomorphs record the establishment of modern conditions in the subtropical North Atlantic during the early Pleistocene. Prior to 1.4 Ma, muds on both the New Jersey shelf and the Iberia Abyssal Plain contained relatively few terrestrial palynomorphs, and had a dinocyst flora rich in Operculodinium israelianum and other dinocyst taxa recording warmer surface waters than at present (e.g., Tectatodinium pellitum, Lingulodinium machaerophorum, and Polysphaeridium zoharyi). Over a span of 250 ka, this palynological assemblage was succeeded by one rich in pollen and with a dinocyst flora similar to the "modern" flora, i.e. rich in Operculodinium centrocarpum, Bitectatodinium tepikiense, Spiniferites spp. (predominantly S. ramosus), and Brigantedinium spp. (predominantly B. simplex). The synchronous palynological changes in such different geological settings in the eastern and western subtropical North Atlantic are attributed to global climatic deterioration and the expansion of ice sheets in the northern hemisphere. Climatic cooling increased the velocity of the Gulf Stream and other surface currents in the subtropical gyre, causing the gyre to contract and pull away from the continents. Glacioeustatically lowered sea levels also exposed a large percentage of the continental shelf areas, and together with other bathymetric highs like the Charleston Bump, deflected the gyre boundary currents (like the Gulf Stream) offshore. Consequently, surface waters of polar origin were able to penetrate between the warm waters of the gyre and the North American continent north of Cape Hatteras in the west, and Iberia in the east, around 1.4 Ma. This paleoceanographic change increased the area of "neritic" sedimentation at mid latitudes in the North Atlantic, allowing greater terrestrial influx beyond the shelfbreak.
27784297|A palynological analysis was undertaken on 16 samples from seven piston cores collected along two offshore transects near Seymour and James Ross Islands. Diverse assemblages of reworked marine microplankton (including organic-walled dinoflagellate cysts, cymatiosphaerids, leiospheres, and other acritarchs) and terrestrial palynomorphs (including pollen and spores) were recovered from glacio-marine sediments of late Pleistocene age. Among the reworked taxa, four species belonging to the acritarch genus Palaeostomocystis Deflandre 1937 comprise up to 17% of all palynomorphs. Highest abundances were recorded from sites close to the coast. The potential use of Palaeostomocystis as a proxy for early ice-sheet development on the Antarctic margins is evaluated in light of earlier studies. This evaluation suggests that the high abundances of Palaeostomocystis on the Antarctic Peninsula reflect neritic-type environments (shallow waters, bay-like areas, or marginal seas) and sub-polar to polar conditions as exist in the Bering Sea, Greenland margins, and other subarctic to arctic areas today.
3687376|Packrat (Neotoma spp.) middens contain abundant and well-preserved pollen. Pollen analysis complements macrofossil analysis of these biogenic deposits because it reflects both local and regional vegetation patterns. However, variability among and within middens is high, and the accuracy with which midden pollen reflects vegetation is lessened by this variability. The variability results both from midden inhomogeneity and from differences in the relative importance of the four major sources of pollen in middens: the air, plant material collected by the packrat, packrat feces, and the pelt of the packrat. The variability due to midden inhomogeneity is reduced by analyzing aliquots from large (ca 500 g) middens rather than the small (ca 10 g) subsamples used by previous researchers. The comparison of fossil sequences from Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona, and Owl Canyon, Colorado, demonstrates the value of this procedure.
3687374|Rationalization of the taxonomy of pollen grains referable to Papillopollis has been necessary so that the majority of specimens encountered in the Senonian succession of Portugal can be identified. Revised diagnoses are provided for P. aradaensis Kedves & Pittau, P. aveiroensis Kedves & Pittau, P. minimalis Pacltov & Krutzsch, P. rugulatus Kedves & Pittau and P. santonius Pacltov & Krutzsch; one new species, P. barbosae, is erected. The degree of morphological variation allowed for these species is greater than in previous descriptions of forms of Papillopollis and enables the removal of seventeen other taxa which lack reliable distinguishing characters by placing them in synonymy. The sculpture of the pollen grains described ranges from essentially granulate to minutely papillate. The sexine at the poles is typically fissured or reduced to small granular or papillate masses or bodies, but can be absent altogether. These areas of modified exine may have had a harmomegathic function. Thin sections of several species reveal that their wall structure is similar, both adjacent to the apertures and elsewhere. It resembles most closely the composition of the exine of grains produced by extant members of the wind-pollinated Juglandales-Myricales complex. Hitherto, most records of Papillopollis species, all of which are European, are from strata dated as Santonian and/or Campanian. In Portugal, where they are particularly varied, they are also common in deposits that are likely to be early Maastrichtian in age.
40984155|Palynomorph Darkness Index (PDI) is proposed as a new thermal maturity indicator. PDI is calculated from measurement of the red, green and blue (RGB) intensities of light transmitted through palynomorphs, using standard palynological microscopes and digital cameras. PDIs determined by different microscope and camera combinations show excellent correlation, suggesting that the method is largely platform-independent, though calibration is required, preferably using photographic filters as standards. Investigation of PDI from experimentally heated Tasmanites reveals a progressive increase with increasing temperature, suggesting that the technique is applicable through a broad temperature range encompassing the whole of the oil window and at least part of the zone of dry gas generation. Potential applications of this inexpensive method include the estimation of thermal maturity of rocks deficient in vitrinite, such as the Lower Palaeozoic rocks of Arabia and the Upper Devonian black shales of North America.
40072706|A palynological study of the Cerrejon Formation was conducted in order to date the formation and understand the floristic composition and diversity of a Paleocene tropical site. The Cerrejon Formation outcrops in the Cerrejon Coal Mine, the largest open cast coal mine in the world. Two cores (725 m) were provided by Carbones del Cerrejon LLC for study. Two hundred samples were prepared for palynology, and at least 150 palynomorphs were counted per sample where possible. Several statistical techniques including rarefaction, species accumulation curves, detrended correspondence analysis, and Anosim were used to analyze the floristic composition and diversity of the palynofloras. Palynomorph assemblages indicate that the age of the Cerrejon Formation and the overlying Tabaco Formation is Middle to Late Paleocene (ca. 60-58 Ma). Major structural repetitions were not found in the Cerrejon Formation in the Cerrejon coal mine, and there is little floral variation throughout. The floral composition, diversity, and lithofacies do not change significantly. Lithofacies associations and floral composition indicate deposition fluctuating from an estuarine-influenced coastal plain at the base to a fluvial-influenced coastal plain at the top. There are, however, significant differences in the composition and diversity of coal and siliciclastic samples. Coal palynofloras have fewer morphospecies, and a distinct and more homogeneous floral assemblage compared to assemblages from the intervening sisliciclastic strata, suggesting that tropical swampy environments supported fewer plant species and had a distinct vegetation adapted to permanently wet environments.
3687669|Specimens of the fungus Reduviasporonites stoschianus (Balme 1980) Elsik 1999 were recovered from the Copacabana Formation of Peru. Biostratigraphic data from smaller foraminifera, fusulinids and associated calcareous microfossils indicate that occurrences are 'Early-Middle' Pennsylvanian ('Morrowan-Atokan'). This is the oldest record of R. stoschianus, a fungus whose quantitative dominance and geographic breadth at the Permian-Triassic boundary is believed to represent an ecological crisis event. The presence of these fungi in a stratigraphically restricted interval of the Peruvian Pennsylvanian suggests a similar interpretation.
3687715|This paper discusses the results of a palynological examination of thirty-three dredge samples from sediments exposed on the sea floor, offshore Western Australia. The samples are dated as latest Triassic to Early Cretaceous, and represent marine to coastal nonmarine environments. They are integrated with the geological framework of the Rowley Terrace, Wombat and Exmouth plateaus, and Carnarvon Terrace, on the basis of palynological evidence derived from regional petroleum exploration wells and deep sea (ODP) drilling. Biostratigraphic affinity of the dredge samples is given in terms of zonal schemes for spores, pollen grains, and dinoflagellate cysts, currently in use for the Mesozoic of the Australian region. The ages of certain zonations are reviewed on the basis of fresh evidence from ammonites, conodonts, ostracodes, foraminifera, and nannofossils. Details are given of the distribution of species, and several species are described and discussed. New spore-pollen species Clavifera deformans and Cycadopites dejersey, and a possible algal species, Bartenia helbyi, are proposed.
3687785|The western part of the North American Cordillera is thought to be made up of a collage of allochthonous crustal fragments formed in a variety of tectonic settings at some distance west of their present location. Paleontological and radiometric age dating of the rocks associated with these terranes is critical in understanding their geological history. The basal conglomeratic unit of the Hornbrook Formation (Klamath River Conglomerate) and isolated exposures of some unnamed, undated conglomerates at the Pythian Cave locality, 40 km northwest of Mt. Shasta and south of the twon of Yreka, California, both lie nonconformably over the basement rocks that form the Yreka-Trinity composite microplate in Hornbrook Basin. Palynological data indicate that the geologic age of the unnamed conglomerates at Pythian Cave is middle Albian, and that of the Klamath River Conglomerate is middle Cenomanian. This study also shows that the Pythian Cave conglomerates have a different source, and have formed in a different environment of deposition. The Pythian Cave conglomerates seem to be the oldest preserved sedimentary blanket deposits over the Yreka-Trinity composite terrane in Hornbrook Basin. Radiometric data indicate that the Yreka-Trinity composite terrane accreted to the North America continent no later than Hauterivian-Barremian time.
3687720|Representative types of exine corrosion, seen on scanning electron micrographs, are illustrated from a leaf mold sample from the corrosion experiment of Havinga (1964). This work complements earlier transmission electron microscopy of the same sample (Rowley et al., 1990). Corroded areas are among the most dramatic indicators and products of exine destruction in samples of pollen and spores from Havinga's leaf mold material. Severely corroded regions, as seen using the secondary emission mode of the SEM, were most often found on exines with a continuous tectum (Myrica, Betulaceae, Corylaceae, Ulmus), but they also occurred to some degree in Fagus and on spores of Lycopodium. In taxa having pollen with a more or less continuous tectum the surface of the tectum was not destroyed but instead became depressed to the level of the floor of corroded areas. This "sunken tectum" aspect of corrosion results from tunneling within the tectum without destruction of the surface. Muri of reticulated exines showed little indication of corrosion. Muri of Lycopodium, considered by Havinga as the most resistant exine in his experiment, were, however, often seen to be somewhat corroded and in some spores severely so. Fractures or tears, common to exines of many of the 19 taxa in Havinga's material, are illustrated for Fraxinus, Fagus, Quercus, Tilia, Pinus, and Lycopodium. Isolated sectors fractured from some taxa, e.g., Pinus and Tilia, are identifiable, but others are difficult to identify. In Pinus, where a portion of a sacculus was broken off, the surface of the foot layer showed hemispheroidal unit-structures. Examples of folding and collapse were especially prominent in Taxus, Juniperus, Salix and Acer. Exines of these taxa were extremely difficult to recognize as pollen grain exines under oil immersion or with moderate SEM magnifications, although at higher magnifications exine structural details were seen to be intact. Small pit-like circular holes were frequent on exines of Myrica and other betuloid grains, Fagus, Acer, Polypodium, and Lycopodium. These small holes may be of special interest since in Lycopodium they have been reported following abiological experiments.
3687501|Maceral analysis of a thick, argillaceous dominated-section from the Wilcox Group of western Louisiana revealed that these litho-logically homogeneous sediments can be differentiated based on maceral spectra. Analysis of the data using quantitative univariate and multivariate statistical techniques resulted in the definition of eight maceral facies. Comparison of the maceral facies with those from modern environments, coupled with a lithostratigraphic model, resulted in a refined paleoenvironmental interpretation: the sediments in the studied section were deposited on the Sabinian continental shelf to the upper continental slope environments and show evidence of deposition influenced by a fluvial plume associated with the western lobe of the Holly Springs delta complex and correlative Upper Wilcox delta complexes. Based on maceral facies, the stratigraphic section can be subdivided into an upper heterogeneous unit and a lower homogeneous unit. The upper unit reflects shallower water depths and more oxic bottom conditions than the lower unit. Maceral facies present in the upper unit may reflect either changing degradational environmental conditions, or may be a result of a change in the source of the terrestrial (phytoclastic) material. The organic matter is comprised predominantly of terrestrial macerals indicating a Type III kerogen. Thermal Alteration Indices (TAI) range from 2- to 2, indicating that the material is marginally mature.
3687461|The geology and inferred depositional environment of the Wannagan Creek site are discussed. The occurrence of Minerisporites mirabilis, Azolla stanleyi, and Dictyothylakos sp. are discussed within this context. A great deal of variation is noted in M. mirabilis, both in the dispersed population and in populations recovered from individual sporangia of Isoetites horridus, the parent plant. Vegetative remains of A. stanleyi are described, and anomalous megaspores and microspores without attached floats or massulae that were associated with the vegetative portion are discussed. Three forms of Dictyothylakos are described, and affinities with the Trichoptera (Insecta) are suggested. The habitats of these organisms are inferred using an interpretation of the geology of the Wannagan Creek site.
3687476|Species assigned to the genus Danea Morgenroth 1968 are characterized as proximate-proximochorate, ellipsoidal cysts that have a gonyaulacacean paratabulation defined by penitabular and intratabular septa and processes of variable height. Two new species, D. abbreviata n. sp. and D. manicata n. sp., are herein described. Detailed analysis of these and previously described species of Danea has resulted in a slightly modified generic concept. Species of Danea may be distinguished on the basis of septal or process elevation, and by the "complete" or "incomplete" development of the septa along the adcingular paraplate boundaries of the pre- and postcingular paraplates. A conspicuous feature of this genus is the relatively small size of the paraplates in and adjacent to the parasulcus (6, as, ps, 1, 2, 1p). As a result, the dorsal configuration of paraplates in Danea and several other genera (e.g. Achilleodinium, Hystrichokolpoma, Muratodinium, and Turbiosphaera) is strikingly different from that of a "standard" gonyaulacacean dinoflagellate. In the "standard" paratabulation pattern, the fourth postcingular paraplate (4) occupies a mid-dorsal position on the cyst. In Danea and other genera discussed here it is the parasuture between paraplates 4 and 5 which occupies the mid-dorsal position.
40072746|Based on the lithology of the Izucar de Matamoros (IzM) sections, and the occurrence of index taxa such as Armeria, Cicatricosisporites dorogensis, Corsinipollenites, Eucommia, Momipites coryloides, Momipites tenuipolus, Mutisiapollis , and Ranuculacidites operculatus, a correlation between the IzM sections and the Cuayuca Formation stratotypes is proposed. The IzM sections are Late Eocene-Early Oligocene, and they are part of the evaporitic member (Mcy) of the Cuayuca Formation. These new data are consistent with the paleoenvironmental interpretations proposed for the formation. It was probably deposited under local xeric conditions in a semiarid climate that allowed the development of grassland (Gramineae with Amaranthaceae-Chenopodiaceae and Ephedra) and a thorn shrub community with Acacia, other Leguminosae, Linum, and Plumbaginaceae. The neighboring communities were probably tropical deciduous forests, low tropical deciduous forest, thorn forest, and chaparral. There were also regional temperate vegetations such as a Picea-Pinus forest, and a cloud forest community. Using parsimony analysis of endemicity, a biogeographic method, a palynofloristic relationship between the Cuayuca Formation and the Pie de Vaca Formation (Late Eocene-Early Oligocene) is proposed. Both formations are within the Balsas Group, and are correlated with San Gregorio Formation (Oligocene) of southern Baja California.
3687314| Quantitative spectrofluorometry is employed to determine the degree of artificial coalification of exinites. Fluorescence spectra of thermally altered exinite (sporinites) vary systematically with increased temperatures of thermal alteration. The wavelength of the fluorescence maximum,  max shifts toward longer wavelength as a result of thermal alteration. These maxima shift from 560 nm in untreated lignite to 640 nm after the lignite was heated to 350C. Numerical values, such as the fluorescence maximum,  max, and spectroquotient, Qs, can be used as rank parameters for coals. 
3687534|A continuing palynological investigation of more than forty exploratory wells drilled in the central Sudan began in 1978. Prior to this time, no deep drilling had been undertaken in the Sudan interior. The subsurface geology of this vast area was almost unknown because of the lack of outcrops. As a result of the new drilling and extensive geological and geophysical studies, central Sudan is now known to be part of the Central African rift system. The wells have penetrated thick nonmarine sand and shale sequences which reflect fluvial and lacustrine deposition in rift basins. A five-part spore/pollen zonation of these sediments has been established as a result of study of more than 4000 well samples. Early, "middle," and Late Cretaceous, Paleogene, and Eocene/Oligocene subsurface floral units have been recognized and palynologically defined. The Sudan floras are related to the Africa-South America floral province.
3687356|Moderately rich dinoflagellate cyst floras were recovered from shales and sandstones underlying the Hibernia sandstone member in the Jeanne d'Arc subbasin of the East Newfoundland basin. Based on these dinoflagellate cysts this interval is provisionally dated as Portlandian to early Valanginian. Two dinoflagellate cyst assemblage zones are recognized in this interval: the Amphorula metaelliptica assemblage zone underlying the Endoscrinium campanulum assemblage zone. Amphorula delicata sp. nov. and Cantulodinium arthuriae sp. nov. are described from the Amphorula metaelliptica assemblage zone and the generic diagnosis of Cantulodinium is emended.
3687540|This paper presents data on the stratigraphic ranges of all known Mesozoic and Tertiary megaspores from around the world and demonstrates the potential of these palynomorphs for dating and correlating sedimentary sequences. Forms referable to more "natural" genera such as Ariadnaesporites and Paxillitriletes, as opposed to those that are based solely on sculptural morphology, are particularly important because not only are they among the most reliable of biostratigraphic indicators but they also have the greatest value to biologists concerned with the evolution of heterosporous plants. There is, however, much work to be done before megaspores can be used on a regular basis for solving geological problems.
3687318|Epicephalopyxis indentata Deflandre and Cookson 1955 was described from Paleocene to Miocene strata of Australia. Recovery of closely comparable specimens from the Tertiary of the Gulf of Alaska area allows a broader characterization of this unique marginal marine to marine organism, which is probably a dinocyst. Specimens exhibit a variable layered outer wall, a distinct inner body and an obscure to distinct structure which may represent either a sulcus or cingulum. The gaping opening seen in many specimens can be interpreted as an epitractal archeopyle; or alternatively there is one missing lateral half, the halves separating along a peripheral flange which obscures the position of a sulcus. Paralecaniella indentata is transferred from the Chlorophyta to the Pyrrhophyta on the presence of an inferred cingulum/sulcus. Fromea staveia n. sp. is described to document the type of obscure cingula possible in some dinocysts.
3687422|A new species of dinoflagellate from the Mid-Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf, Phthanoperidinium brooksii, is illustrated and described. The 1 paraplate of this species is widely spatulate and is in broad contact with paraplate 6, a feature not previously reported from the fossil record. The endophragm and periphragm grade into a cancellous filling which completely fills the space between these layers. The major morphologic features of all the accepted and provisionally accepted species of the genus Phthanoperidinium are compared critically, resulting in the emendation of the genus.
40072703|A new biozone for the late Visan miospores from the Cortaderas Formation in western Argentina is proposed. It is the Reticulatisporites magnidictyus-Verrucosisporites quasigobbettii (MQ) Interval Biozone. The base of the biozone is defined by the range bases of Apiculiretusispora microseta, Dibolisporites disfacies, Reticulatisporites magnidictyus, Rugospora australiensis, and Verrucosisporites quasigobbettii. The upper limit of the MQ Interval Biozone is marked by the appearance of monosaccate pollen. Two distinct associations are recognized; Association A is characterized by the range bases of the diagnostic species, and the presence of a group of long-ranging species. Association B is characterized by the range bases of Anapiculatisporites austrinus, Anapiculatisporites kekiktukensis, Apiculatisporis variornatus, Crassispora kosankei, Cristatisporites menendezii, Kraeuselisporites tendatus, Kraeuselisporites volkheimerii, Raistrickia paganciana, Raistrickia rotunda, and Spinozonotriletes hirsutus, and is represented in the upper part of the Cortaderas Formation.
3687337|The ranges of twenty selected species of palynomorphs define the palynostratigraphic framework of Cretaceous strata of the central overthrust belt of the Rocky Mountains. The palynostratigraphy is based on local ranges of dinocysts, spores, and pollen determined from more than 300 samples from independently dated outcrop reference sections in Fossil Basin, southwestern Wyoming. The stratigraphic succession in Fossil Basin is essentially continuous from middle Albian to upper Maestrichtian, except for a hiatus in the Campanian, and includes about 4500 meters of marine and nonmarine rocks. The most reliable biostratigraphic zonation for the region is one based on local ranges of palynomorphs. Use of both marine and nonmarine palynomorphs not only permits correlation between facies, but also can refine zonation of the total interval. Ratios of marine to nonmarine palynomorphs in the interval studied show a pattern that represents transgression and regression of the Western Interior Cretaceous seaway overprinted by local depositional events. The dinocyst species, which occur in marine intervals of Albian to earliest Campanian age, are: "Muderongia" sp. A, Spinidinium vestitum, Cribroperidinium edwardsii, Ovoidinium verrucosum, Alterbia sp. A, Palaeohystrichophora infusorioides, Surculosphaeridium sp. cf. S. longifurcatum, Chatangiella sp. cf. C. victoriensis, Dinogymnium sp. A, and Alterbia sp. B. Some of these forms appear to be new species. The spores and pollen, which also include some new species, occur variously throughout the stratigraphic succession in both marine and nonmarine rocks. The species of spores and pollen are: Asteropollis asteroides, Januasporites spiniferus, Appendicisporites unicus, Appendicisporites auritus, Tricolpites sp. A, Quadripollis krempii, Proteacidites retusus, Pseudoplicapollis newmanii n. sp. ("Sporopollis laqueaeformis"), Aquilapollenites quadrilobus, and Wodehouseia spinata. Evidence is presented to support our contention that the genus Proteacidites is a guide for the Senonian (Coniacian to Maestrichtian) in the Western Interior and that the "Proteacidites datum" is early Coniacian.
3687607|Nearly 1,400 samples from over 50 sources have been assembled and analyzed to characterize the contemporary pollen rain of the arid western U.S.A. Of the nearly 300 pollen types recorded, Pinus, Quercus, and Cupressaceae are the most common arboreal types; Chenopodiaceae - Amaranthus, Gramineae, Artemisia, Ambrosia, and "Other Compositae" are the most frequent non-arboreal pollen types. Forest vegetation is represented by 661 samples, steppe by 450 samples, and desert by 116 samples. Ambrosia, Cactaceae, Cruciferae, Leguminosae, Larrea, Malvaceae, Nyctaginaceae, and Prosopis achieve maximum percentages in hot - dry climate (>20C mean annual temperature and <250 mm mean annual precipitation); Artemisia, Juniperus, Sarcobatus, Caryophyllaceae, Liguliflorae, Other Compositae, and Polygonaceae have minor peaks in cold dry climate (<15C and <250 mm); Arceuthobium, Abies, Picea, Pinus, Pseudotsuga, Sequoiadendron, Tsuga heterophylla, and T. mertensiana reach maxima in cool moist climate (10-15C, 500-2000 mm); and Cyperaceae, Umbelliferae, and Salix reach maxima in cold wet climate (<5C and >2000 mm). The frequency distribution of dissimilarity values among vegetation types is similar to that of other surface sample studies, with squared-chord-distances <0.15, five times more likely to be same-type comparisons than different-type. Holocene temperature and precipitation curves for three western U.S.A. sites, based on the closest analogs in the contemporary surface samples, exhibit the "early Holocene Xerothermic" of the Pacific Northwest and early Holocene moistness of the Southwest.
3687600|An integrated biochronological and physical stratigraphic approach was used as the basis to determine the stratigraphic position of the "Faja Gris" of the Mealla Formation at Garabatal Creek, NW Argentina. The relative dryness that influenced the sediments and the palynological assemblage of the "Faja Gris" can be correlated with an episode of relative low sea level in the marine Atlantic basins during the Riochican Land Mammal Age (Middle to Late Paleocene). The comparison of fossil genera with extant taxa permits recognition of several paleocommunities, namely marsh, lacustrine, fluvial, montane forest, cloudy forest, transitional forest and steppe. The megaspore species Grapnelispora evansii has its youngest and northernmost occurrence in the Mealla Formation. Based on the palynological and sedimentological results, the analyzed profile would be located on the calcareous pelite plain environment defined by Gomez Omil et al. (1989) for the "Faja Gris."
3687740|Cooling paleoclimates over the period ca. 42 Ma to ca. 33 Ma were the driving force for the gradual disappearance of tropical and subtropical elements and the appearance of cooler elements in the palynofloras of east Texas. As a consequence, 11 palynomorph assemblage zones, one range zone and three biohorizons are recognized in 209 samples from 15 sections of the Crockett, Yegua, Caddell, Manning and Catahoula formations. From oldest to youngest, the succession of biozones is: middle Eocene Nuxpollenites crockettensis Assemblage Zone, Bombapollis texensis Assemblage Zone, Bursera Assemblage Zone, Friedrichipollis claibornensis Assemblage Zone, and Reticuloidosporites pseudomurus Assemblage Zone; late Eocene Sequoiapollenites Assemblage Zone, Rhizophora FAD, Rhizophora Assemblage Zone (which contains an ancestral Mutisieae pollen type in its lower part here designated the Mutisiapollis FAD and Mutisiapollis Zone), Nudopollis terminalis Assemblage Zone, Nudopollis terminalis LAD, Bombacacidites Assemblage Zone, and Pseudolaesopollis ventosus Assemblage Zone; and the early Oligocene Hypoxylonites Assemblage Zone. The age of the lower Catahoula Formation is early Oligocene based on the occurrence of Kallosphaeridium biornatum from a locality northwest of Huntsville, Texas. A short-term cooling event near the end of the Eocene set the stage for further changes in the early Oligocene. Use of these assemblage zones greatly increases the age resolution available for late middle Eocene to early Oligocene strata of the Gulf Coast.
3687550|The dinoflagellate cyst genus Discorsia Duxbury and its type species Discorsia nanna (Davey) Duxbury are emended. The morphological reinterpretation of the genus is proposed on the basis of new material from core samples of an exploratory bore hole drilled at Puduvoyal, Tamil Nadu, southern India, as well as on re-examination of the holotype. The Discorsia cysts are interpreted as gonyaulacacean possessing a four plate apical archeopyle (tA). The redefined paratabulation of the genus as indicated by intratabular processes is 4, 6, (as), Oc, 5-6, ps, 1p, 1.
40072741|The morphology and ultrastructure of megaspores, microspores, and massulae of Salvinia Sguier 1785 species from Argentina, Bolivia, southern Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay have been analyzed. The analyses were performed using light microscopy, stereo microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. The taxa studied were Salvinia auriculata Aublet 1775, Salvinia biloba Raddi 1825, and Salvinia minima Baker 1886. The spores of Salvinia biloba are described and illustrated here for the first time. The spores of Salvinia adnata Desvaux 1827 were not described here because all the specimens analyzed had megasporangia and microsporangia which had not developed, or were aborted. The megaspores in all the species analyzed are trilete, 224-402 micrometers in polar diameter and 179-378 micrometers in equatorial diameter, with a circular outline, an irregular margin in polar view, and are ovoid in equatorial view. The surface is ridged and perforated and the sporoderm in cross section comprises a compact, two-layered exospore and a thick lacunose epispore which is projected proximally. The apertural area has unique characteristics in each species. The microspores are enclosed in spheroidal to elliptical massulae 145-240 micrometers in diameter. The individual microspores are trilete, regulate, 15-36 micrometers in diameter, and spheroidal. In cross section, the exospore is two-layered. Both types of spores produced by the species analyzed exhibit little interspecific and intraspecific variability. Differences in general shape and proximal characteristics were found in megaspores at the species level. According to these, and previous, results Salvinia is a genus with stable palynological characteristics, all of them related to its adaptation to the aquatic environment.
3687639|The Upper Cenomanian 'black shales' at Aksudere in Crimea contain a distinct palynological association dominated by prasinophyte phycomata, mainly leiospheres and tasmanitids, and peridinioid dinoflagellate cysts, mainly Trithyrodinium suspectum ukrainense subsp. nov. Prasinophyte dominated assemblages have not previously been reported from Cenomanian-Turonian boundary organic rich deposits. Their presence confirms probable deposition under oxygen-deficient bottom waters in this area.
3687806|A study of the Homerian type section in the upper Beluga Formation (Upper Miocene) of the Kenai Group of southern Alaska has yielded two surprising discoveries: (1) warmth-loving taxa and (2) the presence in Alaska of a 'new' gymnosperm family, Podocarpaceae. A well-preserved pollen and spore flora is present in Upper Miocene coal beds of the Kenai lowland, near Homer, Alaska. Stump horizons, abundant wood fragments, wood grain, and amber within the coal attest to a forested swamp. Pollen assemblages from the Homerian type section include elements of both Mixed Northern Hardwood and warm-temperate Mesophytic forests and are far richer than the flora previously defining the Homerian type section, which had suggested a less diverse, cooler assemblage. Within the Homerian type section, the flora exhibits no definite taxonomic chronology; in general, Alnus dominates, with up to 45% of the total counts, followed by Pinaceae and Taxodiaceae pollen types (30 to 35%) and thermophiles (c. 14%). At least 36 genera are represented, including Carya type, Corylus, Ilex, Juglans, Myrica, Ostrya/Carpinus, Pterocarya, Quercus/Quercus-type, and Ulmus/Zelkova, eight dicot genera have not previously been reported from the type Homerian. Presence of these hardwoods in moderate to minor amounts suggests that the climate during the Homerian (Late Miocene) was only slightly cooler than that of the Seldovian (Early to Middle Miocene). Unexpectedly, Dacrydium and Podocarpus are present as minor elements in most of the samples. They apparently coexisted with the other Miocene taxa, because the pre-Paleogene Kenai-Chugach terrane to the southeast, which supplied sediments to the Kenai Group, is mostly of oceanic plate provenance and is unlikely to have been the source of the pollen. A uniform orange fluorescence of all the pollen, including the podocarps and any potentially reworked pollen, also suggests a contemporaneous origin for all the taxa. The flora from the Homerian type section may precede or coincide with uplift of the Alaska Range to the north. Thus, further comparison with Homerian taxa at localities north and south of the Alaska Range will be important as it may reveal a possible rain shadow effect.
3687319|Nine species of Dinogymnium [including D. elongatum n. sp., D. lanceolatum n. sp., D. pustulicostatum n. sp., and D. westralium (Cookson and Eisenack) Evitt et al 1967 emended herein] from the Upper Cretaceous Monmouth Group of Atlantic Highlands, New Jersey, are discussed. Scanning electron microscopy reveals in detail the fine structure of D. pustulicostatum and D. westralium. Wall canals (Evitt, Clarke, and Verdier, 1967) pass through the single-layered wall, and their arrangement at the surface appears to be of taxonomic value. Flagellar pore structures and associated curved ridges and grooves suggest motility and that the fossil tests are not cysts (Evitt and Davidson, 1964, p. 8). The type of flagellar pore structures present on a given species also appears to be of taxonomic value. Dominance of D. pustulicostatum (45-64 percent) combined with low phytoplankton species diversity (19 species average per sample) suggests an estuarine paleoenvironment for the upper Mount Laurel Sand (samples 204-206). Wall canals and the corrugate structure of some Dinogymnium tests may have functioned to prevent cell damage caused by cell volume change during rapid and extreme fluctuations in salinity which occurred in the estuarine paleoenvironment.
3687464|A peridinioid dinoflagellate with just two intercalary paraplates is reported from the basal several meters of the upper Albian Kiowa Formation in southern Kansas. Umbodinium crustov gen. et sp. nov. is a single-walled, subspherical cyst with a combination apical and intercalary archeopyle. Interpreted epicystal paratabulation is 4, 2a, 7. This tabulation pattern has modern thecal representatives among both marine and freshwater dinoflagellates, respectively Protoperidinium (subgenus Archaeperidinium), and the Peridinium umbonatum and P. palatinum groups. Peridinioid plate patterns are reassessed in relation to a primary hypothetical pattern and proposed subsequent plate divisions and migrations, with symmetry considered as an important throughgoing theme. It is suggested that intercalary plates could have resulted from latitudinal division of pre-equatorial primary plates, except in the Diplopsalis group where they more likely derived from division of a polar plate.
3687649|An automated imaging system is described that determines fragment numbers, areas, and size classes of microscopic charcoal in pollen preparations. Charcoal counts made with the scanner are similar to counts made using standard visual methods of charcoal estimation.
40072697|Most pre-Quaternary palynology samples are currently prepared by demineralization of the sediment/sedimentary rock matrix using hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids (HCl and HF respectively). If a consistently effective alternative to this procedure can be developed, palynological processing will be made significantly less hazardous to both laboratory personnel, and to the wider environment. Furthermore, most non-acid processing methods are normally quicker and cheaper than matrix dissolution using acid. Some authors have previously used hydrogen peroxide (HO) to extract palynomorphs by the physico-chemical disaggregation of the clay fraction. However, HO is a powerful oxidizing agent and hence can potentially destroy sedimentary organic material, including palynomorphs. A new method using hot HO, where exposure of the sample material to the HO is minimized, has been developed. Crushed sample material in a suitable vessel is placed on a hot plate for one minute , treated with 15-30% HO for 10 minutes , then the residue is diluted with cold distilled water. Disaggregated sample material tends to float, and is decanted into a large vessel containing distilled water to further dilute the HO. If any undisaggregated sample remains, the procedure is repeated several times if necessary. Relatively indurated sedimentary lithotypes normally require several treatments. The reason for this stepwise treatment is that the organic material is not exposed to HO for sustained periods, thereby reducing the possibility of palynomorph damage/degradation due to oxidation. When the sample matrix has been fully disaggregated, the residue can be further processed as appropriate. In this study, eight samples of Carboniferous, Jurassic, Paleogene, and Quaternary age were prepared quantitatively using the new HO method. These were all prepared using 30% HO. For comparison, they were also prepared quantitatively using HCl/HF and/or sodium hexametaphosphate [(NaPO)]. Quantitative preparations allow the concentration of palynomorphs extracted to be determined, and therefore the effectiveness of the techniques used can be compared objectively. The palynomorph residues derived from these three techniques varied markedly. The HO method does not consistently disaggregate all the sample material, particularly the older and more indurated lithotypes. Some evidence of oxidation effects was observed. Two samples of Mississippian mudstone from the U.S.A. were prepared using HO and (NaPO). Both methods produced abundant miospores , however the HO procedure yielded far higher palynomorph concentrations than the (NaPO) technique. Minor degradation of palynomorphs in the HO preparation was noted. The HO and HCl/HF methods were compared directly on a palynomorph-rich sample of Upper Carboniferous mudstone from offshore Scotland. Both preparations produced abundant miospores. The HCl/HF method had significantly higher recovery levels than the HO procedure. It appears that the HO method simultaneously macerates the matrix, and oxidizes any amorphous organic material (AOM) present. In this sample, the HCl/HF residue was relatively rich in AOM. By contrast, the HO preparation is virtually clear of this phytoclast type, which partially obscures palynomorphs. Two samples of the Middle Jurassic Grantham Formation of eastern England were processed using HO and HCl/HF. The two methods produced abundant palynofloras of similar palynomorph concentrations. Two dinoflagellate cyst acmes within the Danian (Paleogene) part of the Lpez deBertodano Formation of Seymour Island, Antarctica were also tested using HO, (NaPO), and HCl/HF. The HO preparation completely destroyed the dominant taxon,Palaeoperidinium pyrophorum,in one sample. By contrast, the (NaPO) and HCl/HF preparations produced abundant, fully representative palynofloras. In the other sample, the acme of Spinidinium spp. is completely unaffected by the HO preparation procedure. The final sample of this study is an unconsolidated clay of Late Pleistocene age from offshore Scotland. Both the HO and HCl/HF preparations proved similar in both taxonomic content and overall palynomorph yield. The new method of preparation using hot HO has proved to be extremely effective. In particular, it appears to be superior to the (NaPO) procedure for indurated lithotypes. However care should be taken because HO can destroy certain dinoflagellate cysts and kerogen macerals which are especially susceptible to oxidation. Further development work, and more comparative testing of the HO, (NaPO), and HCl/HF procedures, should be undertaken.
41319058|Fourteen samples of the Valga-10 drill core, south Estonia, from the lower Jelgava Formation (middle Pirgu Regional Stage, Upper Katian) to the lowermost hne Formation (lowermost Juuru Regional Stage, Lower Rhuddanian) were investigated for acritarchs. The section is biostratigraphically and chemostratigraphically well constrained; it comprises the rugata, taugourdeaui and scabra chitinozoan zones, the ordovicicus and giradeauensis conodont zones and the Hirnantian Isotopic Carbon Excursion (HICE). The good preservation allowed the identification of three prasinophyte phycomata and 52 acritarch species including the four new species Evittia porkuniensis, Helosphaeridium tongiorgii, Nexosarium leherissei and ?Veryhachium bulliferum. One new combination is proposed: Poikilofusa obliquipunctata (Uutela & Tynni 1991) comb. nov. Comparison with contemporaneaous palynofloras shows that eastern Laurentia and Baltica share a high number of species during the latest Katian-Hirnantian. Some of these species show a potential for future improvement of biostratigraphical correlation between the uppermost Katian-Hirnantian strata of low to mid-latitude carbonate platforms in eastern Laurentia and Baltica. Conversely, significant taxonomic differences exist between the assemblage studied and typical Gondwanan palynofloras. These results suggest that the Laurentian/Baltic and Gonwanan phytoplanktonic palaeoprovinces existed during latest Ordovician times. Published data reveal similar distribution pattern for chitinozoans and graptolites during the Hirnantian. A bathymtrie ridge rise associated with the opening of the Rheic Ocean, coupled with the Hirnantian glacially-driven sea-level fall might have prevented water mass exchange and mixing/migration of phytoplankton between Gondwana and Laurentia/Baltica, thus being at the origin of the observed acritarch bioprovincialism. Additionally, distribution and diversity patterns of acritarchs are compared to those of other microfossils in the Valga-10 section. Near the base of the Hirnantian (Porkuni Regional Stage), benthic organisms (ostracods and scolecodonts) and phytoplankton (acritarchs) show increasing diversity with appearances of new taxa and new morphologies. Planktonic (chitinozoans) and nektonic (conodonts) organisms show a different pattern, with a decline in diversity during the earliest Hirnantian and a marked increase in the later part of the stage. Two alternative hyptotheses are proposed to explain these differences in diversification patterns: (1) the development of a shallower, proximal environment in the locality studied during the Hirnantian glaciation may have been more favourable to the diversification of benthonic organisms; (2) the planktonic and nektonic organisms suffered the effects of glaciation more than benthonic ones.
3687465|The historical development of the study of the Jurassic dinocyst (dinoflagellate cyst) genera Ctenidodinium Deflandre 1938 and Dichadogonyaulax Sarjeant 1966 is outlined, and various aspects of their paratabulation and archaeopyle structure are discussed. The gonyaulacoid paratabulation is topologically constant, with the exception of the insertion of two small anterior intercalary paraplates and/or several pre-apical paraplates in some species. This is true despite geometric changes to individual paraplates, particularly on the ventral area of the hypocyst and on the hypocyst in general. The mode of excystment consists of a principal archaeopyle suture which runs along a line immediately anterior to the paracingulum, the operculum (the complete epicyst) remaining attached at the parasulcus, with no accessory archaeopyle sutures occurring. The generic concepts of Ctenidodinium and Dichadogonyaulax are emended, and two new genera, Bradleyella gen. nov. and Korystocysta gen. nov. are proposed. Each genus is characterized by their overall cyst morphology, including the presence or absence of an apical horn, paracingular crest symmetry or asymmetry and overall crest development, in conjunction with paratabulation (geometric) detail.
3687793|A new genus of Late Triassic palynomorph, Froelichsporites, is created and designated here for azonate, obligate tetrahedral spore tetrads which characteristically are found in Upper Triassic continental (fluvial, interfluvial, and lacustrine) strata of the Newark Supergroup of the eastern United States and Canada, the Dockum Group of Texas and New Mexico, and the Chinle Formation of New Mexico, Arizona, and Utah. This palynomorph is restricted geologically to strata comprising the upper Carnian and Norian Stages of the Upper Triassic, and is a geographically widespread form. This monotypic palynomorph, Froelichsporites traversei (Dunay & Fisher) comb. nov. et emend., is most abundant in the conterminous U.S., but it also has been found in portions of eastern Canada and possibly may be present in Upper Triassic strata of Portugal.
3687743|A number of well-preserved megaspores of Paxillitriletes fairlightensis (Dijkstra) Potoni & Dijkstraisporites helios (Batten) Nicholson & Hall from the terrestrial Barremian (Lower Cretaceous) of Brilon-Nehden (Germany) have been investigated in detail using electron microscopy. Morphology and ultrastructure is compared to that of known examples of Mesozoic megaspores and this, combined with the presence of adherent monolete microspores, indicates an isoetalean affinity for both species. Furthermore, the reticulate body ornament, laesural and equatorial elaboration, and wall ultrastructure suggest a close systematic relationship between these two species. This is new evidence in support of the view that most Mesozoic and Tertiary megaspores with expanded laesural lips and/or zona belong to this order of heterosporous lycopsids.
3687511|Macerations of greenish shales from the Tuscarora Formation (Llandoverian) and Clinton? strata (Wenlockian) in central and eastern Pennsylvania yield a remarkable assemblage of spores and probable spores, dyads, spore tetrads, tubular and cuticle-like structures. These are considered as remains of a pre-vascular plant, terrestrial flora and are discussed according to this interpretation. Although this study is preliminary in nature, we have described the following new taxa: Rugosphaera tuscarorensis (n.gen., n.sp.), Tetrahedraletes medinensis (n.gen., n.sp.), Nodospora burnhamensis (n.gen., n.sp.), Nodospora rugosa (n.sp.), Nodospora oyleri (n.sp.), Dyadospora murusattenuata (n.gen., n.sp.) and Dyadospora murusdensa (n.sp.).
3687804|The Brora Coal, Brora Argillaceous, Brora Arenaceous, Balintore and Kimmeridge Clay formations of the onshore Moray Firth Basin represent an important Middle to Upper Jurassic (Callovian to Lower Kimmeridgian) reference section close to hydrocarbon-rich North Sea basins. This composite succession at Brora and Balintore is c. 233 m thick; it is mudstone/siltstone-dominated and largely rich in zonal and subzonal ammonites. For example, the Callovian succession at Brora is virtually complete, with coverage of all seven ammonite zones. All the five formations examined have yielded abundant palynofloras. The lithostratigraphic units sampled, except the Brora Coal Formation, have yielded rich associations of dinoflagellate cysts. The majority of the Inverbrora Member of the Brora Coal Formation at its type section at Brora is of early Callovian age based on dinoflagellate cysts; this member yielded Meiourogonyaulax caytonensis and Mendicodinium groenlandicum and these species preclude a Bathonian age. This member has been previously attributed to the late Bathonian. Dinoflagellate cysts are diverse and abundant in the overlying Brora Argillaceous to Kimmeridge Clay formations, therefore indicating open marine conditions. The stratigraphic distributions and relative proportions of these Callovian to Lower Kimmeridgian dinoflagellate cyst floras are largely consistent with those reported elsewhere in northern Europe, and the established dinoflagellate cyst biozonations can be readily applied to the Inner Moray Firth Basin. Some taxa, such as Gonyaulacysta dentata, are of distinct Boreal affinity. Furthermore, some minor stratigraphic anomalies were noted, including the range base of Scriniodinium crystallinum being in the early Oxfordian at Balintore. In England and Germany, this bioevent occurs in the late Callovian. Some notable dinoflagellate cyst abundance phenomena were observed. An example of this is the prominence of Korystocysta spp. in the Middle Callovian. This and other quantitative phenomena are of correlative significance. Marine palynomorph diversity increased markedly during the Callovian, stabilizing in the Lower Oxfordian. A suite of characteristic dinoflagellate cysts became extinct in the Middle Oxfordian, and some typically Late Jurassic elements became more prominent at this time. The early Kimmeridgian palynofloras from Ethie are entirely typical of this interval elsewhere in Europe.
3687343|Twelve acritarchs (organic-walled microphytoplankton incertae sedis) including Comasphaeridium caesariatum n. sp. and Medousapalla choanoklosma n. gen. et sp., are described and illustrated. This is the first assemblage to be reported from the Lower Cambrian of the United States. These acritarchs were recovered from the Murray Shale (Chilhowee Group), of Tennessee, a well-dated stratigraphic unit which also yields the oldest known skeletal fossils from the eastern United States.
3687514|Fifty-five commonly occurring acritarch species of limited stratigraphical range and one long-ranging species have been utilized to establish a biostratigraphic zonation of the Shineton Shales (L. Ordovician) in the Wrekin district, Shropshire, England. The succession in the Wrekin district has been divided into eight concurrent local range zones (1-8) based on first occurrence and association of selected acritarch taxa. Thirty-one new species are described.
3687359|The publications of Matsuoka (1983) and Bujak (1984) on dinoflagellate cysts from the Neogene of Japan and the Paleogene-Neogene of the Bering Sea-northern North Pacific areas, respectively, resulted in the erection of two new species by each author which are synonymous. Impagidinium pacificum Bujak and Spiniferites ovatus Bujak are therefore designated junior synonyms of Impagidinium japonicum Matsuoka and Spiniferites hexatypicus Matsuoka. Another species, Spiniferites ovatus Matsuoka, does not occur in the material examined by Bujak. Specimens assigned by Matsuoka to Nematosphaeropsis labyrinthea and Tectatodinium pellitum are reassigned to Nematosphaeropsis lemniscata Bujak and Filisphaera filifera Bujak, respectively. The species Reticulatosphaera stellata Matsuoka, which Matsuoka designated the type species of his new genus Reticulatosphaera, is designated a subjective junior synonym of a species originally named by Benedek (1972) as Cleistosphaeridium actinocoronatum. C. actinocoronatum is transferred to Reticulatosphaera and becomes the type-species of this genus. Specimens assigned to Areoligera senonensis Lejeune-Carpentier sensu Gocht 1969 by Matsuoka (1974, 1983) and Tanyosphaeridium fusiform by Matsuoka (1974) are reattributed to Systematophora ancyrea and Distatodinium fusiforme (Matsuoka) comb. nov., respectively. Bujak also erected eight Eocene to Pleistocene concurrent-range zones, two of which were named the I. pacificum and Spiniferites ovatus Zones. These are renamed the I. japonicum and S. hexatypicus Zones, and the zonation is modified to extend the Trinovantedinium boreale Zone into the early Oligocene, and to restrict the S. hexatypicus Zone to the Miocene.
3687718|Scanning electron microscopy of polished, slightly etched rock surfaces provides excellent observation conditions for palynomorphs. In the present study, samples from micritic limestone-marl alternations in the Silurian of Gotland, Sweden, and from Pliocene limestones of the Bahamas are used. The Silurian limestones contain three-dimensionally preserved acritarchs, chitinozoans, and prasinophytes, allowing the study of the outer and inner wall surfaces. In contrast, siltstones and marls provide slightly to strongly deformed, partly damaged specimens, which become completely flattened and crushed when the sediment is highly compacted. The observation of palynomorphs in polished surfaces can be considered as a complementary method to the standard preparation technique of hydrofluoric and hydrochloric digestion of rock samples, where it is possible that parts of the palynological spectrum may be lost during heavy-liquid separation, filtering, centrifugation, or bleaching procedures. The detailed observation of the polished rock surface covers the complete spectrum of organic-walled microfossils, including very small specimens (smaller than 10 m). In addition, the method allows a view on the palynomorphs within the sediment (in situ) and provides information on the compaction and diagenetic alteration.
3687656| Spores of pteridophytes and bryophytes, and pollen of gymnosperms and an angiosperm are described from nine outcrop samples from the Lefipn Formation, Barranca de los Perros, in the Chubut Province of southern Argentina. The material was collected from a section in the lower part of the Lefipn Formation that contains a marine fauna of Maastrichtian age. Twenty-eight species of trilete and monolete spores, seven gymnosperm pollen species (saccate, colpate and plicate types), and one sulcate (Monosulcites) angiosperm(?) pollen species are described. One new spore species, Rugulatisporites chubutensis n.sp., is proposed. The samples also contain a varied angiosperm flora, in addition to fungal spores, algae (Botryococcus), and rare dinoflagellate cysts. 
40072724|The decline in Ulmus pollen frequencies that occurred ca. 5000 C years ago before present (BP) is a key biostratigraphic marker horizon in northwest European pollen diagrams, although its causes are still a subject of debate. To investigate this event further, fungal spore analyses were carried out across the Ulmus decline at Moely Gerddi, north Wales, United Kingdom. The Ulmus decline was in three phases, with a primary decline with low cereal and Rumex pollen records as the only agricultural indicators. This was followed by a more significant decline, with general forest opening and the grassland/pasture indicator Plantago lanceolate. A third, less significant, decline was again accompanied by cereal-type pollen. Tree pollen frequencies subsequently recovered, with cereal-type pollen remaining well represented. The fungal data recorded woodland taxa and a background level of the obligate dung fungus Sporormiella, a proxy for local herbivore abundance. Sporormiella frequencies increased greatly after the main Ulmus decline, around which there were high percentages of the ascospores of the wood rot fungus Kretzschmaria deusta. The neoecology of Kretzschmaria deusta, and the behavior of its spore curve suggests the colonisation of local populations of already severely wounded trees. At this site Ulmus, and perhaps Tilia were infected at a time of markedly increased inferred herbivore concentrations. Neolithic farming techniques could have provided mortally wounded trees while enhancing livestock grazing, although the role of disease must also be considered. Elevated Kretzschmaria deusta values may be of ecological significance in the interpretation of the causes and nature of the Ulmus decline and similar forest disturbance events, and the indicator role of this fungus in forest paleoecology requires further study.
3687625|The dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from four Lower Cretaceous sections from Melville Island, Axel Heiberg Island and Ellesmere Island in the Northwest Territories, Canada are described. The sections represent the upper part of the Isachsen Formation and the Christopher Formation. The strata studied comprise a composite stratigraphic section of approximately 1400 m of shale and siltstone deposits. The study of 33 samples yielded 83 dinoflagellate cyst species, which date the strata as late Barremian to early late Albian. The flora discussed is correlative with assemblages described from other parts of the arctic area. This study provides new and detailed palynological information about the Lower Cretaceous of the Arctic Islands. Comments are included on the morphology and ranges of: Acanthaulax sp. aff. A.? tenuiceras, Apteodinium sp. cf. A. maculatum ssp. grande, Balmula sp. cf. B. tripenta, Batioladinium longicornutum, Batioladinium shaftesburiense, Canningia reticulata, Catastomocystis spinosa, Circulodinium sp. cf. C. attadalicum, Conosphaeridium sp., Cribroperidinium sp. aff. C. conopium, Fromea triquetra, Muderongia pariata, Nyktericysta davisii, Nyktericysta? vitrea, Nyktericysta sp., Pseudoceratium sp. aff. P. toveae, Pseudoceratium sp., Rhombodella paucispina, Senoniasphaera microreticulata, Vesperopsis mayi and Vesperopsis nebulosa.
3687447|Reconstructions of Quaternary environmental history based upon modern pollen/vegetation/climate calibrations are more tenable if the factors responsible for variation in pollen assemblages are evaluated. Examination of the state of preservation of Quaternary palynomorphs provides quantitative data concerning the degree of information loss due to alteration of pollen assemblages by syndepositional and post-depositional deterioration. The percentage, concentration, and influx values for total indeterminable pollen are useful criteria in providing an objective and quantitative basis for evaluating the comparability of pollen spectra within and between sites. Supporting data concerning sediment particle-size distribution, organic matter content, and concentration, influx, and taxonomic composition of both determinable pollen and plant macrofossils aid in reconstructing past depositional environments. The potential is high for deterioration of pollen in sediments from the southeastern United States, although considerable variation is found in both kind and degree of deterioration between lacustrine and alluvial sites of different ages and in different latitudes. Modern analogs are a basis for late Quaternary environmental reconstructions when pollen deterioration has not significantly biased the information content of fossil pollen assemblages.
3687700|One of the goals of melissopalynology is to determine the floral sources utilized by honeybees in the production of honey. Because some types of commercial honey are preferred over others, the preferred types are in high demand and are sold at much higher prices. Verification of these preferred (premium) types of honey is often difficult because many of them come from plant sources that are either weak pollen producers or have pollen that is under-represented in honey. In an effort to verify these premium honey types, researchers developed various methods for correcting the pollen data. These methods produce what are known as pollen coefficient (PC) values. Pollen coefficient values are used to verify honey types produced from floral sources that are over or under-represented in the relative pollen counts of a honey sample. We examine the historical development of PC values, the reliability of PC data, the flaws inherent in the development of various types of PC data, and the steps needed to formulate new types of PC values that would become universally accepted for the verification of honey types.
40072725|A comprehensive review of the lithology, megafloras and palynology of the Dubrajpur Formation of the Rajmahal Basin, eastern India indicates that this important unit comprises strata of Early and Late Triassic, late Early to early Mid Jurassic and latest Jurassic to Early Cretaceous age. The age range of the Dubrajpur Formation is concluded to be Early Triassic (Induan) to Early Cretaceous (Berriasian-Hauterivian) based on palynological evidence. It is hence a profoundly diachronous succession.
40072721|The extraction of palynomorphs from sedimentary rocks and unconsolidated sediments has traditionally used hydrochloric acid (HCl) and hydrofluoric acid (HF) to remove the matrix by dissolution. The use of these, and other, acids in palynological preparation requires significant laboratory infrastructure, and may produce hazardous and potentially environmentally damaging waste. An effective technique of palynomorph preparation using sodium hexametaphosphate [(NaPO)] was recently developed. This technique was initially demonstrated on a suite of samples of Early Jurassic to Quaternary age. In this study, non-acid preparation techniques were tested on 11 samples of Ordovician, Carboniferous, Jurassic and Paleogene age from the UK. In four of the six case studies described herein, the rock was prepared quantitatively using both the traditional mineral acid technique and the (NaPO) procedure. In the Carboniferous case study, the two samples were prepared quantitatively using HCl/HF, (NaPO) and hydrogen peroxide (HO). In the quantitative preparations, the concentrations of palynomorphs can be directly compared. Two non-quantitative case studies were undertaken using (NaPO) only, in order to demonstrate that this method is of practical utility. The (NaPO) and HO methods generally proved to be as effective as the mineral acid procedure. However the results from the three Paleozoic samples proved somewhat variable. The Early Ordovician sample 1 did not break down in (NaPO), and consequently the palynomorph yield from this sample was extremely poor, compared to the acid preparation. Two Lower Carboniferous samples were prepared using all three methods. In sample 2, all the methods were effective, although the HO technique proved less effective than those using mineral acids and (NaPO). In this sample, both the non-acid methods produced palynomorph assemblages cleaner of extraneous woody material than the residue produced by the acid digestion method. By contrast, in Carboniferous sample 3, the acid preparation was far better than those from the two non-acid preparations. It appears that mudrocks which are relatively indurated are not consistently disaggregated using (NaPO) and/or HO. It may be possible to adapt these non-acid techniques so that they are more efficient on these relatively hard lithotypes. The samples would need to be softened prior to treatment with (NaPO) and/or HO. Even on relatively hard lithotypes, some palynomorphs were extracted using (NaPO) and HO. This confirms that non-acid methods can be used on harder rocks if a preliminary age assessment is required and/or the full laboratory facilities are unavailable. The (NaPO) technique proved extremely effective in the two quantitative Jurassic case studies. These were on the Oxford Clay and Kimmeridge Clay formations (Callovian-Oxfordian and Kimmeridgian respectively). In samples 4, 6 and 7, both methods gave similar palynomorph yields. However in sample 5 from the Oxford Clay Formation, the acid preparation proved less palynologically productive than the material prepared using (NaPO). Palynomorph diversity was also higher in Oxford Clay Formation samples 4 and 5, prepared with (NaPO). In samples 6 and 7 from the Kimmeridge Clay Formation, the palynomorph diversity, preservation and yield were closely comparable. However, the HCl/HF preparations proved extremely rich in amorphous organic material as compared to the (NaPO) slides. It therefore appears that (NaPO) is effective at disaggregating amorphorgen in addition to clay minerals. This means that this reagent may be used as an alternative to nitric acid (HNO) and other strong oxidizing agents for cleaning organic residues of amorphous organic material. More studies should be done using (NaPO) to prove its effectiveness in dispersing amorphogen. The two non-quantitative case studies prepared only using (NaPO) were also successful. Three samples (8-10) of Early, Mid and Late Jurassic age and sample 11 of Paleogene age all produced abundant, well-preserved and diverse palynofloras. This indicates that the (NaPO) procedure can prepare palynomorph assemblages from Mesozoic and Cenozoic mudrocks as effectively as the HCl/HF procedure.
3687497|A diverse assemblage of monosulcate pollen was recovered from the Triassic Chinle Formation of southern Utah. Three taxa, Bharadwajipollenites wielandii, Granamonocolpites luisae (small verrucate form) and G. luisae (large verrucate form) are investigated ultrastructurally. The dispersed pollen taxon G. luisae exhibits some features that are convergent on the pollen morphology of the monocot Barbaretta (Haemodoraceae). Other dispersed pollen taxa from the Chinle Formation also exhibit features that are commonly associated with angiosperms (e.g., Equisetosporites chinleana). The occurrence of pre-Cretaceous dispersed pollen from the Chinle Formation with convergent angiosperm characters suggests that these Triassic palymomorphs may have been functionally similar to some angiosperms.
3687518|Six distinctive stratigraphically sequential dinoflagellate cyst communities in the Lower Eocene Nanjemoy Formation (Wood-stock Member) of Maryland, possibly relate to fluctuations in local environmental conditions. Individual species most commonly are not stratigraphically restricted to a single community; however, their relative abundances (in particular, of the dominant species), as illustrated by rank abundance analysis, are unique to each of the six communities. Major changes in species composition and relative abundances are, for the most part, correlative with pronounced changes in the number of species per sample for the sections. Cluster analyses of the ten most abundant species in each sample, which comprise from 76 to 100 percent of all the dinoflagellates in each sample, also tend to demonstrate the existence of the same six diagnostic cyst communities.
3687587|Maize (Zea mays subsp. mays) dominates the record of prehistoric agriculture in the Neotropics. Nonetheless, many significant questions of Zea systematics and evolution persist. Palynology provides a record central to addressing those questions, but determining pollen grain diameter remains a significant methodological issue: diameter is a key characteristic in identification, and diameter seems to be space-time dependent - the latter phenomenon but little understood. One issue in analyzing diameter is the confounding effect of microscope-slide mounting media. This study provides correction factors to normalize diameter among silicon oil, glycerine jelly, and acrylic resin (du Pont Elvacite), the last coming into increasing use without previous study of its effect on pollen grain size.
3687704| The Arisaig Group in northern mainland Nova Scotia has the most complete sequence of Silurian, fine grained, siliciclastic, near-shore marine sediments in Western Avalonia. In this setting, the Arisaig Group received a nearly continuous supply of autochthonous marine and allochthonous nonmarine palynomorphs. One hundred and seventy-seven samples, ranging in age from latest Ordovician?-early Llandovery to Pdol (Beechhill Cove to Stonehouse formations) yield the most diverse spore assemblage yet known from the Silurian of North America. This paper describes the spores and cryptospores and reexamines age relationships of the Arisaig Group, placing both within context of early land plant evolution. Thirty-six species of spores and cryptospores were found in the Arisaig Group. Six new species are Ambitisporites marginatus sp. nov., A. capitaneus sp. nov., Scylaspora asperverruca sp. nov., Chelinospora textilis sp. nov., Hispanaediscus scabiosus sp. nov., and Hispanaediscus imbricatus sp. nov. A new genus, Vermiverruspora is created and the original description of Chelinospora Allen 1965 is resurrected. Six species of Chelinospora are reassigned to Vermiverruspora gen. nov. (C. paravermiculata Loboziak et al. 1988, C. vermiculata Chaloner & Streel 1968, C. ?vermiculata McGregor & Camfield 1976, C. retorrida Turnau 1986, C. rumneyi Burgess & Richardson 1995, C. vermoluta Burgess & Richardson 1995) and one species transferred to Stellatispora (pattersonii Wellman 1993). Four additional sporomorphs believed to be new, are not formally named because better preserved specimens are needed. The Arisaig Group (West Avalonia) is similar to sporomorphrich type sections in the Anglo-Welsh Basin (East Avalonia). Four assemblage zones (avitus-dilutus, brevicosta-verrucatus, libycus-poecilomorphus, and tripapillatus-spicula), and four assemblage sub-zones (A. brevicosta, E. protophanus, C. obscura, and S. inframurinata var. inframurinata) have been recognized. Sporomorphs indicate that the contacts between the Lower and Upper Members of the McAdam Brook Formation and Green Member of the Moydart Formation may be one to two graptolite biozones older than previously reported. The Arisaig palynomorphs support the theory that a major radiation of vascular land plants occurred during the latter half of the Silurian Period. Llandovery and early Wenlock deposits at Arisaig contain only a few species of smooth walled spores and cryptospores. Sixteen trilete spore and fifteen cryptospore species appear between the Homerian and the late Pdol. The tempo and composition of this diversification reflect evolutionary events observed elsewhere in the world. 
3687761|This paper is based on study of angiosperm pollen from (1) 75 upper Paleocene samples from eight coreholes in the Lower Indus coal region of southern Pakistan, (2) two middle Paleocene and two upper Paleocene outcrop samples from the northern part of this coal region, and (3) eight middle Paleocene samples from the Surghar and Salt ranges of northern Pakistan. Forty-five formally named pollen species are illustrated as well as a number of informally named taxa. The known stratigraphic distributions are given particularly for the new species and for taxa that appear to have restricted stratigraphic ranges. The taxa studied include two new genera, Crassivestibulites and Rhombipollis, and 21 formally named new species: Triporopollenites ranikotensis, T. parviannulatus, T. cracentis, T. trilobus, Triatriopollenites rectus, Spinizonocolpites adamanteus, Longapertites psilatus, L. punctatus, L. discordis, L. dupliclavatus, Brevitricolpites vadosus, Myrtacidites secus, Warkallipollenites? medius, W.? solox, W.? exilis, Porocolpopollenites? duplex, Compositoipollenites dilatus, Crassivestibulites karii, Yeguapollis prolatus, Rhombipollis geniculatus, and Polycolporopollenites calvus. Most taxa found in the upper Paleocene of southern Pakistan range throughout that subseries or are too rare to be useful as zonal indicators. However, three species do have range bases or tops that may be used for zoning or subzoning that interval. According to data of pollen and other fossils, the upper part of the Bara Formation of southern Pakistan is probably lower Selandian, whereas the lowermost part of the formation is probably upper Danian. More species of the brackish-water palm pollen genus Spinizonocolpites are now known from the middle and upper Paleocene of Indo-Pakistan than perhaps anywhere else in the world. Normapolles pollen is reported for the first time from the upper Paleocene of Indo-Pakistan. This pollen, the previously reported Normapolles pollen in the Upper Cretaceous of India, and the apparent lack of Normapolles pollen in the middle Paleocene of Pakistan, support the hypothesis of sporadic filtered migrations from Eurasia to the Indo-Pakistan island before the collision of the two continents in the middle Eocene.
3687716|A diverse and relatively well-preserved palynological assemblage has been recovered from the Los Monos Formation in the Quebrada Galarza well, northwestern Argentina. Ninety-eight species of palynomorphs are represented. Thirty-four are miospores (with two dubiously placed), fifty-one are acritarchs, eight are chitinozoans and five are scolecodonts. Two new genera of acritarchs, Crucidia and Hemiruptia, are proposed herein. Seven new species are described: one spore, Acinosporites ledundae; four acritarchs, Ammonidium garrasinoi, Cymatiosphaera apiaria, Hemiruptia legaultii and Polygonium barredae; and two chitinozoans, Angochitina galarzae and Belonechitina holfeltzii. Previously described species of palynomorphs suggest a late Givetian-early Frasnian age for the Los Monos Formation in the Quebrada Galarza well. Stratigraphic and phytogeographic implications of the palynological assemblage are discussed. The presence of several terrestrial species previously recognized in northern Gondwana and in the Northern Hemisphere reinforces currently accepted paleogeographical reconstructions of the upper Middle through lower Upper Devonian. Acritarch data corroborate the existence of important phytoplanktonic links between Gondwana and the Northern Hemisphere via a relatively temperate marine realm.
3687686|This paper describes, illustrates, and interprets Eocene palynomorph assemblages from the North Slope of Alaska, mainly from 31 outcrop samples from seven stratigraphic sections at Franklin Bluffs on the Sagavanirktok River. The top of the Sagwon Member of the Sagavanirktok Formation is shown to be a thin, coaly, apparently nonmarine sequence almost certainly of early Eocene age; the remainder of the member has long been known to be Paleocene in age. The remaining six sections at Franklin Bluffs contain silty, sandy, and clayey strata and are in the Franklin Bluffs Member of the Sagavanirktok Formation in the type area of this member. Dinocyst and pollen data from the Franklin Bluffs Member suggest mainly an early Eocene age, but some strata might be middle Eocene. In all samples from the type Franklin Bluffs Member that contained reasonably well preserved dinocyst assemblages, the environment of deposition was nearshore marine or estuarine. The Franklin Bluffs Member is the temporal equivalent of the marine Mikkelsen Tongue of the Canning Formation, whose type locality is approximately 90 km to the east-northeast. Previous pollen and plant megafossil data from the Arctic showed that the early to middle Eocene climate of the North Slope of Alaska was warm temperate, perhaps nearly subtropical. At least 20 pollen taxa present in the Eocene of the North Slope also occurred as far south in North America as the Gulf Coast and therefore had enormous latitudinal ranges. Several of these taxa appear to have migrated north to the Arctic Coast, probably mainly in the latest Paleocene, at the beginning of the climatic thermal maximum for the Tertiary. However, there is also evidence that plants producing modern-looking grains of Carya, Juglans, and Liquidambar migrated southward from the Arctic to the Gulf Coast after the early Eocene.
3687431|Analysis of fossil pollen from Lake Wabamun sediments record a Late Quaternary vegetational record for the last 16,000 years and indicates that the area between the Laurentide and Cordilleran ice centers was ice free since at least 16,000 years B.P. Pollen influx and pollen percentage data indicate a vegetational sequence beginning with a tundra vegetation from 16,000-11,750 years ago. By 11,750 years B.P., birch and alder colonized the area but was soon followed by a cold climate type coniferous forest composed primarily of spruce with some elements of birch and poplar. A warming trend begins around 9250 years B.P. which culminates in the Hypsithermal. However, pollen preservation is too poor during this portion of the record for direct vegetational reconstruction. Immediately following the Hypsithermal, a spruce-poplar vegetational association was present that was similar to some present boreal forest areas in northern Alberta. Around 2000 years B.P. the pollen influx values decline and suggest a shift to a poplar-dominated vegetation with spruce still abundant. This vegetation assemblage seems to have marked the beginning of the present aspen grove and parkland vegetation found in central Alberta today.
3687589|Decahedrella martinheadii gen. et sp. nov. is a marine palynomorph consisting of ribbon-like bars outlining two quadrangles each encircled by four pentagons forming a spheroidal network to which an internal sac is loosely connected. It is demonstrated mathematically that the observed organization of quadrangles and pentagons is the only possible given the total number of ten. The taxon has been recorded amongst Miocene dinocysts from eight deep sea coreholes (DSDP/ODP) in the northern Atlantic Ocean, sometimes with high relative frequencies. A dinoflagellate affinity could not be demonstrated.
27784277|Variations in palynomorph concentrations and relative abundances, including pollen and spores, organic-walled dinoflagellate cysts, and amorphous organic matter (AOM), were studied in sediment core NC Core 2 from the upper slope (1,030 m water depth) of the Nile Cone, southeastern Mediterranean, Egypt. Each sample represents palynomorph deposition for intervals of around 5001,000 years, and this study provides the first detailed palynological record for the Nile Cone. The dinoflagellate cyst assemblages and AOM production reflect changes in surface water temperature and river discharge in response to climate forcing as marked by variations in pollen and spore indicators of semi-desert vegetation and tropical Monsoon intensity. The basal sediments (approximately 14,6009,500 yr before present [BP]) contain high concentrations and relative abundances of Polysphaeridium zoharyi, Polysphaeridium spp., Spiniferites elongatus, and Spiniferites spp. during the transition from postglacial to interglacial conditions. Variations in these taxa and total Impagidinium spp. suggest a gradual temperature increase, interrupted by a pre-Holocene cool interval around 11,000 yr BP. The high African monsoon index for this pre-Holocene time corresponds with pollen evidence of relatively high Nile discharge. The organic-rich S1 sapropel sediments, dated as around 9,5006,270 yr BP, were deposited several thousand years later, during a time of lower Monsoon index, warmer surface water, and increased dinoflagellate cyst production. This was accompanied by moderate Nile flooding and oxygen-deficient or anoxic bottom water on the upper Nile Cone, mainly supporting the increased production and carbon import hypothesis for eastern Mediterranean S1 formation. Dinoflagellate cyst assemblages in the Nile Cone S1 differ from those of the deeper, more northern Levantine and Cretan basins in the near absence of heterotrophic protoperidinioid cysts, despite the uniformly high organic S1 carbon content. The prevailing climate during the formation of sapropelic sediments in the southeastern Mediterranean was tropical to subtropical, but was interrupted by an early cooler interval with reduced humidity, as marked by re-appearance of Spiniferites elongatus and increased Ephedra pollen. The carbonate-rich surface layers were probably deposited under warm dry climatic conditions with minimum Nile input, but evidence of oxidation prevents detailed interpretation.
3687573|This paper presents the information gained from a palynological analysis of 38 coprolites from the lower Pecos region in southwestern Texas. The study was conducted to determine the subsistence and diet of a group of hunter-gatherers inhabiting Baker Cave, Val Verde County, at approximately A.D. 900. The Baker Cave inhabitants used what was available in their environment for their subsistence and medicinal needs. The probable economic pollen types observed in the samples include the mustard family (Brassicaceae), sotol (Dasylirion), a sunflower type (high-spine Asteraceae), sagebrush (Artemisia), and grass (Gramineae). An important aspect of this study also provides an example of the application of pollen concentration to coprolite studies. This study indicates that coprolite samples containing over 100,000 pollen grains per gram of material usually contain high frequencies of a few pollen types, most of which are economic and were ingested only a few days before the sample was deposited. Samples which contain under 100,000 pollen grains per gram of material may contain pollen types which were ingested many days before the sample was deposited, or are only background, uneconomic, pollen types.
27784304|A multidisciplinary project on an archaeological site on the Mitchell River, which feeds into Choctawhatchee Bay on the Florida panhandle, was designed to understand human adaptations to a dynamic hydrological environment during the Middle and Late Archaic period (ca. 80003000 B.P.). Now in a freshwater environment, on a sandy terrace above the Mitchell River floodplain, the Mitchell River 1 archaeological site contains an oyster-shell midden and other features indicating human exploitation of an estuarine environment. Estuarine exploitation at the site occurred over a long span of time, from around 7300 to 3400 2cal B.P., although the site was abandoned two or three times over the millennia. The site was more permanently abandoned after 3400 B.P. Because estuarine shellfish, such as oysters, are low trophic level species, they have been considered marginal resources, and archaeologists modeling collector strategies assume that people will not travel far to obtain them. Under an optimal foraging model, estuarine resources should have been closer to the site than at present. A multidisciplinary team was assembled to address whether a mid-Holocene sea-level highstand had produced estuarine conditions in the Mitchell River floodplain during the Archaic. Using microfossils and stratigraphy from a dated core taken in the floodplain due south of the site, the project members attempted to correlate the changing paleoenvironment with human occupation and abandonment of the area. Results indicate that, at ca. 7300 cal B.P., when the Mitchell River 1 site was first inhabited, the floodplain was a shallow, open, sedge marsh. The site inhabitants must have traveled some distance to gather the oysters and other estuarine species that were discarded on the site. The earliest occupation was brief, but the site was reoccupied between 5900 and 5300 cal B.P., when the floodplain had become a Taxodium/Nyssa swamp. Site deposits indicate intensive exploitation of oyster and to a lesser extent Rangia, which may have been closer to the site than at 7300 B.P. but still would have required some travel. At some point, the mouth of the Mitchell River was forced eastward, and the bayhead delta, recognized as a 2-meter-deep wedge of sand in the core, was located adjacent to the site. By 4700 cal B.P., brackish water conditions prevailed, although direct evidence of oyster beds in the immediate area is lacking. Unfortunately, scouring of the core sediments sometime after 4700 cal B.P. destroyed the paleoenvironmental record for the last part of the Archaic occupation of the site. However, some evidence in Core 1, along with research elsewhere on the Florida panhandle, suggests that catastrophic storms may have played a part in the more permanent abandonment of the site after 3400 B.P.
3687495|A new miospore genus, Trimurornatispora, is proposed to accommodate forms which possess a triangular outline with concave sides, thickened apices, and an ornament of membraneous muri which form an irregular reticulum. The type species, Trimurornatispora studleyensis gen. et sp. nov., is described from a thin coal in the Cornbrook Sandstone Formation. Associated taxa indicate a Pendleian (Namurian) age for the assemblage.
3687764|Analysis of fossil pollen from the Maya site of Colha, Belize, revealed a complex history of human-caused forest and land modification. Evidence of forest clearing, irrigation canal and raised field construction, and prehistoric domesticated plant use are apparent in the fossil pollen assemblages. Radiocarbon dates attest to a widespread clearing and the early cultivation of manioc (Manihot esculentum) and probably maize (Zea mays) by 2500 BC, with later Maya populations growing cotton (Gossypium) and chilies (Capsicum). The use of pollen analysis at this tropical archaeological site provides a wealth of data unavailable through other means.
3687615|The acritarch (organic-walled microphytoplankton) Bimerga bensonii gen. et sp. nov. has an elongate, bilaterally symmetrical vesicle with the poles bisected into two broad-based processes possessing homomorphic or heteromorphic terminations. This acritarch was first illustrated, and named in open nomenclature, from the subsurface of Ghana and is reported here from an outcrop sample of the Devonian Los Monos Formation and subsurface cuttings samples from Bolivia. The presence of Bimerga bensonii gen. et sp. nov. in both Africa and South America further supports the existence of an oceanic connection between these Malvinokaffric areas and indicates that palynomorphs may provide a key to intra- and intercontinental correlations for the Gondwanan Devonian.
3687703|The quantitative reconstruction presented in this paper documents paleoecological trends of the northern Maracaibo basin (western Venezuela), during the Early Miocene, through pollen analysis of drill core samples from the La Rosa (shallow marine) and Lagunillas (coastal plain) formations. Palynological assemblages were grouped statistically into three assemblages representing mangroves, herbaceous back-mangrove swamps, and inland palm/fern swamps. Mangroves were the local vegetation during the deposition of La Rosa Formation and, after a regressive event, were replaced by herbaceous back-mangroves during the sedimentation of Lagunillas Formation. The palynological assemblage representing palm/fern swamps dominates the entire sequence and is interpreted as a large background signal reflecting transport by rivers. Mangrove communities had few species, and represented a transitional phase in the mangrove community evolution, after the terminal Eocene biotic crisis.
3687621|A new morphologically distinct polygonomorph acritarch, Metaridium solidispinum sp. nov. occurs in the Hauterivian-lowermost Barremian (Lower Cretaceous) strata of eastern England and the southern North Sea Basin. This morphotype is small and rectangular with a simple, long and solid process emanating from each corner and a large pylome. This species is persistent, relatively common and confined to the Hauterivian-lowermost Barremian, and hence is deemed to be a reliable stratigraphic marker. Metaridium solidispinum is, however, most characteristic of the upper Hauterivian.
27784286|A diverse and well-preserved dinoflagellate cyst and acritarch record, comprising 35 genera and 104 species of dinoflagellate cyst and 14 acritarch taxa, is presented for the Lower Pliocene through Middle Pleistocene (4.000.53 Ma) of eastern North Atlantic Deep Sea Drilling Project Hole 610A. The Pliocene samples contain twice as many dinoflagellate cyst taxa than the Quaternary samples but far lower cyst concentrations. The disappearance of taxa during the latest Pliocene is likely to have been associated with global cooling. Eight biozones and four subzones are established, representing a level of detail that surpasses earlier studies. The zones are based mostly on highest occurrences, as these are most prevalent in the Pliocene and Lower Pleistocene. The subzones, based on both the acme and highest persistent occurrence of Habibacysta tectata, appear regionally useful within the Lower Pleistocene. The lowest occurrence of Impagidinium cantabrigiense is a potential marker for the uppermost Gelasian Stage (Lower Pleistocene). While this biozonation is intended primarily for use in the eastern North Atlantic, elements will be applicable across the higher-latitude North Atlantic where calcareous microfossil zonations have reduced reliability and resolution. Most of the stratigraphically useful taxa are illustrated, and selected species are described informally.
3687349| Elongate forms of Spiniferites are a characteristic feature of dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from north-temperate and arctic environments. Assemblages from the Firth of Forth, Scotland; the Norwegian Sea; and the Barents Sea are described and illustrated to document the variation in morphology of these cysts, particularly in the development of the parasutural membranes. Although clearly elongate, these Spiniferites cysts may be distinguished both qualitatively and semi-quantitatively from each other: those from the Norwegian Sea are usually smaller with stouter processes, whereas those from the Barents Sea possess more highly pronounced parasutural membranes than the Firth of Forth forms. It is suspected that either a series of ecophenotypes is present or that there is some morphological gradient within the group. All the cysts described have an identical paratabulation and are, for the moment, assignable to the dinoflagellate Gonyaulax spinifera (Claparde & Lachman) Diesing. The significance of these observations for the fossil record is potentially important in both the recognition of species and the possibility of increasing the usefulness of paleoecological analysis. 
3687763|Togachitina eamesi gen. et sp. nov. is described and illustrated from the Devonian Iquiri Formation of Bolivia. This new chitinozoan is flask-shaped (ancyrochitinid-like) and has a distinctive outer wall enclosing the entire vesicle. This is the second bilayered member of the Lagenochitinidae to exhibit an outer sleeve with pronounced separation of wall layers but the first with an ancyrochitinid vesicle shape. A new subfamily, the Togachitininae, is proposed for cylindro-conical chitinozoans with separated wall layers.
3687755|The application of a commercially available, microwave digestion system to hydrofluoric acid digestion of rock samples for palynological analysis allows considerable savings of time, laboratory space, chemical costs and waste disposal costs. The system offers several advantages in terms of workplace safety and environmental hazard over existing rapid silicate digestion techniques.
3687364|Direct evidence for the location of microchannels within larger diameter structures in modern pollen grain exines is provided by selective oxidation of the exine bordering the microchannels. These large structures form a three-dimensional network that can be seen throughout exines in all transmission electron microscope studies involving experimental degradation of the exine in extant taxa and also in some fossil exines. From our results we conclude that components forming this reticulated pattern must be aligned around channel-containing structures and that the superpositioning of the network of loops can be expected to be mostly radial in orientation, like the microchannels. Our approach was to oxidize the exines of Betula verrucosa and Chenopodium album after first causing the exines either to expand or contract. In expanded exines microchannels were etched out, creating cylindrical cavities 40-50 nm in diameter and the entire exine became highly acceptable to staining. Compaction of exines restricted the tunneling of oxidant into the exine more or less to microchannels. Microchannel zones became 40-70 nm wide and strongly stainable while the rest of the exine remained only weakly stainable. Penetration of stain throughout expanded but not contracted exines indicates the opening or closure of microcapillary space within structures of the exines.
3687672|The Oligocene/Miocene boundary interval at Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Site 959 on the Cte d'Ivoire-Ghana Transform Margin is characterized by cyclical variations in siliceous and mixed calcareous-siliceous deposits. This cyclical pattern is reflected in the distribution of dispersed organic matter in the deposits, which shows an alternation between dominantly marine organic matter and mixed marine-terrestrial matter. There is some correlation between the composition and abundance of dispersed organic matter, dinoflagellate cysts (dinocysts), and calcareous and siliceous microfossils in the deposits. A study of the dinocysts revealed (1) an abundance of inner neritic forms in a deep marine (bathyal) setting, and (2) a pattern of cyclical alternation of the dominant dinocysts between gonyaulacalean and peridinialean forms. Spiniferites spp., and to a much lesser extent Hystrichokolpoma rigaudiae, are the most common gonyaulacoid dinocysts. One sample contains a noticeable proportion (6%) of the outer neritic to oceanic dinocyst Nematosphaeropsis labyrinthus. Peridinioid dominated sections are characterized by large numbers of protoperidinioid cysts. The cyclical patterns of dispersed organic matter, dinocysts, and calcareous and siliceous microfossils are probably indicative of transportation by current systems, climatic changes, and paleoproductivity.
3687340|The stratigraphic distribution of Callovian to middle Oxfordian (macrocephalus-plicatilis ammonite zones) dinocysts from several localities in England, Scotland and France is evaluated. Using 41 selected species and their relative abundances, this chronostratigraphic interval is divided into four zones and five subzones. The zonal scheme is considered to be applicable throughout the northwest European Boreal Province, and is of proven value in offshore hydrocarbon exploration. The following taxonomic combinations are proposed: Cassiculosphaeridia dictydia (Sarjeant) comb. nov., Chytroeisphaeridia hyalina (Raynaud) comb. nov., Acanthaulax areolata (Sarjeant) comb. nov., and Lithodinia borealis (Sarjeant) comb. nov.
41319052|A pollen and spore assemblage of 50 species was recovered from the late Paleocene (pollen zone P5) Almont locality in the Williston Basin, central North Dakota, USA. This palynoflora was extracted from the same layer containing a diverse megaflora preserved in a silicified shale with compressed leaves, and anatomically preserved fruits and seeds.More than 44 megafossil genera assignable to 26 extant plant families thus far have been recognized. The palynomorphs, which are of exceptional preservation, were examined using the same-grain technique with both light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Additional LM and SEM studies augmented the same grain studies to provide an understanding of sculptural features, and additional, rare taxa. Of particular note are the in situ pollen types known from catkins and pollen cones, allowing for confirmation of the dispersed pollen's systematic position by tying it to its parent plant. Taxa for which in situ pollen is known from Almont include taxodiaceous conifers, Betulaceae, Hamamelidaceae, Juglandaceae, and Platanaceae, and several catkins of uncertain affinities, some with monosulcate grains. This study emphasizes the role of palynology in providing an expanded view of the flora from palynomorphs for comparison with a rich megafossil assemblage.
3687606|The Late Cenozoic lacustrine and fine-grained sediments from the south-central United States should contain abundant, well-preserved pollen assemblages; unfortunately, many are entirely devoid of pollen, while others contain only corroded pollen in low concentrations. The absence of pollen in the southern Great Plains is widespread, encompassing many lacustrine and alluvial deposits. This absence or poor preservation of pollen and other organic matter within these materials is probably the result of post-depositional biotic or chemical oxidation, perhaps related to drying out of the deposits and subsequent movement of meteoric or ground water through the sediments. Among southern Plains localities barren of pollen are the type sections of the Clarendonian, Hemphillian, and Blancan North American Land Mammal ages in Texas. Other localities barren of pollen or containing low concentrations of poorly preserved grains include the Laverne (Miocene), Camp Rice (early Pleistocene), and Tule (early-middle Pleistocene) formations, sediments below the Pearlette O ("Lava Creek B") and Bishop ashes (middle Pleistocene), the Slaton (Illinoian), Easley Ranch (Sangamon), Quiteque, Jones, Howard Ranch (Wisconsinan), Clovis, Lubbock Lake, and Plainview sites (late Wisconsin-Holocene), and several early Holocene lacustrine and alluvial localities. Only a few localities in the region have provided reliable pollen records. The Rita Blanca beds in the Texas Panhandle have yielded the only Pliocene pollen record in the region; it indicates a cool-climate sagebrush grassland vegetation. The only pre-Illinoian Pleistocene pollen record is Hansen Bluff, south-central Colorado, which shows local shifts from sagebrush grassland to forest vegetation. Illinoian-age pollen assemblages from northwestern Oklahoma and southwestern Kansas indicate a sagebrush grassland with significant percentages of pine and spruce, possibly signaling the presence of pine and spruce populations in the central Plains. Well-preserved Wisconsin-age pollen assemblages also document a full-glacial sagebrush grassland on the southern High Plains.
3687592|The qualitative and quantitative characteristics of the Toarcian sporomorph assemblages from the Umbria-Marche domain, are consistent with those of the palynological phase VI (late Pliensbachian, Toarcian, earliest Middle Jurassic) as defined by Visscher et al. (1980) in the Germanic realm. The presence of compositional similarities among palynological assemblages from widely separated areas emphasizes the potential of palynology in correlation problems. The Umbria-Marche sporomorph assemblages correspond to an advanced stage of phase VI, where first occurrences of some index taxa, such as Leptolepidites spp., Trilites spp., Ischyosporites spp., Foveosporites spp. are observed, and the genus Callialasporites was represented by only one species, with low relative abundance. By means of qualitative analyses, together with species richness variation trends of older and younger sporomorphs, the Toarcian portion of phase VI in the Umbria-Marche area can be subdivided into two assemblages. The variation trends concerning the relative abundances of bisaccate pollen and pteridophytic spores in the Northern Hemisphere, deduced by comparison with previous data, were related to palaeoclimatic causes.
3687622|Pollen analysis from a sedimentary section in the valley of the Sauce Grande River (southwestern Buenos Aires Province) and a peat core from the Andorra Valley (southern Tierra del Fuego) provides evidence for the apparent large-scale synchroneity of major past vegetational changes and inferred climatic trends during the late Pleistocene and Holocene in this region. Climate before 10,000 years B.P. was relatively cold and dry, both in southwestern Buenos Aires Province and in southern Tierra del Fuego. A climatic amelioration to warmer and wetter conditions during the late Pleistocene and early Holocene is recorded in both regions. Late Holocene climates show greater variability and they suggest the onset of modern environmental conditions as represented by cool and wet conditions in southern Tierra del Fuego, and by arid to semi-arid conditions in southwestern Buenos Aires Province.
3687513|The stratigraphic ranges of seventy-four previously described, readily identifiable species of Devonian miospores that occur in more than one sedimentary basin, are plotted graphically using symbols to distinguish between relatively well dated and less precisely dated records. Gedinnian, Siegenian, Eifelian, and Famennian miospores have been little studied in North America. Four North American sections for which miospores have been illustrated and/or described are in the Famennian and "Strunian" of Ohio, the Gedinnian to Givetian of northern Ontario, the lower Emsian to middle Eifelian of Gasp, and the Siegenian to lower Famennian of the Queen Elizabeth Islands. Until more is known about the distribution of miospores in reliably dated continuous sections, and the ecological and sedimentological factors that control their distribution, attempts to establish a refined zonation based on miospores would be premature, except possibly for the Emsian-lower Eifelian and the uppermost Famennian-"Strunian".
40072739|The palynology of the Upper Cretaceous to Neogene non-marine succession in the Melut Basin, southeast Sudan was investigated. The palynomorphs are overwhelmingly of terrestrial origin, but rare brackish water dinoflagellate cysts and scolecodonts were encountered from the Lower Miocene and Oligocene-Miocene. Mangrove pollen, which is common in coeval West African coastal basins, is rare and inconsistent. Examples are Spinizonocolpites (Nypa) from the Campanian-Maastrichtian to Eocene and Rhizophoraceae (Zonocostites ramonae) from the Neogene. Based on the stratigraphic distribution of selected pollen and spores from four exploration wells, eight informal palynozones from the Campanian to the Neogene are proposed. The zones, in stratigraphically ascending order, are as follows: Assemblage Zone I, Campanian (lower Melut Formation); Assemblage Zone II, Campanian-Maastrichtian (middle Melut Formation); Assemblage Zone III, Maastrichtian (upper Melut Formation); Assemblage Zone IV, Paleocene (Yale Formation); Assemblage Zone V, Eocene (upper Yale and Adar formations); Assemblage Zone VI, Oligocene-Early Miocene (Jimidi and lower Miadol formations); Assemblage Zone VII, Early Miocene (uppermost Miadol and lowermost Daga formations); and Assemblage Zone VIII, Late Miocene-Pliocene (Daga Formation). The ages are based on stratigraphic positions and a series of first downhole appearances of key species such as Foveotricolpites cf . giganteus (Zone l),Auriculiidites reticulatus (Zone II), Ariadnaesporites spinosus (Zone III), Periretisyncolpites giganteus (Zone IV), Retistephanocolpites williamsii (Zone V), Cricotriporites camerounensis (Zone VI), Perfotricolpites digitatus (Zone VII), and Peregrinipollis nigericus (Zone VIII). Palynofacies investigations indicated differences between the Late Cretaceous and Paleogene-Neogene paleoenvironments of the sections studied. The coexistence of structured organic palynodebris with pteridophyte spores, including those of water ferns (Ariadnaesporites), in the Upper Cretaceous strata suggests swampy conditions within a predominantly fluvial setting. The frequent occurrence of Palmae pollen indicates warm, humid conditions during the Late Cretaceous, although seasonal or hinterland aridity is suggested because of the occurrence of ephedroid pollen. Late Paleogene and Neogene assemblages are characterized by amorphous organic matter, fern spores, freshwater algae, and Gramineae pollen. Deposition in lacustrine habitats under warm, humid conditions is inferred. The occurrence of Gramineae pollen, mainly in the Neogene, indicates the development of grassy areas in a seasonally dry climate. A short marine incursion may have taken place during the Oligocene-Miocene, due to the rare occurrence of brackish water dinoflagellate cysts and scolecodonts.
3687620|Study of Palaeoperidinium pyrophorum and P. cretaceum leads to the conclusion that the principal fossilized wall in both species (here termed the exophragm) formed in an extrathecal position in intimate contact with the exterior surface of the theca. Specimens of P. pyrophorum from ten widespread Late Cretaceous and Paleocene localities and of P. cretaceum from the Early Cretaceous of Alaska were examined with light and scanning electron microscopy. An electronic technique for inverting an SEM image (i.e., exchanging light for dark pixels) and a manual microcasting technique provide support for this interpretation. In some specimens, the exophragm encloses a two-walled intrathecal cyst, like the conventional periphragm and endophragm of many fossil peridiniacean dinoflagellates. A minute but elaborately configured structure in a midventral position on the exophragm apparently includes the insertion points of the two flagella; it is illustrated with SEM stereopairs. Pillar-like projections produced where material of the developing cyst wall partially filled trichocyst pores of the theca are especially distinctive features on the interior surface of the exophragm. Comparable structures occur on the exterior of the periphragm in some species of other genera (e.g., Deflandrea, Subtilisphaera, Mikrocysta, and Phanerodinium), where they appear to have originated similarly; that is, from material that formed the periphragm. Such an interpretation accords with the intrathecal position generally attributed to the periphragm. However, the conclusion that the pillar-like structures interconnecting the two walls in still other dinoflagellates (e.g., certain species of Charlesdowniea, Chlamydophorella, Gardodinium, and Dinopterygium) are also trichocyst pore fillings has an unexpected implication: the outer-most wall in many species of fossil dinoflagellates is an exophragm comparable to that in Palaeoperidinium. The further critical study of the exophragm that this interpretation invites may lead to a better understanding of homologies among cyst wall structures and to a more consistent descriptive terminology for cysts with multiple walls. Concepts of the genus, Palaeoperidinium, and two species, P. pyrophorum and P. cretaceum, are emended to accord with observations in the SEM and the interpretation of their principal wall as an exophragm. Nineteen other species-18 listed as species of Palaeoperidinium by Williams et al. (1998) and P. eurypylum, which is reattributed herein to Palaeoperidinium from Saeptodinium-are provisionally accepted in the genus pending clarification of their characters in the SEM.
3687658|The Shanwang Formation, which is late Early to early Middle Miocene based on radiometric dates and vertebrate fossils, was deposited in a small intermontane lake basin (N. Lat. 36.5) and contains a rich assemblage of plant and animal fossils. The chief plant families represented by pollen taxa are Fagaceae, Juglandaceae, Betulaceae, Ulmaceae, Hamamelidaceae and Pinaceae. The combined pollen and leaf data indicate that the Miocene vegetation of the Shanwang area was mixed deciduous and evergreen broad-leaved forest with a humid warm-temperate to subtropical climate. In contrast, the modern vegetation is a deciduous broadleaved forest, that contains very few subtropical elements. The average annual temperature at Shanwang was similar to that of today. The main difference between the modern and Miocene climates is that the annual temperature range has increased (colder winters), and precipitation which was evenly distributed is now highly seasonal (winter dry). A comparison between the fossil pollen and leaf evidence reveals that the chief families of both assemblages are almost identical. Various evidence implies the fossil leaf assemblages are derived chiefly from a local or an autochthonous community; however, the pollen assemblage reflects a more regional character of vegetation and climate. The leaf fossil assemblage, which includes more insect-pollinated plant taxa, affords a better picture of the local ancient flora.
3687390|The genus Atopodinium, described by Drugg (1978), is herein emended. Atopodinium is a senior synonym of Maghrebinia Below 1981 emend. Masure 1988 and of Bejuia Stover & Williams 1987. A re-examination of the holotype and isotypes of the type species Atopodinium prostatum Drugg 1978 emend. and of A. haromense Thomas & Cox 1988, shows that the gonyaulacoid paratabulation is incompletely delineated by ornamental features, and the archeopyle is apical, type (tA)a, with precingular accessory parasutures. Analysis of species previously attributed to Bejuia (Atopodinium polygonalis Beju 1983 nov. emend.), and to Maghrebinia (Atopodinium chleuh (Below 1981) comb. nov., Atopodinium mirabilis (Below 1984) comb. nov., Atopodinium perforatum (Clarke & Verdier 1967) comb. nov.), and here assigned to Atopodinium, suggests that a similar pattern of gonyaulacoid paratabulation can be discerned in each of them. Species of Atopodinium may be distinguished by a large non-ornamented ventral area. The paratabulation is delineated by penitabular and apparently parasutural ornament features (grana, folds, septa, processes). Only four postcingular parasutures are marked by relief: II/III, III/IV, IV/V, and V/VI. The precingular 4/5 parasuture is aligned by the postcingular IV/V. A conspicuous feature of Atopodinium is the operculum adnate to the sulcal as, and precingular 2 and li paraplates. The inferred thecal tabulation is sexiform gonyaulacoid. Species of Atopodinium have been found in Jurassic and Cretaceous strata.
3687650|Dinoflagellate cysts are abundant in modern and Late Quaternary sediments from the southeastern Australian continental shelf and slope. Modern shelf sediments are characterized by abundant Protoperidinium spp., while those from the outer shelf and slope contain significant numbers of Impagidinium and Nematosphaeropsis species. Abundance of the latter taxa provides a useful signature for interpreting sea-level change within Late Quaternary sequences.
3687397|The cryptospores are a class of sporomorphs which is distinct from trilete and monolete spores, pollen grains and acritarchs. These spore-like palynomorphs are similar in many respects to spores of embryophytes. Because immediate biological affinity is unknown for species of cryptospores, their classification is most effectively achieved through the construction of an artificial system. The schema presented here is an artificial one based on morphology and does not represent a phylogenetic classification which groups species on the basis of ancestor-descendant relationships. One new species, Tetrahedraletes grayii is described as the oldest known permanent tetrad cryptospore from North America. Three species of dyads, Dicryptosporites radiatus gen. et sp. nov., D. minus, and Confossuspora reniforma gen. et sp. nov. are also described.
3687463|Of the total of 11 described species of the form-genus Atlantopollis which occur in Cenomanian and Turonian deposits of Portugal, ten were examined with light microscopy, six with the SEM, and ten with the TEM. The outer surface of the foot layer in the apertural region was observed with the SEM. Based on observations with the TEM, the endexine is absent in the germinal area, and the lamellar ultrastructure of the endannulus produces the unusual form of the foot layer. Both the stratigraphic occurrence and regional distribution of these species are limited, as they have been reported only from Cenomanian and Turonian deposits of Europe and the Atlantic Coast of North America. The species composition is different between these two regions, and as yet the so-called typical reticulate forms have not been reported from North America. In both Europe and North America, species of Atlantopollis have been used for age determination.
3687805|Rich and well-preserved assemblages of organic walled dinoflagellate cysts in 50 samples from a 154 m thick and almost complete, Middle Eocene to ?lowermost Oligocene section from the Kysing Research Borehole in eastern Jylland, Denmark are systematically described. One genus Costacysta gen.nov., and twelve species Chiropteridium eocaenicum sp.nov., Costacysta bucina gen.et sp.nov., Distatodinium pilosum sp.nov., Echinidinium? lucidum sp.nov., Hapsocysta kysingensis sp.nov., Horologinella? pentagonalis sp.nov., Operculodinium eisenackii sp. nov., Phthanoperidinium cornutum sp. nov., Selenopemphix septum sp. nov., Svalbardella partimtabulata sp. nov., Thalassiphora gracilis sp.nov. and Thalassiphora microperforata sp.nov. are formally described. The genus Hapsocysta is emended, and is considered to be a senior synonym of Piccoladinium. The gradual change of the dinoflagellate cyst assemblages in this section demonstrates that sedimentation was almost continuous during the time span of ca. 12 Ma. The biostratigraphic resolution based on dinoflagellate cyst events is generally finer than the calcareous nannofossil NP biozonation. A comparison with published dinoflagellate cyst data from the Norwegian-Greenland Sea shows that several important events are mainly synchronous throughout the region, suggesting a general similarity of the water masses. An isolated occurrence of Svalbardella suggests a short cooling event during early Bartonian times. The palynofacies in most of the section is almost purely of pelagic type. A more proximal, mid shelf palynofacies and a distinctive episode of reworking coincide with the Upper Eocene Moesgaard Clay and indicate a brief, but rather large sea level fall during the deposition of this unit. The Eocene/Oligocene boundary is tentatively identified near the base of the Viborg Formation, and approximately coincides with increased reworking of dinoflagellate cysts and a strong increase in bisaccate pollen, indicating more proximal conditions and possibly also a climatic cooling.
3687519|The Coastal Belt of the Franciscan Complex in northern California is now known to contain strata of Early Cretaceous to Eocene age, with the majority of over one hundred samples dated yielding early Tertiary palynomorphs. A single sample collected southwest of Ukiah, Mendocino County, California, has yielded an interesting assemblage of dinoflagellates which was not previously known from the Coastal Belt. The occurrence of several diagnostic species indicates a Danian age for this sample. This assemblage, consisting of some twelve species, is compared to one of Danian age described by Drugg (1967) from the Moreno Formation, Fresno County, California. Genera which the two assemblages have in common include Alisocysta Stover and Evitt 1978, Areoligera Lejeune-Carpentier 1938, Cannosphaeropsis O. Wetzel 1933, Cyclonephelium Deflandre and Cookson 1955, Danea Morgenroth 1968, Deflandrea Eisenack 1938, and Spiniferites Mantell 1850. Five new species are herein described: Alisocysta rugolirata n. sp., A. reticulata n. sp., Areoligera crescentis n. sp., Impagidinium pentahedrias n. sp., and Cannosphaeropsis franciscana n. sp.
3687445|Late-glacial pollen and plant macrofossil assemblages from the Brayton gravel pit in southwestern Iowa, Nichols silts in southeastern Iowa, and Sumner Bog in northeastern Iowa indicate that a spruce-larch forest was present between about 12,500 and 11,500 radiocarbon years before present (RCYBP). Some forest openings probably existed at Brayton and during the lower zone recognized at Sumner Bog, but not at Nichols. All Sites contain pollen of thermophilous species; macrofossils of Quercus rubra (northern red oak) and Corylus cornuta (beaked hazel) at Brayton and of Acer negundo (box elder) at Nichols indicate that some thermophilous plants were locally present. Fir trees were present in small numbers, but pine was absent.
3687350|Fifty-five forms of fungal palynomorphs including spores, fragments of hyphae, and fruiting bodies were recovered from recently deposited sediments of the Luangwa River in Zambia. Twenty forms (36%) are comparable to the propagules of known living genera. The diversity of form and wall structure indicates the kinds of fungal palynomorphs which can be expected to withstand standard palynological techniques employed in the processing of fine grained siltstone and mudstone sediments. The known habitat and host preference of many of the identified forms can conceivably be used to deduce the environmental conditions of similar fossil fungal floras recovered from Neogene sediments. No new taxa are proposed.
40072735|During a detailed palynological study of the Milk River Formation in southern Alberta, Canada, a diverse and well-preserved assemblage of fungi including dispersed fungal spores and isolated fragments of microthyriaceous fruiting bodies were encountered and these are described. Based on ammonites, magnetostratigraphy, and palynomorphs,these strata are dated as latest Santonian to ?earliest Campanian (Late Cretaceous).This palynomorph assemblage represents one of the few documented occurrences of fungi of this age. Eighteen genera of fungal spores and three of microthyriaceous thyriothecia, comprising 45 species are recorded. The fungal assemblage is characterized by species of toruloid spores in chains, and cylindrical spores belonging to Dicellaesporites, Diporicellaesporites, Pluricellaesporites, Reduviasporonites,and Scolecosporites that mainly occur as saprophytes today. Helicoid spores belonging to Involutisporonites and Paragranatisporites are also represented and these generally occur in marshy and swamp-like conditions in an open environment mainly characterized by taxodiaceous forest. Microthyriaceous thyriothecia are represented by several specimens of Asterothyrites menonii, Phragmothyrites eocaenicus, and Trichothyrites sp. Although the assemblage consists of diverse fungal taxa, the dispersed spores and fruiting structures are not abundant, and only a few scattered specimens for many species were recorded. One reason for the low frequency may have been the unfavorable paleoenvironmental conditions which prevailed in these marine to nearshore terrestrial depositional settings. In spite of the low abundances, it is thought that documentation of the fungal occurrences in these strata will be of importance in future biostratigraphic and evolutionary studies of fungi. Many of the fungal species encountered are distinctive and probably restricted stratigraphically, being different from those recorded from the better documented Paleogene/Neogene assemblages, and may prove to be biostratigraphically useful.
3687714|Ninety-one samples from three sections at Fossilryggen in the Vestfjella mountain range of Antarctica have been investigated palynologically. Sixty-six taxa are recognized in forty-eight productive samples from two of these sections: the southern section at Fossilryggen and the NW Nunatak section. The palynomorphs have been subjected to contact metamorphosis and display various grades of thermal maturity, ranging in color from light brown to black. They also display various degrees of preservation. Among the spores found are Didecitriletes ericianus, D. uncinatus, Dictyotriletes labyrinthicus (Anderson) comb. nov., Horriditriletes filiformis, Microbaculispora trisina, M. villosa, Osmundacidites wellmanii and Gondisporites raniganjensis. Taeniate and non-taeniate bisaccates are dominant and include Scheuringipollenites ovatus, S. maximus, Vitreisporites pallidus, Protohaploxypinus spp., Striatopodocarpidites spp. and Guttulapollenites hannonicus. Other pollen-grains present are Weylandites lucifer, Praecolpatites sinuosus and Bascanisporites undosus. Although the sections have been interpreted as being deposited in a near-shore marine environment, acritarchs and algae are rare in these assemblages and include the forms Peltacystiavenosa, P. monile, Cymatiosphaera gondwanensis, Leiosphaeridia sp. B and Brazilea scissa. These assemblages are regarded as being of Late Permian age, Kazanian to Tatarian, and are correlated with Upper Stage 5 palynofloras in Australia, and with similar assemblages in Africa and India. Correlations are also made with other Late Permian palynofloras within Antarctica.
3687551|The use of both miospores and dinoflagellate cysts allows fine stratigraphic subdivision of the Lias in Portugal. Seven miospore Oppel-zones and seven dinoflagellate cyst Oppel-zones are recognized from the late Sinemurian to Aalenian of the Lusitanian Basin, west-central Portugal. These have been independently dated by ammonites, foraminifers, and nannofossils. Notes on assemblages from the Bajocian to Oxfordian indicate a similar potential. Liassic assemblages from northwestern Europe demonstrate a similar yet distinctive dinoflagellate succession and a strongly contrasting miospore succession. Comparisons with the Liassic zonation of offshore eastern Canada indicate a strongly correlative succession with slightly discordant ages.
3687675| The diacromorph acritarch genus Arbusculidium Deunff 1968 is characteristic of Upper Cambrian acritarch assemblages in southern Scandinavia, and of Lower Ordovician assemblages in South America, northern Africa, eastern Newfoundland, South China, and in western, central and northeastern Europe. The morphologic variability within two populations of Arbusculidium filamentosum from Lower Ordovician of Bohemia and China was investigated. A critical review of the literature regarding all established species of the genus and an evaluation of published information concerning about ten Lower Ordovician genera which are morphologically comparable with Arbusculidium, has resulted in an emendation of the diagnosis of Arbusculidium and the following new combinations: A. destombesii var. destombesii Deunff 1968 autonym, A. destombesii var. frondiferum Deunff 1968 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. destombesii var. striatulum Volkova 1988 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. filamentosum (Vavrdov 1965) Vavrdov 1972, A. filamentosum var. coronatum Fang 1987 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. gratiosum Cramer & Dez 1977 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. latum Fang 1987 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. sutile Cramer & Dez 1977 stat. nov., comb. nov., A. filamentosum var. yunnanensis (Gao 1991) stat. nov., comb. nov., Ladogella mamillosa (Welsch 1986) stat. nov., comb. nov., Arbusculidium? bicrure (Burmann 1968) comb. nov., Arbusculidium? fulcratum (Burmann 1968) comb. nov., Arbusculidium? fulcratum procerum (Burmann 1968) comb. nov., Arbusculidium? retiforme (Burmann 1968) comb. nov. 
3687688|The Lower Cretaceous Alam El Bueib and Alamein formations in the Ghazalat-1 (GTX-1) well, Western Desert, Egypt, consist of marginal marine siliciclastic sediments, overlain by the Aptian evaporites (dolomite of the upper Alamein Formation). Angiosperm species diversity is reasonably high, and account for 8.0-22.0% of the total palynomorphs. Most of these species might belong to monosulcate, zonasulculate, and inaperturate pollen. The genus Afropollis is emended herein to include forms with monosulcoid aperture. The following two new subspecies and seven new species are described: Afropollis operculatus operculatus, Afropollis operculatus microreticulatus subsp.nov., Afropollis schrankii sp.nov., Arecipites microfoveolatus sp.nov., Retimonocolpites bueibensis sp.nov., Retimonocolpites ghazalii sp. nov., Stellatopollis dejaxii sp. nov., Stellatopollis doylei sp. nov. and Stellatopollis limai sp.nov. In addition, one new combination is proposed: Arecipites pereensis (Juhsz and Gczn) comb. nov. Three palynomorph assemblages (A1-A3) are assigned to the upper Barremian and lower-middle Aptian. These assemblages show close correlation and similarity with the palynozones C-VI, C-VIIa and C-VIIc of the "Cocobeach System", West Africa and Zone I of the Potomac Group, USA. Sediments of the Alam El Bueib and basal Alamein formations accumulated in a marginal shallow marine environment under arid to semiarid climatic conditions.
40984160|To determine the relationship between the spatial dinoflagellate cyst distribution and oceanic environmental conditions, 34 surface sediments from the Eastern and Western Mediterranean Sea have been investigated for their dinoflagellate cyst content. Multivariate ordination analyses identified sea-surface temperature, chlorophyll-, nitrate concentration, salinity, and bottom oxygen concentration as the main factors affecting dinoflagellate cyst distribution in the region. Based on the relative abundance data, two associations can be distinguished that can be linked with major ocanographie settings. (1) An offshore eastern Mediterranean regime where surface sediments are characterized by oligotrophic, warm, saline surface water, and high oxygen bottom water concentrations (Impagidinium species, Nematosphaeropsis labyrinthus, Pyxidinopsis reticulata and Operculodinium israelianum).Based on the absolute abundance, temperature is positively related to the cyst accumulation of Operculodinium israelianum. Temperature does not form a causal factor influencing the accumulation rate of the other species in this association. Impagidinium species and Nematosphaeropsis labyrinthus show a positive relationship between cyst accumulation and nitrate availability in the upper waters. (2) Species of association 2 have highest relative abundances in the Western Mediterranean Sea, Strait of Sicily/NW Ionian Sea, and/or the distal ends of the Po/Nile/Rhne River plumes. At these stations, surface waters are characterized by (relative to the other regime) higher productivity associated with lower sea-surface temperature, salinity, and lower bottom water oxygen concentrations {Selenopemphix nephroides, Echinidinium spp., Selenopemphix quanta, Quinquecuspis concreta, Brigantedinium spp.and Lingulodinium machaerophorum). Based on both the absolute and relative abundances, Selenopemphix nephroides is suggested to be a suitable indicator to trace changes in the trophic state of the upper waters. The distribution of Lingulodinium machaerophorum is related to the presence of river-influenced surface waters, notably the Nile River. We suggest that this species might form a suitable marker to trace past variations in river discharge, notably from the Nile.
3687701|Diverse and relatively well preserved palynological assemblages from five outcrop sections sampled in the Numidian Flysch of northern Tunisia are presented and discussed. They provide valuable information for age determination and correlation within the Numidian succession. The dinoflagellate cyst zonation scheme of Wilpshaar et al. (1996) for the Oligocene through earliest Miocene of the central Mediterranean area is successfully applied. The basal portion of the Numidian Flysch, which exhibits a faulted contact with the underlying units, crops out in the El Gassaa and Tabarka sections and is dated as early Early Oligocene (Areosphaeridium diktyoplokum-Reticulatosphaera actinocoronata Zones of Brinkhuis and Biffi, 1993), thus definitely older than previously inferred on the basis of scarce foraminiferal faunas. The youngest beds analysed in the Cap Serrat section are dated as Aquitanian in age (Membranilarnacia ?picena Zone of Brinkhuis et al., 1992) but, as the topmost portions of the Cap Serrat and Ras El Korane sections comprise palynologically barren sandstones and conglomerates cut by the topographic surface, accurate biostratigraphic information concerning the top of the Numidian Flysch is still lacking. Dinoflagellate cyst distribution in the examined sections suggests that the first appearance of Tuberculodinium vancampoae may be used as a confirmatory event for recognition of the Reticulatosphaera actinocoronata Zone of Brinkhuis and Biffi (1993) in the Early Oligocene at low paleolatitudes, whereas the extinction of Wetzeliella gochtii may be used for recognition of the Chiropteridium lobospinosum Zone of Wilpshaar et al. (1996). Furthermore, the first appearance of the trilete spore Magnastriatites howardii Germeraad, Hopping & Muller 1968 and the abrupt increase of bisaccate pollen prove to be locally important for the delimitation of the Eocene/Oligocene boundary.
40984070|Pollen concentrations containing abundant Zea mays pollen grains are AMS radiocarbon dated 3940  40 to 2450  40 C years BP. The maize pollen is from two prehistoric woodrat (Neotoma) middens that occur in fractures in the south-facing sandstone cliff at Chaco Culture National Historical Park. The diameters of the Archaic-age maize pollen grains are significantly larger than Puebloan and modern maize pollen. The size distributions of the earliest Zea grain populations are not normal, suggesting the possibility that more than one variety of maize is represented by the pollen. The occurrence of large numbers of maize pollen grains as well as pollen from weedy plants indicates the nearby presence of an Archaic cornfield, now buried in alluvial fill adjacent to the cliff. It was also found that the AM S radiocarbon ages of the pollen concentrations differ significantly from the age of twigs from the same woodrat middens. Because of the strong age differences of components of woodrat middens, pollen assemblages should be dated independent of plant macrofossils.
3687436|Five chitinozoan species, Conochitina exilis n. sp., C. kryos n. sp., C. poumoti Combaz & Peniguel 1972, Lagenochitina boja n. sp., and L. esthonica Eisenack 1955, are described from the Ordovician (Arenig-? Llanvirn) Valhallfonna Formation at Ny Friesland, Spitsbergen, using scanning electron microscopy. Morphological variation within species includes substantial variability in length. Both species of Lagenochitina possess a prosome and an operculum. The distribution of species seems to be facies dependent, and varies in accordance with trilobite faunas. Abundance of chitinozoans and numbers of species are low compared with other recorded occurrences. The distribution of species is compared with that in faunas from Estonia, Sweden, England, Western Australia, and Eastern New York.
3687483|Four species of Lagenicula: L. clavata, L. expansa, L. multiapicalis, and L. microechinata, and two species of Hystricosporites: H. pseudoporatus and H. varius, from the Tuttle Formation are described as new. These megaspores are collectively assigned to the Multiapicalis Assemblage Biozone which, utilizing associated miospores (e.g. Retispora lepidophyta), may be correlated to the Tnla zone of the Tournaisian of Belgium. Two megaspore assemblage biozones, the Magnifica (lower) and the Multiapicalis Zones (upper) are recognized in the Tuttle Formation in the study. The Multiapicalis Assemblage Biozone is described as new.
3687802| Palynomorph assemblages from an extended succession of Mississippian (Visan) sediments ranging in age from probable late Arundian to the latest Brigantian exposed on the East Fife coast of Scotland, United Kingdom have been investigated. The stratigraphical distribution of miospores closely reflects that established elsewhere in central and southern Scotland. The occurrence of certain stratigraphically significant miospore taxa permits the assignment of chronostratigraphic ages to locally defined lithostratigraphic units. The latest Asbian to Brigantian (VF miospore Biozone) age of the upper part of the Sandy Craig, Pathhead and Lower Limestone formations is confirmed. The Pittenweem Formation and remainder of the Sandy Craig Formation are both assigned to the NM miospore Biozone of Asbian age and the Anstruther Formation is assigned a late Arundian or Holkerian (TC miospore Biozone) age. The Fife Ness Formation, originally assigned to the early Asbian and considered older than the Anstruther Formation, yielded evidence of both the uppermost part of the TC and lower NM miospore biozones and is suggested to be a member of the Pittenweem Formation. 
3687574|The description of a new palynological preparation method is given. Conventional acid maceration using hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids is applied to dissolve mineral components. The acid resistant microfossils are then concentrated on a filter made of polyester screening cloth which is fitted onto a membrane filtering apparatus. The filtering apparatus is in turn attached to a device which permits fast removal of small kerogen and mineral particles using moderate, normal and inverted vacuum. The resulting organic residue is virtually free both from small kerogen particles and from mineral precipitates, thus making this technique particularly well-suited for concentrating organic-walled microfossils from potentially poorly fossiliferous samples.
41319051|Records of the past climate and vegetation of Australia are frequently constructed using data generated from the analysis of pollen and pteridophyte spores alone, or in association with sedimentology. We demonstrate that the organic residue prepared for pollen analysis yields other organic-walled microfossils that can be used to provide additional and independent palaeoenvironmental information. These non-pollen palynomorphs (NPP) include microscopic remains of algae, cyanobacteria, fungi, insects, other invertebrates and cormophytes. Our study of the NPP from two Late Quaternary lake records from western Victoria, Australia, provided additional information on water quality, salinity, depth, temperature and nutrient levels to the general environmental interpretation derived from pollen data. From a review of the ecological preferences of taxa, and comparison of the NPP results with pollen and spore curves from the lake records, ecological indicator values were derived. The study confirms the utility of NPP in enhancing environmental reconstructions in Australia, and encourages their routine examination in palynological studies.
3687425|A novel and easily constructed drive mechanism has been used to obtain core samples from much greater depths than has been possible using hand coring techniques. The mechanism was used to drive a modified and strengthened piston type corer to the bottom of Lima Bog, Rock County, Wisconsin, at a depth of 19.67 meters. Earlier attempts to core Lima Bog had failed to penetrate beyond the upper 10 meters.
41319063|Small forest hollows represent a specialised site type for pollen analysis, since they mainly record the vegetation within an approximate radius of 20100 m from the hollow. We discuss how to choose the most appropriate small forest hollow for pollen analysis. Hollow size, site topography, location, sediment type, drainage aspects and disturbance characteristics of the specific hollows should be considered during site selection. Guidelines are developed on how to take the core and outline the special characteristics of small hollow palynology that influence data interpretation.
27784296|The Mahakam Delta is a tropical, fluviotidally dominated delta prograding onto a mixed siliciclasticcarbonate shelf. Surface sediments were collected from 12 distinctive depositional environments extending from the head of the Mahakam Delta to the shelf edge. Organic matter was extracted from 200 samples by acid digestion, and seven palynomorph types (pollen, embryophyte spores, fungal spores, foraminiferal linings, copepod eggs, tintinnomorphs, and dinocysts) were identified and counted, and their percentages and concentrations calculated. Total organic carbon (TOC), lithology, and depositional environments were recorded for each sediment sample. The amounts of terrestrial palynomorphs in sediments can be explained by transport and depositional processes, and four groups of environments are identified (tidally influenced, detrital peat beach, lowland rain forest, and marine shelf). Because of tidal flushing of the delta plain, pollen, embryophyte spores, fungal spores and soft plant debris from the soil litter are deposited together with clastic mud at slack-water periods. As a result, all tidally-influenced environments exhibit constant numbers of pollen, embryophyte spores, and fungal spores per unit of TOC. In lowland rain forest sediments, there is minor clastic dilution and the numbers of pollen and spores are three to 10 times higher per unit TOC than in tidally-influenced sediments. In detrital peat beach and marine shelf sediments, the number of sporomorphs per unit TOC is lower than expected because of the selective removal of sporomorph-sized particles by wave action and of dilution with autochthonous marine organic matter respectively. In contrast, the amounts of marine palynomorphs in sediments are related to the depositional environments. Relative amounts of marine palynomorphs increase gradually offshore, as both the sporomorph percentages and concentrations decrease simultaneously. Once in fully marine conditions, concentrations of marine palynomorphs are comparable in all shelf environments. The marine assemblages are mainly represented by zooplankton (copepod eggs) and benthic protists (foraminiferal linings), the phytoplanktonic constituent (dinocyst) playing a subordinate role.
3687408|This paper discusses the morphology, taxonomy, and stratigraphic occurrences of 24 species and species groups of triatriate pollen. The material is from uppermost Paleogene rocks of the U. S. Geological Survey Charleston Project Deep Corehole No. 1 (Clubhouse Crossroads corehole), Dorchester County, South Carolina. The 24 pollen types are assigned to seven genera: Momipites, Plicatopollis, Platycaryapollenites, Platycarya, Subtriporopollenites, Carya, and Casuarinidites. The definitions of the first three of these genera are emended in this paper, and five new species are proposed: Momipites fragilis, Momipites strictus, Momipites? annulatus, Plicatopollis cretacea, and Casuarinidites sparsus. The stratigraphically lowest occurrence of juglandaceous triatriate pollen in the core is in rocks of Austinian (possible Santonian) Age, and altogether seven triatriate types are known from the Upper Cretaceous. The maximum diversity of these pollen types is in the upper Paleocene and lower Eocene (13-15 forms per stratigraphic level). Eleven apparently significant pollen-stratigraphic events have been determined on the basis of first, last, and peak occurrences of triatriate pollen in the Austinian-Chickasawhayan interval of the core.
27784281|An Early Devonian (Pragian) plant, Hueberia zhichangensis gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Posongchong Formation, Wenshan district of southern Yunnan, China. It is characterized by stems < 2 mm wide and closely helically-arranged enations. A creeping habit is suggested due to K-type branching. No fertile organs are preserved. Hueberia gen. nov. resembles Drepanophycus and Kaulangiophyton, but is much smaller and has a more regular phyllotaxy.
3687388|A study of miospore assemblages from Upper Coal Measures of late Westphalian age of north Staffordshire, England, reveals a microflora assignable to the Thymospora obscura Assemblage XI of Smith and Butterworth (1967). Samples were collected from shales at the base of the Newcastle Group, which is of Westphalian D age; they contain abundant, diverse and well-preserved palynomorph assemblages. They contain several species of miospores which were originally described from Pennsylvanian strata in North America. The occurrence of Elaterites triferens, Hymenospora multirugosa, Latipulvinites kosankei and Columnisporites ovalis are described for the first time from assemblages of dispersed miospores from the British Isles in Silesian strata of north Staffordshire, England.
3687457|Modern pollen data (394 samples from 98 sites) from north coastal California and eastern Oregon show differences in pollen percentages among the major vegetation regions sampled. Isopoll (contours of pollen percentages) maps for 12 pollen types show the influence of vegetational and non-vegetational factors in patterns of pollen distribution. Regional patterns correlate between Sequoia sempervirens pollen and coastal redwood forest, Quercus pollen and oak woodlands, Tsuga heterophylla and western hemlock forests, and Picea sitchensis pollen and Sitka spruce forests. Factor analysis of the pollen data synthesizes the pollen rain in the major units of the natural vegetation, and produces distinctive pollen signatures (groups of covarying pollen types) for regional vegetational units, ranging from lowlying coastal redwood forests and oak woodlands through mixed evergreen forests, montane forests and alpine environments of the Coast Range and Cascade Mountains.
3687549|Large numbers of a new species of megaspore, Paxillitriletes vittatus, have been recovered through bulk maceration of a sample from the Dakota Formation (Cenomanian) of Kansas. Transmission electron microscopy has revealed a spore wall ultrastructure similar to both modern and fossil lycopod megaspores, consisting of a spongy reticulum of sporopollenin threads which are more compact towards the interior. The wall structure is similar to that of modern Isoetes, as well as another Mesozoic genus, Minerisporites, which has been found in situ in Isoetites megafossils. Monolete microspores, similar to those of Isoetes, were found entangled in the capilli of P. vittatus. The Paxillitriletes megaspores were found in great abundance in a dark brown, organic-rich clay which has been interpreted sedimentologically as a marshy lake-margin deposit. This abundance of a single species of megaspore suggests that the parent plants were a conspicuous part of this marsh community, similar to the habitat occupied by many species of Isoetes. The combined morphological, ultrastructural, and paleoecological evidence suggests that the systematic affinities of Paxillitriletes is with the Isoetales.
3687637|Reworking of Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian palynomorphs into the Lower Triassic of western Canada, Yukon, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and Alaska has been documented by a number of workers. The phenomenon occurs in other northern circumpolar localities, such as East Greenland and the Barents Sea, and was probably widespread. Examples are given from western and eastern Europe, Russia, the Middle East, Pakistan, China, Brazil and Australia. The abundance and diversity of reworked palynomorphs from a number of stratigraphic units of different ages into the Lower Triassic is an important palynostratigraphic phenomenon of chronostratigraphic value. It may be the result of a major regional regression in the late Permian, followed by a widespread marine transgression in the Early Triassic, or it may be due to tectonic activity resulting in eustatic sea-level rise. Whatever the mechanism, the advancing transgression resulted in erosion of exposed Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian rocks, but by Mid-Triassic times most pre-Triassic rocks had been covered by sediment, and the supply of reworked material much reduced. Reworked Devonian taxa belong to a variety of suprageneric groups including cavate trilete spores (lycopsids), acavate trilete spores (ferns) and monolete spores; Lower Carboniferous taxa include cingulate trilete spores. Possibly reworked Upper Carboniferous and Permian pollen includes that of Gymnosperms-Cordiates, conifers, pteridosperms (taeniate bisaccate and polyplicates), and cycads and gnetophytes. Lower Triassic palynomorphs, possibly in situ, may include (sometimes abundant) acanthomorph acritarchs such as Micrhystridium breve, M. setasessitante, M. fragile and Wilsonastrum colonicum. Lack of recognition of reworking has many implications concerning chronostratigraphy, palynostratigraphy, paleoenvironments, paleoclimates, coal petrography, thermal maturity, geochemistry, and chemostratigraphy. For example, if the Upper Permian and Lower Triassic Densoisporites playfordii, D. complicatus, D. nejburgii, Lundbladispora obsoleta and Aculeisporites variabilis are not in situ, but reworked specimens of the Devonian progymnosperm cavate morphon Geminospora lemurata, one has to question the commonly held view that a lycopsid dominated macroflora, with a large biomass, recolonised the land in the Early Triassic. Lower Triassic assemblages in which reworking occurred but has not been recognised may give the impression of palynofloral diversity, whereas low diversity and low abundance would be more consistent with the hostile arid environment of the Lower Triassic. One Upper Permian and Lower Triassic plant entity, well-adapted to harsh conditions, was the algal cyst Chordecystia chalasta. Nevertheless, some higher plants must have survived the Permian-Triassic crisis as witnessed by the presence of gymnosperm pollen in the Mesozoic. This is Geological Survey of Canada (Calgary), Contribution no. 2004237.
41319062|Early Cambrian acritarchs from the Lkati Formation of Estonia are described, based on new material, and their biological affinities reviewed. The phenoty pical variants and the inferred function of their vesicles are indicative for recognising zygotic/resting cysts and vegetative cells. They represent the Chlorophytes in the class Prasinophyceae, which reproduce asexually (forming resting phycoma cysts), and Chlorophyceae, which reproduce sexually (zygotic cysts). Some species had a complex life cycle, with alternating vegetative and reproductive generations that differed morphologically. Based on acritarch records from the Baltica palaeocontinent, of which the Lkati Formation assemblage is a part, and the global PhytoPal Taxonomic Database (PhytoPal Project, Leverhulme Trust, Leicester University, 20032006), the early Cambrian diversification of phytoplankton is reviewed. The initial Cambrian diversification, and a recovery after the end-Ediacaran extinction, was rapid and exhibited a stepwise pattern of radiation episodes covering short intervals equivalent to biochrons lasting a few million years, estimated from the numerical ages of the strata containing them and the current time scale of the early Cambrian. However, the first appearance datum (FAD) of new species within the biozones/biochrons appears in a succession rather than at one stratigraphical level, indicating true biological speciations. The only genera surviving from the Proterozoic Eon are Leiosphaeridia, Tasmanites, Pterospermella and Pterospermopsimorpha; these are Lazarus genera radiating new species in the early Cambrian. All other Cambrian genera and species are new, morphologically innovative, and much smaller.
41319059|Hydrocarbon exploration in the Llanos Foothills of Colombia has intensified during the past several decades.Exploration in this region is problematic owing to structural complexities, rapid lateral facies changes, and the difficulties of acquiring good seismic imaging. These elements increase the uncertainties about the prognosis and subsequent drilling of exploratory wells. Under these conditions, biostratigraphy can play a significant role in the exploratory process. In the Llanos Foothills, palynology is the most useful biostratigraphic tool because pollen is the most abundant fossil group. In this study we analyze pollen information from 70 sections (624,744 palynomorph grains from 6707 samples) to construct a biostratigraphic zonation for the Llanos Foothills and Llanos basins.Using both graphic correlation and constrained optimization in our analysis, we propose 18 palynological zones for the Cenozoic of the Llanos and Llanos Foothills. These zones are tied to the geological timescale using 18 calibration points that include carbon isotopes, foraminifera, and magnetostratigraphy.
40984068|Carboniferous rocks in the Joggins area, Nova Scotia, and the Maringouin Peninsula, New Brunswick, are world renowned for their well-preserved macroflora, but this paper is the first detailed study of the palynoflora. The section is comprised of the Mississippian Windsor and Mabou groups overlain disconformably by the Lower Pennsylvanian Cumberland Group. The Windsor Group rocks proved to be barren of palynomorphs but the Mabou Group yielded spores and pollen of Brigantian (late Visean) to Arnsbergian age (early Namurian = early Serpukhovian). The assemblages are assigned successively to the Schopfipollenites acadiensis-Knoxisporites triradiatus, the Grandispora spinosa-Ibrahimispores magnificus, and the Reticulatisporites carnosus Zones. A major palynofloral change takes place between the Mississippian Mabou and the Pennsylvanian Cumberland assemblages. This is believed to reflect a significant regional hiatus in the Joggins section and elsewhere in eastern Canada. The Cumberland Group is characterized by an abundance of Lycospora spp. and monosaccate gymnosperm species of Yeadonian? (Late Namurian = middle Bashkirian?) to late Duckmantian (late Bashkirian?) age. The palynological succession is divided into the Raistrickia saetosa, the Raistrickiafulva, and the Vestispora magna zones. Age determinations of the zones, based on comparisons with Western Europe and the North Sea, are tentative because the Cumberland assemblages lack diversity and many taxa diagnostic in Western Europe are absent in the assemblages of the Joggins area, possibly due to environmental and climatic differences.
3687458|A paleoclimatic chronology for southern South America is suggested by comparison of dated pollen records from Argentina (lat 32 to 34S, 41S and 51 to 54S). The paleoenvironmental phases distinguished for the last 13,000 years are interpreted as paleoclimatic phases and explained as latitudinal shifts of atmospheric circulation anomalies by using the correlation of modern precipitation patterns with atmospheric circulation anomaly patterns over Argentina and Chile. The lateglacial type environment is characterized at all sites in the high southern latitudes by pollen assemblages of grasses, composites, sedges, and heath, suggesting climates as cold and wet as the modern Magellanic Moorland uniformly throughout Tierra del Fuego and southern Patagonia. At latitude 41S the lateglacial pollen assemblages are dominated by rainforest types west of the Andes, suggesting cold and wet conditions, while east of the Andes grasses and herb pollen dominated the assemblages, suggesting conditions colder and drier than today. Lateglacial pollen assemblages at latitude 32S are dominated by grasses, composites, and desert shrub pollen, suggesting colder and wetter climates than today. Postglacial type environments replaced the lateglacial ones at 12,000 yr B.P. at latitudes 32 and 41S, but only at 8,500 yr B.P. at latitudes 51 to 54S. The postglacial environments at all latitudes resemble the modern environments, with Nothofagus pollen dominating at high southern latitudes and latitude 41S and desert scrub pollen at latitude 32S, suggesting precipitation and temperature values similar to the modern ones. Environmental changes during the Holocene occurred at 8,500 yr B.P., 6,000 yr B.P., 5,000 yr B.P., and 3,000 yr B.P., but are of much smaller amplitude than the change from lateglacial to postglacial environments.
3687636|New evidence from taxonomically rich and age-diagnostic acritarch assemblages is used to recognize Upper Cambrian and Tremadoc strata in the Bugrino 1 and North-Western 202 boreholes on Kolguev Island, Arctic Russia. The position of the boundary between the Cambrian and Ordovician systems in the sedimentologically continuous successions is inferred, as are stratigraphic intervals equivalent to the Late Cambrian Peltura and Acerocare trilobite zones of Baltica. This is the first paleontological documentation of Cambrian strata on the island and, on a regional scale, within the Pechora Basin and northeastern Europe. The newly established biostratigraphy provides the maximum relative age for the basal portion of the sedimentary cover overlying the Timanian angular unconformity, which separates the sediments from deformed and metamorphosed basement. In turn, it constrains the time-span of the hiatus as pre-Late Cambrian and thus is significant for reconstructing the timing of the major tectonic events in this region of the Baltica palaeocontinent. Twenty-seven acritarch species are described in detail and 10 taxa are left under open nomenclature. The taxonomic attribution of several species is revised. The diagnosis of the genus Acanthodiacrodium is restricted, and those of Dasydiacrodium and Polygonium are emended. New combinations are proposed for the species Actinotodissus crinitus, A. formosus and Solisphaeridium akrochordum, and new emendations and combinations for Actinotodissus polimorphus, A. secundarius, and A. spinutisus. A new species, Solisphaeridium chinese, is recognized. The stratigraphic ranges of taxa are compiled from global records and extension of some species ranges is suggested.
3687699|The new species Microdinium avocetianum from the Tithonian (Upper Jurassic) of Australia is described. It is a small partiform gonyaulacalean cyst with a distinctive paratabulation style, dark autophragm and low, irregularly denticulate crests. The species may be relatively prominent in the late Tithonian (Pseudoceratium iehiense Range Zone) of the Timor Sea, offshore northwestern Australia and the Carnarvon Basin, offshore Western Australia.
41319054|Descriptions and photomicrographs of pollen grains from 245 angiosperm species commonly found in contemporary plant communities of the upland savannas of Guayana, Venezuela are presented. Most of the species are frequent in woody communities as shrublands, evergreen montane and gallery forest of the premontane altitudinal belt (400-1800 m above sea level). In contrast with previous contributions which emphasised species from highland and/or flooded environments, most species considered here grow on lowland to upland well-drained soils. The high numbers of taxa considered herein means that the utility of this contribution transcends palaeoecology and impinges on, for example, reproductive biology, forensic palynology, aerobiology and melissopalynology in Guayana and the wider Neotropical realm.
3687533|Fossil pollen counts from Iowa and western Illinois ranging in age from 30,000 yr B.P. to the present were compared with the modern pollen rain of eastern North America using dissimilarity coefficients (squared chord distances). The fossil samples came from several sites to give a general representation to the major vegetational changes in the region. The best analogs were for the period from 28,000 to 25,000 yr B.P., when Picea-Pinus forests existed that were apparently comparable to the modern boreal forest. Some acceptable analogs also exist for samples dating from full-glacial time (about 25,000 to about 15,000 yr B.P.), when open spruce forests and parklands similar to the northern edge of the present boreal forest were present, and from late Holocene time (the last 6000 yrs), when the modern prairie and oak savanna were developing. Many samples from late-glacial (about 15,000 to 10,000 yr B.P.) and early Holocene (10,000 to 6,000 yr B.P.) time have no acceptable analogs. Reconstructions from dissimilarity coefficients do not always correlate well with those based on other plant macrofossils, insects, and other biotic and physical data. Variability in types of sample sites, surrounding vegetation, pollen production, and taphonomy from site to site may be responsible for these discrepancies. Dissimilarity coefficients are another useful tool in paleoecological reconstructions, especially when used in conjunction with other types of paleoecological information.
3687614|The new phallocystean dinoflagellate cyst genus Weiachia is described from the Toarcian of Switzerland. In contrast to the genus Moesiodinium Antonesu 1974, the new genus is characterized by an intercalary archeopyle with an adnate operculum. The type species, W. fenestrata, has openings in the periphragm which correspond in geometry and topology to paraplates. For this kind of opening a new morphological term, "fenestrae" (sing. "fenestra"), is introduced. The generic value of the free versus adnate operculum, used by Below (1987) for differentiating phallocystean dinoflagellate cyst genera, is discussed. It is a stable character for the group and is therefore considered to be a better classificatory criterion than either wall structure or the degree of expression of paratabulation by ornamentation and protuberances; both are variable characters which have been used previously in generic differentiation. The differentiation of genera using a free versus adnate operculum seems to be useful in palynostratigraphy for the late Early to early Middle Jurassic.
3687411|A restudy of the type material of Arpylorus antiquus Calandra, 1964, a presumed dinoflagellate reported from Silurian sediments of Tunisia, confirms that this taxon is indeed a dinophycean cyst. Features considered crucial to this judgment are the character of the excystment aperture, the presence of a paracingulum and vestiges of a tabulation, and the tendency of the cyst to split into pieces resembling in size, shape and relative position the plates of a thecate dinoflagellate. A new dinoflagellate family, Arpyloraceae, is proposed; and emended diagnoses are formulated for the genus Arpylorus and its type species A. antiquus. Examination of the other microfossils in the assemblages has established a late Ludlow (uppermost Silurian) date for the type material. This is in accord with the stratigraphic range quoted for this species by Jardin (1972). It is suggested that the phragma of Arpylorus is different in character from that of later dinoflagellate cysts, perhaps more prone to organic decay and with paraplates less firmly attached together; and it is postulated that this may account for the lack of records of comparable dinoflagellate cysts from other Palaeozoic localities.
3687335|Arachnodinium antarcticum gen. et sp. nov., a distinctive trabeculate dinoflagellate cyst, is described from erratics of probable Eocene Age in the McMurdo Sound area. Additional records of the taxon are provided from Lower Tertiary localities in South America, from DSDP sites in the south Tasman Sea, and from other Antarctic localities.
3687677|To date, the only published comprehensive zonation for dating and correlating late Tertiary non-marine sequences in Australia is that developed in the 1970s for the offshore Gippsland Basin on the extreme southeastern margin of the continent. In this paper an analogous zonation scheme is presented for the Murray Basin, a large intracratonic basin that covers some <tex-math>$300\ 000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of inland New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. Major spore and pollen sequences identified within this basin correspond with major periods of marine transgression-regression, in the middle Eocene to early Oligocene, early Oligocene to middle Miocene and late Miocene to Pliocene. Presence/absence data allow the first two sequences to be subdivided into palynological zones that can be confidently correlated with zones established for the Gippsland Basin, viz., equivalents of the middle to late Eocene lower, middle and upper Nothofagidites asperus zones, and the Oligocene to middle Miocene Proteacidites tuberculatus and Canthiumidites bellus zones, respectively. Late Miocene-early Pliocene and late Pliocene-Pleistocene intervals are assigned to the Monotocidites galeatus Zone and Tubulifloridites pleistocenicus Zone, respectively. Changes in the relative abundance of commonly occurring species support the above subdivisions in a general way only and are not reliable as a basis for basin-wide correlations. Until some independent geological or geophysical datum is found to allow a direct comparison of species time distributions across the basin, further formal subdivision of the zones is not recommended.
3687803|Dinoflagellate cysts and associated aquatic palynomorphs have been recovered from the dinosaur-bearing Tendaguru Beds (Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous) at Tendaguru, a hill in southeast Tanzania. Palynofloras from these beds are generally dominated by pollen grains of Mesozoic conifers (mainly Classopollis), but dinoflagellate cysts occur sporadically throughout the succession. They attain highest relative abundances and diversities in the marine intercalations between the Saurian Beds, namely in the Nerinea Bed (between the Lower and Middle Saurian Beds) and even more so in the Trigonia smeei Bed (between the Middle and Upper Saurian Beds). Peak levels of dinoflagellate cysts correspond to times when the shallow marine environments of the Nerinea and Trigonia smeei Beds had access to the open sea, while scarcity or absence of dinoflagellate cysts in the Saurian Beds is related to intervals of restricted access to the sea in tidal flat and coastal plain environments. Four informal dinoflagellate cyst assemblages can be distinguished in the Tendaguru Beds: (1) the Rigaudella aemula-Chlamydophorella wallala assemblage from the Nerinea Bed (Oxfordian to Kimmeridgian); (2) the Endoscrinium attadalense-Ctenidodinium sellwoodii group assemblage from the Middle Saurian Bed (late Kimmeridgian); (3) the Dingodinium jurassicum-Kilwacysta assemblage from the Trigonia smeei Bed (Tithonian); (4) the Muderongia-Oligosphaeridium assemblage probably from the Trigonia schwarzi Bed at Namunda Plateau, 8 km south of Tendaguru (late Valanginian to Hauterivian). The age determinations are based on correlation with known dinoflagellate cyst ranges and zonations in Australia, Europe and elsewhere. However, the stratigraphic position and previous biostratigraphic interpretations of the Tendaguru Beds based on ammonites, charophytes and ostracods were also taken into consideration. One new genus (Kilwacysta), three new species (Kilwacysta multiramosa, Kilwacysta semiseptata and Protobatioladinium lindiensis) and the new combination Barbatacysta capitata are proposed.
41319055|The biostratigraphical ranges, geographical distribution and taxonomy of 45 dinoflagellate cyst species are described based on the analysis of 99 samples from the Upper Cenomanian-Lower Turonian outcrop sections of Puentedey, Fuentetoba, Condemios and Tamajn in northern Spain. A specific rank for Coronifera hebospina (formerly Coronifera ocenica subsp. hebospina ) and the new combination Exochosphaeridium majus are proposed. The generic assignment of Implestosphaeridium? clavulum and Implestosphaeridium? polytrichum are questioned. Early Turonian range tops for Coronifera albertii, Cyclonephelium vannophorum and Palaeohystrichophorapalaeoinfusa are confirmed.
3687348|A classification of organic particles based upon their degradational state and biological origin is outlined for use in palynological analysis. The classification has been used in various forms since 1969 and has proved useful in analyzing organic matter from clastic rocks ranging from the Devonian to the Modern. The organic particles are referred to as macerals and are divided into phytoclasts (plant derived), zooclasts (animal derived), protistoclasts (protistan derived), and scleratoclasts (fungal derived). In addition, the term receptorclasts is used to include precipitated organic matter. Phytoclasts are subdivided into the following categories based upon their level of decay: well preserved, no evidence of biodegradation; poorly preserved, minor biodegradation; infested, highly disrupted cell walls; amorphous structured, remnant cell structure only; amorphous non-structured, blocky mass. In addition to the amorphous non-structured phytoclasts there are the amorphous non-structured protistoclasts (fluffy masses), and amorphous infested indeterminate macerals (masses with inclusions). Other techniques of classifying macerals such as reflectance and UV-fluorescence can be integrated into this classification. The residence time of an organic particle in the surficial environment affects its level of degradation. Prolonged exposure to an aerobic biocoenosis particularly enhances the decay rate of all organic matter. Among the plant fragments the proportion of the degraded matter is used to determine a "degradational index." The degradational index of ancient sediment is comparable to the carbon:nitrogen index of modern sediment as it measures the level of degradation which took place during deposition. Because organic matter from different environments shows different degradational indices as well as different biological origins for their entombed organic particles, it is possible to use the assemblage of organic particles as an indication of depositional environment. Maceral facies analysis clearly has a contribution to make in paleoenvironmental analyses. Using the dual approach of biologic origin and degradational level, maceral assemblages provide clues to the depositional environment as well as the petroleum generating potential (kinds and amounts of hydrocarbons) of a specific source rock. Changes in the attributes of macerals associated with thermal maturation are generally known for clastic environments. Important changes occur in vitrinite reflectance, fluorescence, and color and are used as a measure of thermal maturation level. Volumetric changes in macerals are associated with thermal maturation through catagenesis, and may cause micropressuring as hydrocarbons are generated.
40984067|Two informal sporomorph assemblage zones can be distinguished in the dinosaur-bearing Tendaguru Beds of southeast Tanzanian. The first zone, the Classopollis-Araucariacites-Shanbeipollenites Assemblage Zone, ranges from the Lower to the Upper Saurian Bed, and a mid-Oxfordian to Tithonian age is suggested based on the presence of Shanbeipollenites quadratus. The second zone, the Classopollis-Cicatricosisporites-Ruffor'diaspora Assemblage Zone, is restricted in the Trigonia schwarzi Bed, which overlies the Upper Saurian Bed. The combined ranges of Cicatricosisporites hughesii, Ruffordiaspora australiensis and Trilobosporites obsitus would be consistent with a late Berriasian to Hauterivian age of this zone. This is refined further to late Valanginian to Hauterivian on the basis of already existing evidence from fauna and dinoflagellate cysts. From a phytogeographic point of view the Tendaguru locality belongs to the southern Gondwana Trisaccates Province because of the presence of trisaccate podocarpaceous pollen. The quantitative composition of the palynofloras is characterized by the dominance or abundance of pollen produced by the two conifer families Cheirolepidiaceae (Classopollis) and Araucariaceae (mainly Araucariacites). Pollen of Cheirolepidiaceae, typically xerophytic, drought-resistant, thermophilic plants, is dominant throughout the Tendaguru Beds except in parts of the Middle Saurian Bed where pollen of Araucariaceae, a presumably mesic group, becomes most abundant. Classopollis attains the highest degree of dominance in the shallow marine deposits associated with the saurian beds. This may be related to paleoecological and taphonomic factors, namely abundance of Classopollis-produc'mg plants in low-lying coastal environments close to the lagoonlike depositional sites and transportational sorting of sporomorphs leading to a relative enrichment of small and/or anemophilous pollen. The abundance o Araucariacites in the Middle Saurian Bed suggests that araucarians existed in coastal plain environments that were stable enough to allow the growth of large trees. This open araucarian forest, which may have been a source of food for high-browsing dinosaurs, was situated landward of the cheirolepidiacean belt not far from the depositional sites. Pteridophytes and bryophytes were concentrated at moist places and around water bodies. Podocarpaceous conifers producing bisaccate and trisaccate pollen grew in local uplands, while gnetaleans related to Ephedra and Welwitschia may have been present in dry places. The palynological evidence is consistent with a seasonally dry, tropical to sub-tropical paleoclimate. Three new combinations, Equisetosporites certus (Bolkhovitina), Jugella caichigiiensis (Volkheimer and Quattrocchio) and Trichotomosulcites microsaccatus (Couper), are proposed, and Jugella semistriata is described as a new species.
3687409|Miospore assemblages are examined of strata located just above the basal lavas to the Upper Coal Group of possible Arnsbergian (Namurian, E<sub>2</sub>) age. Macrofossil evidence and earlier palynological evidence for the ages of these strata is sparse yet the present studies suggest that the oldest sediments belong to the Posidonia zone of the Visen series and thus confirm the earlier recognition of the Main Coal horizon as the possible boundary between the Visan and Namurian series (Wilson and Robbie, 1966). The Upper Coal Group spore assemblages are more consistent with a Pendleian ( E<sub>1</sub>) age than with the hitherto postulated Arnsbergian ( E<sub>2</sub>) age, although they have certain similarities with spore assemblages in coals from the lowest part of the Upper Limestone Group ( E<sub>2</sub>) in Fife.
3687603|Fifty conventional core samples from the Ragley Lumber #D1 well located in Allen Parish, Louisiana (Sec 29, T5S, R7W) were analysed for terrigenous palynomorphs. The sediment was deposited during the Sabinian in a marine environment as evidenced by the presence of in situ dinocysts and acritarchs in every sample. One hundred twenty-nine terrigenous taxa are recognized as compared with marine palynomorph diversity of 46 taxa. Single sample diversity among the terrigenous palynomorph component ranged from 23 to 65 taxa, while single sample marine palynomorph diversity ranged from 7 to 25 taxa. High terrigenous diversity intervals possibly indicate sourcing from multiple onshore environments or a single onshore environment with a very diverse flora. Because the terrigenous component is reworked from the onshore environments to the offshore ones, intervals of terrigenous abundance possibly indicate deltaic progradation associated with changes in sediment supply or sea-level. Confirmation of this interpretation awaits regional studies. The subdivision of the section into palynofacies based on the terrigenous portion of the palynoflora shows general correspondence with the palynofacies of Gregory (1991) based on the total palynoflora. In general, mean percentages of palynomorphs used in the process of discrimination were lowered by the exclusion of the marine portion of the palynoflora. The Sabinian-Claibornian boundary is not present in the cored interval, based on consistant occurrences of Thomsonipollis magnifica (Thomson & Pflug 1953) Krutzch 1960 at the top of the core. The absence of diagnostic middle and late Paleocene indicator pollen, such as Momipites dialatus (Fairchild) Stover et al. 1966 and Holkopollenites chemardensis (Fairchild) Stover et al. 1966 along with other characteristic palynomorphs, suggests that the entire Sabinian is not present in the core as was previously believed based on lithostratigraphic studies (Lowery, 1987). Due to the lack of regionally significant taxa with restricted temporal distributions, a biozonation for the Ragley Lumber #D1 well is proposed based on the constrained palynomorphs from the principle components and discriminant function analyses.
40072732|The relationship between wall layers in dinoflagellate cysts was investigated with transmission electron microscopy. A simple method is described in which small cysts (>100 micrometers) were identified, isolated, and encapsulated in colored agarose. The individual cysts, now visible to the naked eye, were easy to track throughout the multi-step protocol. The routine TEM protocol for biological material was modified and simplified for dinoflagellate cysts, and is described in detail. This method ensures that all samples can be retained, an important consideration when working with rare or unique specimens. Specimens of Hystrichosphaeropsis Deflandre 1935 were orientated for sectioning relative to the natural plane of settlement of the cyst. Serial sections demonstrated that the relationship between the endophragm and periphragm is complex and irregular. Interpretation of micrographs and some common misinterpretations of artifacts are illustrated and discussed. The protocol is presented in detail and illustrated so that an inexperienced person, with the assistance of an electron microscopy unit, could successfully carry out the procedure. The technique has been used with minor adaptations to prepare a range of biological materials and palynomorph specimens for transmission electron microscopy.
3687737|A cool, arid climate featuring steppe vegetation characterizes the modern day temperate zone of northwestern China. In contrast, palynofloras indicate that the paleoclimate there was warmer and wetter during the Pleistocene than during the Holocene. To document vegetational and climatic changes during the Quaternary, fossil pollen and spores were systematically studied in sediments from the Qaidam Basin in the Qinghai Province at the northeastern margin of the Tibetan (Qinghai-Xizang) Plateau. Pollen and spores in four cores from the Quaternary lacustrine deposits in the Qaidam Basin showed four distinctive pollen zones. The basal assemblage, Zone Q1, is dominated by taxa having tropical or subtropical warm, wet climatic affinity and is probably Early Pleistocene in age. The overlying assemblage, Zone Q2, is dominated by taxa having warm-temperate and semi-wet climatic affinity and is probably Middle Pleistocene in age. Zone Q3 is dominated by taxa having temperate and semiarid climatic affinity and is probably Late Pleistocene in age. The uppermost assemblage, Zone Q1, is dominated by taxa having cool-temperate, arid climatic affinity and is Holocene in age. The modern vegetation of the high plateau is dominated by xerophytic and halophytic herbs and shrubs. The palynofloral assemblages show that this modern vegetation became established during the Holocene, when cool, dry conditions prevailed following Pleistocene deglaciation. This climatic cooling is interpreted as the result of continued Himalayan-Tibetan Plateau uplift in the Holocene. Modern vegetation zones are used as a basis for comparison with the fossil assemblages and suggest that the Qaidam Basin might have been elevated at least 2,000 to 3,000 m since the Early Pleistocene. Dabuxun Lake in the basin may have been elevated about 700 m in the past half million years. The pollen data therefore allow more precise dating of Himalayan-Tibetan uplift. Intense uplift at the end of Early Pleistocene is indicated and further uplift probably occurred in the middle substage of the Middle Pleistocene. The results of this study contribute to understanding Himalayan-Tibetan Plateau evolution, regional Quaternary correlations, and climatic changes around the globe.
40072700|A melissopalynological study of Omani honeys was undertaken to determine floral sources, and identify pollen types, that would indicate the ecological origins. The study comprised the analysis of 48 honey samples collected during 2001-2003 from 14 locations in the Muscat and Al Batinah regions of Oman. The beehives and nests examined were either those of Apis florea or Apis mellifera bee colonies. A total of 122 pollen types, representing 50 plant families, were identified. Each taxon was categorized as representing a major or minor source of nectar and pollen. Thirty-two honey samples are unifloral types, and the remaining 16 are multifloral. Honey is harvested twice a year in Oman, once in the summer and again in the winter. The pollen data indicate that Ziziphus spina-christi, Prosopis juliflora, Prosopis cineraria and constitute the chief nectar and pollen sources for honeybees in this area during the winter. By contrast during the summer, Acacia tortilis, Citrus sp., Maerua crassifolia, Phoenix dactylifera, Prosopis cineraria,and Prosopis juliflora are the more important nectar sources. This study has identified a wide range of foraging plant sources for honeybees and demonstrates adequate potential for expanding and sustaining beekeeping in Muscat, and in the Al Batinah region. A modern pollen reference collection of 105 local floral species enabled the identification of the pollen types. Seventy-four pollen types were found in the 48 honey samples. The identifications of pollen types are based on both light and scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies of the pollen in the honey and reference samples.
3687608|Shallow marine deposits of the Paleocene Turtle Mountain Formation on the northeastern flank of the Williston Basin, southwestern Manitoba, yielded dinoflagellate assemblages which include Senegalinium microgranulatum, S. obscurum, Senegalinium sp., Spinidinium densispinatum, S.? pilatum, Cerodinium speciosum, Isabelidinium viborgense and Phelodinium magnificum. The assemblages indicate that the Turtle Mountain Formation is Early to early Late Paleocene in age. Low species diversity and high dominance of a few species are characteristics of the assemblages and suggest a nearshore depositional environment for the formation. Additional investigation of dinoflagellates of the Cannonball Formation in southcentral North Dakota confirms an early Late Paleocene age which permits correlation of the Cannonball Formation with the upper part of the Turtle Mountain Formation. Distinct similarities are present in dinoflagellate assemblages of Paleocene marine deposits within the Williston Basin. The assemblages also have marked similarities with Paleocene assemblages of the eastern Gulf Coastal Plain, U.S.A., which suggests extension of the Gulf sea into the Williston Basin during the Paleocene.
40072744|A new acanthomorph acritarch genus, Auritusphaera, is erected to accommodate a distinctive form whose processes form a pseudoreticulum on the surface of a spherical vesicle. The genus is present in, and restricted to, the Upper Shale Member of the Nolichucky Shale in eastern Tennessee, U.S.A., where it is found in two cores drilled in the grounds of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. The Upper Shale Member corresponds to the upper part of the Cedaria-Crepicephalus biozone and the lower part of the Aphelaspis biozone, and is Late Cambrian in age . The distinctive morphology of this acritarch may render it a potential marker for the Upper Cambrian Marjuman/Steptoean Stage boundary.
3687323|One of the problems in Quaternary pollen studies is the difficulty, in certain genera, of identifying fossil pollen grains to species by surface morphology. Often identifications are possible only to family or, at best, generic levels. However, through the use of scanning electron microscopy (SEM), it is possible to distinguish details of surface morphology which separate recent pollen grains to species in some cases. Recent SEM analyses of Pinaceae pollen from Late Quaternary peat deposits in the Pacific Northwest suggest that it is also possible to morphologically distinguish certain species of fossil conifer pollen. Specifically these include: Abies grandis, A. lasiocarpa, Picea engelmannii, P. glauca, Haploxylon pollen of Pinus albicaulis, P. monticola and P. monophylla, and Diploxylon pollen of Pinus contorta and P. ponderosa. Diagnostic morphological criteria used to separate recent Pinaceae pollen grains to species are generally present in fossil Pinaceae pollen, although certain of the finer morphological features tend to be distorted, obscured or lacking, as compared to recent pollen reference material. Modified pollen extraction procedures, and techniques such as critical point drying, are essential in order to identify fossil conifer pollen grains to species. Use of SEM for statistical counts in pollen analysis may be practicable as an alternative to the light microscopy statistical analysis procedure.
3687657|The spores and pollen from the basal Cretaceous Helez Formation in the Kokhav 2 well from the coastal plain of Israel have been studied and compared with those from the basal Cretaceous in the Zeweira Formation of the Zohar 1 well from the northern Negev of Israel. All sediments in the Early Cretaceous are within the Kurnub Group. The spores and pollen from the Oxfordian-Callovian Kidod Formation in the Zohar 1 well were also studied and compared with the above Cretaceous assemblages. Thirtyfive core samples from four wells have yielded 91 distinct sporomorphae. One new form genus, Retimonoporites, and three new species-Retimonoporites operculatus, Bullasporites bifidum, and Cicatricosisporites negevus - are erected. The palynological data were analyzed and assemblage differences between the Kidod, Helez, and Zeweira formations presented. The microflora from cores in the Helez 1 and 3 wells that had previously been dated with marine microfauna is compared with the microflora from the basal Cretaceous in the Kokhav 2 well (coastal plain) and the basal Cretaceous in the Zohar 1 well (northern Negev). All samples from the Lower Kurnub Group in the coastal plain that had previously been dated as Valanginian to Hauterivian, using marine microfauna, contain a spore and angiosperm pollen assemblage that is quite different from those assemblages found in the basal Kurnub from the northern Negev. The angiosperm pollen in the Valanginian to Hauterivian horizons are extremely rare, typically small, microreticulate, columellate, round, and inaperturate to weakly monosulcate. The angiosperms in the basal Kurnub from the Negev have more advanced monosulcates and some rare tricolpates that suggest a late Barremian to Early Aptian age. A new model for the morphological development of the earliest angiosperm pollen is proposed. It appears then that there is a 10-15 million year gap between the deposition of the initial shallow marine and lagoonal deposits of the Kurnub Group along the present day coastal plain of Israel and the oldest Cretaceous in the northern Negev. The younger age of the basal Cretaceous in the northern Negev indicates that a transgression of the Tethys Sea took place from west to east during the Early Cretaceous.
3687355|Dinoflagellate cyst assemblages from the upper Albian Kiowa Formation in Kansas contain 13 species assignable to the Ceratiaceae. Three genera, Nyktericysta, Vesperopsis, and Balmula, are described as new, as are eight species, Odontochitina ancala, O. rhakodes, Pseudoceratium interiorense, Nyktericysta davisii, N. arachnion, Vesperopsis mayi, V. nebulosa, and Balmula tripenta. Several of these species occur elsewhere in the Western Interior in mid-Cretaceous sediments. Morphologically, ceratioid cysts fall into three groups. The first contains Odontochitina Deflandre 1935 and Xenascus Cookson & Eisenack 1969 (which differs only in bearing spines) and is characterized by uncompressed cysts with one lateral horn. The second group contains Pseudoceratium Gocht 1957 (herein emended to include Aptea Eisenack 1958), Endoceratium Vozzhennikova 1965, and possibly some species of Cyclonephelium Deflandre & Cookson 1955 in which cysts are dorso-ventrally compressed and have one (or no) lateral horn. The third group encompasses compressed cysts with paired lateral horns and contains Muderongia Cookson & Eisenack 1958, Phoberocysta Millioud 1969, Australisphaera Davey 1978, and the three new genera described herein. Some specimens of Nyktericysta davisii are fully paratabulate, combining plate relationships variously observed on other fossil and modern Ceratiaceae. The contrast between ceratioid paratabulation and that exhibited by dorso-ventrally compressed gonyaulacoid cysts is stressed. For nontabulate cysts, a difference in plate relationships revealed by the archeopyle suture appears useful in distinguishing the two groups. In the ceratioids the first precingular paraplate is planate, whereas in the gonyaulacoids it is typically camerate.
3687312|The combination of organic matter and hydrocarbon analysis of sediments which led to the concept of hydrocarbon metamorphic facies by Evans and Staplin (1971) is reviewed. Methods of presenting the data in map and section form are discussed. Three facies of organic metamorphism develop with increasing temperature/time. The immature facies has abundant methane, trace quantities of <tex-math>${\rm C}_{2}\text{-}{\rm C}_{14}$</tex-math> hydrocarbons and a <tex-math>${\rm C}_{15+}$</tex-math> fraction with abundant non-hydrocarbon compounds. Organic debris has not been altered geothermally, but shows the effects of physical and biochemical degradation. In the mature facies a complete spectrum of hydrocarbons indicates the functioning of oil generation. Organic particulate debris shows progressive changes in color, light transmission, reflectivity and other properties which reflect chemical change, especially loss of volatiles. In the metamorphic facies, methane, only traces of heavier hydrocarbons, and very little non-hydrocarbon material in the <tex-math>${\rm C}_{15+}$</tex-math> fraction signify the thermal destruction of previous oil potential. The particulate organic matter is now low in volatiles, is very dark brown to black in color, has high reflectivity and lowered light transmission, and is often visibly degraded in structure. Color of organic matter, especially exinite, tested against and combined with hydrocarbon analysis, has proved to be a rapid method of evaluating and mapping the metamorphic state of a frontier area.
3687555|Three new species of chitinozoans are described from the Ordovician Simcoe Group in southern Ontario, Hercochitina lindsayensis sp. nov., H. pinguis sp. nov., and H. spinetum sp. nov. In addition, two new combinations, Hercochitina concava (Finger 1978) and Hercochitina repsinata (Schallreuter 1981), are proposed. Hercochitina lindsayensis and H. pinguis appear to be evolutionarily intermediate forms between Hercochitina repsinata (Schallreuter) n. comb., and H. crickmayi (Jansonius 1964) and H. minuta (Achab 1977), respectively. This evolutionary transition is manifest as a change in surface ornamentation. This lineage is compared with a previously described evolutionary lineage involving similar species of Belonechitina and Hercochitina. Some taxonomic revisions are made on taxa in this latter lineage in which H. spinetum is an intermediate form between B. robusta (Eisenack 1959) and H. normalis (Achab 1977). This evolutionary transition also involves changes in the surface ornamentation. The genus Hercochitina is therefore diphyletic. The known North American stratigraphic ranges of the species involved (Champlainian-Cincinnatian) are presented.
3687628|Surface pollen samples collected along three transects that cross the southern margin of the Sonoran Desert east of the Gulf of California reflect regional vegetation gradients but also show strong local variability, notably within the southern desert. Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthaceae (Cheno-Am) and Gramineae pollen dominate in tropical deciduous forest; Pinus and Quercus in temperate-climate vegetation at high elevations; and Gramineae and High-Spine Compositae in the central Sonoran Desert (>29 N). The ERA group (composed largely of Euphorbiaceae, Rutaceae, Anacardiaceae), Gramineae, Cheno-Am, and High-Spine Compositae pollen inter-vary but dominate as a group in the southern desert; Cheno-Am here may signal irrigated agriculture. Coastal sites differ from the above, with Cheno-Am pollen strongly dominant in saline conditions.
40072740|Four new dinoflagellate cyst species from the Lower and Middle Miocene strata of the Porcupine Basin, offshore southwest Ireland, are formally described. Batiacasphaera edwardsiae sp. nov. was previously described under open nomenclature from the Miocene of the adjacent Rockall Plateau. Lejeunecysta challengerensis sp. nov. is recorded sporadically from the Burdigalian and Serravallian. Selenopemphix porcupensis sp. nov. and Trinovantedinium henrietii sp. nov. are large-sized dinoflagellate cysts with maximum dimensions of approximately 100 micrometers. Selenopemphix porcupensis sp. nov. is recorded in the uppermost Burdigalian and Langhian, and Trinovantedinium henrietii sp. nov. is present in the Langhian and lowermost Serravallian. Batiacasphaera edwardsiae sp. nov. is possibly biostratigraphically significant for the Middle Miocene.
40072742|The late Early to Mid Permian palynomorph biozones OSPZ5 and OSPZ6 for the Arabian Peninsula sporadically contain diverse and well-preserved pollen and spore assemblages. These are described here for the first time, concentrating on taxa used in the recognition of biozones. Some of these forms were previously assigned to informal morphotypes. The new spore species Indotriradites ater, Indotriradites mundus, Kendosporites robustus, and the new pollen species Kingiacolpites subsaccatus and Tiwariasporis? granulatus are described and illustrated. These distinctive palynomorphs may be useful in future biostratigraphic studies. For example, the first uphole occurrences of Indotriradites mundus and Tiwariasporis? granulatus are close to the base of OSPZ6. Indotriradites ater and Kingiacolpites subsaccatus have relatively narrow ranges within OSPZ5. Hamiapollenites dettmannae and Hamiapollenites karrooensis are common in the lower part of OSPZ5.
3687713|The pollen from five packrat middens from the White Mountains region of California were analyzed and compared to previously analyzed macrofossils from the same middens. The middens span the time from ca. 20,000 yr B. P. to the middle Holocene. While there are similarities in the pollen and macrofossil data, there are some subtle differences between the two types of data. The pollen data would support the macrofossil evidence that indicates the arrival of Pinus by the early Holocene. In spite of this general agreement, the pollen evidence suggests that Pinus was not common in the vicinity of the early Holocene midden sites. The results of this study would indicate the importance of using both the macrofossil and pollen evidence from packrat middens.
3687366|This paper provides palynostratigraphic information concerning the Late Paleozoic Gondwana glaciation in the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula, based on examination of several sections of glacial deposits in the Al Khlata area of Oman. Two distinctive Assemblage Groups were recognized: Group A which is characterized by common trilete zonate spores and rare bisaccate pollen; and Group B which contains common striate and nonstriate bisaccate pollen along with common trilete zonate spores. Both groups contain common aquatic forms such as Botryococcus spp. Similar microfloras are known from Saudi Arabia and the Yemen Arab Republic. The palynological assemblages from the Arabian Peninsula have been interpreted within the wider context of regional Gondwana floras. Assemblage Group A of Oman, and related assemblages from Saudi Arabia and the Yemen Arab Republic, can be referred to the (Western) Australian Unit II and are interpreted as middle to late Stephanian in age. Assemblage Group B of Oman can be compared with Australian Unit III and is interpreted as Sakmarian in age. Two isolated assemblages which occur immediately below palaeontologically dated Sakmarian/Artinskian limestone units in Oman and undated limestones in Saudi Arabia can also be referred to Australian Unit III, and are interpreted as Sakmarian in age. In addition, paleogeographic and paleophytogeographic implications of the assemblages are briefly discussed. The microfloral data from the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula supports the notion that this area is part of the Gondwana floral province.
3687651|The type material of "Meiourogonyaulax" staffinensis Gitmez 1970 and Hexagonifera sp. Gitmez 1970 (later "H." jurassica Gitmez & Sarjeant 1972) from the earliest Kimmeridgian (Late Jurassic) of Scotland and England has been restudied. The former species is a small (42-51 m), camocavate to circumcavate gonyaulacacean cyst with an apical archeopyle and a median parasulcus and is herein questionably attributed to Ambonosphaera Fensome 1979. Sirmiodiniopsis frisia (Raynaud 1978) Lentin & Williams 1981 is deemed to be a subjective junior synonym of Ambonosphaera? staffinensis. Senoniasphaera jurassica (Gitmez & Sarjeant 1972) Lentin & Williams 1976 is a larger (63-105 m), circumcavate species also with a gonyaulacacean paratabulation and an apical archeopyle, but with a markedly offset parasulcal notch. The specific diagnoses of these two Late Jurassic species are emended to include new information on morphology and paratabulation.
3687790|The Dalton Coal of north-central Texas yields a palynomorph assemblage characteristic of basal Late Pennsylvanian (Stephanian) coals from the Midcontinent U.S.A., and also indicative of an allochthonous origin for the greater part of the seam. The most common miospore taxa are Laevigatosporites spp., Cyclogranisporites orbicularis, Punctatosporites minutus and Endosporites globiformis. The miospores tend to be poorly preserved and relatively homogeneous in population frequencies and vertical distribution within the coal. The overall coal assemblage also closely resembles a vertical miospore spectrum from adjacent shales. These palynological characteristics and the high ash content of the coal suggest that the Dalton is mainly an allochthonous deposit. Only the top layer, which contains coal balls, appears to have formed autochthonously in a peat swamp.
40072705|The application of palynology to forensic investigations relies on the similarity of pollen assemblages from forensic items, such as footwear, with control samples from a crime scene. The pollen from material adhering to footwear is likely to reflect some combination of pollen from the locations where the boots/shoes have been worn most recently. This study investigated the changes in pollen assemblages on footwear that had been worn at different sites. Six rural sites in the East Midlands of England, United Kingdom were visited wearing pristine boots (i.e. no mixing), and boots that were previously worn at other localities (i.e. potential mixing). Samples of adherent soil from these items of footwear, and control samples, were analysed palynologically in order to assess the degree and significance of mixing of the pollen assemblages. With the exception of one sample, the pollen adherent to footwear or in the soil samples from each of the six sites (no mixing) had a characteristic signature. This supports the general distinctiveness of pollen from individual sites, the concept of widespread palynological heterogeneity, and the utility of palynology in forensic geoscience. The data from this study show that when mixing occurs from wearing footwear at different sites, the pollen/spore content of the boots etc. dominantly reflects that of the last site. This was evident from a visual examination of the raw data, and was confirmed using detrended correspondence analysis applied to the eleven dominant taxa. These data showed clustering of samples based on the last site visited. The more abundant the pollen/spores, the closer the samples were clustered. The clustering was less convincing at localities that yielded relatively sparse palynomorphs. However, sample material from footwear that was potentially contaminated with soil from previous localities typically exhibited some subtle differences. These were normally slight increases in diversity, and small variations in certain pollen types. The relative insignificance of these differences means that they would be difficult to discern consistently and quantify. It is thus critical that, in relevant forensic investigations, footwear belonging to suspects is seized as soon as possible after a crime is committed.
3687393|A palynological investigation of the Toarcian to Bathonian Raasay Ironstone Formation, Bearreraig Sandstone Formation and Great Estuarine Group of the Inner Hebrides has provided an important Scottish reference section, with many stratigraphically useful dinoflagellate cyst and miospore datums. The Raasay Ironstone Formation and the Dun Caan Shales Member of the Bearreraig Sandstone Formation dinoflagellate cyst assemblages are dominated by Nannoceratopsis with the Parvocysta suite present in lower proportions. The latter suite appears to be consistent with a species diversity gradient, increasing from England northwards to Spitsbergen. Representatives of the earliest sexiform gonyaulacacean dinoflagellate cysts have their inceptions in the early Bajocian Bearreraig Sandstone Formation at its type section: possible Carboniferous spores were also recovered from this formation. The youngest member of the Bearreraig Sandstone Formation, the Garantiana Clay Member, yielded Acanthaulax crispa and other species indicative of the late Bajocian. These palynofloras are similar to coeval northwest European associations which support open marine connections southwards and eastwards at this time. The palynomorphs from the majority of the overlying Great Estuarine Group indicate a Bathonian age for these paralic strata. Palynofacies analyses are consistent with interpretations based on macrofaunas and sedimentology. The dinoflagellate cyst floras of the Duntulm Formation support a nearshore, marginal marine setting. Four new species, Parvocysta ampulla, P.? tricornuta, P.? triquetra and Jansonia manifesta are described. The latter, from the Duntulm Formation, is a small, thick-walled form which has a clear partiform gonyaulacacean paratabulation. It appears to be an opportunistic species as it is abundant in marine beds immediately overlying a freshwater intercalation.
3687613|The new term "galeate" acritarchs is proposed for Lower Paleozoic taxa characterized by a hemispherical vesicle outline and with a large polar excystment opening closed by an operculum. Included in the "galeate" acritarch plexus are such common genera as Caldariola Molyneux in Molyneux & Rushton 1988, Cymatiogalea Deunff 1961, Priscogalea Deunff 1961, and Stelliferidium Deunff et al. 1974. An historical overview, a revision of the taxonomic concept, and proposals for a classification scheme at the generic level are presented. The following "galeate" taxa are described from the late Tremadoc to early Arenig subsurface of Rgen (NE-Germany): Caldariola glabra (Martin 1973) Molyneux in Molyneux & Rushton 1988, Caldariola sp. cf. C. glabra, Cymatiogalea deunffi Jardin et al. 1974, Cymatiogalea messaoudi Jardin et al. 1974, Cymatiogalea sp. cf. C. cristata (Downie 1958) Rauscher 1974, "Stelliferidium?" sp. 1, and "Stelliferidium?" sp. 2.
3687521|Peat cores taken from Okefenokee Swamp tree-islands ("houses") and analyzed by peat petrography and pollen stratigraphy permit us to reconstruct the plant successions which led to the "house" formation. The peats are believed to be autochthonous and their petrology has been shown to provide an accurate record of plant successions in cores. Because of differences among pollen grain transportation and sedimentation, the reliability of pollen profiles from the islands was initially questioned. The profiles may not represent an accurate record of "house" vegetational history. Analysis of pollen assemblages collected in the marsh area around an island indicates two distinct assemblages: one derived from shrubs found on the island (Ilex, Cyrilla, Ericaceae); another derived from the surrounding marsh, consisting of aquatic herbs and arboreal genera (Nymphaea, Pinus, Myrica). Palynological analysis of island peats show that shrub pollen is deposited primarily on the island with little contamination from the aquatic herb pollen of the marsh. This indicates the reliability of these data for vegetational history reconstruction. Where the "house" assemblage occurs above or below a marsh assemblage in core profiles, we observed an actual change of successional communities.
3687719|Beromia rexroadii gen. emend. et sp. nov. (algae incertae sedis) is described and illustrated from the Red Mountain Formation of Alabama and Georgia, the Lulbegrud Shale Member of the Noland Formation (Crab Orchard Group) of Kentucky, and the Lower Sodus Shale of New York. The wide geographic distribution and apparent short stratigraphic range of this new acritarch suggests it may be significant index fossil for correlation of Upper Llandovery strata of the eastern North American Platform. B. rexroadii gen. emend. et sp. nov. occurs with a diverse and abundant acritarch assemblage suggesting deposition in normal marine, nearshore to open-shelf environments. The genus Beromia is emended here to incorporate morphologies having more than three processes and a new type of combination excystment structure. This new structure has an epityche on the epiderm, here termed an endodermal epityche. The periderm, in contrast, has a simple lateral split immediately adjacent to the endodermal epityche.
3687760|A method is described for collecting soil pollen from mineral soil horizons, using a root corer and copper sampling tubes. The method is faster than traditional methods, which rely on the digging of a soil pit, and has the additional advantage of simultaneously providing large volume soil samples for companion analyses of macroscopic charcoal or other soil components.
40072699|Six new species of dinoflagellate cysts and one new combination from the Paleocene to ?lowermost Eocene succession in the Alo-1 well, southeast Nigeria, are proposed herein. The new species are Achomosphaera quadrata, Diphyes bifidum, Ifecysta fusiforma, Ifecysta heterospinosa,Palaeocystodinium rafii, and Wilsonidium stellatum. Furthermore, Fibrocysta lappacea (Drugg 1970) Stover & Evitt 1978 is transferred to Ifecysta, and the diagnosis of Ifecysta is emended.
3687394|Three chitinozoan species are described from the rich assemblage present in the Lower Silurian Vargas Pea Shale, Paraguay. Plectochitina paraguayensis and Eisenackitina bejui are newly established. A new species of Pterochitina is described in open nomenclature. The Vargas Pea chitinozoans differ from those previously described from the Lower Silurian of South America and are the first to be illustrated from the Paraguayan Silurian. Acritarchs from the Vargas Pea Shale are interpreted to represent a middle Llandovery age, closely comparable to that determined using graptolites.
3687553|Information about Silurian Chitinozoa from stratigraphic sampled sections in the United States is very scanty. To assess the stratigraphic significance of Silurian chitinozoans, 70 samples from 5 section in southern Ohio and northern Kentucky were selected. About two-thirds of the samples analyzed yielded chitinozoans, and most of these contained diagnostic assemblages. A total of 13 species have been identified. On the whole, the chitinozoans show close similarity to those from Baltoscandia and are less similar to faunas from, for instance, Anticosti Island, Spain, and North Africa. Chitinozoans with restricted ranges suggest correlation in agreement with those indicated by graptolites, conodonts and other fossils. The chitinozoans are most diverse and abundant in subtidal rocks, while intertidal rocks contain few and mostly planktic taxa. The water depth was an important ecological factor, but also other controlling factors were involved. The study has confirmed that the chitinozoans have great stratigraphic potential as index fossils in the Early Silurian of the Midcontinent United States.
3687404|The megaspores Minerisporites subcrassulus Tschudy, Erlansonisporites spinosus sp. nov., Horstisporites harrisii (Murray) Potoni, and Ricinospora cryptoreticulata gen. et sp. nov. from the Maestrichtian Hell Creek Formation of south central North Dakota, U. S. A. are studied with light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. In this manner, it is possible to achieve a more complete understanding of the total complement of morphologic features than is possible by using light microscopy alone. These megaspores are composed of two basic wall layers: an inner thin, often lamellated exine, and an outer, often multizoned perine. The perine appears as a uniformly granular layer when intact spores are observed with the light microscope. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrates that the perine is composed of variously oriented sporonin bodies.
3687428|The exine according to our model, consists of filamentous subunits (15-40nm in diam.), each containing an axially orientated tubule (10-15nm in diam.) with numerous lateral branches. Relatively few lateral branches are exposed at the surface of exinous subunits so that most of the polysaccharide-, protein-, and lipid-containing tubular complex embedded within the sporopolleninous subunit is protected from degradation and unavailable to stains or ions that could cause molecules of the complex to swell or contract. In the intact exine, the few branches of the tubular complex (glycocalyx units) that are exposed at surfaces of subunits may affect exine size and staining, but their effect is not discernible from exogenous and nonstructural endogenous substances in the microcapillary space between exinous subunits. The existence of glycocalyx units is evident following treatment that etches the sporopollenin from exinous subunits (and eliminates exogenous and endogenous substances), without inactivating glycocalyx units exposed by the removal of sporopollenin. After sporopollenin is partially removed the exine remnant is osmophilic, filamentous in appearance, and the exposed glycocalyx units stain intensely for acidic polysaccharides and moderately for protein. The polyacid groups in exposed glycocalyx units expand when ionized in hydroxide solutions and force exinous subunits to separate, increasing the size of the exine and its reaction to stains but decreasing resistance to degradation. In acid solutions and dehydrating solvents the glycocalyx units contract. Sporopollenin contracts elastically with reduction of microcapillary spaces; exine size and stainability are minimal and resistance to degradation is increased. Theoretically, the glycocalyx units embedded in sporopollenin and protected from degradation even in some sediments of great age are specific in composition and can be used to aid in delimiting past as well as present plant relationships.
3687722|Upper Jurassic strata exposed within the northeastern Chiricahua Mountains, southeastern Arizona, contain a transitional to open marine facies consisting of supratidal sediments, intrabasinal turbidites, pelagic sediments, and submarine volcaniclastics. This sequence is underlain unconformably by the Permian Concha Limestone and is thrust to the southwest over the Cretaceous Bisbee Group. These marine strata were deposited during a period of active rifting accompanied by a northwest transgressive incursion into a half-graben depositional depression known as the Bisbee Basin. Progressive infilling of Cretaceous Bisbee Group sediments resulted in a succession of Upper Mesozoic strata that is unique to this region of the southwestern cordillera. Fifteen genera and thirteen species of dinoflagellate cysts date this sequence from middle Oxfordian to early Kimmeridgian. Ammonites Idoceras striatum (Imlay), Perisphinctes ("Discosphintes"), and Dichotomosphinctes cf. D. wartae (Bukowski) substantiate this age, as well as questionably establishing the Oxfordian-Kimmeridgian boundary within this section. The presence of dinoflagellate cysts, in conjunction with Tethyan ammonites, indicates a time of normal-open marine conditions within this region and documents the northernmost incursion of the Tethyan Seaway into this region of southeastern Arizona.
3687759|Eocene dinoflagellate cysts from five exploration wells in the Liaohe Depression, northeast China, have been examined with particular emphasis regarding their morphology and taxonomy. Sixteen genera and 29 species of fossil dinoflagellates, including one new genus, Songiella, and two new species, Bohaidina tuberculata and Protoellipsodinium minutus, are described and illustrated. Songiella gen. nov. is proposed herein to include those dinoflagellate cysts which were originally described as Bipolaribucina huanghuaensis (Song et al., 1978). Four peculiar proximate cyst genera - Bohaidina, Parabohaidina, Conicoidium and Prominangularia - are discussed and emended on the basis of archeopyle morphology and overall shape. The emendation of Bohaidina suggests that it has a variable archeopyle (I, 3I or 3Ia) and that its shape varies from rhomboidal to approximately conical; this emendation makes Prominangularia a junior synonym of Bohaidina. Furthermore, Conicoidium is considered to be a junior synonym of Parabohaidina for similar reasons.
3687522|The percentages of Ambrosia-type pollen increase in the upper few centimeters of many North American cores of lake sediments or bog peats. For much of eastern North America south of 50N, this increase is easily recognizable in pollen diagrams and indicates the time when persons of European origin settled in an area. The actual biostratigraphic proof that this "Ambrosia rise" occurs with settlement requires correlating the Ambrosia rise with the first appearance or the rise in abundance of pollen types from both cultivated and non-native plants. This requirement is particularly important in the Midwest where Ambrosia is a native weed. Our results illustrate the potential of Cannabis/Humulus pollen as an indicator of settlement and cultivation in Iowa. Pollen of Cannabis/Humulus increases in abundance at or just after the initial rise in Ambrosia-type pollen in sediments from two Iowa lakes. It first occurs in the sediments of Lake West Okoboji at ca. 1910 AD, which is after the initial Ambrosia-type pollen rise but approximately dates when Cannabis sativa was introduced into the state for cultivation for fiber. A similar rise in Cannabis/Humulus pollen at Blackhawk Lake is correlative with the Ambrosia rise. Cultivation of Cannabis sativa for fiber ceased in Iowa in 1940, but the plant has escaped from cultivation and now grows in waste places.
3687532|Samples of mudstone and wackestone from the Middle Ordovician Gull River and Bobcaygeon formations of southern Ontario, Canada, yielded a new species of Dicommopalla herein designated as Dicommopalla rissae n. sp. Thus the total range of the genus Dicommopalla, which was previously Edenian to Rocklandian, is extended to older sediments of Blackriveran age. The distribution of the new species within these sediments suggests that it may have had a preference for shallow water lagoonal environments, but it is also found in association with acritarchs indicative of deeper water.
40072704|An exploration well drilled at the Middle Eocene fossil site of Messel, near Darmstadt, Germany proved that the famous Messel oil shale was deposited in a maar lake. During a quantitative palynological investigation of the entire succession of lake sediments, a monospecific population of dinoflagellate cysts was encountered. Based on transmitted light and scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies, they are assigned to the new peridinioid taxon Messelodinium thielepfeifferae gen. et sp. nov. because they are acavate and lack distinct apical or antapical horns. The dinoflagellate cysts exhibit considerable intraspecific variation in surface ornamentation. Messelodinium thielepfeifferae gen. et sp. nov. is abundant in sediments of the early holomictic stage of Lake Messel, but generally is reduced in frequency in the oil shale which represents the meromictic stage. These dinoflagellate cysts appear in peak abundances in mass flow and debris flow deposits in which material from the lake shore was transported downslope to the basin center. Thus, major concentrations of Messelodinium thielepfeifferae gen. et sp. nov. occurred in nearshore environments either due to primary population density of the parent motile stage, or due to secondary cyst accumulation by wind and wave action. The dinoflagellate cysts are notably absent in the uppermost 25 m of the core, where Botryococcus dominates. This shift in algal populations is interpreted as a response to changes in the chemistry of the water body.
3687430|A biostratigraphic zonation is proposed for the Cretaceous System of the Mid-Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf that is based on the observed stratigraphic distribution of spores, pollen, and palynomorphs Incertae Sedis in two wildcat and two Continental Offshore Stratigraphic Test (COST) wells. Ten zones are described: nine assemblage zones, and one peak zone. In descending stratigraphic order, the zones are referred to as the Holkopollenites sp. B-"Retitricolpites" sp. K zone (Campanian), the Dicotetradites sp. 2-Pseudoplicapollis longiannulata zone (Santonian), the Complexiopollis funiculus-Nevesisporites simisclaris zone (Coniacian), the Atlantopollis verrucosa-Phyllocaladidites inchoatus zone (Turonian), the Perinopollenites elatoides-Vitreisporites pallidus zone (Cenomanian), the Coronatispora valdensis-Trilobosporites humilis zone (Albian), the Auritalinasporites deltaformis-Cerebropollenites mesozoicus zone (Aptian), the Callialasporites sp. 4-Cicatricosisporites australiensis zone (Barremian), the Trilobosporites bernissartensis-T. domitus zone (Hauterivian-Valanginian), and the Rogalskisporites cicatricosus zone (Berriasian). Also presented are range data and illustrations for 142 palynomorph species.
3687415|The meanings of three terms applied originally to tabulation patterns in thecae of modern peridinoid dinoflagellates are reviewed and the need for caution in extending them to paratabulation patterns of dinoflagellate cysts is emphasized. Two new terms are proposed.
3687537|The Upper Cretaceous rocks in five New Jersey wells (all conventional cores) can be informally subdivided using dinoflagellates. The seven zones and three subzones are, in ascending stratigraphic order: the Trithyrodinium suspectum concurrent range zone (Cenomanian); Canningia sp. A abundance zone (latest Cenomanian to earliest Santonian); Chatangiella micracantha concurrent range zone (earliest Santonian to latest Santonian or earliest Campanian); Spinidinium mariae interval zone (latest Santonian or earliest Campanian to late early or early late Campanian); Palaeohystrichophora infusorioides interval range zone and its three subzones - Chatangiella manumii subzone (late early Campanian to early late Campanian), Chatangiella porata subzone (early late Campanian to late late Campanian) and Diconodinium wilsonii subzone (late late Campanian to early Maastrichtian); Chatangiella? robusta interval zone (Maastrichtian) and Deflandrea galeata interval zone (middle or late to latest Maastrichtian to Early Tertiary). This dinoflagellate zonation is correlated with the standard planktonic foraminiferal zonation, thus allowing correlation with the standard European and North American sections. Based upon this integration of dinoflagellate and foraminiferal biostratigraphy, the unconformity separating the Raritan and Magothy formations appears to range from late Turonian through Coniacian. The analyses of two additional wells provide a means of evaluating the areal applicability of this New Jersey dinoflagellate zonation. One, the Delaware 904 well (also a conventional core) makes possible the correlation of Delaware lithostratigraphy with that of New Jersey. The second is the COST B-2 well, located in the northern Baltimore Canyon Trough due east of Atlantic City. Analysis of selected samples from this well are supportive of a Campanian-Eocene bounded unconformity as determined from foraminifers.
3687552|A stratigraphically important but poorly preserved assemblage of organic-walled microphytoplankton and chitinozoans was recovered from the Boyle Dolomite (Givetian) of Kentucky. The acritarch genera represented are Baltisphaeridium, Cymatiosphaera, Diexallophasis, Dictyotidium, Duvernaysphaera, Estiastra, Exochoderma, Gorgonisphaeridium, Hapsidopalla, ?Leiosphaeridia, Lophosphaeridium, Multiplicisphaeridium, Navifusa, Oppilatala, Palacanthus, Polyedryxium, Stellinium, Tunisphaeridium, and Veryhachium. Chitinozoans are assigned to ?Alpenachitina, Ancyrochitina, ?Angochitina, Hoegisphaera, and Sphaerochitina. These palynomorphs were recovered from lithofacies representing shallow water carbonate environments, and their presence, along with conodonts indicative of the Lower Polygnathus varcus Subzone, may aid in interpreting the complex stratigraphic relationships in the Devonian of the Appalachian Basin.
3687353|A new genus and species of peridinioid dinoflagellate, Satyrodinium bengalense, is described from Campanian sediments beneath the Bay of Bengal, Indian Ocean. The morphology of the new form suggests a relationship to genera with extreme development of the intercalary plates which creates the "broad shoulder" effect in some species. One new combination is included. Because all of the forms under discussion come from sediments of approximately the same age, no evolutionary significance is attached to the morphology.
3687391|Recent morphological analysis of Triprojectacites indicates the need to elevate the subgenus Striatocorpus Krutzsch to the generic level. The combination of parallel striae and an angled (V-shaped in equatorial view) "heteropolar" body are unique to Striatocorpus among all Triprojectacites thus far examined. The known stratigraphic range of Striatocorpus is from upper Campanian to middle Maastrichtian in the western United States, Canada, Siberia, and northern China. Species included are Striatocorpus kurtos (Zhou & Wang) comb. nov., S. pyriformis (Norton) Farabee, and S. striatus (Funkhouser) comb. nov. We propose that Striatocorpus evolved from parallel-striate, non-angled-body, long-colpate pollen similar to Translucentipollis plicatillis Chlonova. Alternate hypotheses are also discussed and evaluated.
3687331|Ovoidites is an ovoid zygospore or aplanospore of the Zygnemataceae which is found in sediments of Cretaceous to Holocene age. Spores typically exhibit a prominent line of dehiscence that allows them to split in half lengthwise. The variety of sizes, shapes, and sculpturing suggests that several natural species may be included within Ovoidites. Studies of sediment cores from marine, brackish, and freshwater sequences beneath islands in Florida Bay and at the mouth of the Harney River in Everglades National Park demonstrate the close association which the spores have with freshwater peats and related pollen assemblages. Palynological study of freshwater peats from the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia shows additionally that Ovoidites occurs preferentially with open-water marsh peat and pollen assemblages. The spores typically are not found in tree- or shrub-dominated areas, and, therefore, are not associated with tree and shrub peats. The apparently narrow range of habitat preferences which the algae display suggests that Ovoidites may be a valuable indicator of ancient freshwater coal deposits.
3687377|Dinoflagellate assemblages are used to delineate three intervals within the upper Ripley Formation and Providence Sand (Maastrichtian), and the lower Clayton Formation (Danian) in the U.S. Geological Survey Albany core, located near Albany, Georgia. Interval A is interpreted as early Maastrichtian in age, interval B is late Maastrichtian, and interval C is early Danian, based on comparisons with dinoflagellate cyst zonations from the type Maastrichtian and Danian regions. Comparison with a dinoflagellate cyst zonation from the Maastrichtian Severn Formation of Maryland indicates that the lower Severn is correlative with the upper Ripley and lower Providence, and that the upper Severn is correlative with the upper Providence. The Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary is marked by a minor turnover in organic-walled phytoplankton species. Some of the uppermost Maastrichtian and lowest Danian may be missing from the section. Variations in the relative abundances of Spiniferites and Manumiella seelandica indicate a shallowing of the marine environment through the Maastrichtian. The species Manumiella druggii is considered to be a junior synonym of Manumiella seelandica.
40072723|A properly documented pollen and spore reference collection is a valuable tool in systematic/taxonomic studies, paleoenvironmental reconstruction, forensic palynology , archaeology, aerobiology and other areas of research. The collection of pollen or spore samples is best made from vouchered herbarium specimens that have been identified by trained systematists. The collection procedure, although simple, requires careful attention to each specimen so that the material collected contains mature pollen or spores, that the relevant, associated data are recorded and that the herbarium specimen is not damaged during the collection procedure.
3687753|Experimental degradation of pollen by repeated wet-dry cycles in saline and desalinated sediments show differences in preservation between taxa and between salinity environments. In desalinated sediment, from which the salts were removed artificially, pollen is rapidly degraded, with a significant net loss of pollen after ten wet-dry cycles. Picea pollen, which remains identifiable even when heavily damaged, suffers greater breakage in desalinated sediments. Artemisia pollen is rapidly rendered unidentifiable by degradation of the sculptural elements in both saline and desalinated sediments. In comparison to desalinated sediments, saline sediments appear to contain less damaged pollen. Growing salt crystals may envelop the pollen grains and stabilize them against mechanical breakage otherwise incurred by flexing of the pollen wall during desiccation. Caution should be exercised when analyzing sediments subject to wet-dry cycles, and laboratory procedures modified if necessary to avoid desiccation of pollen during processing.
3687405|A palynological investigation of three boreholes in the Lower Karroo of the Kazinze area of the Siankondobo coalfield (GS 31, 35 and 36), has indicated pollen and spore assemblages in the coal measures and underlying arenaceous beds. The arenaceous sediments occuring at the bottom of the Karroo succession, are part of the Siankondobo Sandstone Formation. They are relatively unfossiliferous, although rare thin mudstone intercalations found in one of the boreholes (GS 36), contain assemblages dominated by monosaccate forms (Cannanoropollis obscurus and Plicatipollenites indicus). The Gwembe Coal Formation, (Ecca series), which rests unconformably on the Siankondobo Sandstone Formation contains at its base a dominantly arenaceous member (Maamba Sandstone), and in one of the boreholes (GS 31) carbonaceous shale intercalations contain mainly trilete spores e.g. Punctatisporites gretensis, Acanthotriletes filiformis and Apiculatisporis levis. Overlying the Maamba Sandstone is a coal seam (Main Seam), which in turn is overlain by carbonaceous mudstones with thin coal seams. The Main Seam and the carbonaceous mudstones, are generally dominated by trilete and striate and non-striate disaccate forms e.g. Punctatisporites gretensis, Acanthotriletes filiformis, A. tereteangulatus, Apiculatisporis levis, Leiotriletes directus, Protohaploxypinus limpidus, P. goraiensis, Vesicaspora ovata and V. potoniei; one notable exception to this is the upper part of GS 31 where Incertae sedis forms are the most common. The information obtained from the three wells suggests that three concurrent range zones can be recognized and a tentative zonation has been proposed. The Siankondobo coalfield assemblages show many similarities to those recorded from the lower and upper part of the Luwumbu Coal Formation some 1,000 kilometers to the north-east, in the north Luangwa Valley of Zambia. Common to both areas is the high proportion of monosaccates in the beds underlying the carbonaceous sediments, followed by a general dominance of triletes and disaccates (striate and non-striate) throughout most of the carbonaceous sediments, although dominance of triletes does occur in some instances in the lowermost carbonaceous beds.
3687442|Twenty pollen species recovered from auger samples of an isolated pod of sediment within the Piedmont Province of Meriwether County, Georgia, indicate a late Paleocene (early Sabinian) age for the deposit. The age assignment is based on the concurrent ranges of the species as they occur in the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains. No dinoflagellate cysts or acritarchs were observed in the samples examined, and their absence supports stratigraphic and sedimentologic evidence for a nonmarine origin of the sediments. The sediments have been protected from erosion by faulting along the southern margin of the basin containing them. The structural relationships and the Paleocene age for the deposit provide evidence of Cenozoic tectonic activity within the Piedmont Province of Georgia. Regional stratigraphic and sedimentologic evidence suggests that the deposit was probably a northward extension of the bauxite districts of Andersonville, Georgia, and Eufaula, Alabama. Illustrations of the twenty biostratigraphically important pollen types are presented, as are illustrations of other angiosperm pollen from the deposit.
41319053|Samples from the upper 84 m of a 125 m thick section of the Tobra Formation at Zaluch Nala, western Salt Range, Pakistan yielded palynomorph taxa including the spores Horriditriletes sp. and Microbaculispora tentula, abundant monosaccate pollen including Barakarites cf. rotatus, Cannanoropollis janakii and Plicatipollenites malabarensis, and rare taeniate and non-taeniate bisaccate pollen. Converrucosisporites grandegranulatus, Cycadopites cymbatus, Horriditriletes ramosus, Horriditriletes tereteangulatus and Microbaculispora tentula indicate the South Oman 2165B Biozone (Late Pennsylvanian), suggesting that the Tobra Formation in Zaluch Nala is equivalent to the middle part of the Al Khlata Formation of South Oman (Petroleum Development Oman (PDO) Al Khlata production unit AK P5). Brevitriletes leptoacaina, Brevitriletes parmatus, Horriditriletes ramosus and Microbaculispora tentula indicate the lower part of the Oman and Saudi Arabia Palynological Zone 2 (OSPZ2). The Tobra Formation assemblages are also correlated with those from Stage 2 and the eastern Australian Microbaculispora tentula Oppel-zone, based on the occurrence of Brevitriletes cornutus, Brevitriletes parmatus, Cycadopites cymbatus, Horriditriletes ramosus, Horriditriletes tereteangulatus and Microbaculispora tentula. The Tobra Formation in Zaluch Nala lacks the dglaciation sequence that is present in several other palaeogeographically nearby basins such as those of south Arabia and Western Australia. This is an indication of either non-deposition during the dglaciation period or erosion associated with the unconformity between the Tobra Formation and the overlying Warchha Formation.
3687687|A new dinoflagellate cyst, Pterocysta cruciformis Rochon gen. et sp. nov., is described from glacial Late Pleistocene sediments of the southwestern Black Sea and the central Marmara Sea. Pterocysta cruciformis is distinguished by a S-type paratabulation, the cruciform shape of the endocyst and the presence of a prominent narrow wing-like periphragm on the ventral side. Similarities between Pterocysta cruciformis and other camocavate cysts are discussed. The new species is associated with cold climatic conditions and probably indicates brackish to fresh water conditions.
40984158|Alder (Alnus: Betulaceae) pollen grains are common in coal beds of the Miocene Beluga and the Pliocene Sterling formations exposed in the Kenai lowland, Alaska. All alder pollen grains of the Beluga Formation and the lower part of the overlying Sterling Formation are dominated by 4-pored grains (42-67% of total alder), with no exceptions. There is a striking transition to a 5-pored dominance (32-67%) with an accompanying increase in 6-, 7-, and even 8-pored grains in outcrops of the Sterling Formation along the Cook Inlet shore, north of Clam Gulch and at the head of Kachemak Bay, in upper Swift Creek Canyon, and in two canyon tributaries to Fox Creek. The general zone of this transition includes a previously correlated volcanic ash and gives credence to the rock strata being synchronous in these widely separated outcrops. It should thus be possible to correlate these strata across the Kenai lowland by the alder pore numbers combined with the volcanic ash. The cause of the transition to a > 5-pored Alnus dominance in the Pliocene of the Kenai lowland can only be suggested. Using pore numbers to determine alder species is not an accurate method because pollen of different alder species may have similar percentages of pore numbers. Nevertheless, when taking into account percentages of 5-, 6-, and 7-pored grains combined with the presence or absence of polar arci, it can be suggested that a shift occurred from the 4-pore dominated subgenus Alnus, represented by Alnus incana, to the 5-pore dominated, cold-adapted subgenus Alnobetula through dispersion and hybridization of Asian species such as Alnus maximowiczii, Alnus firma, and possibly Alnus sieboldiana. The pollen of these three species contain between 2-40% circular polar arci, which are also present in high-pore-numbered grains above the transition in this study.
27784300|The extinct, organic-walled, proximochorate dinoflagellate cyst Operculodinium? borgerholtense Louwye 2001 was first described from Miocene shallow-marine deposits of northern Belgium, and has since been documented from the Miocene of the eastern North Atlantic, North Sea, Austria, Hungary, and Egypt. Conventional and confocal light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy are used to reveal new details of the archeopyle, wall structure, and ornament. The archeopyle is shown to have well-defined rather than rounded angles, a distinction we consider significant in assigning this species only provisionally to the genus. Operculodinium? borgerholtense was a euryhaline neritic species highly tolerant of environmental stress, a feature consistent with its morphological variability. Present records indicate a tropicalsubtropical to temperate paleoclimatic distribution. It ranges from the upper Lower Miocene to upper Middle Miocene, and promises to be a useful stratigraphic marker particularly in neritic settings where adverse paleoenvironmental factors have excluded other species.
3687664|The Douglas Coalfield of Lanarkshire, Scotland, of early Late Carboniferous age contains a thick sequence of coal-bearing strata of the Limestone Coal Formation. Ten coals occur in an eighty-five meter sequence. Lycopsid megaspores occur abundantly in most of these coals. Ten species of megaspore are recorded from the coals and a discussion of their distribution is presented. The spores are typical of other Namurian A (Pendellian) assemblages and are characterized by the abundance of Lagenicula subpilosa forma major, Setosisporites brevispinosus, S. hirsutus, S. splendidus, Zonalesporites brasserti and Rotatispotites rotatus. Comparisons are made with assemblages from the Lower Limestone Formation and other localities in the Limestone Coal Formation.
3687599|The palynological analysis of an outcrop from the northern Venezuelan Andean flank shows that the palynologically-derived Oligo/Miocene chronostratigraphy and paleoenvironmental succession is consistent with previous sedimentological studies for the section. The sequence studied was deposited in alternating coastal and alluvial plain environments, with a variable influence of brackish water. Brackish fern swamps and freshwater alluvial plain forest swamps were dominant, depending on the proximity of the marine shoreline. Paleosalinity was estimated by a ratio between freshwater algae and marine forms. However, freshwater algae Pediastrum and Botryococcus may also tolerate low ranges of salinity, and this factor must be taken into account in future studies. A Late Oligocene phase of increased tectonic activity, possibly related to the Andean uplift, is suggested. In agreement with previous surveys, a striking evolutionary change was observed in Eocene and post-Eocene lower coastal plant communities. The Oligo/Miocene palynoflora of the region studied is similar to that of the rest of Venezuela.
3687588|Dinocyst assemblages from Ocean Drilling Project (ODP) Leg 113, sites 689 and 690, located at Maud Rise, and Leg 114, Site 698 at South Georgia Basin, are of medium diversity with close to 40 taxa. The floras are dominated by Isabelidinium pellucidum and Odontochitina porifera; common species are Batiacasphaera reticulata, Microdinium cassiculum, Leberidocysta sp. A, Nematosphaeropsis sp. and Valensiella reticulata. The age of these dinocyst-bearing sections has been determined, using paleomagnetics and biostratigraphy, as early Maastrichtian (Chron 32N), correlative to the uppermost part of the B. coronum to the lower part of the B. magnum nannofossil zones. Comparison with equally well-dated Kerguelen Plateau palynofloras indicates an age equivalent to the dinoflagellate Zone C2, and perhaps also Zone D of Mao and Mohr (1992). The precise age model for these dinocyst floras allows better calibration of other Antarctic shallow marine sections from the James Ross Basin. Decreasing species diversity and increasing endemism of these floras can be used to reconstruct environmental conditions. Decreasing diversity is interpreted as response to cooling of the Antarctic water masses, probably caused by the onset of a distinct proto-circum-Antarctic current during the latest Campanian and early Maastrichtian.
3687796|An edited transcript is presented for discussions on more than 24 taxa of Neogene and Quaternary dinoflagellates, chosen either as being in some way taxonomically problematical or because they hold unusual interest concerning their morphology, (paleo)ecology, or biostratigraphy. These discussions took place at the Third Workshop on Neogene and Quaternary Dinoflagellates and are based on observations of numerous holotypes and other type materials, often with the author of the taxon in attendance. Provisional stratigraphic ranges are given for taxa discussed. A taxonomic appendix by M.J. Head deals formally with selected taxa discussed at the workshop. The important Late Cenozoic genus Filisphaera Bujak 1984 is emended to include only those specimens with a septate/microreticulate periphragm. Its type, Filisphaera filifera Bujak 1984, is also emended and the subspecies Filisphaera filifera filifera is created by autonymy and defined. Filisphaera pilosa Matsuoka & Bujak 1988 is emended and reduced in status to Filisphaera filifera subsp. pilosa. The genus Muraticysta Head et al. 1989a is now regarded as a taxonomic junior synonym of Filisphaera Bujak 1984 emend. nov. and the new combination Filisphaera microornata (basionym = Muraticysta microornata Head et al. 1989a) is proposed for its type. Filisphaera(?) minuta Strauss & Lund 1992 is questionably included in this genus pending further information about its wall structure.
3687655|Thirty-six taxa of moderately abundant and relatively well-preserved acritarchs, algae, chitinozoans, scolecodonts and graptolite siculae from the Acoite Formation, northwestern Argentina, are described. Two new acritarch species, Ammonidium ballistum Ottone and Baltisphaerosum peniguelii Ottone, together with one new combination, Adorfia hoffmanensis (Cramer et al. 1974) Ottone, are proposed. Two distinct palynomorph assemblages have been differentiated throughout the unit: (1) a Lower Acoite Palynological Assemblage, early Arenigian in age; and (2) an Upper Acoite Palynological Assemblage, referred to the middle Arenigian. Both palynological assemblages appear to be related to the Mediterranean or Perigondwanian Paleoprovince and thus represent a high latitudinal plankton assemblage.
3687389|A shale intercalated between oolitic ironstone of the middle member of the Shumaysi Formation yielded a palynomorph assemblage having abundant pollen of various coastal palms and mangrove-associated vegetation along with abundant fungal spores. A similar assemblage with the addition of Nypa pollen and a few marine dinocysts occurs in the basal part of the upper member of the formation. These assemblages indicate an early Eocene (late Ypresian or Cuisian) age of the middle and upper members of the Shumaysi Formation. The palynofacies analysis shows that the middle member was deposited in a nonmarine estuarine environment of back-mangroves whereas the lower part of the upper member was deposited in a brackish estuarine environment of front-mangroves. Foraminifera assemblages indicative of prevailing marine estuarine depositional conditions occur only above the siltstone containing the front-mangrove palynological assemblage. Thus, the middle and upper members of the Shumaysi Formation represent a transgressive sequence deposited in ecological conditions evolving from a nonmarine back-mangrove to a marine estuarine deposition under a prevailing tropical humid climate.
40072726|Fifty-seven samples taken from ten piston cores collected along a transect off the continental margin of the Northern Basin, Ross Sea, Antarctica were analyzed for palynomorphs. Moderately diverse assemblages of marine microplankton and terrestrial palynomorphs were recovered. The palynomorph assemblages have been subdivided into two main groups: the in-situ flora (including acritarchs,dinoflagellate cysts, leiospheres and prasinophyte algae mainly composed of cymatiosphaerids), and the reworked flora (including dinoflagellate cysts, pollen and spores). The leiospheres are the most abundant palynomorphs. This prominence in the relative abundance of leiospheres has been reported as typical of assemblages found today at the limit between seasonal and pack ice in the Arctic. In-situ dinoflagellate cysts are sparse. They are mainly represented by Lejeunecysta, which, based on species similarities to those from Cape Roberts, are believed to be of Oligocene to Pliocene age. All other dinoflagellate cysts recovered are the result of reworking from Eocene to Oligocene sediments. Reworked spores and pollen comprise the second most abundant group. They are of moderate diversity and include an Eocene or older assemblage of Nothofagidites, Podocarpaceae and Proteaceae. Other taxa are representative of warmer rainforest vegetation, with Oligocene and Neogene taxa that include representatives of woodland to herbaceous/low shrubby tundra vegetation growing in colder subpolar climate. These assemblages indicate either different periods of deposition or reworking from diverse sources. Through seismic correlation and diatom analysis, the sediments are believed to be Late Pliocene in age. On this basis, it is postulated that the major glacial advance, RSU 2 of Brancolini et al. (1995) or Unconformity 10 (U10) of Bart et al. (2000), occurred before 2.3 Ma, which is the oldest age of in-situ species recovered in units above U10. As both terrestrial and marine reworked taxa include assemblages of Eocene to Oligocene age, it is assumed that those reworked components were yielded from a single source; most probably Eocene to Oligocene shallow marine strata eroded and transported from the area of Ross Island to the shelf margin through ice streams located in the Drygalsky and Joides basins.
3687775|This paper deals with an Oligocene section that is stratigraphically homogeneous from both a lithological and palynological point of view. It has been impossible to subdivide it into discrete units, using either taxon-range analysis or assemblage-zone approach based on the relative abundance of palynomorphs. Furthermore, the common multivariate numerical methods used so far with success in the region (Cluster Analysis, Principal Components Analysis, etc.) gave no useful results in this case. The search for cyclicity using palynocycles and ecologs has been also unsuccessful. Instead of considering the section of low interest, an alternative, high-resolution ecological approach was attempted to extract the information contained in these sediments. Paleoecological trends were deduced from statistical methods commonly used in modern and Quaternary ecology, mainly TWINSPAN and gradient analysis, combined with diversity analysis. As a result, the fine-scale stratigraphic variability of the data could be successfully explained in terms of paleoecological succession taking place in upper delta environments, characterised by a complex mosaic vegetation including morichales, herbaceous fern swamps, and gallery forests. The succession could be reconstructed in detail, and would be of indirect stratigraphic value for high-resolution correlation. This is an example of how the search for narrow or biased objectives can hidden significant information. It is more fruitful to have a wider perspective, and to be open to any information that sediments can provide us, without a priori limitations.
27784305|Experiments are presented here in analysis and depiction of Palynodata records. Palynodata, a database of pre-Quaternary records of fossil palynomorphs compiled from global literature, is now available as Geological Survey of Canada (GSC) Open File 5793. Palynodata is a non-random sample of the distributions of palynomorphs. Hence, for any taxon, occurrence records in Palynodata serve as a proxy for its 'real' distribution in geological time and paleogeographical space. These experiments may be useful starting points for students of palynology in their exploration of Palynodata records. Palynoplot software bins and plots Palynodata taxa retrievals by time, and by the modern latitude of the study sites. It uses geographical co-ordinates for the study localities in Palynodata and the geological time scale. Such plots reveal temporal and latitudinal distribution patterns, and potential taxonomic and data problems such as outliers and inconsistent taxonomy. Taxonomic studies can be supported by considering time by latitude distribution, in addition to traditional morphology and priorities. The modern latitude of the sites studied gives increasing distortion with geological age. Palynodata output and the study locality file was input for PaleoGIS software to depict occurrence records on paleogeographical maps. PaleoGIS software showed changing occurrence patterns on rotated plates. An experimental trend surface model of the JurassicCretaceous transition used binned records of common filicale genera which were evolutionarily sensitive between 180 and 100 Ma. The results demonstrate potential for the technique, and lessons for interpretation and future refinement. Common taxa may become useful for biostratigraphical problems and, by calibration against reference sections, this technique might be refined to provide a useful biostratigraphical standard for geological system boundaries. These manipulations of Palynodata records are a 'proof-of-concept' demonstration of techniques that may help to reveal the biostratigraphical, paleoecological, and paleoclimatological significance of fossil palynomorphs. Such work also reveals desirable improvements in Palynodata. The precision of indexing species in Palynodata may limit the potential level of chronostratigraphical resolution.
3687556|The sediments of the type Llandeilo yield sparse acritarchs that are poorly preserved but of considerable diversity. Thirty acritarch species are recognized and described and their stratigraphic distribution is indicated. One new species and one new combination are proposed: Stellechinatum llandeilum n.sp. and Solisphaeridium lucidum n.comb. No acritarchs of Llandeilo age have previously been described from the British Isles and relatively few reported from elsewhere. The acritarchs in the type Llandeilo section indicate the potential biostratigraphic utility of this group of microfossils although comparison with acritarchs of Llandeilo age elsewhere is different because of the paucity of published information.
