30156075|Oxygen consumption by male spring peepers (Hyla crucifer) increased linearly with calling rate, reaching peak values of 1.5-1.7 ml O/(g  h) at the highest calling rates. The intercept of the regression line describing the relationship between metabolism and calling rate does not differ significantly from daytime resting metabolism (0.11 ml O/[g  h]). Metabolic rate during vigorous locomotor exercise at the same temperature (19 C) was only 1.1 ml O/(gh). We measured activities of mitochondrial enzymes in the trunk muscles (internal and external obliques) involved in sound production and in mixed hind limb muscles of male and female frogs. Male trunk muscles were very large, accounting for 15% of total body mass, whereas female trunk muscle constituted only 3% of total body mass. Citrate synthase (CS) activity in male trunk muscle, indicative of oxidative capacity, was six times the CS activity in leg muscle (86 vs. 14 mol/[min  g fresh muscle at 20 C]) and 17 times the CS activity in female trunk muscle (5 mol/[ming fresh muscle]). The capacity to oxidize fat, as indicated by -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity, was five times higher in male trunk muscle than in leg muscle (30 vs. 6 mol/[ming fresh muscle]), suggesting that fatty acid oxidation plays an important role in the energetics of vocalization in this species. Phosphofructokinase activity, a key glycolytic marker, was not significantly different in trunk and leg muscle. The capacity of male spring peeper trunk muscles for aerobic metabolism exceeds considerably the highest values yet reported for ectothermic vertebrate muscle tissue and is comparable to highly oxidative muscles of endotherms.
30158526|The hormonal mechanisms underlying parental care behavior in fish are poorly understood. This study investigates the effects of bromocriptine, a specific dopamine receptor agonist that inhibits secretion of prolactin from the pituitary, on parental care behaviors of nesting male bluegills. Parental male bluegills (Lepomis macrochirus) exhibit a complex set of reproductive behaviors including the construction of nests in colonies and courtship of females. After spawning, these males then alone remain to fan and guard the eggs and larvae from predators. Compared with control males, males implanted with bromocriptine showed significantly less defense of their broods and spent significantly more time rim circling their nests, a behavior typical of prespawning males. Because there were no significant differences among male groups in the levels of 11-ketotestosterone (11KT) or testosterone (T), the observed behavioral alterations cannot be ascribed to androgenic effects of bromocriptine. Instead, we suggest that prolactin, mediated through the action of dopamine, is involved in the expression of parental care behavior in this species.
30155677|Three species of hedgehog (Insectivora) were chosen to represent temperate (Erinaceus europaeus), semi-arid (Hemiechinus auritus), and desert regions (Paraechinus aethiopicus). Metabolic rates, temperature regulation, and evaporation of water were studied under laboratory conditions. All three species maintained their body temperature close to 34 C (about 3-4 C lower than other mammals). All three species are competent temperature regulators which at low air temperature maintain body temperature by increasing oxygen consumption, and at high air temperature by increasing the evaporation of water. The rate of oxygen consumption is lowest in the desert species (Paraechinus) and highest in the temperate species (Erinaceus). However, thermoregulatory abilities are similar in all three species and not readily correlated with their geographical distribution.
30156031|Physiological correlates of the ontogenetic transition from generally nonflying hive bees to foragers were described. Peak foraging activity of workers occurred between 15 and 32 days of age in six honeybee colonies, depending on season. Whole wet body mass decreased ~40% in correlation with the transition to foraging behavior. The entire loss of mass occurred in the abdomens, with 85% of the total decrease occurring in the digestive tract exclusive of the honey crop. Maximal thorax-specific rates of oxygen consumption (
30160002|Arboreal frogs of the genera Chiromantis and Phyllomedusa generally have low evaporative water loss (EWL) but can regulate water loss to maintain body temperature (
30155828|The influence of selected dietary factors on the prevention of starvation-induced supernumerary larval molt was studied. The incidence of supernumerary molting was greatly reduced when larvae were provided with sucrose during the starvation period. Neither casein nor a diet deficient only in sugar had such an effect. Among the various sugars tested, sucrose and fructose were the most effective in suppressing the supernumerary molt. Mannose and sorbose reduced supernumerary molting to a lesser extent. The percentage of larvae undergoing a supernumerary molt was inversely related to the concentration of sucrose, with 100% of those fed on 1% sucrose and 10% of those fed on 7% sucrose molting into sixth instars. The incidence of supernumerary molting was inversely correlated with hemolymph trehalose concentration but was not correlated with protein concentration. A hypothesis relating low hemolymph trehalose titers with activation of the brain-corpora allata system is proposed to explain the JH titer changes after starvation and during molting cycles.
30163723|Eared grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) and American coots (Fulica americana) lay eggs in nests that float on water. Eggs of most grebes come into contact with liquid water during incubation, whereas those of coots do not. The rate of change in the mass of grebe eggs incubated in natural nests was not significantly different from that of coot eggs, even though the water-vapor conductance of grebe eggs is much greater. When eggs of coots and of grey Leghorn chickens (Gallus gallus) were incubated in contact with liquid water in the laboratory, they increased in mass, whereas grebe eggs, incubated under the same conditions, decreased in mass. When eggs of grebes and chickens were placed in contact with a solution of methylene blue, the contents of the chicken eggs were stained blue, whereas the contents of the grebe eggs were not stained. When chicken eggs were incubated in nests of eared grebes, they increased in mass and rotted; eared grebe eggs in the same nests declined in mass and did not rot. These data suggest that eared grebe eggshells possess a barrier to the diffusion of liquid water that nevertheless permits a rapid exchange of water vapor.
30164232|The functional properties of the haemolymph and haemocyanin (Hc) of Hemigrapsus nudus were investigated with respect to the amphibious behaviour of this crab. The O affinity of the Hc was decreased at higher temperature (H = -30 to -40 kJ mol). Haemocyanin-O affinity was sensitive to pH (Bohr factor = -0.843 at 15 C) but essentially insensitive to L-lactate
30156029|Thoracic, abdominal, and head temperatures were measured in individual fieldcollected Xylocopa virginica virginica performing a variety of behaviors over a wide range of ambient conditions. The bees were highly endothermic during activity, with thoracic temperatures (
30158601|The growth of the gill, ventricle, red muscle, and white muscle in terms of wet weight and total protein content was measured in trout (Salmo gairdneri; wt 20-370 g) at 12 C. In vivo protein synthesis rates were measured following a single high dose of H-phenylalanine, which stabilized specific radioactivity in the free pools. Protein degradation rates were calculated from the difference between synthesis and net protein accretion. During growth fractional synthesis and degradation rates fell in all the tissues. Comparisons between the four tissue types showed that fractional degradation rates were directly correlated with fractional synthesis rates. Throughout growth the tissue types showed the same ranking in fractional synthesis and degradation rates, i.e., gills > ventricle > red muscle > white muscle. Calculation of the total amounts of protein synthesized per day revealed that the tissue types were ranked in the following way: white muscle = gills > red muscle > ventricle. Seventy-six percent of this protein synthesized in the white muscle appeared as growth, whereas in the gill only 4% appeared as growth. Despite wide differences in fractional synthesis and degradation rates, all the tissue types showed isometric growth, except the white muscle, which showed slight positive allometry.
30157895|Water flux rates and feeding rates of Urosaurus graciosus and Urosaurus ornatus were studied during June and July in Arizona. The mean water flux rate of U. graciosus (36.6 ml HO kg day) was significantly higher than that of U. ornatus (25.8 ml HO kg day). Urosaurus graciosus is less able to escape high afternoon temperatures than U. ornatus, which frequently seeks refuge under bark and in crevices of trees. The habitat occupied by U. graciosus also is subject to higher temperatures than that occupied by U. ornatus. The higher water flux rate of U. graciosus is associated with differences in behavior, habitat, and greater food intake.
30163937|Flight energetics of free-ranging red-footed boobies (Sula sula) on Johnston Atoll in the central Pacific Ocean were quantified using doubly labeled water to measure field metabolic rate (FMR), an open-flow system to measure O consumption rate, and activity recorders to monitor foraging behavior at sea. Brooding birds spent an average of 496%  6% of the time at the nest, 6%  2% of the time sitting on the water, and 41%  7% of the time in flight. Mean FMR was 14.2  1.2 W (n = 9; mean mass = 1,070  40.3 g). Mean resting metabolic rate was 9. 7  0.7 W (n = 8: mean mass = 1,039  25.8 g) . The power required for flight averaged 19.0  3.4 W (n = 6; mean mass = 1, 014  42 g). This was less than one-third of the predicted value (62.1 W) obtained from equations based on aerodynamic theory. Aerodynamic theory predicts that birds in this study would require a mean of
30155771|Black goats are the most abundant domestic animal in the Negev and Sinai deserts. These goats possess a number of complex physiological adaptations for dealing with a hot desert environment. It seemed possible that their black coat might also be an adaptation for this environment, reducing heat gain and the use of water for evaporative cooling. To test this possibility, we compared the rates at which black goats, white goats, and ibex (a wild goat native to the desert) gained heat and evaporated water in a hot desert at midday. Two methods were used simultaneously to calculate the net rate of heat gain by radiation and convection
10.1086/515877|Highelevation populations of many grasshopper species produce small adults in response to shortened growing seasons and cooler ambient temperatures. Massspecific metabolic rate tends to increase with elevation, and several authors have argued that this is an adaptation to accelerate development. In the present study, the relationship of thermoregulation and metabolism was investigated in adults of the acridid grasshopper
30161218|The oxygenation characteristics of the blood of Glyphocrangon vicaria, a benthic shrimp captured at a depth of 1,800 m, are examined to elucidate the little-studied blood properties of an animal living in an isothermal, stable, deep-sea environment. Whole blood of G. vicaria shows a reduced effect of temperature on O affinity and a marked, normal Bohr effect from pH 7 to pH 9 that increases with temperature, while cooperativity of O binding is moderate and decreases with an increase in temperature. The blood of G. vicaria shows no specific effect of CO on O affinity and no effect of L-lactate on O affinity. These blood oxygenation characteristics are compared with those of animals living in environments with similar and contrasting thermal characteristics.
30158567|The heat tolerance of Fundulus heteroclitus collected at different times of year were evaluated by the critical thermal maximum (CTMax) technique, following a period of laboratory acclimation to standardize thermal history within collections during which contemporaneous field conditions of temperature and photoperiod were simulated. Mean midday CTMax values showed a strong seasonal effect, ranging from 32.20 C to 44.11 C over nine acclimation temperatures from 7 to 36 C. These values are among the highest recorded for fishes. A daily rhythm in CTMax occurred throughout the range of seasonal conditions employed, but its amplitude varied seasonally, with a maximum under spring/autumn conditions. Fish collected in autumn were transferred to summer conditions in the laboratory, and the effects of the transfer on the daily rhythm and midday CTMax were evaluated 6 and 12 wk later. A surprising result was that the fish did not recover summer thermal tolerance within 12 wk, and also that during this time the daily pattern of heat tolerance was severely disrupted. One of the implications of this is that routine acclimation protocols involving temperature and photoperiod shifts can alter or mask daily rhythms for months.
30163758|The osmoregulatory abilities of the larvae of two species of mosquito, Aedes nigromaculis and Aedes melanimon, were examined. Both species are closely related to known saline-tolerant species. We examined the saline tolerance of these two species by performing survival tests in water ranging from 10% to 100% seawater. Aedes nigromaculis showed increased mortality above 30% seawater, while A. melanimon showed high rates of survival in all salinities tested. Fluorescence and electron microscopic studies reveal the presence of a single rectal segment in A. nigromaculis larvae, as is characteristic of obligate freshwater species, and two distinct rectal segments in A. melanimon, as is characteristic of euryhaline osmoconforming larvae. Information on the physiological capacities of these two species, along with a similar knowledge of other key species, allowed us to map physiological information on a previously established phylogeny. Our results demonstrate the usefulness of physiological and morphological information in elucidating the evolutionary history of this group.
30158248|Preferred body temperatures, water-loss rates (WLR), and standard metabolic rates (SMR) were measured for adult tiger beetles (Cicindela longilabris) from disjunct populations in Arizona, Colorado, Maine, and Wisconsin. The mean body temperatures of foraging C. longilabris did not vary significantly among the four populations. The mean body temperatures of basking (29.7 C), foraging (34.1 C), and stilting (36.2 C) C. longilabris were lower than those recorded for most Cicindela species. Mean WLR of live beetles in dry air at 30 C (21.2-25.2 g cm h mmHg) was not significantly different among populations and was similar to WLR of other upland cicindelids. The SMR measured at 15, 25, and 30 C for freshly captured beetles varied among populations but converged after all beetles were acclimated at 25 C. Differences in SMR among populations after acclimation could not be discerned; however, the pooled SMR for C. longilabris were higher than SMR for other Cicindela species over the same temperature range. The results indicate that C. longilabris is adapted to cooler climates than are experienced by most cicindelids and are consistent with the hypothesis that C. longilabris occupies climatic refugia at lower latitudes.
10.1086/515965|We used nestling house sparrows (
30158236|Many fish possess a gas-filled swim bladder, and the gas molecules enter the bladder by diffusion from its capillaries and epithelium. The high gas partial pressures necessary to drive diffusion are produced in two steps. First, in the blood perfusing the swim bladder capillaries the physical solubility of gases is reduced via the salting-out effect, and gases are released from a chemical binding site via blood acidification (e.g., Root effect for O; conversion of HCO to CO). These effects result in an increase in the gas partial pressure in blood. In a second step, this initial increase in partial pressure (the "single concentrating effect") is multiplied by back diffusion of gas molecules in the countercurrent system of the rete mirabile. For inert gases, the salting-out effect, induced by the release of lactic acid from the gas gland cells in the swim bladder tissue, results in a probably small reduction of solubility, while the acid-induced decrease in hemoglobin O-carrying capacity (Root effect) and the release of CO from HCO , combined with the release of anaerobically produced CO from gas gland cells, result in a significant single concentrating effect for O and CO. The relatively high permeability of the rete capillaries for gases allows for back diffusion, and thus for countercurrent concentration, of gases. The rete mirabile is, however, permeable not only for gases but also for metabolites and salt molecules, and the countercurrent concentration of solutes enhances the countercurrent concentration of gas molecules. This is particularly important for inert gases because their single concentrating effect is small. Back diffusion of CO in the rete mirabile not only results in a countercurrent concentration of CO but also enhances the partial pressure increase of O by decreasing the hemoglobin O-carrying capacity within the arterial capillaries of the rete. This interdependence of O and CO may apply to countercurrent systems in other tissues as well, for example, to the skeletal muscle. Hence, the swim bladder rete mirabile may serve as a model tissue for studies of gas exchange and countercurrent blood flow in other organs. Furthermore, the regulation of countercurrent eficiency and gas secretion promises to be an interesting area of research, including also the regulation of metabolic activity and acid production in the gas gland cells.
30156136|Fertilization success and sperm motility were tested in fresh water, 15, and 30 ppt salt water (<5, 500, and 1,000 mOsm/kg, respectively) for a population of Fundulus heteroclitus maintained at ambient salinity (30 ppt) and later acclimated to fresh water in the laboratory to determine the effect of the adult's acclimation salinity on reproductive success in different salinities. The same parameters were measured for individuals from a natural freshwater population. Individuals maintained in 30 ppt were unable to fertilize eggs in fresh water (0%), while fertilization success in 500 and 1,000 mOsm/kg was approximately 80%. Acclimation to fresh water enhanced fertilization success in fresh water (mean 41%). Females acclimated to fresh water had a significantly lower (P < .05) ovarian osmolarity, which may be related to the observed increase in fertilization success. A natural freshwater population had a fertilization rate in fresh water of 72%, which suggested that the period of laboratory acclimation (5 wk) was not sufficient for complete acclimation of the gametes. While enhanced fertilization success in fresh water was observed in the laboratory for adults acclimated to fresh water, these same individuals had diminished success in 1,000 mOsm/kg. Both the natural freshwater population and the laboratory population acclimated to fresh water had 80% success in 500 mOsm/kg; however, they were unable to fertilize eggs in 1,000 mOsm/kg, apparently because of sperm immotility. Thus for F. heteroclitus there is a restricted salinity range over which gametes are viable. Irrespective of acclimation salinity, optimum success occurs in 500 mOsm/kg, which is closest to the internal osmolarity of the fish.
30157940|Profiles of glycolytic and tricarboxylic-cycle metabolites were determined at 4 and 20 C in juvenile roach, Rutilus rutilus (L.), during rest (preexercise), at exhaustion, and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 8 h of recovery. The time that elapsed between catching and freeze-clamping the whole fish was about 2 s. Starting from a preexercise concentration of about 0.4 mol. g fresh wt, lactate concentration increased only 15fold at 4 but 33-fold at 20 C. The smaller factor of increase at 4 C is interpreted as being due to the blockage of muscle activity at this low temperature. Other glycolytic and citrate-cycle metabolites reached their concentration maxima either during or immediately after the fish's burst of activity. During recovery the concentrations of metabolites follow exponential functions in their return to preexercise levels. This allows calculation of rate constants and
30157905|Mallee fowl eggs were successfully incubated over the temperature range 32-38 C. Greatest hatchability occurred at 34 C (80%); 22% hatched at 32 C, 44% at 36 C; and 38% at 38 C. Field data indicate that eggs can tolerate temperatures as low as 28 C for at least 4 days and that egg temperature can vary from 28 to 38 C during incubation. Birds did not regulate mound temperature as precisely as previously reported, 3-5 C variations in temperature were common. Energetic cost of development was found to be temperature dependent. Embryos developing at 32 C required 74% more energy than embryos developing at 38 C.
30155862|Determinations have been made of the permeability of the cuticle at 0.75 and 0.95 ambient water vapor activity and compared at ambient air temperatures from 15 to 47 C. When the natural log of the transpiration-rate constants or the diffusion gradient corrected rate constants are plotted against temperature, no sudden increase in permeability is observed. Rather, transpiration-rate constants increase exponentially with temperature. The relationship between transpiration-rate constants and temperature is also well described by an Arrhenius function. The results indicate a continuous increase in cuticular permeability as air temperature rises. Likewise, natural log plots of decrease in specific activity or diffusion gradient corrected specific activity yield straight lines. Plots using the Arrhenius function are not linear over the entire temperature range. An abrupt deviation occurs at what appears to be nonequilibrium or dehydrating conditions.
30159945|During heat exposure, the respiratory system of a panting bird must fulfill the potentially conflicting requirements of dissipating heat and maintaining arterial carbon dioxide tension (
30158637|Chronic hypoxia tolerance of Thais haemastoma was inversely related to acclimation temperature but not to salinity. Oxyregulatory ability varied inversely with temperature and did not exhibit acclimation after 28 days' exposure to 53 mm Hg O. The oxygen consumption rate was lower after 28 days' exposure to hypoxia than under normoxia at 20 and 30 C but was low at all PO'S at 10 C. Pyruvate oxidoreductase enzymes were not induced in foot tissue after 28 days' exposure to 10%-67% of normoxia. Activity ratios of alanopine dehydrogenase:lactate dehydrogenase:strombine dehydrogenase:octopine dehydrogenase were 3.8:1.2:1.0:0. Alanopine dehydrogenase activity increased on exposure to anoxia but had returned to control activity by day 2; no change occurred in the other pyruvate oxidoreductase activities over 6 days' exposure. Adenylate energy charge (AEC) was reduced at low PO'S. Arginine phosphate concentrations were lower in snails exposed to 10%-33% saturation than in those at 67%100%. AEC declined from 0.79 to 0.58 after 1 day of anoxia, and arginine phosphate concentration declined by 95%; no further decrease occurred in either variable. AEC cycled at the expense of arginine phosphate with cyclic exposure of snails to anoxia.
30159973|The relative importance of aerobic and anaerobic metabolism in active spiders was investigated in four species, Filistata hibernalis, Lycosa lenta, Phidippus audax, and Neoscona domiciliorium. Peak
30155988|The responses to prolonged diving in a representative of each of the four families of North American freshwater turtles (Chelydridae, Emydidae, Kinosternidae, Trionychidae) were investigated. For turtles submerged at 10 C in anoxic (N-equilibrated) and normoxic (aerated) water, we found: (1) Survival times in anoxia (days) were 2.6 (Trionyx), 5.2 (Sternotherus), 8.5 (Chelydra), and 17.0 (Chrysemys); the corresponding survival times in normoxia were >100, >100, 14.2, and 29.3. The differences between survival in anoxic and normoxic water were significant in all species except Chelydra. (2) The acid-base responses of Trionyx and Sternotherus were similar, apparently as a result of the efficient use of extrapulmonary gas exchange in these species. The lack of such efficient aquatic respiration was evident in both Chelydra and Chrysemys, whose acid-base responses were similar to each other but very different from those of the other species. (3) Buffer capacities ([HCO]/pH) of the blood were -8.81 (Chelydra), -12.6 (Chrysemys), -14.0 (Trionyx), and -17.0 (Sternotherus). These values are well below those of diving mammals and birds. (4) Hematocrit increased in all noncatheterized turtles. After 100 days of normoxic submergence, the increase in Trionyx was from 26.0% to 34.9%; (5) Turtles of all four species died when the blood pH fell by about 1.0 pH unit, regardless of whether the acidosis was metabolic or combined respiratory and metabolic. Ecological considerations of these findings are discussed, particularly with regard to the assumed long-term submergence associated with hibernation in the northern portions of the ranges of these species. We suggest that the superior anaerobic capabilities of freshwater turtles may be the result of selection for long-term wintertime submergence rather than for warm-weather diving.
30163782|During its passage through the oviduct the egg of the tropical lizard Anolis pulchellus increased in total wet mass by 66%; 30% due to solid accumulation and 70% to water intake. Water content in the preovulatory follicles was 41% of their wet mass, while in the fully developed eggs it was 52%. Quantitative analysis of total soluble protein revealed no significant protein accumulation in the postovulatory egg since total protein content in the preovulatory follicle was similar to the amount present in the fully developed egg. Furthermore, analysis of follicle and egg proteins by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis did not indicate major qualitative differences in their protein pattern. Both of these findings strongly indicate lack of proteins of oviductal origin in the egg of A. pulchellus. Thus, the observed increase in egg mass during retention in the oviduct is mainly due to water uptake, with a minor portion due to eggshell deposition and the incorporation of inorganic nutrients for embryo development.
30156245|Following the release of house finches from southern California (CA) on Long Island, New York, in 1940, the species has become established in eastern North America, including Michigan (MI) and Ohio (OH), despite cold winters. Standard metabolic rates (SMRs) of MI-OH birds, like those of house finches from Colorado (CO) and CA, do not differ significantly between winter and late spring Geographical comparisons are more complex. Standard metabolic rate does not vary significantly among the three populations during late spring Additionally, the winter value for the MI-OH house finches resembles that for CO birds. However, SMR for individuals in these two populations significantly exceeds that for the CA birds, suggesting some linkage between severity of winter climate and metabolic level Analysis of thermal conductance (c) for MI-OH house finches indicates a significantly higher insulation value in winter than in late spring, a circumstance we ascribe to more worn plumage in the latter season. Winter values of c for MI-OH house finches and CA birds are similar. This finding and some previous findings on winter acclimatization in house finches from several localities suggest that geographic variation in their cold response results primarily from metabolic rather than insulative adjustments.
30155865|Antelope ground squirrels (Ammospermophilus leucurus, 80-100 g) consumed vegetation, seeds, arthropods, and vertebrate flesh throughout the year in the Mojave Desert near Barstow, California. Apparent energy assimilation efficiency (100 x
30158222|Epinephrine had no effect on the blood O afinity of Fundulus heteroclitus in the presence of low CO (1.5 mmHg Pco). However, it did increase O afinity proportionately with increasing Pco. Erythrocytes in NaHCO-buffered Bull saline gave results that were virtually identical to those obtained with blood. This was not the case for erythrocytes in synthetically buffered Bull salines. Their O afinity was markedly lower than that of blood, regardless of the CO concentration, presence of epinephrine or bovine serum albumin, or type of synthetic buffer (Hepes, Tris, Bis-Tris) employed. Thus, conclusions drawn from studies utilizing synthetically buffered salines may be misleading Epinephrine stimulated proton effux, resulting in an increase of the intracellular pH from erythrocytes in Hepes-buffered Bull saline. This appears to be an artifact resulting from the use of Hepes, as it was not observed in blood. The intracellular pH of both blood and erythrocytes in NaHCO-buffered Bull saline was insensitive to beta-adrenergic stimulation. This finding is contrary to those reported for trout and striped bass and may reflect adaptive responses of F. heteroclitus to its often poorly oxygenated estuarine habitat.
30158173|Quantitative analysis of the composition of eggs and their sibling neonates in the viviparous natricine snake Thamnophis ordinoides revealed that yolk provided the principal source of organic nutrition but that embryos received a substantial allotment of inorganic nutrients from the placentas. The placental provision of water and sodium equaled or exceeded yolk supplies, and placental transport accounted for 23% of neonatal calcium composition. There was no difference between egg and newborn quantities of total phosphorus or total potassium, whereas neonates contained less total magnesium than eggs. The mode of embryonic nutrition in this species is characterized as predominantly lecithotrophic, yet placental nutrient provision contributes significantly to embryonic nourishment. Placental transport of sodium and embryonic uptake of water was greater in recently ovulated eggs that contained relatively low levels of sodium and water respectively. Thus, placental sources compensated for low yolk provision. Placental transport of calcium was independent of yolk calcium content and correlated positively with neonatal calcium content. This pattern of provision, in which placental sources determine neonatal content independent of egg content, has been described as facultative placentotrophy. A similar embryonic nutritional pattern was recognized previously in another predominantly lecithotrophic natricine snake.
30163819|We infused polyethylene glycol (PEG) into laboratory-housed song sparrows (Melospiza melodia) via intraperitoneally implanted osmotic minipumps. The plasma concentration of PEG was significantly higher at the end of the dark phase of the photoperiod than at the end of light, indicating a nighttime reduction in the rate of glomerular filtration (GFR, the route of PEG elimination). The rate of cloacal voiding of PEG also varied through the day. The rate was similar to the rate of PEG infusion from the minipump during most of the daylight hours. However, PEG excretion was signifcantly reduced during the dark phase and elevated during the first hours of light, a pattern that resulted from sequestering urine in the lower intestine during the night. To examine patterns of osmoregulation in the field, we also implanted minipumps into free-living sparrows. One to fiue days later we recaptured the birds and measured concentrations of PEG in plasma and urine. As in the laboratory, the GFR (and urine flow rate) tended to be lowest in the early morning and higher later in the day. This nocturnal reduction in GFR and cloacal voiding should contribute to minimizing water losses during the night.
30158617|Blinded, pinealectomized, or blinded and pinealectomized female channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) were placed with normal (unoperated on) control fish in outdoor tanks at constant temperature (21  2 C) or earthen ponds (ambient conditions) in February or August, when they were 21 or 27 mo old. Fish were sampled through the following reproductive season. The gonadosomatic index (GSI) and plasma estrogen concentration changed seasonally in 3-yr-old fish, but the changes were less marked or lacking in 2-yr-olds. The GSI levels of sexually mature (3 years old) fish peaked about a month earlier in the tanks than in the ponds; the estrogen peak for fish in the tanks was lower than that for pond fish. All experimental fish (both ages) in ponds delayed ovarian resorption for about 1 mo, compared with normal control fish. Exposure to constant 21 C water allowed earlier gonadal recrudescence. All groups of sexually mature fish that were surgically altered in August spawned during the following spring. Fish with eyes spawned earlier and had higher spawning percentages (control 68%, pinealectomized 75%) than did fish without eyes (blinded 50%, blinded and pinealectomized 56%). Neither the eyes nor the pineal is essential for spring gonadal maturation or for spawning in channel catfish, but one or both may have a role in timing these events. An annual internal oscillator that may be modified by environmental temperature is suggested as the primary control of reproductive cycling in the species. Light information obtained through the pineal, eyes, or both appears to affect the time of gonadal resorption.
30157896|Sand partridges and chukars (five each) were loaded orally with 4.5 ml 1.0 M NaCl/100 g body mass. During 2.25 h after loading, no individuals produced visible nasal salt secretion or tears; all five sand partridges produced anal excretion (mean fluid composition: 604 mOsm, 259 mmol Na, 260 mmol Cl/kg water), as did three of the chukars (678 mOsm, 368 mmol Na, 323 mmol Cl/kg water). Composition of anal fluid excreta suggests that the saline load caused a large increase in extracellular fluid osmolality, which should have elicited secretion if functional salt glands were present. Dissection of heads failed to show salt glands. Kidney masses were 22%-23% less than expected relative to body mass, which is also consistent with an absence of functional salt glands. It is concluded that sand partridges and chukars lack salt glands, and that other phasianid species are unlikely to possess them. This refutes a brief but widely quoted report of salt-gland secretion in sand partridges.
30158244|We investigated the reproductive energetics of two reed frogs, Hyperolius viridiflavus ommatostictus and Hyperolius marmoratus taeniatus. Rates of CO release of calling male H. viridiflavus ommatostictus reached values of 0.28-1.05 mL/g  h equivalent to an O consumption of 038-1.44 mL O/g  h. Mean estimated O consumption was 1.40 mL/g  h at an average call rate of 5,400 calls/h. The estimated net cost of calling was 33J/h for a 1.5g male. Lactate levels were higher after calling than after resting, but this was due to higher lactate concentrations in the limbs than in the rest of the body containing the trunk muscles used for calling. Thus, anaerobic metabolism does not contribute significantly to calling energetics. Assimilation efficiencies of juvenile H. marmoratus taeniatus and adult males and females of both species were 81.4% -87. 7%. The energy content of an average clutch was 3.73 kJ and 2.84 kJ for H. viridiflavus ommatostictus and H. marmoratus taeniatus, respectively. Net conversion efficiencies of females of both species measured directly as the actual proportion of energy invested in eggs were about 29% and are the first measurements of this kind in amphibians. Whole-body lipid content decreased significantly over the course of a simulated breeding season in male but not in female H. marmoratus taeniatus, suggesting that males may have difficulties replenishing fat stores while engaging in reproductive activity even under ad lib. feeding conditions.
30156055|Thoracic temperatures (
30159941|Oxygen consumption (
30163769|I conducted a field experiment to examine the use of body fat as an energy reserve by juvenile female Belding's ground squirrels, Spermophilus beldingi, prior to hibernation. Squirrels were divided into two groups: the squirrels in one group had their foraging times restricted by being placed in a cage for part of each day for four consecutive days (deprived group), and the squirrels in the other group foraged ad lib. (ad lib. group). The deprived group foraged in its normal habitat morning and evening but had access only to water and lettuce while captive. Total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC), an in vivo method of estimating fat-free mass, was used to follow changes in body composition. The deprived group lost mass, while the ad lib. group gained mass. Total body electrical conductivity measurements indicated that the deprived group lost fat-free mass and not fat, whereas mass gained by the ad lib. group was mostly fat. This is consistent with an emphasis on fat anabolism prior to hibernation. I also show that the TOBEC method is affected by variation in stomach contents, and I evaluate conditions under which an intraspecific calibration equation is needed
30158517|The effects of an acute reduction in temperature (from 17 to 8 C) on respiration and the uptake of benzo[a]pyrene, 2,2,5,5-tetrachlorobiphenyl, and naphthalene by the gills of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri Richardson) were investigated with a fish metabolic chamber. As the temperature was lowered, decreased respiratory functions coupled with decreased O and toxicant uptake efficiencies resulted in reduced O consumption and toxicant uptake. Changes in trout respiration had no consistent effect on either O or toxicant uptake efficiencies. Linear correlations were observed between O and toxicant uptake eficiencies and between O consumption and toxicant uptake. The reductions in O and toxicant uptake are attributed to the combined effects of temperature change on gill membrane permeability and on trout O demand. A framework for predicting changes in toxicant uptake on the basis of changes in O consumption is proposed based on quantitative relationships observed between O and toxicant uptake.
30156143|Egg temperatures, embryonic metabolism, and water loss from the eggs of two large surface-nesting and three small burrow-nesting Procellariiformes from high latitude were measured for comparison with tropical species of the order. Egg temperatures, measured using blown eggs of the respective species containing transmitters, averaged 32.0 C, slightly lower than that reported for most tropical Procellariiformes. However, the difference appears to be related to different methods used to measure egg temperature rather than to differences related to geographical distribution. Mean daily rates of water loss ranged from 1,062 mg day for the large wandering albatross to 117 mg day for the very much smaller Salvin's prion and were comparable to water loss rates from similarly sized eggs of tropical species. Embryonic oxygen consumption increased throughout incubation and prepipping levels ranged from 1,698 ml O day for wandering albatross to 221 ml O day for Salvin's prions, similar to that of tropical species with similarly sized eggs. However, total oxygen consumed by embryos over the entire incubation period was higher in high-latitude Procellariiformes than in their tropical counterparts as a result of elevated pip-to-hatch and hatchling oxygen consumptions. Elevated hatchling oxygen consumptions may be related to higher thermoregulatory demands of chicks of Procellariiformes reared at high latitudes.
30158524|Specific dynamic action (SDA) is defined as the increase in O consumption following the ingestion of a meal. This phenomenon has been observed for many years but is still not well understood. It has been suggested, however, that the metabolic cost associated with growth is the prime causative agent of SDA. The purpose of this study was to determine whether SDA could be artificially induced in the channel catfish by infusing an amino acid mixture directly into the bloodstream. The infusion of an essential amino acid (EAA) mixture equivalent to that in the protein of a standard ration (40 g kg) resulted in significant increases in O consumption and ammonia excretion. Plasma amino acid concentrations increased in accordance with O consumption and ammonia excretion rates. The infusion of a D-essential amino acid mixture did not cause a significant increase in O consumption or ammonia excretion. The increase in metabolism following EAA infusion was therefore not due to osmotic or physiological stress. The administration of the protein synthesis inhibitor cyclobeximide before the infusion of EAAs inhibited the increased O consumption rate characteristic of SDA. This offers further evidence of the relationship between SDA and protein synthesis.
30158245|The O consumption and CO production of embryonic snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) were measured during incubation on substrates differing in water potential. Embryos incubated on a substrate with a water potential of-150 kPa (relatively wet) consumed more O and produced more CO than embryos incubated on a substrate with a water potential of-850 kPa (relatively dry). However, the greater metabolic rate of embryos incubated on the wet substrate was entirely due to their larger size and does not represent an intensification of their metabolism. Nor did embryos incubated on the wet substrate convert yolk more efficiently compared with those incubated on the dry substrate. Incubation on the wet substrate did, however, enable embryos to follow the same growth trajectory longer than did embryos incubated on the dry substrate.
30161215|Under anaerobic conditions, the free-living nematode Panagrellus redivivus produces a range of acidic and neutral end products. The main acidic end product was lactate with lesser amounts of alanine, acetate, and propionate; the major neutral end product was ethanol with smaller amounts of glycerol and traces of acetoin. Apart from carbon dioxide, no other end products could be detected. During recovery from anaerobiosis, P. redivivus was found to be able to remetabolize the accumulated end products. The coproduction of ethanol and glycerol may provide a mechanism for reoxidizing mitochondrial NADH during anaerobiosis.
10.1086/515875|We studied tolerance for cold in hatchling painted turtles
30155801|Blood capillary and muscle fiber densities were measured in histological sections of heart and skeletal muscles of the fossorial mole rat (Spalax ehrenbergi) and compared with those of the white rat. Average capillary densities in the masseter, gastrocnemius, rectus abdominis, and heart of the mole rat are 860, 750, 300, and 2,340 per mm as compared with 490, 190, 190, and 1,420, respectively, in the white rat. The corresponding fiber densities are 680, 650, 540, and 3,430; and 510, 230, 280, and 2,280 per mm, respectively. The differences still exist when corrected for difference in body mass. Individual fiber area of the mole rat's muscles is one-half that of the rat. Erythrocyte diameter is 6.3 m for the mole rat and 7.0 m for the rat in accordance with the capillary diameter. The calculated tissue diffusion distance in the mole rat, 70% that of the rat, is regarded as an adaptation to fossoriality.
30155872|To determine the effects of abiotic thermal stresses on the eggs of white-crowned sparrows in two localities, we developed a general model of heat exchange by eggs in open-form ("cup") nests. Major routes of heat exchange are convective cooling and solar radiant heating. Metabolic heat production by the embryo and evaporation of water from the egg shell are not thermally important in outdoor environments. Equilibrium egg temperatures (an equivalent environmental temperature including the effects of convection and solar radiation when the parent is not on the nest) ranged from 10 to 45 C and were often at levels that would impede development. At a subalpine locality, the equilibrium egg temperature was always so low as to prevent development. At a montane locality at lower latitude, equilibrium egg temperatures were usually moderate but sometimes so high as to be lethal. Actual egg temperatures were rarely at equilibrium because the incubating female behaviorally compensated for low temperatures. Two types of compensation occurred. The female exploited transients in the thermal environment by scheduling her trips off the nest for times of relatively moderate temperature, and she exploited transients resulting from biophysical properties of the eggs by adjusting the length of her trips so as to prevent the eggs from cooling to very low temperatures. Trip length was significantly correlated with equilibrium egg temperature, as was the time of the trip during the day.
30164182|Studies on reptilian thermoregulation have been dominated by research on small diurnal lizards living in the temperate zone, in environments where thermoregulatory challenges are severe and the animals (i) consequently devote considerable time and effort to the maintenance of high stable body temperatures and (ii) are constrained in their times and places of activity by thermal factors. However, most reptiles live in the Tropics, in more thermally benign regions where the animal's ecology and behavior may be affected only trivially by thermoregulatory concerns. We present data on environmental temperatures and body temperatures of 26 radio-tracked water pythons (Liasis fuscus) in tropical Australia, to investigate the extent to which thermal considerations influence the day-to-day life of this species. Some effects are evident-for example, activity is reduced on cool nights, and gravid female pythons often bask in the few weeks prior to oviposition. Nonetheless, most pythons are able to maintain high and stable temperatures (approx. 30C) throughout the year without overt thermoregulatory activities, because (i) ambient temperatures are generally high, (ii) microhabitats with distinctive thermal characteristics are easily accessible, and (iii) the large body sizes of adult pythons confer a high degree of thermal inertia. Overall, there are few features of the ecology of this species that appear to be substantially influenced by thermoregulation. Before we can place thermoregulatory biology in its proper perspective, we will need considerably more data on the thermal biology of tropical reptiles.
30158577|Males of the amphipod crustacean Jassa falcata become physiologically sexually mature earlier than they become behaviorally mature. Although younger males (those without "thumbs" on their second pair of chelae) are fully fertile, they tend to remain in their own residential tubes. On the occasions when they are outside their tubes, they tend to evict receptive females from the latters' tubes and lose agonistic contests with "thumbed" males. In contrast, when males molt into their terminal stage (and acquire their "thumbs"), they tend to abandon their tubes to travel to receptive females and attend them closely until they copulate. They do not evict females. In addition, receptive females are less tolerant of the presence of a thumbless than a thumbed male. The data suggest, but do not establish, that the thumb functions as a label that permits females to distinguish males that intend to reproduce from other individuals. Thus, in the field, the majority of matings must be effected by thumbed males. Since thumbless males will continue to grow but thumbed males will not, it is hypothesized that the differences in their behavior are adaptations which maximize the formers' growth and the latters' reproductive success given a particularly harsh environment (a swift current that can dislodge animals outside their tubes). Maximizing growth is important, because larger thumbed males tend to win contests with smaller thumbed males for access to receptive females.
30155806|Ten soft-shelled turtles were heated and cooled in air and water (15, 35, 15 C). In water, all animals heated faster than they cooled. In still air, seven of nine animals tested cooled faster than they heated. Heart rates during warming exceeded heart rates during cooling at the same body temperature in air and water. Thermal time constants () were calculated in minutes, and regression formulas (with mass in kg) in water were
30163889|Is long-term sustained metabolic rate (SusMR) subject to a ceiling value? If so, what physiological or evolutionary factors impose that ceiling, and is the ceiling value independent of the type of energy stress? We determined food intake and daily digestible energy intake (DEI) as measures of SusMR, and resting metabolic rate (RMR), in mice that were energy stressed by being maintained at cold ambient temperatures. We compared these values with those from previous studies of mice that were energy stressed by peak lactation. We also measured intestinal brush-border nutrient uptakes, body lean and fat masses, and masses of the small intestine, heart, kidneys, and liver. Even with ad lib. quantities of a high-fat diet available, mice could not survive at temperatures below -15 C. Body mass declined at low temperatures because of depletion of body fat reserves. Food intake increased 2.5-fold, RMR 1.5-fold, and masses of the small intestine, heart, and kidneys by 30%-70% with a decrease in temperature from 23 C to -15 C. Intestinal hypertrophy served to restore the reserve capacity of intestinal nutrient transporters that would otherwise have been swamped by the increased food intake. The values reached by sustained metabolic scope (SusMR/RMR), food intake, and intestinal mass were still considerably below those of lactating mice, even though mice at temperatures below -15 C died in the presence of excess food. Thus, intestinal capacity was not the ultimate reason for an inability to survive at lower temperatures. Analysis of individual variation showed that those mice with unusually high food intake, DEI, or RMR tended to have unusually large hearts, kidneys, and intestines. Those organs are essentialfor high energy budgets (reflected in high DEIs), but they also incur large maintenance costs themselves (reflected in high RMRs).
30155847|Eleutherodactylus antillensis is a climbing frog that is widely distributed in grassy lowland habitats that often become dry between rainstorms. The closely related species E. coqui has an altitudinal range that extends from the same lowland sites occupied by E. antillensis to mountaintops that are almost continually wet. The frogs lose a substantial quantity of water by evaporation during activity on dry nights and can regain that water by absorption from the substrate of their daytime retreats. Lowland frogs of both species rehydrate more rapidly from aqueous solutions than highland E. coqui. When water uptake is expressed per cm of surface area, E. antillensis rehydrates more rapidly than E. coqui. This relationship probably represents differences in hormonal responses to dehydration. These responses are complex because the rate of water uptake is not related to solution water potential by a simple physical relationship. The small body sizes of E. antillensis and lowland E. coqui probably facilitate rehydration in natural habitats in which suitably moist substrates are limited in occurrence and area.
30155778|The effect of temperature acclimation on the concentration or activity of several proteins from whole epaxial muscle and from subsamples of oxidative and glycolytic fibers from goldfish, Carassius auratus, was measured. Activity of cytochrome oxidase was significantly higher and lactate dehydrogenase lower in muscle tissue of goldfish acclimated to 5 C compared with animals acclimated to 25 C. Markers of aerobic function, succinic dehydrogenase, and myoglobin increased with cold acclimation in both oxidative and glycolytic fibers but were greater in oxidative fibers. Myofibrillar ATPase activity increased significantly with cold acclimation in both classes of muscle fiber but more dramatically in glycolytic fibers. Based on concentrations of biochemical constituents, the proportion of oxidative fibers in epaxial muscle is greater in cold-acclimated goldfish than in those acclimated to warmer temperatures. Increases in both oxidative fiber proportion and myofibrillar ATPase activity of oxidative fibers may explain acclimatory compensation of locomotory performance at low to moderate swimming speeds. Compensation of myofibrillar ATPase activity of white fibers may underlie the homeokinetic nature of burst-speed performance.
30158525|The purpose of the study was to investigate the relationship between specific dynamic action (SDA) and the rate of protein synthesis following a simulated meal consisting of an essential amino acid infusion. After such an infusion, the O consumption rates of catfish approximately doubled, and the rate of protein synthesis in white muscle rose from 1.3 to 2.86 mg g d. After pretreatment with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, there was no significant SDA (defined as the increase in oxygen consumption) and the rate of protein synthesis fell to 0.34 mg g d. There was good agreement between the magnitude of the SDA observed, the magnitude of the increase in protein synthesis, and theoretical calculations of the expected metabolic costs of protein synthesis based on oxygen equivalents for ATP production and ATP requirements for protein formation. The results support the idea that SDA may be directly attributable to the cost of protein synthesis, and therefore to the metabolic cost of growth.
30156084|Chicks of fork-tailed storm-petrels (Oceanodroma furcata) are left unattended for several days following hatching. They achieve thermoregulatory ability at about 5 days of age and generally maintain body temperatures (
30164261|The locomotory and ventilatory activities and the intermediary and energy metabolism modifications of the hypogean amphipod Niphargus virei and the epigean isopod Asellus aquaticus were compared during severe hypoxia (<0.03 kPa) and subsequent recovery. The aims of this study were (1) to determine why the subterranean species displayed a greater tolerance of hypoxia than A. aquaticus and numerous other epigean crustaceans, (2) to confirm previous results obtained with the hypogean amphipod Niphargus rhenorhodanensis and the epigean amphipod Gammarus fossarum, (3) to provide an interspecific comparison of epigean species in order to see if responses showed by epigean amphipods during hypoxia and recovery can be extended to epigean isopods, and (4) to better understand the ecological problems of the hypogean organism's survival and perennation in subterranean habitats. Both organisms responded to long-term experimental severe hypoxia with classical anaerobic metabolism, characterized by a decrease in ATP and phosphagen, the use of glycogen and glutamate, and the accumulation of lactate (with some alanine). In addition, some accumulation of succinate was found in N. virei. Lactate (and succinate for N. virei) was also largely excreted by both amphipods, which is unusual for the crustacea in general Compared with A. aquaticus and most other epigean crustaceans, N. virei showed large amounts of stored glycogen and arginine phosphate. These differences in glycogen and phosphagen stores, and the ability to reduce glycolytic flux and energetic expenditures linked to locomotion and ventilation, extended the survival of hypogean crustaceans under experimental anaerobiosis (
30155971|Mean CO accumulation and O depletion in muskrat lodges in Manitoba increased five- to 10-fold between fall and winter, attaining maximum levels in February-March. Of 23 lodges examined in late winter, five had CO levels equal to or exceeding 3% (maximum 10%). Lodge CO level correlated with thermal gradient between nest chamber and external air but not with lodge wall thickness. Respiratory minute volume (
30155937|The volatilization of gaseous ammonia, NH, by terrestrial gastropods was examined in 11 shelled and four shell-less pulmonate species, and in one shelled prosobranch. All shelled species evolved gaseous NH at rates up to 29 moles NH/g live wt/day; and most rates were between 1.0 and 0.01 mole NH/g live wt/day. No slugs volatilized NH, but they did absorb up to 17.9 moles NH/g live wt/h from the atmosphere. The epidermal mucus of slugs appears to be responsible for absorption of NH. The role of NH in shell formation postulated by Campbell and Boyan in 1974 is supported by this study. I suggest that the NH-absorbing ability of slugs may function as a salvage mechanism for endogenous nitrogen.
10.1086/515919|This study examined daily and seasonal activity and thermoregulatory behaviour of the sleepy lizard,
30163783|The objective of the present study was to investigate putative interactions of reduced short chain fatty acid (SCFA) availability, induced by restricting food intake, with the absorption of electrolytes and water from the colons of two rodent species, the herbivorous Levant vole (Microtus guenteri) and an omnivorous laboratory mouse (Mus musculus). Following food restriction, cecal and colonic concentrations of acetate, propionate, and butyrate in the voles and mice were significantly reduced. Food restriction also reduced rates of water, SCFA, and sodium absorption from the perfused colon of the voles but had no effect on the mice. However, the exclusion of SCFAs from the perfusion solutions in the animals that were fed ad lib. decreased absorption rates of water and solutes in both voles and mice. Following food restriction, the exclusion of SCFAs had no effect on the absorption rates of water or of sodium in the voles, whereas in the laboratory mice, absorption rates of water and sodium decreased significantly. Ouabainsensitive ATPase activity in colon extracts of the food-restricted voles was 47% lower than that of the voles fed ad lib. In the mice, however, the change of the level of nutrition had no effect on the ouabain-sensitive ATPase activity. It is suggested that the capacity to adjust the rate of water absorption to the amount of fermentable substance in the intestine is of great advantage to a grazing herbivore that depends largely on the energy utilized by fermentation of cell-wall carbohydrates.
30158152|The molluscs are a diverse phylum with regard to the form and function of their cardiovascular systems. Recent work on the most advanced class, the Cephalopoda, has shown that regulation of ventricular stroke volume is of paramount importance in the delivery of oxygen to the tissues during exercise. Reviewing the literature indicates that, within the Mollusca, this might be a general strategy in the control of cardiac output. Studies on the isolated heart of the gastropod Busycon show how both intrinsic and extrinsic factors might achieve in vivo output regulation by controlling primarily the end diastolic volume. Again, the details of other studies that support this hypothesis are presented. Last in this paper, the effects of regulatory factors on the electrical activity of the isolated and working Busycon heart are considered in the context of what is known about the ionic bases of muscle excitability.
30156118|Neonatal lizards of the viviparous species Sceloporus jarrovi possess at birth a urinary bladder that contains a large amount (14% of body mass at birth) of very dilute (36 mosm/kg) urine. After birth, no additional urine is added to the bladder, and the fluid it contains declines in volume and increases in osmotic concentration as the bladder degenerates to the vestigial organ found in adults. Neonatal lizards can reabsorb the fluid in the bladder, and, under desiccating conditions, the reabsorbed fluid serves to maintain a constant plasma osmotic pressure (mean = 289 mosm/kg). However, after the bladder is empty, plasma osmolality increases to as high as 400 mosm/kg during dehydration. Lizards evaporatively lose water at a rate of 36 lday, but the reabsorption rate of water from the bladder is only 21 lday. Thus throughout the course of dehydration, the water content of the body (exclusive of the bladder) diminishes-but to a lesser extent when the bladder contains fluid than when it is empty. In neonatal lizards, the urinary bladder appears to be useful, as it is in amphibians, as an extrarenal osmoregulatory organ that can buffer body water compartments against osmotic perturbation.
30164191|Exchanges of calcium and other ions of biological significance in crustaceans take place between the hemolymph and environment across epithelial cell layers of the integument, gills, gut, and antennal glands (kidneys). During most of the life cycle these exchanges are modest and are largely osmoregulatory, but during periodic molting large movements of ions, particularly calcium, occur between the organism and its environment; these movements must be closely regulated in order for the animal to grow and strengthen its new exoskeleton. This article describes, for the first time, the brush border and basolateral epithelial calcium transport processes located in the hepatopancreas of the American lobster, Homarus americanus, and discusses their potential roles in calcium balance during the molt cycle. Three independent brush border membrane transport proteins control the uptake of calcium from the gastrointestinal lumen: (1) an amiloride-sensitive, electrogenic cation antiporter exchanging 1 Ca (or 2 Na) for a single intracellular monovalent cation (H or Na), (2) an amiloride-insensitive, probably electroneutral, cation antiporter exchanging 1 Ca for 2 Na (or 2 H), and (3) a verapamil- and amiloride-inhibited Ca channel. Likewise, the epithelial basolateral membrane of this digestive organ possesses three calcium transfer processes for cation exchange between cytoplasm and blood: (1) a Ca/Na antiporter of unknown stoichiometry but of relatively low apparent Ca binding affinity, (2) a high-afinity Ca-ATPase for cellular efflux, and (3) a verapamil-inhibited Ca channel for possible calcium uptake from the blood during premolt. The kinetic properties of these six hepatopancreatic transporters and their potential general distribution to other ion regulatory epithelia in crustaceans are discussed in this article.
30163877|We examine seasonal and interpopulational variation in field levels of corticosterone (B) in the lizard Uta stansburiana. Corticosterone is the primary reptilian glucocorticosteroid, and elevated levels of this hormone have been correlated with physiological stress under both field and laboratory conditions. Patterns of seasonal variation in plasma B were generally similar in males and females, with peaks coinciding with periods of peak reproductive activity (males) or peak reproductive condition (females). Levels of circulating B usually declined as the activity season progressed and were lowest in late summer, especially among males at desert sites-including our southernmost site, where lizards exhibited poor body condition as a result of drought. Variation in B levels among populations was probably attributable to variation in the timing of seasonal samples (e.g., in relation to peaks in reproductive activity). Apparently, these populations did not experience serious (i.e., debilitating) physiological stress, as the highest recorded levels were lower than those of captive-stressed U. stansburiana. This suggests that corticosterone levels simply parallel annual patterns of activity, especially reproduction. These findings agree with other studies that have indicated a positive, rather than a negative, association between glucocorticosteroid secretion and reproductive activity. These results also suggest that basal (baseline) levels of B in free-living animals may not be indicative of the degree of "stress."
30163832|Membrane potential (
30158628|In addition to an extracellular acidosis in which blood metabolic acid load greatly exceeded lactate load, exhaustive activity in starry flounder resulted in an intracellular acidosis of largely metabolic origin in the white muscle, with intracellular pH dropping from 7.56 to 7.27, as measured by DMO distribution. An accumulation of lactate and depletion of glycogen in addition to a shift of fluid from the extracellular to intracellular space were associated with the postexercise acidosis. Pyruvate levels increased in blood and later in muscle; the relative rise in pyruvate was greater than that in lactate so the lactate:pyruvate ratio declined. The muscle intracellular acidosis was corrected sooner than the extracellular acidosis (4-8 h vs. 8-12 h). The restoration of muscle pHi was associated with an increase in pyruvate, a restoration of glycogen stores, and clearance of the lactate load. It is suggested that both lactate and acidic equivalents (H) were cleared from the muscle via in situ oxidation and/or glyconeogenesis and that the rapid correction of the intracellular acidosis through efflux of part of the H load facilitated metabolic recovery. The liver showed a progressive alkalinization after exercise. This alkalinization was of metabolic origin and not associated with lactate accumulation. Except for a short-lived depression 0.5 h after exercise, red cell intracellular pH remained virtually constant.
30157888|The respiratory responses of the sea anemone Bunodosoma cavernata to declining oxygen tensions were measured polarographically. In general, the pattern of
30164246|The pattern of nitrogen excretion during different stages of anuran development has been well documented, but, unlike for teleost fish, very little is known about how water quality influences nitrogen metabolism and excretion. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of elevated environmental ammonia concentrations on ammonia and urea excretion and metabolism in premetamorphic and adult bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana). Tadpoles were exposed to 1 mmol/L NHCl for 48 h or 7 d, whereas adult bullfrogs were exposed to 1 and 5 mmol/L NHCI (at waterpH 8. 1 or 9.2) for 48 h. In both tadpoles and adult frogs, there was an initial period, lasting 24-48 h, in which the ammonia diffusion gradient was reversed (from water to animal) and ammonia was taken up by the animal. Ammonia excretion rates were eventually reestablished (days 2-3), despite continued exposure to elevated external ammonia levels. Subsequent to the inhibition of ammonia excretion, urea excretion rates increased in both tadpoles (100%-250%) and adult bullfrogs (65%-70%). The activity of the key regulatory enzyme in the ornithine-urea cycle, carbamoylphosphate synthetase I, was relatively low in tadpole liver tissue and was not induced precociously by ammonia exposure. Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I activity was comparatively high in adult bullfrogs but was not altered by external ammonia. Likewise, hepatic uricase, allantoinase, allantoicase, and glutamine synthetase activities were not affected by ammonia exposure in both tadpoles and adult bullfrogs. These findings indicate that both ammonotelic tadpoles and ureotelic adult bullfrogs respond to environmental ammonia by increasing the rate of urea excretion without increasing the activities of ureagenic enzymes.
30156040|Mitochondria were isolated from the liver of the desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis. The kinetics (
30152584|The mass of the wedge-tailed shearwater (PuJfinus pacificus chlororhychus) egg is approximately the same as that of the chicken (60 g), but the incubation period is more than twice as long (52 days vs. 21 days) and the water vapor conductance,
30158501|We measured field metabolic rates (FMR) of female Savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) during the incubation period for a resident population living in Baja California, Mexico. We used a single-sample variant of the doubly labeled water (DLW) method that did not require extended capture time for equilibration of isotopes and hence reduced stress. Simultaneously with the DL Wmeasurements, measurements of operative temperatures were made by means of taxidermic mounts. After calculating standard operative temperatures for each female that we injected, we partitioned FMR into maintenance metabolism (basal plus thermoregulatory costs) and the energy available for other activities such as foraging and providing heat to eggs. Carbon dioxide production averaged 128.9 12.2 mL CO/h, or 76.1 kJ/d, for incubating female sparrows (N = 16). Female mass averaged 18.71.0 g; all females lost mass during FMR measurement, with an average change of -2.6%. Values for maintenance metabolism ranged from 42.0% to 68.5% of FMR, averaging 55.1%. Though incubating females had FMRs similar to those of females feeding nestlings, their available foraging time was reduced by more than 50%. Because of this reduction in foraging time and added energy expenditure to warm eggs, we suggest that, during incubation, considerations of energy balance may be important to the female, whose mate provides little or no assistance.
30157879|Meadow jumping mice held under LD 12:12 are more prone to prepare for and enter hibernation than animals held under LD 15.33:8.67, regardless of the temperature. Also, rhythms in body weight and hibernating-nonhibernating activity were demonstrated under LD 12:12 but not under LD 15.33:8.67. Seven of 11 animals responded to clock-shifted, naturally decreasing daylengths by preparing for and entering hibernation during a simulated time span corresponding to animals in nature. Therefore, it appears that Zapus hudsonius uses a photoperiod cue for preparation and initiation of hibernating, in contrast to Z. princeps, which uses seed availability.
30163805|The cost of feather production,
30155950|In controlled laboratory conditions, oxygen uptake, rectal temperature, total and respiratory evaporative water loss, and respiratory frequencies in the slender mongoose (Herpestes sanguineus) were measured at ambient temperatures of 5, 10, 20, 26, 31, and 43 C. Except at 43 C the experimental runs were for more than 3 h. In other experiments, oxygen uptake, level of motor activity and intra-abdominal temperatures were recorded over 24-h duration. Within the thermal neutral zone (
30157900|Oxygen consumption of freshly captured little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus) was monitored throughout the day- and night-roosting periods. The laboratory protocol simulated average roost conditions. The bats were allowed to cluster together inside a metabolic chamber made from a wooden beam; ambient temperatures were changed every 90 min and mimicked normal circadian changes measured inside an actual roost. Based on measured rates of oxygen consumption and data from the literature, daily energy expenditure of M. lucifugus in mid to late pregnancy was 32.58 kJ bat day; energy costs during peak lactation were 49.11 kJ bat day, or 50.7% greater than the cost of late pregnancy. There was no indication of daily torpor in pregnant, lactating, or postlactating bats; body temperature was apparently between 34 and 39 C throughout the roosting periods.
10.1086/515896|The goal of this experiment was to determine whether the type of tight supplyanddemand relationship between cardiac output and metabolic demand for O
30163791|The ability of Gecarcoidea natalis to assimilate salts, nitrogen, energy, and fiber components from fallen leaves of Ficus macrophylla and Erythrina variegata was examined. Dry matter and energy assimilation coefficients were very similar (41% for dry matter and 46% for energy). Assimilation of N was 39%  12.15% and 49.2%  16.03% on diets of Ficus and Erythrina, respectively, and respective N retentions were approximately 1.5 and 4.2 mmol  kg  d. Neutral detergent-soluble materials were the main components of dry matter assimilation in both diets (assimilation coefcients of 42.7%  12.6% and 58.3%  9.3%, respectively). Hemicellulose in the leaves of Ficus was well assimilated (49.2%  10.2%) and was a major component of assimilated dry matter but was poorly assimilated from Erythrina leaves (14%  14.2%). A substantial ability to digest cellulose in both leaf types was evident (assimilation coefficients of 42.6%  9.7% and 37.7%  15.6%, respectively). Lignin assimilation was very low on leaves of Erythrina (8.7%  12.2%), and the high assimilation of lignin from leaves of Ficus (39.1%  11.9%) may have represented tannins. Assimilation of salts from the leaves was low for K (14% and 17% for Ficus and Erythrina, respectively), higher for Na (33.6% and 47.4%) and Ca (40.1% and 34.1%), and maximal for Mg (52.6% and 65.9%). The retention time measured on a diet of Erythrina was quite short (mean retention time of 11.6  5.42 h), indicating a fairly rapid passage of digesta.
30163905|Chicken eggs subjected to a sinusoidally varying input of heat from a brood patch experience sinusoidally varying egg temperatures. As the embryo matures, steady and transient egg temperatures become more uniform, declining about 0.8 C at the brood patch and increasing from 0. 4 to 0. 8 C in the more peripheral regions of the egg. The increasing homogeneity of egg temperature is reversed by killing the embryo. Steady resistance of the egg declines from 41.9 C W at the start of incubation to an average of 33.8 C W by the end and is independent of the period of variation of brood patch heat output. Capacitative reactance of the egg declines about 10% through incubation in concert with an average 10% mass loss by the egg. Capacitative reactance is strongly dependent on the period of the heat input, increasing from 27.8 C W at a period of 120 min to 151 C W at a period of 20 min. Thermal impedance declines roughly 12% throughout the incubation period, which is attributable in similar parts to increasing circulation within the egg and to the declining mass of the egg. The time constant for the warming of a contact-incubated egg declines from 13.1 min at the start of incubation to 11.4 min at the end. There is no evidence of hysteresis in the heating and cooling rates of the egg. The time constant for temperature change of a contact-incubated chicken egg is considerably shorter than that of an egg cooling in air. The importance of these results for understanding the energetics of intermittent incubation is discussed.
30158588|Effects of various combinations of photoperiod and temperature on testicular recrudescence and secretory activity of seminal vesicles was examined during the postspawning and preparatory periods of the reproductive cycle. Studies revealed that the catfish is a seasonal breeder and that the rate of testicular recrudescence shows a positive correlation with an increase in ambient photoperiod and temperature. Irrespective of the photoperiodic regime, testicular recrudescence in catfish, Heteropneustes fossilis, maintained at ambient temperature was not initiated until the water temperature reached ~20 C. A combination of long photoperiod (14L:10D) at 25 C produced significant testicular recrudescence and secretory activity of seminal vesicles. The response under 14L:10D at 30 C was not significantly higher than that in 14L:10D at 25 C. The optimum temperature for the initiation of spermatogenesis and secretory activity of the seminal vesicles appears to be ~25 C. Even under constant photothermal conditions (12L:12D, continuous light and continuous darkness), gonadal response occurred as a function of warm temperature; however, it is also presumed that the testicular cycle is also regulated in part by an endogenous circannual rhythm.
30158562|Cardiovascular facilitative movements (CFM) consist of lateral undulations which move rapidly along the body length independently of locomotion and characteristically in an anterior direction. The movements are observed in terrestrial and arboreal species of snakes during experimental hypotension in the laboratory or during climbing and assuming vertical postures in the wild. CFMs are not observed in aquatic snakes, which normally do not experience gravitational disturbance of the circulation. The CFM increases venous return to the heart and augments the ventricular output. Thus, CFMs are shown to increase both venous and arterial pressures and systemic arterial blood flow. Such hemodynamic "improvements" may persist for several minutes and are maintained by repeated bouts of the movements at strategic intervals. Respiratory and locomotory movements may also increase arterial pressures, but stereotyped CFMs are relatively more effective and presumably evolved specifically to assist the blood circulation.
30158171|Experimental and supporting data from the literature are presented which show that during incubation in many birds' eggs (1) some degree of shell thinning occurs, which in some species causes an increase in the water vapor conductance of the eggshell, and (2) egg temperature, and therefore the water vapor pressure inside the egg, increases. Either one of these factors will result in an increase in the rate of water loss. Thus, an increase in the rate of water loss during incubation is probably a common phenomenon in birds' eggs. Two distinct patterns of water loss are evident. The first is typical of nonpasserine precocial species, in which the rate of mass loss increases steadily, especially late in incubation. The second is found in small passerine eggs where the rate of mass loss increases over the first half of incubation and then remains relatively constant.
30161226|The mass and heat transfer coefficients were determined for the parchment-shelled eggs of 11 reptile species. The eggs experience high rates of water loss in atmospheres that are less than saturated with water vapor. The concomitant transfer of heat that occurs as water evaporates is sufficient to lower the temperature of the egg well below ambient temperature. The mass transfer coefficients vary from 71,102 mgdaymkpa for the smallest eggs (<1 g) to 55,789 mgdaymkpa for the largest eggs (>10 g). The water vapor conductance of the parchment-shelled eggs ranged from 483 mgday  kpa for the .32-g eggs of the lizard Eremias to 5,155 mgdaykpa for the 23-g eggs of the snake Spalerosophis. The egg conductances are two orders of magnitude greater than reported for bird eggs of similar mass and are composed of an eggshell conductance and an external film (boundary layer) conductance. The eggshell conductance and the external film conductance appear to be of similar magnitude; thus, for parchment-shelled eggs, the external film of gas surrounding the egg presents a quantitatively important resistance to water vapor exchange. Buried or partially buried eggs will have a water vapor conductance for the fraction of the shell that is buried which will not include the film conductance. The water vapor conductance of the fraction of the egg which is buried will thus be substantially greater than that of the unburied fraction. The convective heat transfer coefficients which we measured averaged 21.4 (SD 4.6) WmC. This value is appropriate for spherically shaped objects experiencing free convection. Heat loss caused by metabolic energy conversion inside the egg will have an important effect on the exchange of water vapor and heat by the egg.
30164230|The morphometrics of the respiratory system, voluntary emersion behaviour, and gas exchange during immersion and emersion were examined in the amphibious, intertidal crab Hemigrapsus nudus. The area of the gills
30162288|Male salmon (Salmo salar), 4 years old and weighing 500 g, were injected with 17--estradiol, 10 mg/kg body weight, once a week for 3 wk. Overall protein synthesis in liver and vitellogenin content in blood serum were determined and correlated with myosin synthesis in epaxial muscle. Translation activity in liver per mg of ribosomal RNA increased from 394.5  24.8 to 743.5  47.8 pmol leucine incorporated into protein. Immunoblotting of the incubated liver homogenates showed a protein containing vitellogenin antigen sites in the induced but not the control liver. The immunologically active band coincided with radioactivity seen on the autoradiograph. The vitellogenin content rose from 5 g/ml or less to 11.5  2.0 mg/ml of serum indicating a high vitellogenin synthesis in liver. In contrast, myosin associated with actively translating ribosomes of the epaxial muscle decreased from 0.223 to 0.054 mg/mg of DNA. The polyribosome distribution showed a similar trend of metabolic changes in both liver and epaxial muscle. The results indicate an efficient synthesis of vitellogenin in the liver during induction with 17--estradiol, while synthesis of the major contractile protein myosin heavy chain in epaxial muscle was decreased.
30158624|Eggs of bull snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus) were incubated at temperatures of 22.0, 27.0, and 32.0 C on substrates with water potentials of -150, -300, and -1,100 kPa using a 3 X 3 factorial design. The thermal and hydric environments affect fluxes in water between eggs and their surroundings during the course of incubation. Eggs incubated at low temperature (22.0 C) and on wet substrate (-150 kPa) gain the greatest amount of mass during incubation, while eggs incubated at high temperature (32.0 C) on dry substrate (-1100 kPa) lose the greatest amount of mass. The proportion of eggs that hatch is lower at the low temperature, while incubation at the high temperature results in a greater proportion of hatchlings with abnormalities. In general, eggs incubated at the intermediate temperature produce larger hatchlings than do eggs held at either low or high temperatures. While the hydric environment does not affect hatching success, eggs exposed to wet or moist hydric conditions give rise to larger hatchlings than do eggs exposed to dry conditions. Both temperature and water availability affect the composition of hatchlings.
30163779|Behavioral thermoregulation is well documented in insects; however, the physiological consequences of this behavior are poorly understood. In this study, we investigate thermal effects on feeding, digestion, and net energy intake for Melanoplus bivittatus, the two-striped grasshopper. In the field, M. bivittatus maintained body temperatures (
10.1086/515419|Numerous studies have demonstrated how the performance physiology of fish may change when they are acclimated to designated laboratory temperatures, but few researchers have examined naturally occurring seasonal effects on several physiological parameters associated with swimming performance. Using fieldacclimatized smallmouth buffalo (Ictiobus bubalus) collected each season, we report significant seasonal effects in the following variables: critical swimming speed (modified), metabolic rate (standard, active, and scope for activity), and swimming efficiency (total and net cost of transport). Underlying seasonal changes in performance was the reproductive cycle of buffalo, particularly the period of fall gonadal recrudescence. Compared with spring, fall buffalo had a significantly lower mean critical swimming speed (72%) and lower active metabolic rate (53%), even when tested at similar temperatures. During spring, buffalo had a high mean critical swimstandard ming speed and low net cost of transport in comparison with seaother seasons. Buffalo are known to participate in a spring migration and spawning that may require the increased performance and efficiency observed during that season. In addition, significant sex effects were detected in winter measurements of standard metabolic rate and net cost of transport, with females the more efficient swimmers,
30155846|Evaporative water loss rates are reported for the soft-shelled turtle Trionyx spiniferus at 15 C, 25 C, and 35 C. Area specific water loss rates per unit vapor pressure saturation deficit show no animal size dependence. Skin resistance to water loss also shows no animal size dependence. A method of calculation of skin resistance from water loss rate and temperature measurements is presented.
30152581|The mean body temperatures of the three species of Cnemidophorus were high both in the field and in the laboratory thermal gradient. Individual variation about the mean temperature was small, indicating precise thermoregulation, and the mean body temperatures (MBTs) were not significantly different for the three species. Mean body temperatures measured in the laboratory thermal gradient were slightly higher than temperatures recorded in the field. All three species displayed a similar posture when heating rapidly. The animals thermoregulated by shuttling between warm and cool areas, and this behavior resulted in sinelike fluctuations of body temperature (BT) with time. Sampling temperatures at 30-s intervals allowed analysis of short-term trends in BT and comparison of the characteristics of the sinelike curves for the three species. The average amplitude and period of the sinelike curves were compared for each species and were significantly different. The small amplitudes (less than 1.33 C) and short average periods (less than 4 min) are indicative of considerable thermoregulatory precision. The average heating and cooling rates were also computed and were found to be not significantly different, although the species were significantly different in size (both snout-vent length and weight). The parthenogenetic triploid C. uniparens was the most thermophilic, the most precise thermoregulator, and lived in the coldest habitat of the three species.
30158284|Urechis caupo inhabit U-shaped burrows in mudflats where they are exposed to toxic hydrogen sulfide. During tidal exposure sulfide levels average 27M and oxygen levels average 77 mmHg. The oxygen consumption rate (
30158598|Mink fitted with subcutaneous telemetry transmitters showed a rapid bradycardia on voluntary or involuntary submersion; heart rate fell abruptly by 86% in the latter case. Water flow through the trachea and nares during lung deflation produced a rapid, but less profound, bradycardia in mink treated with urethane and gallamine. Neither of these stimuli presented alone was as effective in reducing cardiac frequency; water flow produced a smaller transient bradycardia, while lung deflation produced a slowly developing bradycardia. These findings suggest that in the mink, as in the cat, lung deflation serves to "gate" the impingement of potential cardiac depressor stimuli such as those from upper airway receptors on cardiac vagal motor neurones, while itself biasing the heart toward bradycardia. The influence of the peripheral chemoreceptors on bradycardia in mink was ambiguous: hyperoxic, urethane-anesthetized mink showed no alleviation of diving bradycardia compared to normoxic controls, but hyperoxia partially alleviated the slowly developing bradycardia associated with lung deflation after treatment with gallamine-suggesting an influence from the peripheral chemoreceptors. In mink fitted with arterial-venous (A-V) loops, PaO was higher at the end of those 30-s asphyxic periods in which the onset of bradycardia was rapid. The adaptive significance of the rapid onset of bradycardia during voluntary head submersion may be that the prompt cardiovascular adjustments serve to maintain PaO during short periods of asphyxia in this unspecialized diver.
30163747|Harp seal (Phoca groenlandica) pups were studied during a 32-d postweaning fast. Body weight was reduced to 69%  0.8% (standard error of the mean [SEM]) of initial value during this period. The plasma level of glucose remained stable at 10.2  0.3 (SEM) mM, while blood -hydroxybutyrate and plasma free fatty acids (FFAs) increased by factors of 27 and 2.1 from initial levels of 0.06  0.01 (SEM) mM and 1.44  0.17 (SEM) mM, respectively. Repeated bolus injections of
30155990|The metabolic responses to graded levels of exercise were determined for three species of anuran amphibians (Bufo americanus, Hyla crucifer, and Rana sylvatica). Both oxygen consumption (
30156101|Thermoregulation during swimming and resting in water was investigated for the North American mink (Mustela vision, Schreber) in summer and winter pelage by measuring total heat production, heat storage, and minimum thermal conductance. Swimming activity over the range of 0.13-0.60 ms resulted in heat losses that exceeded metabolic heat production within 5 min of immersion. This imbalance, manifested as a decline in core body temperature (core
30159988|Photosensitive ovariectomized starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were transferred from short days (8L:16D) to long days (13L:11D) or to very long days (18L:6D). In birds transferred to 18L:6D, plasma LH levels decreased from maximal to minimal levels by 6 wk as photorefractoriness developed. In birds transferred to 13L:11D, the onset of photorefractoriness was slower, and LH reached minimal levels by 12 wk. Both groups of birds molted; those on 18L:6D began 7 wk after transfer from 8L: 16D, and those on 13L:11D began after 12 wk. Once molt had begun, it progressed at the same rate in both groups. After 24 wk, the birds on 18L:6D were subdivided into three groups; one was transferred to 8L:16D, another to 13L:11D, and the third was kept on 18L:6D. The birds on 13L:11D were also subdivided after 24 wk; one group was transferred to 18L:6D, another 8L:16D, and the third was kept on 13L:11D. In those birds transferred to 8L:16D, whether from 18L:6D or 13L:11D, plasma LH increased from minimal to maximal levels between 4 and 6 wk later, as photorefractoriness was terminated. In all other groups, plasma LH remained at minimal levels for the next 18 wk, indicating that 13L:11D is not perceived as a short day after exposure to 18L:6D. In those birds transferred from 13L:11D to 18L:6D, a second molt began 4 wk after transfer. These results provide further evidence that, in birds which become absolutely refractory, the overriding effect of long days is to switch the reproductive system off, while short days switch it on, and they also demonstrate that critical daylength does not change during exposure to long days. This is discussed in relation to birds whose breeding season is not terminated by absolute photorefractoriness.
30164249|The tilapia Oreochromis alcalicus grahami is a unique ureotelic teleost, the only fish that lives in the alkaline hotsprings of Lake Magadi, Kenya. Physical conditions and fish behavior were monitored in the Fish Springs Lagoon area, a site where the tilapia were particularly abundant. Water Po and temperature fluctuated more or less in parallel in a diurnal cycle from less than 20 Torr and less than 25 C at night to greater than 40 Torr and 38 C during the day, whereas pH remained constant at approximately 9.8. Field laboratory tests demonstrated that routine
30163799|Resting metabolic rates (RMR) and respiratory quotients (RQ) were measured in seven gray seals, Halichoerus grypus (three adults and four juveniles), at different times of day. Resting metabolic rates did not change significantly throughout the day. The lack of detectable diel changes in RMR may be attributed to the large body mass of the animals or to limitations of the experimental design. Respiratory quotient values differed significantly with time of day, being higher in the morning compared with other time periods. Further analysis indicated that apparent changes in RQ could be attributed to the confounding effect related to duration of food deprivation. Once corrected for this effect, RQ did not change in relation to time of day. The latter result suggests that gray seals may enter a starvation state after 24 h of food deprivation.
30156175|Proximate constraints on the energetics of desert lizards and turtles fall into four major categories: (1) absolute resource availability; (2) harvest rate limitations; (3) process rate limitations; and (4) limitation on harvest or processing resources imposed by risk of predation. Patterns of basking behavior and allocation of resources to reproduction and growth of turtles at high latitudes suggest that ambient air and marsh temperatures combine to regulate the timing and rates of energy processing and allocation. Because reptile eggs contain all of the chemical energy available to developing embryos, interactions between the level of parental investment in each offspring and egg size must, by definition, occur. That portion of the egg material that is invested in the egg but functions as parental care of the hatchling after it leaves the egg functions primarily to affect hatchling quality rather than hatchling size. Therefore, with regard to many reptiles, optimal egg-size models would be more aptly considered to be optimal offspring-quality models.
30156047|Thermoregulatory capacities of newly hatched and developing capercaillie chicks (Tetrao urogallus) were studied. Metabolic rate and body temperature measurements were conducted at ambient temperatures (
30163943|The circadian pacemakers controlling rhythms of wheel-running activity of male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) from two breeding colonies responded differently to single and repeated light pulses as well as to various constant light intensities. These differences were examined further (1) to test the principal features of Pittendrigh and Daan's entrainment model and (2) to test whether the differences were of genetic origin or determined by preexperimental conditions. In accordance with the "discrete entrainment" model, the circadian rhythms were entrained by light-dark cycles consisting of repetitive short light pulses when each pulse fell at that phase of the rhythm which is characterized by a response that equals the difference between the period of the rhythm () and that of the entraining light cycle (Zeitgeber). According to this implication, the different amplitudes of the phase response curves (PRC), derived from effects of single pulses, in the two stocks of hamsters were correlated with different ranges of entrainment of the activity rhythms by repeated light pulses of the same intensity and duration. The differences observed in hamsters of the two stocks were not genetically determined but could be interpreted as being based on different physiological states of the circadian pacemaker system associated with different phase relations between two coupled oscillators.
30164270|Insects overwinter in subfreezing environments by seeking thermal refugia and using physiological strategies of freeze tolerance or freeze resistance. We describe hibernacula locations, thermal conditions, and freeze resistance by supercooling for yellowjacket queens, Vespula vulgaris, and adult green stinkbugs, Elasmostethus interstinctus, overwintering in interior Alaska. Insects were located in leaf litter in open forest understory during mid-September. Yellowjackets were found hanging by their mandibles underneath leaves, while stinkbugs were found scattered in the duff Both V. vulgaris and E. interstinctus were freeze intolerant, killed by slow cooling to an exotherm, when tested after acclimation to O C or after natural winter acclimatization. Hibernating insects collected in early fall supercooled to between -9 and- 10 C; crystallization temperatures (supercooling points) decreased to -16. 4  1.7 C for V. vulgaris and - 16.9  0.7 C for E. interstinctus collected from the litter in spring. Two weeks of treatment at O C in fall was suficient to lower crystallization temperatures in V. vulgaris to spring levels. When cooled while in contact with snow, insect supercooling capacity was substantially compromised, which suggests that dry conditions, posture, and position of queens are important for winter survival Insect hibernacula were insulated from winter air temperatures (averaging- 19.4 C, with extremes of -40C) by the overlaying duff and 60 cm of snow. Thermal conditions measured next to overwintering V. vulgaris averaged -6.5 + 1.8 C and cooled no further than -13.3 C, which suggests that winter mortality due to freezing of supercooled insects is rare.
30156174|Physiological and biophysical processes interact with a suite of environmental factors to produce important patterns in the population ecology of terrestrial vertebrate ectotherms. We develop a mechanistic approach to understanding the relative contributions of these interactions. Our approach requires a distinction between a life history and a life-history phenotype and allows the incorporation of system-specific trade-offs and constraints in a manner that facilitates the generation of testable predictions for specific populations or sets of populations. We define operant sources of selection and the effects of these averaged over the lifetime of individuals exposed to different environmental factors (available foraging microhabitats, mate availability, preferred egg sites), and synthesize a probabilitistic definition of a life history. We apply this approach to understanding geographic variation in several life-history characters in the saxicolous, iguanid lizard Sceloporus merriami.
30163795|Absorption of
30158447|Pulmonary shunts in seals and sea lions were determined before and during dives to simulated depths up to 100 m. Five young harbor seals weighing 36-50 kg and two young sea lions weighing 21-40 kg were dived in a compression chamber. Before and during the dives, blood samples were obtained from the aorta and usually the pulmonary artery. Arterial O, and CO tensions, hemoglobin concentration, and venous O contents were determined. From these data the physiological pulmonary shunt of the lung could be calculated. These shunts ranged from 8.4% at the surface to a pulmonary shunt due to compression of over 70% during a dive to 100 m. As discussed, structure of the terminal airways might be expected to affect the rate that alveoli would compress and develop shunts. However, we conclude that at pressures of less than 8 atm (equivalent to 70-m depth) there is not a marked difference in the degree of compression shunt between sea lions and harbor seals even though there are striking differences in terminal airway anatomy.
30166351|Muscle fibers were isolated from myotomes of the Atlantic cod atpoints 0.35 and 0.90 of the distance from the snout to the caudalpeduncle (
30158556|Emperor penguins (Aptenodytes forster), elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris), and sperm whales (Physeter catodon) have been shown to dive to considerable depths (265 m, 1,500 m, and 1, 140 m, respectively). These animals must cope with extreme changes in hydrostatic pressure as they dive. The effects of hydrostatic pressure on the Michaelis-Menten constant,
30156145|Gopherus polyphemus is a terrestrial and fossorial tortoise that spends extended periods in burrows where the CO concentrations may reach 6%-7% and O may fall to 12%. Terrapene carolina is a terrestrial turtle that is sympatric with the gopher tortoise but is not fossorial. The standard metabolic rates (SMR) of the two species are similar when the data are adjusted for differences in body size. The critical oxygen tension (
30155991|Individual Calyptogena magnifica are able to regulate their oxygen consumption rates down to low partial pressures of oxygen. Their rates of oxygen consumption are comparable to those of active shallow-living bivalves at comparable temperatures. Rates of carbon dioxide production relative to oxygen consumption in the absence of sulfide indicate a predominately heterotrophic metabolism. Calyptogena magnifica individuals do not show significant uptake of methane so this is unlikely to be an important external metabolite for these clams. Sulfide levels in the blood and gills of freshly recovered clams were high (up to 1.9 mM) and were generally in excess of estimated environmental sulfide levels (<0.2 mM). Sulfur-metabolizing ability (measured as ATP sulfurylase activity) of the gill tissue including endosymbiotic bacteria was substantial and variable, suggesting microhabitat variation. Blood serum separated from erythrocytic Hb showed marked sulfide accumulation and may function for sulfide transport as well as to protect the sulfide-sensitive hemoglobin by binding free sulfide. The hypothesis that C. magnifica may take up sulfide through the foot (which is extended into the vent water in the rock fissures) and transport it to the bacteria in the gills via the sulfide-binding component in the blood serum while simultaneously taking up oxygen and carbon dioxide through the siphon (which is extended upward into the ambient bottom water) is explored.
30155811|Gas samples were taken from the nest chambers of bank swallows (Riparia riparia) and analyzed for CO and O content. The mean CO content was 2.62% with a maximum value of 5.58%, and the mean O content was 17.83% with a minimum value of 14.61%. There was a positive and significant correlation of increasing CO content with both increasing nestling age and increasing total metabolizing mass (adults plus young). With increasing metabolizing mass there is a linear increase in CO content, which suggests no active regulation of gas concentrations. Burrow depth also affected CO, particularly in burrows with older nestlings. The effect of depth is most likely due to the relative importance of convective exchange rather than to diffusion. The increase in CO was proportional to the decrease in O with a ratio of CO:O equal to 0.86.
30156096|This study evaluated the relations between eggshell conductance to water vapor (
30152543|In Trichopsis vittatus, two independent bilateral muscles inserting on separate suprabranchial organs displace these organs and set the air-filled suprabranchial cavities surrounding each organ into vibration to produce the characteristic croaking sound. Histological examination shows the fibers of the sonic muscles to be about one-third the diameter of dorsal body wall muscle fibers. Severing one of the bilateral muscles results in the elimination of alternate tone bursts in sounds recorded afterward. Similarly, puncturing one of the suprabranchial cavities results in sounds in which alternate tone bursts have a drastically reduced intensity. These results indicate that the pulses of sound in each tone burst are produced by a series of contractions of one bilateral muscle and that this series of contractions alternates with a series of contractions produced by the bilateral muscle on the other side. The swim bladder, in turn, amplifies the sounds produced by both suprabranchial cavities. Filling the swim bladder with water results in sounds in which all tone bursts have a reduced intensity. The posterior air-filled body cavity, on the other hand, does not play a significant role in sound production.
30156222|Many physiologically important adjustments of metabolic activities are achieved by modifying the assembly states of proteins. These assembly-state changes involve the reversible aggregation of the subunits of multi-subunit proteins and the reversible binding of enzymes to other enzymes or to structural components of cells (compartmentation). Adaptive shifts in protein assembly states are key elements in both rapid metabolic adjustments, such as those occurring in transitions from slow to rapid muscular activity, and longer-term metabolic changes, such as those associated with different types of dormancy. Changes in subunit assembly state allow sharp "on-off" regulation of enzymes, as manifested in the regulation of phosphofructokinase (PFK) and trehalase activities by transitions in pH. Changes in the aggregation states of multiprotein complexes alter the proximity of the several enzymes composing apathway, thereby altering the eiciency of metabolite transfer among enzymes of the sequence. Aggregation also may facilitate interaction between enzymes that generate a metabolite, for example, ATP, with other enzymes using this metabolite. The binding of glycolytic enzymes to the myofibrillar apparatus is a case in point. The enhancement of metabolic regulatory mechanisms made possible by these reversible changes in protein assembly is likely the selective advantage fostering the evolution of multiple protein-binding domains in many eukaryotic enzymes. A deeper understanding of multiprotein complexes, then, will not only advance knowledge of metabolic regulation, but in addition will help explain the evolutionary development oflarge, complex, and often highly conserved protein structures From an experimental standpoint, the differences in catalytic performance observed between a purified enzyme studied in a simple reaction mixture versus the same enzyme analyzed in a milieu that includes the otherproteins with which it interacts, and the modulators that regulate these protein-protein interactions, can be dramatic. This observation highlights the need for conducting enzymatic studies under conditions that simulate as closely aspossible the intracellular state.
30157874|Metabolism, body temperature (
30156171|Studies of the biophysical and molecular adaptations of turtles, fish, and salamanders in stressed habitats have allowed us to determine various aspects of their fundamental physiological niches. Mathematical modeling of the climate requirements of Trachemys scripta and field studies at the Savannah River Plant indicate that thermal conditions and diet quality affect the behavior and bioenergetics of this turtle, and ultimately its life-history pattern. Mathematical modeling and laboratory and field studies indicate that the thermoregulatory behavior of largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides, interacts with competition and predation to affect the population dynamics of this fish. Experiments on whole-animal thermal tolerance and heat-shock proteins of two salamander species indicate that differences in the microhabitat selection and geographic ranges of Eurycea bislineata and Desmognathus ochrophaeus are related to differences in their thermal biology.
30163824|A widely cited yet unproven function for anuran vocal sacs is that of cavity resonance and call tuning during vocalization. Because resonant frequency is influenced by the speed of sound within the cavity, we replaced a substantial proportion of the air in the anuran vocal tract with heliox (80% He/20% O), a medium in which the speed of sound is approximately 75% faster than in a normal atmosphere. Such a manipulation will increase energy in higher call frequencies, provided that cavity resonance is present. In a heliox atmosphere, no consistent or predictable change in the frequency distribution of sound energy was observed in the advertisement calls of two hylids and one leptodactylid or in the release call of a bufonid. Therefore, the call characteristics of the anurans in this study do not arise from cavity resonance in the vocal sac or other supralaryngeal structures. The anuran vocal sac may have a variety of acoustic and nonacoustic functions, but that of cavity resonator can now be excluded in the species examined here and is unlikely to be found in other anurans.
30156228|Metabolic rates of gravid females of the viviparous lizard Sceloporus jarrovi are higher than those of nonreproductive lizards: the allometric relationship between oxygen consumption and body mass in gravid females (
30158247|Seasonal changes in water turnover rates were determined in free-living Brandt's voles of arid steppes by using the isotopically labeled water method. The water flux of laboratory-maintained Brandt's voles was also measured. Voles remained in water balance (influx = efflux) in all seasons. Water influx of free-living voles was lowest during April (180 mL  kg  d) and highest during June and August (270 mL  kg  d and 250 mL  kg  d, respectively). The pattern of seasonal changes of water turnover rates of free-living Brandt's voles was similar to that of other herbivores. Water influx during October (217 mL  kg  d) was higher than that during April Food-foraging and burrow-digging activity are suggested as reasons for this increase. Also, the months of March and April may be the water-stressed period.
30163734|We studied locomotion of field-caught golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus saturatus) on a motorized treadmill that was incorporated into a respirometry system. The animals shifted gaits, from walking to trotting, at about 0.8 m/s and from trotting to galloping at 1.2 m/s; they ran as fast as 3 m/s (10.8 km/h) on our treadmill. Because we were able to determine oxygen consumption instantaneously, we observed rates of energy expenditure that accompany brief bouts of locomotion at speeds higher than those of previous studies. The slope of equations describing oxygen consumption (
30157938|Jump performance in the frog Limnodynastes tasmaniensis was measured over body temperature range (
30164278|Oxygen stores available for aerobic diving were studied in the freshwater turtle (Mauremys caspica leprosa) at three constant body temperatures (15, 25, and 35C) and during the thermal transient (30- 15C) induced by immersion in cold water. The term "aerobic dive limit" has been defined as the maximal duration of the dive before lactate increases. This increase occurs when a critical PO value is reached, and it is well characterized at lung level by a sharp increase in the lung apnoeic respiratory quotient. Kinetic analysis of lung gas composition during forced dives at fixed body temperature shows that critical PO values rise with temperature and that the postventilatory PO at the beginning of a dive decreases, so that the two temperature-dependent factors lead to a significant decrease with temperature in the lung O stores available for aerobic diving. During dives with transient body cooling, a natural condition in M. caspica leprosa, temperature equilibration occurs fast enough to expand aerobic scope by bearing the critical PO to the same value obtained at a fixed temperature of 15C. These dives are characterized by reversed CO transport (from lung to tissues) and therefore by negative values of the lung respiratory quotient; a decrease in temperature increases CO capacitance of tissues, resulting in a fall in PCO2 at constant CO content. Because this does not occur in the gas phase, PCO2 difference can lead to diffusion in the direction opposite from normal. This pattern may favour lung-to-tissue O transfer, through the Bohr effect. Therefore, the aerobic dive limit is reduced at high temperature not only through a metabolic rate effect but also through a marked decrease in the available O stores; fast body cooling (30- 15C) associated with immersion in cold water extends the O stores available for aerobic diving to a level similar to that of immersions at constant body temperatures that are in equilibrium with water temperature.
30164290|Whole-organism oxygen uptake rate and its temperature sensitivity (determined using regression analyses and estimates of
30152549|Aquatic newts (Notophthalmus viridescens) are able to adapt to terrestrial environments in nature. In this study aquatic newts were made to adapt to a simulated terrestrial environment of moist paper towels. Along with the typical morphological changes of tail fin loss and change of the skin from smooth and mucous to rough and dry, a variety of physiological adaptations were observed. When dehydrated in a stream of dry air, aquatic newts lost motor control (the ability to right themselves) after a water loss of only 22% of body weight. Aquatic newts adapted to a simulated terrestrial environment ("terrestrial" newts) maintained motor control until a water loss of 30% of body weight occurred. During rehydration, dehydrated terrestrial newts regained water five times as fast as dehydrated aquatic newts. Terrestrial newts showed a slightly greater dehydration rate than did the aquatic newts. Both aquatic and terrestrial newts could maintain themselves in sodium and chloride balance in a 1 mM NaCl solution, however, the terrestrial newts doubled their unidirectional sodium uptake and loss rates to maintain their sodium balance. In water, aquatic newts excreted 26% of their nitrogenous wastes as NH and 74% as urea, whereas terrestrial newts acutely returned to water excreted 90% of their nitrogen as urea. Associated with increased blood-urea levels, terrestrial newts showed a 30 X increase in liver arginase activity.
30155678|Standard levels of oxygen consumption and oxygen consumption and lactate production during and after burst activity were measured in the iguanid lizard Sceloporus occidentalis. The activity capacity of this animal is restricted; it sustains vigorous movement for only 1-2 min. The contribution of aerobic metabolism to that activity is strongly thermally dependent. Maximal levels of oxygen consumption are achieved during activity at 30-40 C. At lower temperatures, significant lags occur in oxygen uptake, which appear to result from restricted ventilation. The maximum aerobic increase above resting levels occurs at 35 C, preferred body temperature of this species. Repayment of the initial stages of oxygen debt is also most rapid at 35 C. Lactic acid concentration reaches high levels during activity, and its formation is greatest at 30 C. Anaerobic metabolism represents 62%-82% of the energy utilized during burst activity, accounting for nearly all of the carbohydrate catabolized. The combination of energy utilization in both aerobic and anaerobic modes gives Sceloporus its highest activity capacity at 30-35 C, the range of body temperatures normally experienced diurnally by this species throughout the year.
30158255|Total mass-specific cutaneous surface area was determined for three species of freshwater turtles: Trionyx spiniferus, Sternotherus odoratus, and Kinosternon subrubrum. Similarly sized individuals of the three species exhibited high, intermediate, and low values of cutaneous surface area, respectively. Respiratory gas exchange in both air and water was measured in unrestrained individuals of each species. Because the T. spiniferus used in these experiments were on the average over an order of magnitude heavier than the S. odoratus, these two species had similar mass-specific cutaneous surface areas, whereas both had considerably higher values than K. subrubrum. All species were bimodal breathers, exchanging gases with both air and water. The percent aquatic
10.1086/515955|Adult penguins and their chicks differ considerably in their apparent body insulation. The chicks are covered in down, whereas the adults have the short, hard body feathers characteristic of the family, so mechanisms of heat loss may vary considerably between the two groups. We examined radiative heat loss by measuring body surface temperatures of gentoo penguins
30158549|Golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus lateralis) are herbivores that hibernate during winter. A physiological limitation on hibernation may be the melting point of stored fat, since lipids must be fluid to be metabolizable and the body temperatures maintained during torpor are often 25 C below the melting point of mammalian fats. Previous analyses of depot fats from hibernating squirrel species revealed that they contained large amounts of polyunsaturated fatty acids, which greatly reduced the melting points of these lipids. Because polyunsaturated fatty acids cannot be synthesized by mammals but are commonly produced by plants, it was predicted that high dietary levels of polyunsaturates were required for proper hibernation. This hypothesis was tested in laboratory feeding and hibernation experiments involving captive S. lateralis maintained on diets of different polyunsaturate contents. Squirrels fed a high polyunsaturate diet (1) were more likely to hibernate, (2) had lower mortality during hibernation, and (3) defended lower body temperatures during torpor than those squirrels fed diets with lower concentrations of polyunsaturates. These results demonstrate that the ability of ground squirrels to hibernate depends on dietary polyunsaturate content.
30158557|In reptiles, large body size has been considered a great-if not essential-asset for herbivory. However, in a herbivorous freshwater turtle, Pseudemys nelsoni, 12-g hatchlings had significantly better digestive performance than did 3,000-g adults. On a diet of duckweed (Spirodela polyrhiza), hatchlings processed nearly four times as much food on a mass-specific basis than did adults while maintaining equivalent digestibilities as adults. Hatchlings gained more than four times the amount of energy and nitrogen daily on a mass-specific basis that adults gained. On a diet of hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata), hatchlings fed selectively, ingesting a diet significantly higher in energy and nitrogen and significantly lower in lignin than the diet of adults. Small bite size of small herbivorous reptiles is a mechanism that enables them to meet higher mass-specific nutrient requirements by improving both the physical structure and-through selective feeding-the nutrient quality of the diet.
30158261|We compared digestive tract structure and function in house wrens (Troglodytes aedon) feeding on crickets at two intake levels (5. 18 g/d and 2.42 g/d). We increased the birds' intake through a combination of lowered air temperature and forced exercise. Apparent metabolizable energy coefcient (1-(energy excreted/energy ingested)) was. 771 in high-intake birds adapted to-9C and 4 h exercise/d and. 716 in low-intake unexercised birds at 24C (P = 0.016). Smallintestine length was 21% greater in the high-intake birds than in low-intake birds (11.4 cm us. 9.4 cm, P < 0. 001). Stomach size, mouth-to-cloaca digesta retention time of aqueous digesta, and intestinal absorption of .-proline/cm did not vary between groups. A simple digestion model from chemical reactor theory is used to analyze these results and to deduce that an additional important adjustment was an increase in digesta retention time in the absorptive region of the gut, the small intestine. This would explain the observed increased digestive efciency in the high-intake birds. The near-maximal rate of intake and digestion that we measured was among the highest ever recorded for a passerine. It exceeded by about 50% the field metabolic rate of parents during the reproductive season. Therefore, we reject the hypothesis that rate of digestion limits reproductive effort in house wrens.
30163928|Chitobiase (N-acetyl--D-glucosaminidase) activity has been measured and partially characterized in Daphnia magna. The pH optimum is approximately 5.5, and the temperature optimum is approximately 45dg-5 dgC, as determined from crude extract. The enzyme remains stable even after a 2-h incubation at 20 or 40C. The
30156156|Naturally incubated emu eggs lost only 10% of their initial mass over their 54.5-day incubation period. This low rate of water loss was largely due to emu eggs having a conductance to water vapor that was 65% of that predicted for eggs of identical mass and incubation period. Temperatures of naturally incubated artificial eggs rose steadily from 32 to 34 C over the first 10 days of incubation, remained at 34 C for the next 15 days, then rose gradually to 36 C by day 35 and remained at that temperature until hatching time. The thermal sensitivity of embryonic oxygen consumption was inversely related to both embryo age and egg temperature. Because eggs laid after the start of incubation experience warmer initial incubation temperatures, late additions should grow more rapidly than other embryos in the clutch. We have estimated that eggs added 3, 6, and 9 days after the initiation of incubation will require 1, 2, and 3 days less, respectively, to reach the plateau of the ratite growth curve. Consequently, the pattern of rising incubation temperatures should facilitate hatching synchronization for all members of the clutch.
30158183|Taxonomic and allometric differences in blood parameters were studied in 206 species of mammals. Interspecific tests using the standard cross-species method and recently developed comparative methods that control for phylogenetic effects due to nonindependence of species emphasized the need for correct analytical methods. Contrary to previous studies, this study found that body mass was a signifcant predictor of blood parameters among mammals; body mass was positively and significantly correlated with red-cell volume and cell hemoglobin content and negatively correlated with red-cell count, platelet count, and percentage reticulocytes. Red-cell count and cell size were inversely correlated, such that hemoglobin levels tended to be relatively constant across species. Furthermore, this work suggests that, within species, high hemoglobin levels are maintained through high cell count rather than through large cell volume. The hypothesis is suggested that small cell size in mammals evolved as a means of facilitating rapid increase in blood hemoglobin through facultative increase in total erythrocyte number, possibly via splenic contraction, without the risk of reaching critical levels of viscosity.
10.1086/515871|This study examines the milk consumption and growth energetics of the smallest arboreal folivore in Australia,
30156113|In this method designed to quantify the amount of bacteria retained by sponges, young Ephydatia fluviatilis raised in vitro were provided with E. coli grown in the presence of H-labeled thymidine. The maximal retention capacity was reached after 15-24 h and was followed by a loss of radioactivity at a steady rate. The nonspecific adhesion of bacteria to the substratum remained close to 10% for 15 h and increased to as much as 43% by 24-48 h. Sponges provided repeatedly with bacteria showed a higher retention capacity, suggesting the efficiency of the bacterial nutrition. Transmission electron microscopy and scanning electron microscopy showed that, after a preliminary adhesion to the choanocytes and exopinacocytes, bacteria were engulfed in individual phagosomes, which later fused together. The quantitative method established in this paper should prove useful for further studies of the retention of any particulate matter by sponges.
30158500|The metabolic rate of Crocodylus johnstoni eggs was measured through incubation at 29 and 31 C, and in C. porosus eggs at 30 C. The pattern of metabolic rate in both species ispeaked, similar to patterns recorded in other embryonic reptiles that develop in hard:shelled (cleidoic) eggs. Maximum
30156140|Flexible-shelled eggs of common snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) were halfburied in wet (water potential = -150 kPa) or dry vermiculite (water potential = -950 kPa), and then were incubated in covered containers at 29.0 C. Half the eggs on each substrate were transferred to the other substrate at the end of the first trimester of development, and half the eggs were transferred between wet and dry substrates at the end of the second trimester. Thus, the experiment conformed with a 2 factorial design in which eight treatment groups were recognized on the basis of the hydric conditions encountered by eggs during each of the three trimesters of incubation (wetwet-wet, wet-wet-dry, etc.). Hydric conditions encountered at any time during incubation affected the pattern of net water exchange between eggs and their surroundings and also influenced the size of hatchlings and the amount of residual yolk available to sustain emergent young. Size of hatchlings was positively correlated with net water exchange by eggs, but mass of the residual yolk was negatively correlated with net water exchange. Thus, water exchanges occurring at any time in incubation seemingly influence the size of the pool of water available inside eggs, and the size of this pool of water, in turn, affects physiological processes that influence body size and nutrient reserves in hatchlings.
30158227|The resistance of mitochondrial respiration and enzymatic activity to elevated temperatures differs among species in parallel with differences in their maximal body temperatures. To examine the causes of thermal disruption of mitochondrial respiration, we have measured rates of succinate-supported respiration and activities of the mitochondrial enzymes cytochrome c oxidase, succinic dehydrogenase, and malate dehydrogenase in mitochondria from the hydrothermal vent tube worm Riftia pachyptila and the coastal bivalve Solemya reidi. Intact mitochondria and mitochondrial membrane preparations were incubated for 10 min at temperatures between 0 and 70 C, and function was examined at 20 C (R. pachyptila) or 15 C (S. reidi). Incubation at similar elevated temperatures caused inactivation of respiration and caused the activities of several mitochondrial enzymes to either increase or decrease sharply. Fluorescence polarization measurements using the hydrophobic probe 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene showed that no sharp changes in membrane fluidity occurred at the temperatures at which respiration and membrane-associated enzymes altered activity. Reducing bulk membrane fluidity by enrichment with saturated phospholipids had no effect on the thermal inactivation of membrane-associated enzymes. However, disruption of membrane hydrophobic interactions with detergents, 1-5 mM deoxycholate or 5-25 mM octyl glucoside, significantly reduced the temperatures at which loss of enzyme activity occurred. We conclude that disruption of hydrophobic interactions between membrane proteins and their closely associated lipids, or between membrane proteins themselves, is at least partially responsible for high temperature-induced loss of mitochondrial function.
30152564|The body temperature (
30156246|Cardiac output was determined by the thermodilution technique in three California sea lions while resting and while swimming. Metabolic rates increased sevento ninefold above resting rates during maximal exercise. While the sea lions were at rest, stroke volume was also determined by simultaneously counting heart rate during cardiac output determinations. At rest, cardiac output (2.5-3.0 mL kgs) and stroke volume (2 mL kg) were similar to those of harbor seals and terrestrial mammals of similar mass. During exercise, mean cardiac output increased linearly with work load and surface/submerged intervals were short and frequent. The exercise capacity of swimming sea lions appears similar to that of harbor seals, but the exercise response resembles that of terrestrial mammals more than that of harbor seals.
30155813|The thermal environment and tolerance of eggs and embryos of western gulls (Larus occidentalis wymani) on San Nicolas Island, California, were determined. Incubated egg temperature measured by telemetry ranged between 30 and 36 C and averaged 33.4 and 34.2 C for two different nests; the former underwent pronounced cycles of heating during the day and cooling at night. Exposed eggs underwent a daily thermal excursion between 6 and 50 C. Embryos could maintain heartbeat between 11 and 46 C. Eggs which are exposed to solar radiation heat slowly (about 5 C/h). Diurnal exposure during parental absence does not, therefore, result in embryonic mortality unless exposure persists for several hours. Embryos recover completely after overnight exposure to relatively cool temperatures. Short-term exposure does not, therefore, constitute an immediate threat to embryonic survival. Adult gulls in this colony do not closely defend their nests and will leave them exposed in the presence of an intruder. The behavior of the parent gull and physiological tolerance of the embryos in reference to the thermal environment form an adaptive suite of characters contrasting with those of other gulls nesting under hot and arid conditions.
30164235|During the breeding season, wild quail (Coturnix coturnix coturnix) rise from an altitude of 200 m to 1,200 m to feed, covering a distance of approximately 225 km in 2 mo. Blood O transport properties were studied in adult male specimens captured at 200 m, 800 m, and 1,200 m. Both hematocrit (Hct) and blood hemoglobin concentration ([Hb]) increased with the increase in altitude. A positive correlation of the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) versus mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) (P < 0. 001) was observed, but red blood cell (RBC) number, percentage of reticulocytes, and total plasma proteins did not show significant differences among the groups. This suggests that, during the migration, larger RBCs appeared in the circulation, which increased blood O capacity. Wild quail exhibited higher blood O affinity (measured at 41 C, PCO of 40 Torr, or 5.3 kPa, pH 7.5) and a lower Bohr coefficient (measured between pH 7.4 and 7.8) than domestic Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica), but during the migration of the wild quail, a significant decrease in blood O affinity (
10.1086/515981|Interspecific differences in the adaptive capacity of the gut may contribute to interspecific differences in rate of energy use and lifehistory traits. We tested the hypothesis that changes in gut capacity when energy demands are elevated are similar in species with low average rates of energy use compared with a species with higher average rates of energy use. We measured changes in gut capacity in
30158576|Frogs in the genus Pseudophryne lay eggs on land in areas that are subsequently flooded. Embryos develop to Gosner stages 26-28 and then delay hatching until flooding occurs. We investigated the idea that embryos suspend development and conserve energy during this period. Oxygen consumption (
30163709|Tidal volumes (
30163816|Body mass, body temperature (
30157877|Blood oxygen stores were determined in the file snake, Acrochordus granulatus, and three other species of marine snakes (Cerberus rhynchops, Emydocephalus annulatus, Laticauda colubrina). Relative blood volume (% of body mass), plasma volume, and blood cell volume increased in proportion to body size in A. granulatus. Relative blood volume (
30156179|The cost of burrowing (oxygen consumption) was compared between two social mole rats, Cryptomys damarensis and Heterocephalus glaber, in damp and dry sand. Cryptomys damarensis had a digging metabolic rate (DMR) of 2.86  0.31 cm  g  h in damp sand and of 2.58  0.32 cm  g  h in dry sand. The DMR was 4.53-5.03 times the resting metabolic rate (RMR). Its burrowing speed was 3.53  0.75m  h in damp sand and 0.92  0.33m  h in dry sand. Body temperature
30155943|Physiological capacities of xerophilic Brewer's sparrows (Spizella breweri) and the more mesophilic chipping sparrows (Spizella passerina) for dealing with water restriction were examined. On a diet of millet seeds, hydropenic sparrows of both groups lost body mass over the initial 3-4 days. A few individuals of each species continued to lose mass, but many stabilized at about 75%-85% of their initial value and tolerated 3 wk without drinking. The loss principally involved reductions in absolute amounts of body water and protein. Plasma osmotic pressure, daily food intake, and relative protein and water contents (as percent of lean body mass) did not differ significantly between hydrated and hydropenic Brewer's sparrows. Relative water content of water-restricted chipping sparrows was significantly lower than control values. Brewer's sparrows significantly reduced evaporative and cloacal water loss when prevented from drinking. Construction of water budgets indicates that these reductions are sufficient to bring daily water output of nondrinking individuals to below the gains of this fluid from food and oxidative metabolism. Individual chipping sparrows also can survive without drinking for many days at moderate temperature, achieving water balance principally by curtailing cloacal water loss. This species appears to adjust less readily to water restriction than the more xerophilic Brewer's sparrows.
30155941|The basis for differences in whole-body lactic acid concentrations after activity in three species of anurans was investigated. Rana pipiens and Xenopus laevis were exercised to fatigue, and Bufo boreas were kept in continuous activity for 15 min. Differences exist among the species in the ratio of muscle to body mass in the order X. laevis > R. pipiens > B. boreas. Whole-animal and hind-limb-muscle lactic acid concentrations after activity varied among species in the following order: X. laevis > R. pipiens > B. boreas. Lactic acid concentrations were similar in the sartorius muscles of the three species, but B. boreas differed from the other two species in the concentrations of lactic acid in its gastrocnemius muscles. Blood lactic acid was high in all three species, 140-200 mg/100 ml, led to a decrease in blood pH to around 7.0, and was a poor indicator of whole-body lactic acid. A total lactic acid budget for each species based on muscle, blood, and liver compartments was constructed and accounted for 75% of the whole-animal lactic acid after activity. The remainder is presumably due to diffusion of lactic acid into other body compartments. It is suggested that differences in whole-animal lactic acid in active anurans can be explained by differences in the involvement of muscle groups during activity, by the fraction of the body mass composed of muscle, and by differences in the accumulation of lactic acid in specific muscles in different species.
30159963|Doubly labeled water (
30156122|We addressed the questions concerning what relation exists between enzyme heterozygosity and standard or active oxygen consumption (
30163770|Retention times of a particulate marker (
30161253|The gaseous exchange, carbon, and nitrogen balances of a 10-kg and a 4.25-kg crocodile (fed on days 27, 50, and 66) were measured for 84 days. Net energy losses for days 27-84 were 3,142 kJ (10-kg crocodile) and 1,382 kJ (4.25-kg crocodile), 80%-90% of total energy losses being lost as heat, 10% in feces, and 3% as urine. Heat outputs between meals reached nearly constant minimum values of 79 kJ day (10-kg crocodile) and 45 kJ day (4.25-kg crocodile) by day 50. Heat increments due to feeding were proportional to the amount of meat ingested. Digestibility of ox heart energy was 82%, metabolizability, 76.7%, and efficiency of utilization of metabolizable energy, 67%. Both crocodiles lost weight during the experiments; the 10-kg crocodile lost 1.12 g C day, while the 4.25-kg crocodile lost 0.48 g C day from days 27 to 84. By contrast with this negative carbon balance, both crocodiles were in positive nitrogen balance, retaining 37%-51% of the nitrogen in their food. During initial starvation (days 1-26) only ammonia was produced, whereas, from days 27 to 84, 38%-42% of nitrogen intake was excreted as uric acid and 2%-3% as ammonia. The mean RQ for each of the periods following a meal increased steadily from 0.82 to 0.84-0.88 as the energy balances became more negative.
30155729|Most previous authors who studied the effects of nutritional factors on oogenesis in flies used methods which emphasized full development, while our methods also revealed the effect on ongoing stages of development. We studied two species, Phormia regina, which on sugar alone produced no yolk deposition, and Sarcophaga bullata, where sugar meals led to beginning yolk deposition (incipient autogeny). Full or incipient autogeny occurs widely in flies and has been generally overlooked. It varies considerably with species, strain, larval rearing, and adult condition. In S. bullata, diminishing size leads to a smaller number of ovarioles with normal-sized eggs. The response to certain protein preparations, in addition to sugar, seems surprisingly variable among preparations, species, and strain. In P. regina, feeding a purified protein alone leads only to initial yolk deposition, suggesting an effect of the nature of a trigger. The addition of a potassium salt to the purified protein leads to full development. In S. bullata, where sugar leads to initial yolk deposition, purified protein has no further effect. Full development requires protein plus a vitamin and salt mixture. Potassium ion alone does not suffice. Our findings suggest that the nutritional control of oogenesis in flies occurs in two distinct steps, the first leading to initial yolk deposition and the second to maturity.
30161227|Great frigate birds are large black tropical seabirds. Those breeding on Midway Atoll absorb more than 90% of the incoming solar radiation and yet can remain on their nest exposed to intense solar radiation for up to 16 days. Despite experiencing air temperatures as high as 33.3 C and environmental temperatures ($T_{e}'s$, an index of total heat load) up to 51.7 C, the birds maintained body temperature within relatively narrow limits, averaging 39.3  0.5 C. They reduce overheating by using gular fluttering and by assuming three distinct postures, which were used sequentially as $T_{e}$ increased. The most common posture was erected feathers, followed by open wing and droop wing. Despite sexual dimorphism in size and plumage, there were no sexual differences in posturing, dorsal absorptivity to solar radiation, or response to $T_{e}$. The postures evidently contribute to water conservation in the hot breeding habitat of frigate birds, as the birds appear to have low rates of water loss.
30158252|The urea cycle occurs widely in vertebrates, serving different functions in different lineages. In elasmobranchs, where it contributes to osmolar balance, the product urea itself is functionally useful. In other vertebrates the synthesis of urea serves functions other than provision of urea. In air-breathing fish, amphibians, and mammals ureagenesis generates protons that contribute to pH homeostasis by titration of metabolically produced bicarbonate, and in ruminants this function is supplemented by large-scale transport of bicarbonate in the form of urea from tissues to the rumen. Disposal of ammonium in ureotelic species generally and delivery of ammonium to the rumen in ruminants appear to be consequences of pH-modulated ureagenesis rather than primary functions. Because only regulatory changes are required for its development from the arginine synthetic pathway and because it consumes no metabolites and relatively little ATP, the urea cycle is a uniquely suitable source of the protons that are needed for maintenance of pH homeostasis.
30156105|Eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) were incubated in wet and dry environments. Half of the eggs in each treatment were transferred to the other treatment at the end of the first trimester, and a similar shift was performed at the end of the second trimester. Thus, eight experimental groups were recognized on the basis of hydric condition to which eggs were exposed in each trimester. The influence of the hydric environment on hatching success, on duration of incubation, and on size ofhatchlings is confined to the last two-thirds of incubation. The lack of effects associated with hydric conditions encountered by eggs during the first one-third of incubation can be explained by "compensatory water exchanges" that occur during the middle trimester. During the middle one-third of incubation, water uptake is greater and more rapid in a moist environment if an egg previously was in dry conditions than if an egg was in wet conditions. Likewise, water loss is more pronounced on a dry substrate during the middle trimester if an egg previously was in wet conditions than if an egg was in dry conditions. No compensatory water exchange occurs during the final trimester, but proximate hydric conditions during this period affect development. Because conditions in natural nests tend to fluctuate during the course of incubation, findings presented here tend to raise doubts regarding the significance of nest-searching behavior reported for females of many oviparous reptiles.
30156149|Collared lizards maintained in individual outdoor runways behaviorally selected a body temperature of 37-38 C. Removal of the parapineal component (parietalectomy) of the pineal complex elevated the temperature selected by lizards, although this increase was not statistically significant. On the other hand, pinealectomy or a combination of pinealectomy and parietalectomy significantly lowered lizard body temperatures. The available evidence indicates that the parietal eye and pineal organ mediate these responses through brain centers, such as the hypothalamus, by both neural and hormonal mechanisms. The role of the pineal complex as part of a homeostatic mechanism transducing thermal as well as photic environmental signals is discussed.
30155799|Two species of Australian honeyeater, Acanthorhynchus superciliosis and Lichmera indistincta, have body masses that decrease uniformly for most of the night but increase at varying rates throughout the day. The greatest rates of increase occur during the first hour of foraging and seem to be caused primarily by enhanced nectar intake and increased retention of nectar water. Birds appear to repay at least 50% of their overnight water deficits during this period. Subsequently, the remainder of the deficit is repaid at a much slower rate, with the water that is accumulated combining with lipid storage to produce a gradual increase in body mass. The rate of body mass increase for both species of honeyeater frequently rises during the last b h before dusk. It is suggested that this occurs because of a further reduction in cloacal fluid output. Birds maintain similar patterns of body mass and water balance variation when provided with artificial nectar of different concentrations. Although they recover less water from the alimentary canal when switched from a 0.4-M to a 1.2-M sucrose solution, they compensate for this by lowering their rates of pulmocutaneous water loss.
30156215|The effects of maintenance temperature on static allometry and shape trajectories were examined in neonatal garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis). Different experimental groups were given access to a heat source for thermoregulation for 4, 12, or 24 h/d. Eye diameter, head width, head length, body size, and mass were measured shortly after birth, at 7 and 12 wk of age. Groups with less access to heat grew more slowly. Static allometric slopes and shape trajectories generally were unaffected by maintenance temperature.
30155804|The flow characteristics of both expiration and inspiration were determined in a trained, 285-kg bottle-nosed porpoise. The largest tidal volume measured was 26.4 liters. For purposes of scaling we assumed this to be vital capacity (VC). The maximum peak expiratory flow rate measured was 6.1 VCsec. The maximum peak inspiratory flow rate was 2.1 VCsec. The time required for a complete expiration was about 0.3 sec. The flow rates of both expiration and inspiration remain near their maximum for nearly all of the VC. We conclude that these properties of the ventilation maneuver are important in achieving adequate turnover of lung gases during the short period that the blowhole is above water as the porpoise passes through the air/water interface when it is up to cruising speed.
30163941|Development of brain temperature regulation in mallard ducklings was studied from hatching to 20 days of age to see whether newly hatched ducklings, like adults, maintain brain temperature lower than body temperature. The ducklings were homeothermic at hatching, sustaining a stable body temperature throughout growth at ambient temperatures of 23 and 35 C. The mallard duckling regulated its brain temperature at thermoneutrality as well as during heat exposure immediately after hatching. A significant decrease of brain temperature with increasing body mass (approximately 0.007 C/g) at both ambient temperatures resulted in a significant increase of bodyto-brain temperature difference, indicating that the effectiveness of brain cooling increased with growth. It is suggested that the increased effectiveness of brain cooling with age and body mass is related to the development of the rete ophthalmicum-the avian extracranial vascular heat exchanger responsible for brain cooling in adult birds.
30163808|Fatty acid synthase (FAS) activity was measured in black-tailedprairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), nonhibernators or facultative hibernators, to compare their enzyme activity associated with fattening to that reported earlier (Turner et al. 1989) in Richardson's ground squirrels (Spermophilus richardsonii), obligate hibernators. In both species nearly all FAS activity was in white adipose tissue (WAT). Maximum FAS actiuity/mg of protein in WAT occurred after reproduction in both species and was about three times as great in ground squirrels as in prairie dogs. When rate of fat deposition was at its peak (June-August in ground squirrels, fall in prairie dogs), total FAS in WAT in ground squirrels was tuwice that in prairie dogs. Richardson's ground squirrels deposited approximately 9 g of lipid/wk during peak fattening (Turzner et al. 1989) versus approximately 5 g of lipid/wk in prairie dogs. These observations support the hypothesis that obligate hibernators fatten more rapidly than nonhibernators. During 3 wk of cold in the uwinter of 1990-1991 (air temperature less than -20 C), prairie dogs lost 30% of body weight, nearly, all of uwhich wuas lean body mass. Lipid mass was depleted during the reproductizve season, from March through June. As a result of this observation, the following year lipolytic actiuity, in liver, WAT, and brown adipose tissue (BAT) as well as body and tissue masses was measured monthly in freeroaming prairie dogs. Liver and WAT were the principal sites of lipolytic activity. Although 1991-1992 uwas not as severe as the previous winter, use of lipid stores was similar. Fat deposits remained inztact through fall and early winter, and lipolytic actizvity was louw inl all tissues. Reproductive activity began in February and March in males and females, respectively. Betuween January and March lipolytic activity in liver tripled inz both sexes. During the same period lipolytic activity in WAT doubled in females and quadrupled in males. During the reproductive season males lost 85% and females lost 91% of lipid stores. Black-tailedprairie dogs foraged throughout the year but during severe cold remained underground and catabolized primarily lean body mass. Lipolytic activity and amount of lipid present supported the hypothesis that lipid reserves are conserved through winter and supply energy for reproduction.
30163699|Digestive performances of two freshwater turtles-a herbivore and an omnivore-were compared on two diets of aquatic plants to test the prediction that the digestive efficiency (nutrient or energy gain per unit time) of herbivores is greater than that of omnivores on plant diets. On a diet of hydrilla, Hydrilla verticillata, the herbivore gained significantly more nutrition from the diet on a daily basis, as a result of higher intake and more rapid digestive processing. When fed duckweed, Spirodela polyrhiza, the two turtle species had equivalent digestive performances. Thus, the herbivore did not consistently outperform the omnivore. The herbivore had greater digestive efficiency on a diet that was extensively fermented (hydrilla), but, on a diet that underwent limited microbial degradation (duckweed), the herbivore had no nutritional advantage over the omnivore.
30164186|Bears in the genus Ursus, in particular polar bears, are thought to be highly efficient at avoiding a net loss of body protein during their prolonged seasonal fasts. Most data supporting this idea, however, originate from studies in which captive bears apparently maintained a constant lean body mass (LBM) while fasting Using deuterium oxide dilution, we quantified changes in the body composition of free-ranging polar bears during an annual period of fasting. For a sample of 10 adult and subadult male polar bears, body condition at the start of the study ranged from 0.12 to 0.58 kg of fat/kg of LBM. Subsequently, over an interval of 79 d, losses of LBM and fat varied considerably among individuals. In contrast to previous studies on fasting bears, catabolism of protein appeared to meet a significant proportion of maintenance energy demands in some individuals. When converted into energetic units, between 74% and 99% of the observed losses in body energy content were attributable to the catabolism of body fat. Furthermore, bears that derived the highest proportion of their energy needs from lipid stores were those that were relatively fat when first captured. We suggest that in polar bears, and ursids in general, the previously noted ability to minimize protein loss during extended fasts is in part dependent on the extraordinary magnitude of fat stores that some individuals can accumulate in seasons when food is abundant.
10.1086/515426|The evolution of energetics must begin with variation within population in ecologically realized rates of energy acquisistion and expenditure. We measured aspects of field energy budgets (including metabolic rates, feeding rates, and growth rates) in a large sample of free living garter snakes (Thammophis sirtalis) from a single temperate/mesic population in northwestern California during their summer active season. We then analyzed interindividual variation for correlations among variables and patterns attributable to body size and sex. Field metabolic rates (measured with use of doubly labeled water) scaled in direct proportion to body mass. These rates of field energy expenditure were higher (both in absolute terms and in realtion to resting metabolic rates) than those previously measured in snakes and iguanian lizards and were similar to those reported for highly active, widely foraging scincomorphan lizards. Feeding rates (as indedexed by water influx rates) and growth rates were correspondingly high compared to those of other squamate reptiles. We found considerable residual variation in all measured variables not attributable to body size. Effects of sex were detected for water influx and growth rates (females > males), but not for field metabolic rate. Individual field metabolic rate was apparently consistent (repeatable) over time, water influx rate was not, and individual growth rates were strongly negatively correlated over two sequential time periods. We were unable to detect convincing correlations between any individual measures of field energetics and any commonly measured, standard laboratory measurements of exygen consumption (standard metabolic rate at two bodyt temperatures and maximal oxygen consumption for exercise) made on the same individuals. Howere, bodysizeindependent field rates of energy expenditure, energy intake, and growth were strongly and positively intercorrelated among individuals. We attribute these patterns to an overriding effect of costs associated with digestion and growth on field energetics, such that individual snakes that were effective foragers achieved high feeding rates and, hence, high growth rates, but also incurred high costs of growth and digestion that largely determined field metabolic rate.
30158630|Sugar gliders maintained body weight and nitrogen balance on a honey-pollen diet containing only 5.0 mg N  g DMI. The maintenance dietary nitrogen requirement, estimated by regression analysis, was 87 mg
30157934|Abrupt changes in the relationship between physiological responses and environmental parameters yield data that frequently cannot be described with a single regression equation. Many approaches used to deal with this problem result in incomplete description of the data and imprecise approximations of the physiological threshold(s) at which the relationship changes. We describe a technique for determining the best continuous two-phase, straight-line regression model and for statistically estimating the point at which the relationship between the independent and dependent variables changes (i.e., threshold point).
30156067|Foragers were active on the insolated surface between sand surface temperatures (
30152628|The rate of evaporative water loss (EWL) of the Australian tree frogs Litoria caerulea and Litoria chloris was evaluated over the temperature intervals 25 -50 C and 25 -47 C, respectively. At 25 C, EWL of L. caerulea averaged 7.5 mg g h and that of L. chloris averaged 4.2 mg g h. These values are much lower than those measured for similar-sized North American arboreal frogs. Consonant with these results, the cutaneous resistances to water vapor flux (
30156233|Starvation of the fish Paralabrax nebulifer was accompanied by complex changes in the synthesis rates of different classes of proteins within the white muscle. Synthesis of white-muscle myofibrillar proteins, as measured by incorporation of
30164324|In an earlier study, we found that yellow-rumped warblers had in vitro active uptake rates of D-glucose that were only a few percent of the glucose absorption rate achieved at the wholeanimal level. Here we used a pharmacokinetic technique to test whether a substantial amount of sugar can be absorbed passively. We used yellow-rumped warblers (Dendroica coronata), known for their seasonal frugivory, freely feeding on a synthetic mash formulated with naturally occurring concentrations of D-glucose. Birds absorbed 89.8%  1.0% (SE) of the D-glucose in the mash. When fed the same mash with trace-labeled H L-glucose, the stereoisomer that does not interact with the intestinal Na-glucose cotransporter, H appeared in plasma, an indication that this stereoisomer of glucose was absorbed. We used H levels in plasma and excreta in a pharmacokinetic model to calculate L-glucose extraction efficiency (i.e., the percent absorbed). Calculated mean extraction efficiency for the passively absorbed L-glucose averaged 91%  23%. Our finding of considerable passive absorption reconciles the in vitro and in vivo results for D-glucose absorption and is in concert with results from five other avian species. The passive pathway appears to provide birds with an absorptive process that can respond quickly to changing luminal concentration and that is energetically inexpensive to maintain and modulate in real time but that may bear a cost. Less discriminate passive absorption might increase vulnerability to toxins and thus constrain foraging behavior and limit the breadth of the dietary niche.
30158289|Reproduction stops during the breeding season of many rodent populations, including Peromyscus maniculatus. The proposition that water availability mediates the midseason breeding hiatus in male deer mice was evaluated in the present study. Paired testicular and epididymal weights (absolute and relative to body mass) were reduced after 10 wk of restricted water consumption. Spermatogenesis was also impaired by limited water intake. Blood plasma testosterone concentrations were reduced, but plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) titers were unaffected by water restriction. Finally, the number of offspring sired was reduced in mice with restricted access to water. Carcass water content did not significantly differ between animals with restricted (25% of ad lib.) or unrestricted access to water; however, body mass was reduced about 15% after chronic water intake restriction. Although reproductive function (i.e., reproductive organ mass, plasma testosterone titers, and sperm counts) was significantly depressed in water-restricted mice, the reproductive systems of about 25% of the animals were relatively unaffected by water restriction. In order to study the physiological factors associated with individual reproductive responses to water restriction, animals were rank ordered according to their epididymal sperm numbers; individuals in the top (Q) and bottom (Q) quartiles of epididymal sperm counts were further compared. Water-restricted Q deer mice did not significantly differ on any parameter from mice with ad lib. access to water. No water-restricted Q deer mice possessed any epididymal sperm. Deer mice in Q significantly reduced paired testicular and epididymal masses as compared with animals in the top quartile. It was important that Q deer mice reduced their body mass by 34%. Plasma LH titers were significantly depressed in Q animals as compared with Q mice or mice with ad lib. water. Body fat content was also reduced only in the Q deer mice. Taken together, these findings suggest that water availability may act as an extrinsic cue to suppress fertility in deer mice independently of temperature and day length and somewhat independently from food because despite an absolute reduction in food consumption with the onset of water restriction, food intake corrected for body mass did not differ. Animals that stopped reproductive function (Q mice) lost substantial body fat and total mass. Water-restricted males that maintained body fat levels also maintained reproductive function. Differential hydrolysis of adipose tissue in response to decreased testosterone titers may account for the phenotypic variation in reproductive responsiveness to water restriction. These results are discussed in terms of their ecological and evolutionary implications.
30155864|The oxygen consumption rates at 30 C and the temperature sensitivity of the rates were compared for member groups (larvae, pupae, callows, workers, females, and males) of three species of harvester ants which occur at different altitudes in southern California. Developmental changes in both rates and temperature sensitivity were found. There is an abrupt doubling or tripling of the respiratory rates of males prior to the mating flights. No similar changes were found in the respiratory rates of the females. The males are dimorphic, with each size having different respiratory rates. In general, Pogonomyrmex montanus MacKay, the harvester ant from the highest altitude, had the highest respiratory rates and demonstrated the greatest temperature sensitivity. The mid-altitude species, P. subnitidus Emery, had intermediate respiratory rates. The lowest-altitude species, P. rugosus Emery, had the lowest respiratory rates and demonstrated the least temperature sensitivity. These differences are important as the ants are exposed to different temperature ranges; the higheraltitude species are exposed to lower temperatures. This physiological adaptation may be necessary to allow each of the species to be active at similar rates in the three different habitats. Although a physiological adaptation involving higher respiratory rates in ants from higher altitudes was determined in the three species investigated, it may not be a general phenomenon in ants. It is suggested that further investigation is needed to determine the parameters which have an effect on the important physiological process of respiration and to provide ecological interpretations for the differences observed.
30156208|Hemolymph osmolality increased twofold after 120 h aerial exposure at 95% relative humidity and 25 C and was correlated with water loss (r = 0.83). Blood sodium and chloride levels remained approximately constant throughout the period ofaerial exposure. Calcium increased threefold over 120 h emersion and was correlated with osmolality (r = 0.86). Unmeasured solute (presumably HCO) also increased. On reimmersion, osmolality returned to normal within 6 h. Hemolymph sodium and chloride levels were lower than controls after 3 d exposure and returned to control levels between 2-6h reimmersion. Hemolymph potassium and calcium concentrations dropped to control levels within 6h after return to pond water. Net ion fluxes in thefirst hour ofreimmersion were high and negative. Calcium and chloride initial netfluxes were highest at-41.6 4.0 (mean  SEM) and -23.9  3.8 Eq (g dry tissue  h), respectively. Sodium andpotassium net fluxes were -65  2.2 and -0.9  0.2, respectively. Net ion fluxes decreased and by 5-16 h were not different from zero. There was no effect of aerial exposure on unidirectional sodium fluxes. Chloride eflux increased while influx was not affected. Aerial exposure stimulated the excretion of base equivalents on reimmersion. Some sodium and chloride may shift to intracellular space during emersion and return to hemolymph on reimmersion. Calcium and its anion were mobilized, presumably from the shell, for maintenance of body fluid acid-base balance.
30163738|We measured basking duration of fed and nonfed yellow slider turtles (Pseudemys scripta) in a constant-temperature environmental chamber. We acclimated and tested turtles at four temperatures (10, 20, 30, and 35 C), once in spring/summer and once in fall/winter. In the spring/summer there was a statistically significant difference (P < .01) between basking durations of fed and nonfed turtles and between basking times of males and females at all acclimation temperatures except 35 C, when basking time was minimal for both fed and nonfed animals. Fed females basked much longer than fed males (P < .05), and both groups of fed turtles basked much longer than nonfed animals. These differences were greatest at 10 and 20 C but were also apparent at 30 C. In the fall/winter there were no statistically significant differences between the basking times of fed and nonfed turtles or between the basking times of males or females. There were, however, statistically significant differences (P < .01) between basking times at all four acclimation temperatures. We suggest that basking in turtles is a complex behavior that is affected by the nutritional status, acclimation, season, and sex of the individual.
30155802|Fecundity (number of eggs per surviving female) of Drosophila simulans st and D. melanogaster Or-R-C was measured over consecutive 12-h periods for 7 days post-eclosion in replicated experiments where adult density (6 levels), species frequency (6 levels), and
30164183|The circadian rhythm of body temperature of the thirteen-lined ground squirrel, Spermophilus tridecemlineatus, was studied by telemetry. The amplitude of the daily variation of body temperature in squirrels maintained under a long photoperiod (14L:10D) at a neutral ambient temperature (24C) was found to be much larger than that of most endotherms (range ~34 - 39C). Four out of nine animals entered daily (or multidaily) torpor with body temperatures approaching ambient temperature. The body temperature of eight out of nine animals was severely reduced by exposure to lower environmental temperatures (down to 5C). In free-running conditions, as well as in the entrained state, the body temperature rhythm remained synchronized to the rhythm of locomotor activity.
30158259|We performed two experiments using rumen-fistulated mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) and elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) to test hypotheses regarding particle breakdown and passage within the rumen. In experiment 1, labeled particles of three sizes, including large particles (LP), 2.8-4.8 mm in diameter, medium particles (MP), 1-2.8 mm, and smallparticles (SP), 0.1-1 mm, were introduced into the rumen. Breakdown and passage were measured for each fraction by periodic ruminal sampling. Particle breakdown and passage exhibited first-order kinetics, but large particles were not reduced to medium particles in a simple cascade process. The process was more complex: 89% and 92% of LP in elk and deer, respectively, went directly to SP, while 84% and 100% of the MP in elk and deer were comminuted to SP before passage from the rumen. In experiment 2, five forages were introduced as LP into the rumen, and their breakdown and passage were measured. Although breakdown kinetics were significantly different between forages and animals, the fit of the model to SP kinetics was significant in 21 of 24 cases (87%). We concluded that compartmental models are appropriate for describing rumen function in these animals.
30155791|The physical dimensions, water vapor conductance (
30155714|Rates of O consumption (
30163717|Water fluxes were measured isotopically for free-ranging marine iguanas on Isla Fernandina, Galpagos. Captive animals were fed a normal diet of algae supplemented with seawater and held in outdoor cages. Concentrations of electrolytes in food, plasma, nasal secretions, feces, and urine were measured, as was water content of food and excreta. Values thus obtained were used in conjunction with field metabolic rates and food utilization efficiencies to construct field water and electrolyte budgets for adult animals. Field water influx averaged 48.2 ml/kg day for adults and 31.1 ml/kg day for hatchlings. For adults, 58% of water influx comes from food, 38% from seawater ingestion, and 4% from metabolism. Electrolyte input is high (14.5 m mol Na, 3.6 m mol K, and 15.7 m mol Cl/kg day. Almost all of the K and one-third of Na and Cl inputs are via food. Cloacal water losses are large because of the high water content (ca. 88%) of the excreta. Nasal secretions account for elimination of about 95% of ingested Na and Cl, and 80% of K input, using only one-fourth of the water input (ca. 12 ml/kg day). Concentrations of Na, K, and Cl in nasal secretions of fed marine iguanas were about 1,170 mM, 280 mM, and 1,330 mM, respectively. Plasma electrolyte concentrations are high in field animals (201 mM Na, 153 mM Cl) and decline when the animals are held without food or water. Marine iguanas "fed" only seawater to maintain weight regulated plasma Na, whereas plasma K declined.
30166498|Neurotensin-like material was found throughout the gut of the amphibian Necturus maculosus, in both muscle layers and mucosa, and with the highest levels in the intestine. Ion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and reversed-phase HPLC revealed several peaks of immunoreactive material, with one closely related to neurotensin 1-6 occurring by both methods. Exogenous neurotensin was excitatory on longitudinal stomach muscle; this excitation was unaffected by tetrodotoxin, indicating a direct effect on the smooth muscle. An inhibitory effect of neurotensin on circular muscle preparations was abolished by tetrodotoxin, revealing an excitatory effect. Noradrenaline and adrenaline were in many cases inhibitory on the circular preparations, an effect that was blocked by the -adrenergic anztagonist propranolol. Propranolol also blocked the inhibitory effect of neurotensin in approximately 50% of the tests, which suggests an involvement of an adrenergic link in the inhibitory effect of neurotensin on the circular muscle. The results are compatible with the view that a neurotensin-like peptide is involved in a simultaneous phase of shortening and widening of a segment of the stomach.
30156079|Postural shifts of blood to the tails of snakes were measured by a plethysmographic technique during head-up tilt in air. Shifting of blood volume to dependent tissue increases with tilt angle and has two components, expansion of vessel volume and filtration of plasma into tissue spaces. The relative magnitude of these combined fluid shifts is unrelated to body length and therefore is a species characteristic. In comparison with Crotalus viridis (a rattlesnake), Pituophis melanoleucus (gopher snake) maintains higher arterial pressure at the head and is considerably less prone to postural edema and pooling of blood during tilt. In their natural environments, Pituophis is an effective climber whereas Crotalus appears behaviorally less subject to gravitational disturbance of the circulation. Data for nine other species of snakes are consistent with this ecological correlation: postural shifts of fluid in arboreal and terrestrial species (including an arboreal viperid) are one-third or less than those in aquatic species that are relatively unaffected by gravity in their normal habitat. The data indicate that cardiovascular adaptation for arboreal habits in snakes involves both effective control of arterial pressure and mechanisms that impede pooling of blood and edema in tissues.
30163797|Thermal conductance of carcasses of 14 aquatic bird species was determined by the warming constant technique. The effect on thermal conductance of body mass, age, sex, fat deposits, and the degree of contact with water were studied. Only body mass and the degree of submergence in water had an effect. A negative exponential relationship between body mass and thermal conductance was found. Water contact increased the thermal conductance by a factor of 2.2 during swimming and a factor of 4.8 during diving. Leaving the water in order to reduce thermoregulatory costs is put forward as a behavioral option that might make several aquatic birds more flexible in adjusting their feeding time to meet increasing energetic requirements. Not being able to leave the water has obvious implications for both breeding and winter distributions for different-sized aquatic birds.
30156068|Helix aspersa were subjected to 100 days of desiccation at 19-25 C in summer and in winter; total weight declined 33%. After desiccation, winter animals showed little significant change in hemolymph protein, Na and K concentrations, or osmolality. In summer snails, desiccation caused significant increases in all of these hemolymph constituents. Seasonal differences in hemolymph components were limited, except for Na; in both hydrated and desiccated snails, Na concentrations were significantly higher in summer than in winter. In snail kidney, desiccation did not change significantly the concentrations of Na, urate, water, or kidney wet weight. In both seasons, kidney K concentration rose significantly after desiccation. Seasonal differences were found among kidney contents-especially, winter snails (both hydrated and desiccated groups) had much higher Na and K contents. The kidney urate content of desiccated winter snails was higher than that of desiccated summer snails. It is hypothesized that the abundant urate spheres in snail kidney sequester K ions released by tissue degrowth during dormancy. In summer, sufficient K seems to be sequestered during desiccation to displace Na from kidney urates, leading to the higher hemolymph Na concentrations in summer snails. Qualitative differences in regulatory processes seem to exist between summer and winter snails.
30159979|The short-tailed shrew Blarina brevicauda is one of the red-toothed shrews of the subfamily Soricinae. The thermogenic capabilities of B. brevicauda were examined to see whether the relatively high BMR, which is characteristic of this group, was reflected in enhanced thermogenic abilities in the face of severe cold stress. A helium-oxygen environment was used to mimic severe cold. Our results confirmed the relatively high BMR. This was 17.8 Wkg, which is approximately double comparable values calculated from allometric equations for placentals. The maximum increase in sustained heat production of warm acclimated shrews was four to five times their BMR, but this was eight to nine times "expected" placental values. Cold acclimation had a marked effect on the thermogenic capacity of B. brevicauda. Summit metabolism was increased by some 50% to a level of 108 Wkg or
30155947|The effectiveness of thermoregulatory postures in the black dragon (Hagenius brevistylus Selys; Odonata) was tested relative to wind speed and air temperature on live and dead dragonflies in a closed circuit wind tunnel. The postures appeared to allow the dragonflies to behaviorally select body temperatures exceeding a range of 20 C and reach temperatures as low as the ambient air or as high as the sun-warmed substrate. At least one posture appeared to be transitory and appeared to be used primarily to warm up from low body temperatures. Live dragonflies kept individually in a large flight cage showed different patterns of posturing depending on the amount of insolation. Free-ranging dragonflies were not active at low air temperatures, and postured differently in response to different substrate temperatures. We concluded that black dragons can select from a broad range of potential body temperatures as the result of behavioral posturing.
30166502|Body temperature and rate of oxygen consumption were measured as a function of environmental temperature in two swiftlets from New Guinea, Collocalia esculenta and Collocalia vanikorensis, two nightjars from New Guinea, Eurostopodus mystacalis and Caprimulgus macrurus, and two frogmouths, Podargus strigoides from Australia and P. papuensis from New Guinea. Compared to rates expected from mass, basal rates of metabolism in these birds progressively decrease with an increase in mass. The reduction in basal rate may reflect food habits in swiftlets and food habits, sedentary habits, and small pectoral muscle masses in nightjars and frogmouths. The combination of small mass and low rate of metabolism might account for the variable body temperatures found in swiftlets, but no evidence of torpor has been found in these swiftlets, frogmouths, or nightjars. At cool temperatures, C. esculenta often clustered in the field and in the laboratory, a behavior that led to a 30% reduction in energy expenditure. Thermal conductances, which tend to be low in all species with low basal rates, often fell markedly in the largest frogmouth when exposed to ambient temperatures below 16 C.
30152538|Arousal of Otala lactea (Mller) from dormancy occurs at relative humidities of 75% or higher at 25-30 C. The probability of arousal is directly related to ambient relative humidity. Arousal from dormancy is less likely to occur at high ambient temperatures than at low ones. The temperature range within which arousal occurs is related to the ambient relative humidity. The range is narrow at low relative humidities and wide at high humidities. Repeated arousals do not take place following a return to the dormant condition, even in the presence of favorable environmental conditions. The absence of light favors arousal; exposure to continuous light acts as a deterrent to emergence from dormancy.
30158241|Measurements of body mass, body composition, and O consumption rate
30163707|Solitary bees (Centris pallida Fox; Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae) were observed during diurnal activity in a hot desert environment. Females foraged throughout the day in flowering paloverde trees; males divided their time between foraging and hovering in search of receptive females. Thoracic temperatures (
30163748|Recent studies that have shown that variation in avian foraging behavior can produce changes in reproductive success and survival have raised the question of the role of energy budgets in determining reproductive behavior and other life-history traits of birds. The study reported here describes how the daily energy budgets of breeding populations of the zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata influenced the rate at which broods were produced, the size of broods that could be success-fully supported by their parents, and the subsequent survival of the parents. This was examined by experimentally altering the net rate of energy gain of four populations of randomly chosen zebra finches. The experimental design increased the amount of time spent searching for food without altering the amount of food available or consumed, which resulted in differences in the daily energy budget. Zebra finches with low rates of energy gain spent more time and energy foraging and had less energy available for reproduction than did finches with high rates of energy gain. A decrease in energy available for reproduction increased the time interval between successive broods while decreasing average brood size, juvenile survivorship, and adult survivorship.
30163809|Many plant secondary metabolites have been identified as feeding deterrents; however, the physiological effects of these compounds remain largely unknown. Coniferyl benzoate (CB) is the principal secondary metabolite in quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) flower buds, a primary winter food for ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus), and is a feeding deterrent for grouse and other birds. We conducted mass-balance trials with captive ruffed grouse to determine the efect of this compound on dietary mass and energy assimilation. A method is described for correcting assimilation coeficients for the intake of dietary plant secondary metabolites whereby changes in a bird's ability to utilize dietary mass and energy can be distinguished from artifacts due to energy and mass dilution by plant secondary metabolites. Nitrogenous excretory products were measured to determine nitrogen balance and sources of nitrogen loss. In addition, energy losses resulting from the excretion of CB detoxification products were quantified. Birds that fed on a high CB diet were in negative nitrogen balance and excreted higher amounts of ornithine and ammonium than birds on control diets. Excretion rates for ornithine and ammonium may be even higher for birds feeding on aspen buds because otherphenolic compounds must be detoxified along with CB. Coniferyl benzoate did not decrease the ability of ruffed grouse to utilize dietary energy but did decrease utilization eficiencies simply by a dilution effect Overall, assimilation eficiencies increased over the 3-mo study. Acidosis, from acidic detoxication products, and nitrogen loss may be two reasons why wild ruffed grouse avoid feeding on aspen buds containing high CB levels; however, the principal mechanism by which CB acts as a feeding deterrent is still uncertain.
30163870|The contribution of propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC) to the control of anaerobic metabolism by acid-base parameters (pH, Pco, and [HCO]) was investigated with a purified enzyme preparation and isolated mitochondria from the body wall musculature of Arenicola marina. The enzyme catalyzes the rate-limiting step in anaerobic propionate formation, namely, the carboxylation of methylmalonyl-CoA with concomitant formation of ATP and base equivalents (= HCO). Propionyl-CoA carboxylase is likely not saturated with its substrates methylmalonyl-CoA, ADP, and
30155853|To determine the influence of depth-related factors on enzymic activity and, hence, on metabolism, we measured enzymic activities of white skeletal muscle and brain in two teleost fishes of the genus Sebastolobus (Scorpaenidae). These species are genetically close and have similar life histories but differ in their depth distributions. White skeletal muscle of the shallow-living species, S. alascanus, contained approximately twice the activity (measured as units per g wet weight of tissue) of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), pyruvate kinase (PK), malate dehydrogenase (MDH), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), and citrate synthase (CS) as the white muscle of the deep-living species, S. altivelis. The CS and LDH activities exhibited body-sizerelated scaling; CS activity decreased and LDH activity rose in larger-sized specimens. The interspecific activity differences may derive either from differences in substrate turnover number (e.g., LDH) or from differences in enzyme concentration (e.g., PK). Through these two activity-regulating mechanisms, constant ratios of activity of different enzymes within the muscles of each species are maintained, while approximately twofold interspecific differences are maintained. The interspecific differences in enzymic activity are attributed to the importance of depth-related environmental factors, e.g., food availability, lack of light, and a low-energy physical environment, which may permit reduced levels of metabolism at depth. Correlated with the reduced capacity for muscle metabolism in S. altivelis is a small (9%) reduction in muscle-buffering capacity. Protein and water content did not differ in the muscle tissues of the two species. Unlike muscle, in brain tissue no interspecific differences in enzymic activity (LDH, PK, and CS) were found. This suggests that the differences in enzymic activity noted for muscle tissue reflect muscle-specific changes associated with reduced metabolic and locomotory demands at depth. Comparisons of congeneric species experiencing similar thermal regimes and having similar life history and ecological characteristics, but having different depth distributions, permit sensitive analyses of depth-related biochemical adaptations.
30158246|Minimum and cold-induced maximum metabolisms were measured in six heteromyid and one cricetine species of rodents. Minimum and cold-induced maximum metabolisms have similar slopes, and maximum metabolism is significantly elevated over minimum metabolism by approximately 65 times at 45 g. Minimum metabolism adjusted for body mass is statistically lower for heteromyids than for other rodents. The aerobic capacity model for the evolution of endothermy would predict that since heteromyids have a low minimum metabolism they should also have a low maximum metabolism. Such is not the case in the relatively few species examined. The aerobic capacity model also predicts that mass-independent minimum and maximum metabolic rates will be correlated. This is true for the species we measured here when maximum was induced using cold. The correlation is also significant for rodents in general regardless of whether maximum metabolism was elicited with cold or exercise. Cold-induced maximum metabolism is significantly lower than exercise-induced maximum metabolism in rodents.
30155776|Daily energy metabolism of Peromyscus leucopus and Tamias striatus was measured in three natural seasonal temperature regimes by gas analysis. Average daily metabolic rates (ADMR) were calculated from these daily metabolic patterns. Polynomial multiple regression analyses were conducted to examine the relative influence of body mass, ambient temperature, and time of day on metabolic rates. Several predictive equations are derived from regression analyses which are compared with both the observed data and similar predictive equations of other authors. In both species, ADMRs are approximately double the estimated resting metabolic rates under the same environmental conditions. The
30164266|We collected milk samples from two rodents, Kerodon rupestris and Acomys cahirinus, that live in arid habitats and produce precocial young, in order to determine milk composition throughout the lactation period. Milk from species producing precocial young has been predicted to be low in energy and protein content, while milk from arid-dwelling species has been predicted to be high in total solids. Milk samples were analyzed for total fat, protein, and sugar content. Milk from Acomys was much higher in energy content than Kerodon milk, exhibiting higher concentrations of total solids (41% vs. 20%), fat (21% vs. 6.9%), and protein (12% vs. 66%); however, sugar concentration was lower in Acomys milk (2. 9% vs. 5.3%). Milk composition varied throughout the lactation period in both species, with protein levels increasing and fat levels decreasing in Kerodon and sugar levels decreasing and total solids and fat levels increasing in Acomys. The milk of Kerodon females exhibited a threefold variation in fat content, while milk from Acomys females showed a twofold variation in protein content. The results of this study lend some support to the idea that mammals inhabiting arid environments conserve water by producing milk with a high proportion of solids. Furthermore, these results do not support the hypothesis that milk from rodents with precocial young is low in energy content but instead indicate that precocial species produce milk that is high in total solids and fat.
30155974|The embryos of Procellariiformes develop slowly, reportedly, at least in part, as a result of low incubation temperatures, and some species such as Wilson's and Leach's storm petrels experience long periods of chilling. Incubation temperatures of eggs of Leach's storm petrel (on Kent Island, New Brunswick), Wilson's storm petrel, and the southern giant fulmar (Palmer Station, Antarctica) averaged 35.9, 35.7, and 35.5 C, respectively. These are well within the range of temperatures for other species of birds and indicate that the prolonged incubation periods of petrels are not attributable to low incubation temperatures. We measured the depressing effect of cooling (
30164251|Energy metabolism in red-eared turtles (Trachemys [=Pseudemys] scripta elegans) was monitored in air-breathing animals at 11-14 C, in animals forced to dive over a 16-wk period in normoxic water at 3 C, and in animals recovering for up to 8 wk from forced dives. Diving had no effect on blood glucose levels; hematocrit and blood lactate were marginally higher during diving Heart and brain glycogen levels did not decrease during diving These findings suggest that anaerobic metabolism was not activated and that survival was more likely dependent on metabolic depression and/or a low level of aquatic respiration. The absence of an activation of anaerobic metabolism in this species is in contrast to the usual response in diving turtles. Heart and brain total RNA levels remained constant during the diving period, but there was an increase in total RNA during recovery, which suggests a burst in protein synthesis at this time. Activity levels of hexokinase, pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, citrate synthase, 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, and cytochrome oxidase were measured. In heart, pyruvate kinase levels showed a tendency to decline during the diving period; pyruvate kinase and cytochrome oxidase increased during recovery. In brain, cytochrome oxidase declined during diving; pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, citrate synthase, and cytochrome oxidase increased during recovery. The increase in activity of various enzymes during recovery was consistent with the elevation in RNA content and may be associated with increased cardiovascular activity, neural activity, and nutrient supply of amino acids.
30152600|The house finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) is resident in tropical and subtropical regions as well as in localities having relatively severe winters. The extent of its winter acclimatization was assessed in freshly captured individuals of this species from southern California and Colorado. In severe cold stress tests involving exposure to
30156001|Tadpoles of the frog Xenopus laevis underwent significant thermal acclimation of the rate of oxygen consumption. Acclimation to cool temperatures increased the rate of oxygen consumption at cool temperatures; the
30164220|Harp seals (Phoca groenlandica) give birth on pack ice and nurse their pups for about 13 d. We hypothesized that lactating females would transfer milk and energy to pups at a high rate to compensate for the brevity of lactation. To test this hypothesis, the milk intake of five pups was measured over a 6-8-d period after administration of deuterium oxide; the initial age of pups was estimated to range from 0 to 5 d postpartum. Body water content of 17 pups was also measured by isotope dilution, and body composition of 12 pups was determined by chemical analysis. The proximate composition of harp seal milk (n = 21) was also assayed. Harp seal pups contained little fat (3%) at birth, but 61% of the increase in body mass (average 2.3 kg/d) was fat, with the result that fat accounted for 47% of body mass at weaning. Body water estimated by isotope dilution was not significantly different from that measured directly (n = 9 paired samples); water composed 72% of lean body mass. From birth to weaning, milk lipid increased from 36% to 57%, and milk water declined from 51% to 32%. Pup milk intake averaged 3.7 kg/d. Mass gain of pups was highly correlated with both milk intake and energy intake (r > 0.98 for both). On average, pups consumed about 75 MJ/d, which is equivalent to a maternal energy yield of 1.9 MJ/(
30158170|When specimens of the terrestrial slug Limax maximus are dehydrated to 70% of their initial body weight (IBW), they exhibit water-orientation behavior that is characterized by both an increase in locomotor activity and a preference for the moist arm of a Y maze. Water orientation was elicited in fully hydrated slugs by injection of 10 M arginine vasotocin (AVT, calculated final hemolymph concentration). Injection of 10 M AVT elicited water-orientation behavior in slugs dehydrated to only 80% IBW, demonstrating that the effects of AVT and dehydration are additive. Injection of slugs with the octapeptides angiotensin II (AII) and arginine vasopressin (AVP), at concentrations ranging from 10 to 10 M, failed to elicit water orientation. Water orientation does not seem to be mediated solely by the alterations in hemolymph volume or osmolality that occur during dehydration. Rather, it appears that a dehydration-induced increase in hemolymph ionic concentration is involved in initiating water orientation.
30156227|Oxygen consumption and maximum pumping performance were measured in situ perfused trout (Salmo gairdneri) hearts at acclimation temperatures of 5 and 15 C. Myocardial oxygen consumption increased linearly as a function of myocardial power output at both acclimation temperatures. The slope of the regression equation was significantly lower at 5 C compared with that at 15 C This difference was attributed to power output related changes in mechanical efficiency at 5 C (but not at 15 C) and a lower mass-specfic oxygen consumption for maximal performance of the larger heart of cold-acclimated fish.
30158208|Total and regional (pelvic and pectoral) osmotic water flow (
30164236|The energy expenditure of female barn swallows (Hirundo rustica) was measured during the period of egg formation using the doubly labelled water (DLW) technique. Mean field metabolic rate (FMR) was 104-112 kJ d (standard deviation [ SD] = 22, n = 12), dependent on assumptions used in the calculations. The energy expenditure of female swallows did not differ significantly between egg formation, incubation, and nestling-rearing periods. Water turnover rate of laying females was 18.4 mL d (SD = 2.0, n = 12). The amount of egg material deposited during energy expenditure measurements was determined for 11 of the birds by feeding them lipophilic dye, which marked the outside of each rapidly developing ovarian follicle. The energy content of egg material deposited in 24 h averaged 4.9 kJ (SD = 2.3, n = 11), which represented 4.5%-4.9% of FMR. Variation in FMR was not correlated with egg deposition. The mean clutch size of swallows for which FMR was measured during egg formation was slightly but significantly smaller (4.3 eggs) than that of undisturbed birds matched for laying date (4.7 eggs). Costs of egg synthesis were small in relation to routine energy requirements during reproduction. Energy shortage during egg formation should not normally constrain reproductive output by swallows.
30161234|Cardiac performance was compared in an in situ perfused heart from rainbow trout with the pericardium intact and then cut. Cutting the pericardium reduced the control cardiac output by 44% and significantly shifted the ventricular function curve to the right. Maximum cardiac output and power output were also reduced by 8% and 18%, respectively, with the pericardium cut. Intrapericardial pressure was subambient and was reduced during ventricular contraction. These data suggest that vis a fronte filling of the heart is very important under resting conditions in trout and that vis a tergo filling of the heart becomes progressively more important as maximum cardiac output is reached.
10.1086/515897|The metabolic rate of precocial bird eggs reaches a plateau when about 80% of the incubation period has passed. This is unexpected, as in many species the embryo continues to grow and maintenance costs must therefore increase. To investigate this paradox, daily energy budgets were constructed for embryos of four galliform species according to two models that used empirical data on egg metabolic rate and embryo growth. In the first model, embryonic synthesis costs were estimated, with an assumed synthesis efficiency, before calculating the maintenance costs. In the second model, embryonic maintenance was calculated first, and no assumptions were made on the synthesis efficiency. The calculations show that assumptions of the synthesis efficiency had a major impact on the energy budget calculations, because embryonic growth rate was high. During the plateau phase, a galliform embryo allocated energy in favor of its maintenance costs in three ways: by decreasing growth rate, by increasing synthesis efficiency, and by depressing the formation of glycogen. Our study suggests that a reduction in growth rate plays a minor role. An increase of synthesis efficiency is more likely to explain the plateau in energy expenditure, since small increases in synthesis efficiency can lead to great savings on synthesis costs.
30158232|Seasonally acclimatized dark-eyed juncos were exposed to one of three temperature regimes: 30 C (thermoneutrality), - 12 C (moderate cold), or 2 C in a 20.9% oxygen/79.1% helium gas mixture (severe cold), for 2 h or until they became hypothermic. Plasma glucose and free fatty acids (FFA), pectoralis muscle and liver glycogen, and pectoralis lactate were measured after exposure. Pectoralis muscle mass increased by 28% in winter. This increased muscle mass may assist in improving cold tolerance by increasing capacity for shivering thermogenesis in winter birds. Plasma glucose was signiicantly reduced and plasma FFA were significantly elevated under severe cold in winter No differences in plasma metabolites with temperature were detected in summer. Pectoralis muscle glycogen decreased with increasing severity of cold stress at both seasons, but winter levels were significantly greater than summer levels under severe cold. No temperature-induced differences in liver glycogen were apparent, but pooled winter values significantly exceeded summer values. Pectoralis lactate was significantly lower under severe cold at both seasons. In addition, mean lactate values for birds becoming hypothermic in both summer (n = 7) and winter (n = 1) were markedly lower than for normothermic birds at the same test temperatures. These data are consistent with a pattern of augmentedpreferential use of FFA to support shivering, coupled with sparing of muscle glycogen, in winter birds relative to summer birds. Furthermore, the decrement of pectoralis lactate with hypothermia may suggest a link between a reduced ability to mobilize muscle glycogen and the onset of hypothermia.
30163720|Nitrogen (N) is a scarce and perhaps limiting nutrient for many herbivores. Herbivore populations that are able to adjust density rapidly in response to changes in ambient N levels would be able to optimize growth, survival, and reproduction during periods when N is more available and to avoid habitat depletion and mass starvation should N availability decline. We report here that the natural plant diet is growth limiting for the red land crab Gecarcinus lateralis (Freminville) on Bermuda, and that supplementation of the diet with high-nutrient food (soybeans) results in markedly reduced cannibalism of adults on conspecific juveniles. This predicts that populations in habitats where food quality is high will have greater survival of recruits than those in nutrient-deficient habitats. Nutritionally modulated cannibalism would allow population size to expand and contract with nutrient availability while minimizing mortality in reproductively active age classes.
30158230|The effects of ionic and/or osmotic change on skeletal muscle mitochondrial performance were investigated. Two substrates, pyruvate and glutamate, and variation in osmotic pressure from 205 to 360 mosm in KCl or mannitol/sucrose media had no effect on maximal respiratory rate (state 3) or coupling (respiratory control ratio) in either species. Over an equivalent range of osmolalities associated with dehydration, organismic maximal O-consumption rates are severely diminished with increasing osmolalities. The data do not support a mitochondrial limit to organismic O consumption under dehydration. There were interspecies differences in state 3 respiration and coupling that were similar to diferences noted in mitochondria isolated from fish red and white muscle, with toad mitochondria behaving more like red muscle and frog mitochondria behaving more like white muscle.
30155712|Increased levels of polypeptide elongation factor 1 (EF-1) have been found in livers of cold-acclimated toadfish in summer and winter. About 70% of the increased activity in cold-acclimated fish is associated with low-molecular-weight (50,000-200,000 daltons) forms of EF-1. Levels of EF-1 activity in vitro are shown to be correlated with elongation rate in vivo. The results suggest that EF-1 may be a rate-limiting component in control of protein metabolism with temperature acclimation.
30164215|We conducted two experiments to investigate how exercise endurance is modulated by the social environment of male lizards (Sceloporus undulatus) and whether this response is dependent on endogenous androgens. Male lizards were held in captivity for either 8 or 9-11 wk prior to measurements of running endurance. In both experiments, lizards were held either in complete isolation or in a single crowded group, and half of the isolated lizards in the 8-wk experiment were castrated to remove the predominant endogenous source of androgens. Endurance in the 9-11-wk experiment was threefold greater, and cardiac muscle mass was about 20% greater, in isolated than in crowded lizards. Testis, epididymis, and kidney morphology indicated that androgenic activity was higher in isolates. In the 8-wk experiment, running endurance was twofold greater in intact isolates than in either of the other two groups, whose values were indistinguishable. Plasma androgens were reduced in castrates compared with those in the other two groups. The intensity of communicative ventrolateral and gular pigmentation, which is known to be influenced by androgens, was significantly more vivid in intact isolates than in castrated or crowded lizards. Our results show that exercise endurance can change substantially within individuals over fairly short time periods. The expression of high endurance in isolates was associated with morphological evidence of higher androgenic activity than that in crowded males and required intact testes. Thus, the difference in endurance between crowded and isolated male lizards is associated with a probable difference in cardiac performance and seems likely to be mediated at least in part by androgenic steroids.
30157926|Juvenile mussels (Mytilus edulis) of ~10 mg dry mass were maintained at five ration levels, and their rates of heat dissipation were determined by direct calorimetry. Metabolic energy expenditure (heat dissipation rate) was partitioned into separate metabolic components in order to assess the relative costs of maintenance, food acquisition, digestion/absorption, and growth in relation to changes in algal ingestion rate (0.04-0.73 mg algae ingested d). Experimentally derived estimates of metabolic costs were then compared with theoretical bioenergetic estimates of costs. The cost of food acquisition and movement through the gut was minimal (<3% of total metabolic rate) and confirmed the low theoretical estimates. The measured cost of digestion and absorption was 17% of the total metabolic energy expenditure, and maximum theoretical estimates accounted for ca. 75% of this cost. The cost of growth increased to 34% of the total metabolic rate at the highest ingestion rate, and maximum theoretical estimates of the cost of protein and nonprotein synthesis could explain only ca. 56% of the measured cost of growth. The results are summarized in terms of the effect of ration level on the overall partitioning of metabolizable energy intake into tissue deposition (protein and nonprotein) and the total metabolic energy expenditure into the costs of maintenance, digestion, and growth.
10.1086/515864|Dissolved H
10.1086/515907|The objective of the present study was to determine the plasma levels of testosterone and corticosterone in male
30155886|Biotelemetry transmitters were surgically implanted in the abdominal cavity of 12 mature swamp rabbits, Sylvilagus aquaticus, to monitor the heart-rate response to forced and voluntary diving. Atropine and propranolol were used to investigate autonomic control of heart rate. Each untreated rabbit showed a marked (- 79%) bradycardia when forcefully submerged for 10 s. Mean heart-rate values during predive, dive, and recovery were 213  12.6, 44  7.5, and 206  14.9 beats/min (
30156176|Herbivorous reptiles are a comparatively rare group of animals, likely in part because of constraints resulting from interactions between ectothermy and herbivory. Herbivorous lizards, as a group, are characterized by a unique set of morphological, anatomical, and physiological properties. Additionally, most herbivorous lizards are found in (and perhaps partially confined to) the tropics. The most northerly distributed herbivorous lizards, the chuckwalla (Sauromalus obsesus) and the desert iguana (Dipsosaurus dorsalis), occur only in very hot regions of the desert southwestern United States. Herbivorous lizards digest their food much less efficiently than nonherbivorous lizards, and digestive efficiency is affected little by body temperature. However, the rate at which food passes through the gut is affected by body temperature in chuckwallas; specifically, food passes through the gut more slowly at lower body temperatures. Throughout the activity season, free-ranging chuckwallas exploit microhabitats allowing them to have high and constant body temperatures for the maximum amount of time during the day. The inefficiency with which chuckwallas extract energy from food may partially explain why this species occurs in hot desert climates. Indeed, this inefficiency may help to explain, inpart, why all herbivorous lizards in the Western Hemisphere occur in warm climates.
30158569|We used multiple regression analysis to evaluate the relationship between metabolic rate and three independent variables-mass, temperature, and standard or resting state-for squamate reptiles. For comparisons among adults of different species, mass raised to the .80 power explains 88% of the variation in metabolic rate. (The .80 mass exponent is significantly greater than the .75 predicted by theoretical considerations.) A further 8% of the variation in metabolic rate is explained by body temperature and whether the lizard is in a standard or resting metabolic state. Residuals were used to determine whether metabolic rates varied as a function of phylogenetic relationship or ecological grouping. Familial associations explained 16% of the variation in metabolic rate for varanids, lacertids, iguanids, colubrids, scincids, xantusiids, gekkonids, and boids. More variation (45%) was explained when lizards were partitioned into four ecological categories: day-active predators, hervibores, reclusive predators, and fossorial predators. A single equation relating metabolic rate to mass is thus inappropriate to estimate the metabolism of squamates. For intraspecific comparisons, the mass exponents of the relationship between metabolic rate and mass are significantly lower than .80 for 25 of 28 data sets. Estimating the metabolic rates of juvenile squamates from equations based on comparisons among species is thus invalid. Moreover, there is significant variability among mass exponents among the 14 species that met the statistical requirements for analysis of covariance, and a common mass exponent cannot be assumed for intraspecific comparisons.
10.1086/515909|We evaluated the use of water and sodium by freeliving individuals of several species of Australian honeyeaters (
30163835|These studies show that the ileum and possibly the rectum of larval lepidopterans are important sites of recovery of base equivalents secreted by the midgut. A model for recycling of fluid and solutes between gut lumen and hemolymph is presented. In this model K, bicarbonate, and fluid return from posterior to anterior parts of the animal both in the form of hemolymph and as Malpighian tubule fluid flowing in tubular loops closely apposed to the hemolymphal surface of the midgut. This arrangement appears adapted to maximize the eficiency of excretion of uric acid and other weak acids, while recycling K and bicarbonate.
30161223|Budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) flying at 37 km h in a wind tunnel were exposed to 2.45 GHz continuous wave (CW) radiation at power densities of 50 and 0 (control) mW cm for 600 s. Body temperatures were measured before and after flights, and thermoregulatory behavior was observed during and after flights. A power density of 50 mW cm induced thermoregulatory behaviors at ambient temperatures (<tex-math>$T_{a}$</tex-math>) above 26 C. Budgerigars were forced to land before the end of the 600-s exposure period when <tex-math>$T_{a}$</tex-math> was greater than 32 C. The specific absorption rate (W kg mW cm) of small bird species (<40 g) is greater than that for larger species and is more sensitive to the orientation of the long axis of the body to the electric (E) vector of the microwave field. Small bird species may be less susceptible to microwave-induced hyperthermia due to a greater ability to lose heat by convection, reradiation, and evaporation of water.
30161248|Ancestry, environment, and life-style of an animal determine its kidney form and function. Four suggestions are presented concerning functional and morphological adaptations: (1) in crocodilians (secondary invaders of aquatic environments) a diminished tubular ability to dilute the urine has been overcome through the exchange of Na and Cl for NH and HCO in tubular and cloacal fluids; (2) many species of lizards are partly ureotelic, and the presence of a bladder may be associated with urea excretion. In partly ureotelic lizards the urinary bladder serves as reservoir when water is available. When water is scarce, urine bypasses the bladder and flows directly into the coprodaeum, resulting in bacterial breakdown of urea and recycling of nitrogen into uric acid; (3) marine fishes and birds excrete excess salt extrarenally. In spite of salt loading, an NaCl solution isosmotic to the urine is reabsorbed from the bladder of marine fishes and from the urine in the lower intestine of marine birds. It serves in water conservation as it permits urinary concentration of divalent ions; and (4) in mammals, urine refluxes into the renal pelvic extentions only during rapidly rising urine flow when the urine osmolality is decreasing. Refluxing urine contacts primarily the vasa recta of the outer medulla. It promotes rapid wash-out of inner medullary urea and establishment of a water diuresis.
30163923|Hibernation in most mammals is accompanied by a pronounced seasonal body weight cycle. Fat is accumulated during summer and consumed during the following hibernation season. We investigated the annual time course of energy intake and energy expenditure and their interrelation with seasonal body weight fluctuations and hibernation in captive alpine marmots (Marmota marmota). All animals exhibited an annual body weight cycle with maximum weights in October and minimum weights after termination of hibernation, regardless of food availability during the hibernation season. Both energy uptake and expenditure reached highest values between June and August, when highest rates of body weight gain were observed. Between May and August energy intake exceeded the expenditure by an average of 383  28.3 kJ/d. From September onward, when weight gain in marmots was reduced, the energy balance became less positive. During the normal hibernation season a negative energy balance was observed, even when food was available. Body weight gain in alpine marmots was achieved by a more than 100% enhanced food intake during the summer months. However, this surplus of energy intake could be only partly used for fat accumulation since energetic costs for digestion and catabolism were also considerably increased. The observed annual cycle of energy expenditure reflects to a large extent the metabolic constraints of fat catabolism. The drop in energy expenditure prior to hibernation is therefore at least partly caused by a decreased food intake and body weight gain and seems to be less likely an energy saving mechanism to facilitate further fat accumulation.
30164203|We tested predictions of a chemical reactor model of digestion of glucose solutions by rainbow lorikeets (Trichoglossus haematodus, 125 g). The optimization criterion was the maximization of net energy gain. The predictions were that residence time in the small intestine would be inversely related to sugar concentration, and extraction efficiency would be inversely related to sugar concentration and generally below 90%. Residence time in the small intestine was indexed by the transit time (TT) of the nonabsorbed marker polyethylene glycol (molecular weight = 4, 000), and extraction efficiency was measured by the inert indicator ratio technique. Birds were tested when ingesting 0.4 or 1.2 M D-glucose. All predictions were rejected: TT was independent of concentration (average = 37  4 min, n = 7 birds), and extraction efficiency was uniformly very high (98.0%  0.4%) and also not influenced by glucose concentration. At low and high sugar concentration the rates of glucose absorption were similar (average = 4 mmol/ h). Extraction efficiency of sucrose solution at one concentration, 1.2 M, was 90.5%  1.0% (n = 6). Stomach-emptying rate appeared slower at high glucose concentration, perhaps owing to negative feedback arising from intestinal receptors. Total (mouth-to-anus) mean retention time was independent of glucose concentration and averaged 88  12 min. Because the birds were not growing, storing fat, or reproducing, perhaps the assumption about energy maximization was inappropriate. The birds' responses were consistent with the goal of minimizing feeding time.
10.1086/515923|Energy allocation for maternal maintenance and milk production was examined in lactating hispid cotton rats
10.1086/515973|The goals of this study were to (1) measure plasma osmolytes and rectal gland weights of a freshwater (FW) Atlantic stingray (
30163716|Metabolic rates (doubly labeled water), daily time budgets, and feeding rates were determined for free-ranging marine iguanas on Isla Fernandina, Galpagos. Field metabolic rates were related to body mass according to the equation kJ/day = 0.079
30155743|The ratio of extravascular lung water content to blood-free, dry-lung weight in the domestic fowl (Gallus domesticus) is approximately 2.10. The fractional water content of the blood-free lung in the domestic fowl is approximately 0.68. The pulmonary extravascular water content of the domestic fowl is less than that reported for mammals and may reflect an important difference in pulmonary fluid balance between the two classes of animals.
30158667|When Polymesoda was transferred from 10 to fresh water, the free amino acid (FAA) pool decreased by 70% in 24 h; alanine accounted for 85% of the decrease. In Polymesoda blood, FAA doubled within 10 h after hypoosmotic stress; between 10 and 24 h the FAA decreased by 24%. Most of the increase and subsequent decrease were accounted for by alanine. In Corbicula, transferred from 5 to fresh water, the FAA pool decreased by 87% in 48 h; alanine accounted for 73% of the decrease. Upon transfer from fresh water to 10, the free amino acid (FAA) pool of Polymesoda foot muscle increased from 27 to 176 mol/g dry weight during the first 36 h; between 36 and 73 h the FAA pool increased only to 187 mol/g dry weight. Alanine accounted for 56% of the increase before 36 h and 77% after 36 h. When Corbicula was transferred from fresh water to 5 the FAA pool increased from 20 to 115 mol/g dry weight; between 70 h and 30 days the pool increased to 197 mol/g dry weight. Alanine accounted for 78% of the initial increase in the FAA pool.
30155888|During hibernation the metabolism of Eptesicus fuscus is supported almost entirely by the oxidation of fats. The present study presents evidence for seasonal and shortterm adjustments which could account for the virtual absence of carbohydrate metabolism during hibernation in this species. Seasonal changes in the activities of the enzymes phosphofructokinase, hexokinase, -hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase, and citrate synthase and in the concentration of cytochrome c indicate a seasonal decrease in the capacity for carbohydrate oxidation relative to that for fatty acid oxidation. The maximal respiratory rates of pectoralis muscle homogenates using pyruvate as a substrate are significantly greater in homogenates prepared from summer bats than in those from hibernating bats. The maximal respiratory rates supported by palmitate oxidation do not vary seasonally. The oxidation pyruvate by mitochondria isolated from pectoralis muscles is markedly inhibited by physiological concentrations of palmitoyl-carnitine, with no decrease in oxygen consumption, indicating that pectoralis muscle mitochondria preferentially oxidize fatty acids when they are present. This pattern of inhibition was observed in mitochondria from both summer and winter bats. However, the inhibition of pyruvate oxidation by palmitoyl-carnitine is significantly greater in mitochondria isolated from hibernating bats than in those from summer bats. These data suggest that carbohydrate metabolism is limited during hibernation by a number of factors which may work in concert in vivo.
30160964|In the resting, air-breathing sea snake, Laticauda colubrina, the gas tension differences between the alveoli and the pulmonary vein
30158649|Sea snakes (Pelamis platurus) acclimated to a 10-m tank for 24 h routinely dove with sufficient lung volumes to be near neutrally buoyant at depth. Naive snakes in the same tank dove with much more variable lung volumes, and one of these snakes had sufficient volume to be neutrally buoyant at 30 m (4 atm). With longer dive times, acclimated snakes, because of their consumption of pulmonary O and the transcutaneous losses of CO and N, lost lung volume and became negatively buoyant. Sixtyfive percent of the dives of free-swimming snakes tracked at sea are characterized by a four-phased pattern of (a) descent, (b) bounce ascent, (c) gradual ascent, and (d) final ascent. The gradual ascent phase accounts for about 82% of total submergence time on each dive and may reflect a period when free-swimming snakes gradually ascend and, by Boyle's Law, compensate for buoyancy lost because of the decline in pulmonary volume. The capacity of P. platurus to dive deeply and repetitively is attributable to increased lung 02 supply, to specializations for cutaneous gas exchange, and to an intracardiac pulmonary shunt. Shunting, which is well developed in sea snakes, assures management of pulmonary O reserves in a fashion that augments cutaneous respiration and establishes favorable transcutaneous diffusion gradients that facilitate the loss of N (to avert Caisson disease) and the uptake of O. Our studies suggest that shunting also minimizes the rate of buoyancy change and thus lowers the energetic costs of swimming for a diving snake.
30163746|We determined the effects of dietary protein and
10.1086/515895|Rainbow trout exposed to unbuffered water of pH 10.5 initially showed significant increases in blood pH, plasma cortisol and glucose, partial pressure of NH
30163856|Little is known about how the mammalian ventilatory system accommodates the large change in rates of O consumption
30164289|The dependency of the Christmas Island blue crab, Cardisoma hirtipes, on fresh water for respiratory gas exchange and transport was investigated in laboratory simulations. The gas exchange rates of air-breathing C. hirtipes were similar to those of other land crabs but decreased to 20% in submerged crabs. Crabs with access to air maintained arterial and pulmonary O content (CO) and partial pressure (PO), while in submerged crabs the PO and CO rapidly decreased (by 50%). There was no anaerobiosis, but haemolymph glucose concentration and cardiac output decreased when crabs were submersed, which suggests a hypometabolic state. Submersion induced a metabolic rather than a respiratory alkalosis, and since respiratory gas exchange was low, CO excretion to water was unimportant. Cardisoma hirtipes haemocyanin (Hc) has high O affinity but low pH sensitivity, which facilitates O uptake from hypoxic environments. The high Hc-O affinity supports O loading but may prevent access to a venous O reserve. Calcium, magnesium, and urate, but not L-lactate, were effectors of Hc-O affinity. In submerged crabs increased circulating urate maintained haemolymph O content. The CO capacitance and nonbicarbonate buffering of the haemolymph were relatively low. A significant Haldane effect seemed important for CO excretion but would require CO and O exchange to occur at the same organ (gills or lungs). Submersion interferes with respiration and is not needed for haemolymph acid-base balance; thus, C. hirtipes is an air-breathing crab.
30158596|The body temperature (
30158586|Male European starlings, Sturnus vulgaris, were implanted with varying dosages of testosterone in June, shortly before the natural onset of the molt. Dose-dependent effects on the primary, secondary, and body molts were found. In general, testosterone delayed the onset of molt and slowed its progress. Since the duration of the molt was relatively unaffected, the molt in testosterone-treated birds stopped before its completion. It was not resumed when the implants were removed in November. The plasma testosterone levels in all implanted birds tended to be lower during the molt than afterward. The opposite was true of thyroxine plasma titers. A negative correlation was found between testosterone levels during the molt and the final molt score, and a positive correlation was found between thyroxine and the final molt score.
30152560|Thermoregulation of Arctic least weasels (Mustela rixosa) and ermines (Mustela erminea) in winter and summer pelage was studied at Point Barrow, Alaska. Mean body temperatures at
30161224|Although sand partridges (Ammoperdix heyi) and chukars (Alectoris chukar sinaica) of the Negev desert are sympatric in some areas, sand partridges are endemic to arid regions, whereas chukars are primarily mesophilous. We reasoned that one thermoregulatory adaptation that might favor sand partridges over chukars in arid environments would be a better ability to regulate brain (hypothalamic) temperature, especially during heat stress and water deprivation. We therefore exposed both species to ambient temperatures ($T_{a}$) from 28.5 to 44.5 C before and after water deprivation. We simultaneously measured colonic and hypothalamic temperatures ($T_{c}$, and $T_{h}$ respectively) and the frequencies (f) of breathing, panting, and gular flutter. The $T_{c}$, increased directly with $T_{a}$ to the same extent in both watered and water-deprived groups of both species. However, sand partridges could thermoregulate and maintain $T_{h}$ lower than $T_{c}$, even when $T_{a}$ exceeded $T_{c}$, whereas chukars could not. Both species responded to water deprivation by reducing f increasing $T_{c}$ and $T_{h}$ thresholds for panting, and changing the patterns and/or frequencies of panting and gular flutter. As a result, $T_{c} - T_{h} (i.e., \DeltaT)$ in waterdeprived birds decreased with increasing $T_{c}$ (i.e., T) in water-deprived birds decreased with increasing $T_{c}$ until panting began. At that point T began to increase with $T_{c}$. In chukars, T was influenced by $T_{a}$, by water deprivation, and by the interaction between them, whereas T in sand partridges was influenced only by the interaction of water deprivation with $T_{a}$. Our findings suggest that sand partridges are better able to regulate body and brain temperatures during heat stress and water deprivation than are chukars and that this may contribute to their ability to live in very arid areas from which chukars are absent.
30163817|Resting metabolic rate (RMR) and body temperature (
30164245|The energetic cost of molt in birds is generally considered to be high and is frequently regarded as being a main reason for the temporal separation of molt from reproduction and other activities. We assessed the energetic cost of the postnuptial molt in dippers, Cinclus cinclus, using laboratory measurements of O consumption and CO production of molting and nonmolting individuals, timeactivity budgets in the field, and the doubly labeled water technique on free-living, molting birds. Energy expenditures of molting dippers within their thermal neutral zone in the laboratory (males, 92 kJ
30155787|A study was made of respiration and metabolism in Amazonian manatees (Trichechus inunguis) weighing between 20 and 170 kg. These animals had a low metabolic rate, 0.36 times that predicted by Kleiber's 1975 equation for placental mammals. They also had a low breathing frequency and minute ventilation, and high O extraction and CO output. The mean dive times were less than 2 min but dives of up to 10 min-duration were noted. Sequential dive times exhibited a pattern only in that several short dives followed a prolonged one.
30163775|The physiological responses of rainbow trout were followed during 48 h of high pH (pH 9.5) exposure and a further 48 h of recovery at pH 8.0. High pH exposure temporarily inhibited ammonia excretion (
30158192|The properties of 6-phosphofructo-1-kinase (PFK) were analyzed in foot muscle, mantle, and hepatopancreas of the land snail, Otala lactea (Pulmonata, Helicidae). The enzyme in all tissues showed properties common to PFK from other invertebrate sources including sigmoidal fructose 6-phosphate (F6P) kinetics at pH 7, activation by AMP, fructose-2, 6-bisphosphate, NH, and inorganic phosphate, and weak inhibition by Mg ATP and citrate. Novel to O. lactea PFK, however, was an activation of the enzyme by low levels of phosphoenolpyruvate (
30159950|Oxygen consumption of the eastern tent caterpillar moth, Malacosoma americanum (mean body mass = 88 mg), during free hovering flight was independent of ambient temperature from 17 to 30 C and averaged 126 ml of O (g  h). Mean wing stroke frequency was also unaffected by
30152621|Total oxygen consumption (
30164319|Neonates of many mammalian species, including humans, depend primarily on thermogenesis by brown adipose tissue as a defense against cold challenge. Although the steady-state thermogenic responses of brown adipose tissue to various air temperatures are well known, the dynamic responses have received relatively little attention. In this article, we examine the relative stability of brown adipose tissue thermogenesis during brief perturbations of air temperature. Specifically, week-old rats were allowed to settle at one of two levels of cold exposure. These two levels were defined on the basis of previous work as being moderate (30.5C) or extreme (23C). After pups had settled at these temperatures, they were exposed to positive or negative air temperature perturbations of approximately 3.7C. Pups experiencing perturbations from the moderate air temperature, unlike those exposed to the extreme air temperature, exhibited organized thermogenic responses that allowed them to return quickly to their preperturbation conditions. These data suggest that brown adipose tissue thermogenesis is more stably controlled than has previously been suspected.
30158288|The effects of the angiotensin II (AII) antagonist, saralasin, on the rehydration behavior of dehydrated toads (Bufo punctatus) were examined during periods of (1) rising or steady and (2) falling barometric pressure. When allowed to rebydrate during periods of rising or steady barometric pressure, Ringer's-treated (control) toads returned to their pretest (ad lib.) weight, while saralasin-treated toads terminated water-absorption-response (WR) behavior before regaining their ad lib. weight. When the barometric pressure was falling the pattern of WR behavior and weight gain was reversed: control toads failed to regain their ad lib. weight, while saralasin-treated toads did regain their ad lib. weight. The rates of water gain were the same for all treatment groups, indicating that the changes in water gain were due to the time spent in the WR. The results of this study suggest that endogenous All is involved in the regulation of WR behavior in B. punctatus and that WR behavior is also modulated by climatic factors that might affect the availability of water.
30166347|When naturally infected with the malarial parasite Plasmodium mexicanum, Western fence lizards, Sceloporus occidentalis, exhibit numerous reproductive pathologies. Infected males display fewer courtship and territorial behaviors, have altered sexually dimorphic coloration, and have smaller testes. Infected animals store less fat by late summer, which, for females, reduces clutch size in the spring We describe hormonal alterations associated with malarial parasitism that may underlie this reproductive inhibition. We caught lizards in the field and bled them either immediately or 1 h after capture for measurement of basal and stress levels of steroid hormones. Compared to uninfected lizards, infected lizards had lower levels of basal plasma testosterone (24 vs. 38 ng/mL) and higher levels of corticosterone (18 vs. 8 ng/mL) following 1 h of capture and confinement. Infected animals also had lower levels of plasma glucose (243 vs. 270 mg/dL). When we experimentally elevated plasma corticosterone of uninfected lizards in large outdoor enclosures, the animals showed decreases in testosterone, testis size, and stored fat similar to those of infected animals in the wild. We hypothesize that the parasite induces alterations in the adrenal response to acute stress, resulting in a suppression of testosterone and the inhibition of reproductive behavior.
30156240|Adjustments of renal function can conserve significant amounts of water for terrestrial mammals and birds during periods of water scarcity. By measuring renal function in unanesthetized, unrestrained Gambel's quail (Callipepla gambelii) while normally hydrated (NH) and after 4-5 d of water deprivation (WD), we tested the hypothesis that these birds respond to water deprivation by decreasing their glomerular filtration rate (GFR), thus lowering urine flow and attendant water loss. Glomerular filtration rate averaged 17.7 mL/h in NH quail and declined to 7.7 mL/h in WD quail. Tubular reabsorption of fluids increased slightly as a result of water deprivation, but the primary renal mechanism for water conservation was reduction in GFR. When deprived of water, Gambel's quail did not reduce their GFR more, nor concentrate their urine more, than other avian species from more mesic habitats. Urine-to-plasma osmotic ratios averaged 1.6. Final adjustments in water content of the urine are likely made in the lower gastrointestinal tract because NH quail reflux urine from the cloaca into this region. However, as urine osmolality increases because of dehydration, the osmotic gradient between plasma and luminal contents of the lower intestine may eventually prevent solute-linked water flux from the intestine. We suggest that quail no longer reflux urine under such circumstances. We developed an allometric equation relating GFR to body mass for NH birds that predicts a GFR of 40.3 mL/h for a 158. O-g Gambel's quail, a value 2.3 times higher than measured. We suggest that the evolution of a conservative metabolic rate has permitted a reduction in GFR and attendant water loss by way of urine flow.
30159998|The effects of changes in temperature (1.5 to 25 C) and in the concentration ofLlactate on oxygen binding by the bemocyanin of Hyas araneus and H. coarctatus were compared. At temperatures above 15 C the binding of oxygen by both bemocyanins was essentially temperature insensitive, but below 15 C and at lowpH the sensitivity increased. Comparing data obtained at temperatures above 10 C with those collected at 1.5 C, the temperature decrease was accompanied by a reduction in the size of the Bohr effect. The Bobrfactor changedfrom approximately 0.7 to 0.3 andfrom 0.8 to 0.SforH. coarctatus andH. araneus hemocyanin, respectively. Temperature changes affected the affinities of the deoxygenatedH. coarctatus hemocyanin to a greater extent than that of the oxygenatedpigment, which was reflected by a decrease in cooperativity. This was due to a depression of the intrinsic affinity
30159946|Sea turtle (Chelonia, Caretta) eggs consume O throughout their 55-65 day incubation. The pattern of O uptake (at 30 C) appears sigmoidal. The rate of O uptake increases rapidly during the second half of incubation, slowing slightly just prior to hatching. The maximum O uptake (
30163899|Baroreceptors with afferent fibers in branches of the glossopharyngeal nerve or the vagus have been identified in all three arterial arches in anuran amphibians. Baroreceptors in the pulmocutaneous arch (PCA) appear to provide the principal feedback of arterial blood pressure to the cardiovascular centers of the medulla. An additional contribution arises from receptors within the aortic arch. The receptors are slowly adapting mechanoreceptors and, at least in the case of the PCA baroreceptors, transmit baroreceptive information via nonmyelinated afferents. Pressure thresholds coincide with the range of systolic arterial pressures associated with undisturbed toads. Therefore, increases in systolic pressure above resting result in both increases in firing frequency and the recruitment of previously inactive receptors. Denervation experiments demonstrate that feedback from PCA baroreceptors tonically inhibits the cardiovascular system even at rest. Experimental elevation of PCA pressure above resting values causes bradycardia and reduces systemic vascular resistance, resulting in a compensatory reduction in systemic arterialpressure. In addition, PCA resistance increases, which probably reflects a constriction of the extrinsic pulmonary artery. This response opposes the negative feedback regulation of arterial pressure but may protect the pulmonary microvasculature by increasing upstream resistance, thereby reducing intravascular pressures in pulmonary vessels. This is consistent with the view that the primary role of anuran PCA baroreceptors is to protect the delicate vasculature of the gas-exchange organ against high central driving pressures transmitted by the incompletely divided anuran circulation. Future studies should be directed toward an investigation of the central pathways involved in the PCA baroreflex.
30158156|The crustacean cardiac ganglion consists of a small number of neurons that drive contractions of heart muscle. In isopods, cardiac neurons are similar in size and spontaneity. They all couple electrically and produce synchronous bursts of impulses to activate the muscle. In stomatopods, cardiac neurons are divided into pacemakers and followers, although all are motoneurons and are electrically connected. In decapods, cardiac neurons are differentiated into large motoneurons and small interneurons. The large and small neurons interact mutually via electrical and chemical synaptic connections to produce synchronous burst discharges. These neurons exhibit overlapping innervation fields. Synchronization of their output is dominated by electrical interaction in the short crab ganglia and by chemical interaction in the longer lobster ganglia. When the lobster heart is exposed to high filling pressure, heart rate usually follows the bursting of the large neurons. Under the influence of serotonin, which selectively activates small cardiac neurons, heart rate follows the bursting of small neurons, even at high filling pressures. Therefore, the maximum rates of decapod hearts may vary as afunction of activation of the large and/or small neurons.
30158441|An elevated metabolism requires the sea otter, Enhydra lutris, to include large quantities of invertebrate prey in its diet. This necessitates processing large quantities of energy, nitrogen, electrolytes, and water. Feeding studies were conducted to document these high material and energy fluxes and the dilution of tritiated water through time was used to measure total water flux. Total energy influx on a diet of clam and squid was 234  19 (X  SE) kcal/kg-day with an assimilation efficiency of 82% and an estimated metabolic efficiency of 72%. Material influx from food was 5.22  0.41 (X  SE) g/kg-day nitrogen and 166 meq/kg-day electrolytes (Cl, Na, K, Mg). The presence of large lobulate kidneys may allow for the production of large volumes of urine at elevated concentrations. Urine samples from wild and captive animals had a mean osmotic pressure of 1,627  91 mOsm/kg (range, 910-2,130), which was composed of 647 meq/L Na, K, Cl and 698  67 mmol/L urea. Total water flux was 269  25 mL/kg-day. Mean seawater ingested was estimated to be 62 mL/kg-day (range, 0-124), and it may aid in the urea elimination by increasing the urinary osmotic space.
30155807|We measured standard operative temperatures (
30163705|Specific dynamic action (SDA), measured in three sea otters using indirect calorimetry, is 10.0%-13.2% of the ingested clam or squid energy. Sea otter SDA is intermediate in magnitude and shorter in duration than reported for marine mammals that were fed fish. The postprandial peak increase in resting
10.1086/515869|A high correlation was observed between the concentration of urea in the maternal plasma and the concentration of urea in the ovarian fluid during postyolk sac growth of the embryos in the ovary of the viviparous blenny (eelpout)
30156182|The relationship between flight-muscle ratio (FMR; flight-muscle mass/body mass) and aerial competitive ability was studied in Plathemis lydia dragonflies. These dragonflies approximately double their body mass during adult maturation. This is due primarily to growth of flight muscle in males and growth of ovaries in females. Males attain one of the highest FMRs of any animal; up to 60% of their body mass is flight muscle. During observations of relative mating success among groups of two to five individually marked males, there was a significant decline in mating success with decreasing FMR rank. Relative mating success was measured by the proportion of total daily oviposition time spent by females mated last by each male. Males that had their FMRs reduced experimentally by attachment of small weights had poor territorial and mating success when they were competing with unweighted males. These results suggest that a high FMR enhances ability to compete in aerial contests, which enables greater short-term mating success. Mature males with the highest FMRs had the least gut contents and fat reserves; thus, there is a trade-off made between flight ability and nutritional state that may affect longevity and long-term mating success. A trade-off between benefits derived from enhanced flight performance and costs incurred by reducing the mass of tissues other than flight muscle is probably widespread among flying animals.
30163904|This review summarizes current knowledge of avian baroreceptor location, innervation pattern, and function. Birds have one set of arterial baroreceptors associated with the root of the aortic arch and innervated bilaterally by the aortic nerves, branches of the vagus originating from the nodose ganglia. There is a tonic level of baroreceptor input to the baroregulatory mechanisms in the brain stem, and this baroreceptor input is necessary for the maintenance of normotensive pressure in birds. Arterial blood pressure rises acutely and remains chronically elevated after barodenervation. Few studies of baroreceptor or baroreflex function have been made in birds. Baroreceptors discharge in systole with properties similar to high-threshold, slowly adapting mammalian baroreceptors. Evaluating the results of studies of baroreflex function in birds is problematic, since these studies were inconsistent in methodology. They were done in either awake or anesthetized animals, and several different methods for varying arterial pressure were used. It is recommended that baroreflex function be assessed by examining the correlation between spontaneously occurring values of heart rate or cardiac output and arterial pressure measured simultaneously in awake, unrestrained animals. The contribution of baroreceptors to cardiovascular control during exercise and submersion, and possible roles of the baroreflex in homeostasis, are discussed This review emphasizes the lack of data about the nature of baroreceptors and their participation in the integrated control of the circulation in birds.
30158647|Evidence from respiratory and circulatory studies suggests that the hagfish genus Eptatretus is more adapted to an aerobic life and is more active than Myxine. This study aims to compare the cardiac dynamics of the two genera. The ECG of E. cirrhatus differed from that of fish in showing both a clear V wave and a PT deflection, the first caused by depolarization of the sinus venosus and the second by the repolarization of the atrium. Atrial and ventricular pressures were low; the ventral aortic average pressure was 16.3  3.5 cm HO. Various cardiac parameters of the two hagfish are compared, and it is concluded that their hearts are very alike but differ from those of teleost fish in the slow rate of conduction in and contraction of the myocardium. These findings are discussed with reference to its anaerobic metabolism, its absence of a coronary circulation and T tubules, and the uncertain development of gap junctions between the myocardial cells.
30163938|The white-tailed prairie dog is a spontaneous hibernator that enters an anorexic state followed by torpor in early fall. The black-tailed prairie dog is a facultative hibernator that enters torpor only when deprived of food and water in the winter. The physiological state of hibernation is similar to a Phase II euthermic fast characterized by elevated fat catabolism, increased blood ketone bodies, and conservation of protein tissues. It was hypothesized that these spontaneous and facultative hibernators use fat and protein differently during a fast prior to the hibernation season. Weekly blood and urine samples were taken from both species during a 5-wk period of food and water deprivation. The black-tailed prairie dog lost mass at a greater rate and had a larger daily urine volume and urea, ammonia, and potassium excretion, as well as a higherplasma urea/creatinine ratio, all of which define a greater rate of protein catabolism for this species than for the white-tailed prairie dog. The black-tailed prairie dog, therefore, does not conserve protein to the same extent as the white-tailed prairie dog during a Phase II fast typical of hibernation starvation. Ketone bodies do not appear to regulate protein catabolism directly. But the greater protein catabolism by the black-tailed prairie dog may be related to pH and water balance requirements that are circumvented in the white-tailed prairie dog by engaging in spontaneous torpor. Both species evolved from populations of ancestral prairie dogs that have retained the ability to hibernate spontaneously. It is hypothesized that the black-tailed prairie dogs may not have maintained the capacity for a deep Phase II, protein-conserving state typical of hibernation starvation but keep an active profile throughout winter, relying to a greater extent on protein catabolism in response to selective pressures of greater predation, higher food abundance, and perhaps a need to preserve fat stores for reproduction.
30164212|We systematically determined the prevalence of altered enzyme expression by examining all the enzymes in a single metabolic pathway, glycolysis. The contributions of evolutionary adaptation and physiological acclimation to this alteration were distinguished by quantifying the variation between populations and determining the effect of acclimation on enzyme expression. Of the 10 cardiac glycolytic enzymes, two enzymes, phosphoglucoisomerase and aldolase, were expressed at a significantly greater level in a northern population of Fundulus heteroclitus than in a southern population but were unaffected by acclimation temperature. The expression of two other enzymes, phosphoglyceromutase and enolase, was the same in both populations at a given temperature but significantly greater at the colder acclimation temperature. These findings indicate that both evolved differences between populations and physiological adjustment within a population occur in a single pathway and can potentially compensate for the differences in the thermal environment. All four enzymes that show variation are equilibrium enzymes that are traditionally considered to be incapable of producing compensatory metabolic changes. Our results thus call into question the paradigm that only nonequilibrium enzymes are important for the regulation of metabolism.
30163350|From 25, 15, and 5 C-acclimated green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus), liver microsomes were prepared by Ca precipitation. During cold acclimation, phosphatidyl choline (PC) declined and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and inositol increased. In coldadapted fish the proportion of saturated fatty acids in the phospholipids (PLs) was less, the proportion of monounsaturated fatty acids was greater, and the proportion of polyunsaturated fatty acids did not change. The ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids increased on cold acclimation as previously reported. Microsomes from winter fish contained less saturated fatty acids and more mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acids than microsomes from summer fish when the fish were similarly acclimated in the laboratory. Analyses of incorporation of fatty acid substrates (16:0, 8:0, 18:2n6, 8:3n3) showed that palmitate was preferentially incorporated into phosphatidyl classes. The proportion of labeled palmitic acid in phosphatidic acid may reflect reorganization of the total lipid pool. Incorporation of
30152634|Continuous records of nighttime O consumption (
30159964|Water loss in Eleodes armata and Cryptoglossa verrucosa increased with increasing temperature and decreasing vapor activity (
30158539|Daily activity periods, thermal profiles, and stomach contents of Sceloporus variabilis (7.7 g mean body mass) were studied at Bastonal (1,000 m elevation) and Monte Pio (45 m elevation) in southern Veracruz, Mexico. Metabolic rates of free-ranging lizards were measured during late summer using doubly labeled water and were compared to values for temperate sceloporine lizards. Lizards were active from about 0800 hours to 1800 hours. Mean body temperatures of lizards averaged 28.9 C at Bastonal and 32.4 C at Monte Pio. Water-influx rates averaged 132 and 108 mL CO (kg d) at Bastonal and Monte Pio, respectively. Metabolic rates measured in the field were not different at the two sites and when combined averaged 0.40 mL (g h) or 240 J (g d). Metabolic rates averaged about 6.5 times estimated resting metabolic rate, and activity metabolism accounted for 73% of total respiration. Water-influx rates of S. variabilis are about 4.5 times higher and field metabolic rates are about 1.6 times higher than similar values reported for temperate sceloporine lizards. The increased metabolic and water-flux rates in S. variabilis are apparently due to a combination of greater availability of food and water, favorable thermal conditions, and a higher level of foraging activity and movements than those of temperate sceloporine lizards.
30156247|We examined hypoxic boundary layers surrounding the skin-breathing aquatic plethodontid salamander Desmognathus quadramaculatus and investigated the flow regime in the natural habitat of this species. In slow-flowing water (<10 cm  s), which we found to be the preferred microhabitat in nature, the boundary layer is the major resistance to oxygen uptake. Consequently, PO at the skin surface in slow-flowing water falls below 60 Torr even though Po in the free stream exceeds 150 Torr, and aerobic metabolism is severely impaired. Four salamanders survived reduced aerobic metabolism for 4 mo in the laboratory, implying that D. quadramaculatus can severely restrict overall metabolic needs and/ or makes extensive use of anaerobic metabolic pathways.
30156106|The nutrient composition of yolk was analyzed in giant Canada geese (Branta canadensis maxima) in relation to growth and early organ development. Eggs were collected from wild geese and incubated artificially. The goslings were raised in groups of either fed or starved birds and killed at intervals up to 25 days of age. Organs of the digestive system of fed goslings grew faster than the rest of the body from day 0 to day 6 and grew more slowly in the later growth period (days 10-25). Goslings increased significantly their ability to metabolize energy after day 8. The gizzard and large intestine of starved goslings increased in weight from day 0 to day 4, while all other components remained the same weight. After day 4 the leg muscles, pectoralis, and the rest of the body were depleted. Subcutaneous fat was the major source of energy for starved birds. Fed and starved goslings used yolk at the same rate after hatching and were similar in their use of protein, minerals, neutral lipids, phospholipids, and cholesterol. In both starved and fed goslings yolk does not function solely as a source of energy but also provides nutrients for rapid growth of the digestive system.
30161214|The abilities to maintain body mass (<tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math>) during water deprivation and to recover <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> when water becomes available were compared in captive sand partridges (Ammoperdix heyi) and chukars (Alectoris chukar sinaica). These two phasianids are broadly sympatric in the Negev Desert; however, sand partridges, the smaller and paler of the two, inhabit extremely arid areas where chukars are absent. Six sand partridges and five chukars were offered water following 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 days of water deprivation. There were five successive trials in each water treatment except the first, when there were 10 trials. Rates of <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> loss at 1-3 days of water deprivation were higher in chukars (1.5%-2.8% <tex-math>$m_{b}/day$</tex-math>) than in sand partridges (1.3%-2.2%), but were similar at 4-6 days of water deprivation (1.2%-1.3% <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> per day). Sand partridges consistently recovered <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> better than chukars, and the difference was significant in the 5-day treatment. When the birds received water every 6 days, plasma osmolality was 346 mOsm/kg in sand partridges and 356 mOsm/kg in chukars immediately after drinking and increased to 374 mOsm/kg and 376 mOsm/kg, respectively, with water deprivation. Following drinking, the water in excreta was 93% in chukars and 77% in sand partridges (P < .01) and fell to 57% and 59%, respectively, with water deprivation. Evaporative water loss (EWL) during 6 days of water deprivation was 41% of the total water loss for sand partridges, or 1.3% <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> per day, and 60% of the total water loss for chukars, or 1.8% <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> per day. These rates declined to 1.1% and 1.5% <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> per day for sand partridges and chukars, respectively, during the last 3 days of the 6 days of water deprivation. Sand partridges apparently are better able to maintain <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> during water deprivation and are better able to recover <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> with intermittent drinking. These advantages of the sand partridges are mainly due to their lower EWL when compared with the chukars and may explain in part how they can inhabit extremely arid areas where chukars are absent.
30158632|Retention times of markers of particulate (
30156018|Oxygen consumption and body temperature were monitored for two subspecies of western harvest mouse, Reithrodontomys megalotis, under standard conditions for resting (basal) metabolism and during shallow daily torpor. Reithrodontomys m. longicaudus (7.77 g), from southern California, had a resting metabolic rate 127%, and a heat loss coefficient 126%, that expected from body mass. Reithrodontomys m. ravus (9.81 g), from near the Great Salt Lake in Utah, had both a significantly lower resting metabolic rate (114%) and a significantly lower heat loss coefficient (91%) than longicaudus. Reithrodontomys m. longicaudus was readily induced to enter shallow daily torpor when held at temperatures below thermoneutrality and starved for 10-12 h. Despite its lower rate of metabolism, R. m. ravus rarely entered torpor under any combination of cold- or starvation-induced stress. This differential use of torpor between two closely related subspecies may be partially attributed to differences in body mass and heat loss. McNab's "boundary line" hypothesis for homeothermy was examined with respect to R. megalotis.
30161265|The fractional rate of protein synthesis ($K_{s}$ %/day-i.e., the percentage of tissue protein synthesized per day) was measured in various tissues of 6-day fasted rainbow trout at 3, 6, and 12 h after being refed. There was a significant stimulation in the rate of protein synthesis in all of the tissues except the white muscle by 3 h after refeeding. The red muscle, white muscle, and ventricle exhibited a slow, graded response, with the white muscle not reaching levels found in continually fed fish 12 h after the meal. The gill, stomach, and intestine showed a rapid rise in protein synthesis reaching a plateau after approximately 3 h. The liver exhibited a peak in protein synthesis within 3 h that subsequently declined. Generally, there was no effect of refeeding on tissue RNA/protein ratio (used to indicate tissue ribosome concentration) so that these changes in tissue protein synthesis were brought about through an increase in protein synthesis per unit RNA (which is indicative of an alteration in the rate of ribosomal translation). Following the injection of the prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor, indomethacin, only in the gill was the refeeding stimulation partially blocked, implicating the prostaglandins in the regulation of protein synthesis in this tissue.
30160962|In Drosophila melanogaster, the atrophie gonadique character (ag) can affect either one gonad (S1 type) or both (S0 type); ag penetrance varies according to temperature with a thermosensitive period embryonic development. Analysis of the relationship between the frequency of atrophy and rising temperature shows that nonaggregative models, in which each pole cell is killed independently of the others, are inadequate to fit the data well. With a Neyman A aggregative model, a good agreement is shown which permits prediction of all observed biological situations. Here, atrophie gonadique might be explained by an embryonic pole-cell thermosensitivity that would induce degeneration or inability to migrate. The notion of penetrance in relation to temperature is discussed in terms of threshold character, taking the underlying explicative variable as the number of surviving pole cells.
30164247|Fatty acid content and enzymes of fatty acid metabolism were studied in overwintering larvae of two cold-hardy gall insects, the freeze-tolerant fly Eurosta solidaginis and the freeze-avoiding moth Epiblema scudderiana. Both species increased the proportion of unsaturated fatty acids during the winter. Whereas total lipid content did not change in Eurosta solidaginis, a decrease in total lipids over the winter in Epiblema scudderiana suggested the use of fat reserves to maintain basal metabolism. Changes in the activities of enzymes of fat oxidation correlated with these observations in Eurosta solidaginis: hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, carnitine-palmitoyl transferase, and acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase activities all decreased during overwintering. In Epiblema scudderiana the same activities were constant, decreased, or increased. These activities were, however, higher in the fat-oxidizing, freeze-avoiding species than in the freeze-tolerant larvae. Lipid content in Epiblema scudderiana increased again by early spring, possibly indicating this pool as the fate of carbon derived from the spring clearance of the cryoprotectant glycerol pool. Decreased activities of malic enzyme and ATP-citrate lyase suggested decreased potential for fatty acid synthesis in both species over the winter, consistent with the cessation offeeding in the fall. The potential for ketone body metabolism, measured as the activity of P-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, increased greatly in both species during overwintering; however, levels of-hydroxybutyrate remained less than 0.35 mol/g wet mass throughout the study period. These data indicate that changes to storage lipid profiles in order to maintain fluidity and to lipid-metabolizing enzyme activities may play important roles in insect cold hardiness.
10.1086/515849|The metabolic rates of six female grey seal
30155878|Bumblebees ranging in mass from 65 mg (the smallest workers of the smallest species) to 830 mg (the largest queens of the largest species examined) maintained similar average thoracic temperatures (
30156104|Lytechinus variegatus were collected from 25 C waters, maintained in the laboratory for 4 wk at either 16 or 23 C, and fed an artificial food. Feeding rates of individuals maintained at 16 C were low initially but subsequently increased to rates near those of individuals maintained at 23 C. Passage times of food through the gut decreased after 4 wk at 16 C but remained longer than those observed at 23 C. Activities of digestive carbohydrases were similar and low in both groups when measured at 16 C and showed a
30157949|The first objective of this study was to determine whether species exhibiting different breathing patterns during hibernation have different relative sensitivities to changing blood gases while euthermic. The second was to determine whether the species-specific changes that appear in the relative sensitivities to O and CO as respiratory stimuli in ground squirrels during hibernation are the consequence of changes in ambient temperature and/or seasonal changes as animals prepare for hibernation or whether they are the consequence of entrance into hibernation per se. Toward this end, we examined the changes in ventilatory sensitivity and response thresholds to hypoxia, hypercarbia, and hypoxia plus hypercarbia in summer animals at ambient temperature
30155884|Energy metabolism in the tail musculature of Cherax destructor during escape behavior was studied by examining muscle ultrastructure, maximum activities of catabolic enzymes, changes in metabolites following exercise, and muscle buffering capacity and the effects of exercise on muscle pH. Electron microscopy indicates that the muscle is fast phasic with limited capacity for oxidative phosphorylation. Enzyme profiles suggest the use of anaerobic rather than aerobic metabolism during periods of high work output. In animals exercised to exhaustion, arginine phosphate and anaerobic glycolysis are equivalent in terms of ATP production. However, these ATP sources are separated in time, with only arginine phosphate being used during the initial burst of rapid tail flipping and only anaerobic glycolysis during the second slower and less powerful series of tail flips that follow a period of defensive behavior. Buffering capacity of the tail muscle is low, and accumulation of lactate is accompanied by a significant fall in pH. These features indicate that C. destructor may not normally accumulate high concentrations of lactate during escape behavior in nature.
30156237|This perspective takes a comparative view of cardiac physiology in fish to provide insights into cardiac control mechanisms and the degree of cardiac plasticity between species. Between the extremes represented by tuna and hagfish, there is a 15-fold difference in cardiac output that is largely accounted for by species differences in heart rate rather than in stroke volume. The relative importance of heart rate and stroke volume is reversed in many fish in terms of explaining the up to threefold increase in cardiac output observed during swimming A conspicuous and unexplained observation is that all fish studied so far, with the exception of tuna, have heart rates lower than 120 bpm. In many fish, luminal O, in venous blood is the sole myocardial O, supply, and a venous PO threshold may ultimately limit cardiac performance. More active fish have bigger ventricles that generally beat faster and generate higher blood pressures and flows. The bigger ventricle in active fish, while improving convection to working skeletal muscle, requires the development of a coronary circulation to supplement to varying degrees the luminal myocardial O supply. It is hoped that these generalities will act as a framework for future research.
30163942|The control of tail skin temperature in mice was evaluated with transient and frequency analysis using 2,450-MHz microwave radiation and ambient temperature as thermal stimuli. Restrained mice at an ambient temperature (
30158612|We measured metabolic rates of adult Leach's storm-petrels on Kent Island, New Brunswick, in order to determine the energetic costs of reproductive activities in a small, pelagic seabird. Oxygen consumption of captive birds was determined volumetrically, and daily energy expenditure of free-living individuals was estimated by the doubly labeled water technique (DLW). Errors inherent in DLW gave rise to expected standard deviations in estimates of CO production on the order of 20%-30% of the mean, which were similar in magnitude to the variation observed among individual measurements. Furthermore, when final concentrations of
30151332|1. Previous experiments (Allee, 1928, 1929) concerning the action of hypotonic water extracts of other Procerodes and Planaria maculata culture water on the marine Procerodes wheatlandi isolated therein, are confirmed. 2. Adsorption on charcoal or on egg albumen does not significantly affect the protection furnished by planarian culture medium. 3. No protection is furnished by egg albumen, gum arabic, or mucus made by dissolving dried parotid gland in water. Previous work had shown the same situation with gelatine. 4. Ethyl urethane, a depressant, does not give protection; it acts in this respect as had ethyl alcohol in previous experiments. 5. Water solutions or suspensions made from ether-soluble and ether-insoluble fractions of Procerodes extracts exhibit less protection than does the whole water extract. 6. Cane-sugar solutions definitely confer protection in all concentrations tried from M/1 to M/33. Solutions of M/40 and M/50 gave the same survival as did the non-sugar controls. The protection conferred in these experiments by M/25 and M/33 solutions was approximately that given in accompanying isolations into planarian culture water. 7. The Planaria maculata culture water did not possess osmotic pressure beyond that furnished by electrolytes, and these were balanced with those in the controls in all this series of experiments in so far as that can be done by testing their conductivity. 8. These experiments reinforce and extend the essential conclusions of the earlier work but do not throw light on the nature of the protective mechanisms involved.
10.1086/515418|The energy expenditure of breeding male harbour seals Phoca vitulina, on Sable Island, Nova Scotia, was investigated by measuring changes in body mass, body comosition, and water flux using isotope dilution. Seals lost 0.04%  0.04% (n = 34) of their initial mass per day during the breeding season (4 wk),and fat, water, and protein accounted for 64.3%  4.8%, 27.8%  3.3%, and 6.9  1.4% of this was estimated as 33.3  1.9 MJ d1, or 3.9  0.2 W kg1 (n = 17), similar to rates measured in terrestrially mating pinniped species. However, unlike terrestrially mating pinnipeds, male harbour seals did not fast during the breeding season, and energy intake from foraging accounted for 61.8%  4.0% of the total energy expended. Males derived most of their expended energy from food intake early in the breeding season. However, as oestrus females became increasingly available, reduced rates of food intake in males were coupled with increased rates of total energy expenditure. Larger males expended significantly more energy from body stores and more total energy than smaller males. Male harbour seals appeared to balance the energetic costs of reporduction against the constraints of small body size by foraging during deepdiving trips before the appearance of oestrus females and by opportunistie feeding throughout the breeding season while at sea. We suggest that size dimorphism may be less pronounced in aquatically mating pinnipeds partly because the temporal and spatial separation of foraging and reproduction is less distinct than it is for terrestrially breedings pinnipeds.
30156162|Using 1-h pulse of radioactively labeled Escherichia coli, we examined, during a 24-h period, the feeding activities of Ephydatia fluviatilis in the presence of different bacterial concentrations. The results indicate an influence of the nutritional state of the sponge and the existence of a steady optimal retention rate value related to the maximal rate of phagocytosis and digestion of the sponge. These results are consistent with the measurements of sponge growth showing that bacteria can fulfill the entire food requirements of E. fluviatilis and sustain high rates of growth. The pattern of retention in relation to the bacterial concentration and nutritional state of the sponge is discussed.
30157957|Rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) survived in alkaline fresh water (pH = 9.50) for 72 h, although the exposure rendered the fish more susceptible to mortality from other causes. At pH 9.50 ammonia excretion (
30158662|Saluki dogs, exposed to temperatures increasing from 25 to 47 C, demonstrated respiratory alkalosis, with pH increasing from 7.391  0.004 to 7.507  0.014, and
30163936|Salivary water loss during seed husking was examined in two rodent species, deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) and Great Basin pocket mice (Perognathus parvus), feeding on four species of seeds (lodgepole pine [Pinus contorta], antelope bitterbrush [Purshia tridentata], Jeffrey pine [Pinus jeffreyi], and sunflower [Helianthus annuus]). Great Basin pocket mice, a desert-adapted species, lost little or no salivary water while husking seeds. Deer mice, however, lost significant quantities of salivary water to all four seed species. This apparently occurred as moist surfaces of the lips and tongue contacted the hygroscopic seed coats during seed manipulation and husking. Relatively small or hygroscopic seeds, such as those of lodgepole pine and antelope bitterbrush, impose a greater relative cost in salivary water loss to deer mice than do larger seeds. Heteromyid rodents appear to have specialized lips that isolate the moist surfaces of the mouth from seeds. Furlined cheek pouches and specialized lips may assist these rodents to persist in arid environments by solving the problem of salivary water loss to the seeds they handle and store.
30155824|Plethysmographic measurement of ventilation during the sniffing behavior of white rats showed that respiratory frequency (f) increased fourfold from 1.7 to 6.4-6.9 breaths/s. This confirms other measurements on which correlations with limbic system theta rhythm have been made. Minute volume (
30152548|Blood oxygen affinity of 15 species of colubrine snakes is related to body size by the equation
10.1086/515429|Studies of the metabolic and physiological changes that bears undergo during hibernation have, for the most part, supported the paradigm that bears use only fatty tissues as a metabolic substate during hibemation. This study was performed to document the extent of protein loss and alteration of musclefiber characteristics of selected muscles in black bears during winter dormanc. Muscle biopises were removed from the gastrocnemius and biceps femoris from seven freeranging female black bears on the Uncompahgre Plateau in westcentral Colorado. Six of the seven bears produced cubs during the hibernating season. Muscle samples were collected from the left hind limb shortly after bears entered their dens (fall), and additional samples were collected from the right hind limb Just prior to bears leaving their dens (spring). Protein concentration, fastand slowtwitch musclefiber rations and musclefiber crosssectional areas, and citrate synthase activity were measured in the laboratory. While Protein concentration decreased in both muscles during the hibernation period, it was lower than predicted for lactating females, In addition, musclefiber number and crosssectional area were unchanged in these muscles, suggesting only limited muscle atrophy. In support of these observations, there were a moderate but significant increase in the proportion of fasttwitch fibers only in the biceps femoris, with a concomitant decrese in citrate synthase activity, but no alteration of the fiber ratio in the gastrocnemius during hibernatio. The findings suggest that hibernating bears, particu
30163346|Mallee fowl (MF) and brush turkey (BT) lay large, energy-rich eggs (173 g at 10.2 kJ/g contents for MF and 180 g at 9.8 kJ/g contents for BT) that are incubated by burial in mounds of warm earth or decaying vegetation. Their incubation periods of 62 days (MF) and 49 days (BT) are unusually long, and their hatchlings are among the most precocial of any birds. Metabolic rates of embryos of both species just prior to hatching are about 61 cm O/h, 98% (MF) and 64% (BT) higher than predicted. Metabolism is supported solely by chorioallantoic respiration until hatching, and pulmonary respiration begins suddenly when the shell membranes are torn. Estimates of total energy expenditure during incubation prior to hatching (
30155936|We have studied various factors which govern the constant rate of water loss of gull eggs (Larus heermanni and L. occidentalis livens) during natural incubation in the relatively warm and dry climate of the Gulf of California, Mexico. The water vapor conductance of the eggshell in the former species is fixed by approximately 5,700 pores averaging 8.6 and 270 m in radius and length, respectively. The constant daily rate of water loss by diffusion across these pores (300 mg HO  day) is therefore controlled by maintenance of a water vapor pressure gradient across the eggshell averaging 26 torr. The vapor pressure in the air spaces of the egg is determined by the egg temperature, but the vapor pressure in the nest's microclimate is controlled by parental behavior serving to "ventilate" the nest air. The resultant transport of the accumulating water vapor from the nest to the atmosphere allows maintenance of a relatively constant nest humidity.
30152603|Psammomys obesus, a diurnal desert rodent, was exposed to air temperatures (
30161233|Elysia chlorotica do not exhibit a volume recovery following a hyperosmotically induced shrinkage. However, in response to hyperosmotic conditions, the tissues of E. chlorotica accumulate amino acids and proline betaine. The major amino acids (Ala, Pro, Gin, and Glu) all have unique time courses of concentration change. Alanine alone accumulates rapidly; the others increase in concentration only days or weeks later. Furthermore, all the amino acids ultimately return to prestress levels, even though the stress continues. At its peak, Ala contributes 190 mol/g dry wt. The other amino acids never contribute more than 40 mol/g dry wt to the osmolyte pool. Proline betaine begins to accumulate between 4 and 7 days after the stress. It reaches peak concentrations at 14 days and, unlike the amino acids, remains elevated. Although the intracellular proline betaine concentrations are much higher (651 mol/ g dry wt) than those of the amino acids, it can not balance the entire external osmotic increase and, as a result, does not provide sufficient solute for a volume recovery. The delayed time course of the proline betaine accumulation is consistent with the hypothesis that action of the genome is required for the synthesis. Finally, Elysia lacking chloroplasts have similar proline betaine concentrations to normal animals, indicating that the molecule is not a chloroplast product.
30152556|In this study we compared heat-balance experiments carried out under standardized and defined conditions-i.e., climatic chamber-with those performed under the complexity of natural conditions, using identical methodology and instrumentation. Heat production and the partitioning of evaporative cooling were measured in the black bedouin goat from the Sinai desert when the goats rested or walked on a treadmill in a climatic chamber (26 C and 40 C, relative humidity 30%). These were measured in the same goats while they were fully exposed to desert conditions. Heat production of resting goats was 2 kcal (kg.h) at 26 C and morning experiments in the field and 2.5 kcal (kgh) at 40 C and noon experiments. Heat production of goats walking at a speed of 2.60-2.95 kmh was 4.1-4.9 kcal (gh) in both climatic chamber and field experiments. Under mild conditions, 26 C and morning, evaporation dissipated up to 50% of the heat produced. At 40 C in climatic chamber, evaporation equaled heat production, but at noon in the desert it increased twofold. Under these desert conditions both resting and walking goats had the same excess, 1.72 kcal (kgh), of evaporative heat loss over heat production. This represents the net heat load imposed by the desert environment; its magnitude approximately equals the goat's resting metabolism. In the climatic chamber the goats used mostly panting to dissipate heat. In the desert, however, the amounts of heat dissipated by sweating were twice as great as those lost through the respiratory system. These high rates of sweating (up to 143 g HO [mh]) are attributed to the absorption of solar radiation, a factor which does not exist in the laboratory but is very prominent in the desert environment.
30158571|Behavior and heart rate response of seven ornate box turtles (Terepene ornata) to visual threat, touch, forced diving, and voluntary diving were investigated. Visual stimulus resulted in two different behavioral and two different heart rate responses. Three of seven turtles turned and walked away from the stimulus with no change in heart rate. Four turtles stopped walking and withdrew their feet and head. Heart rate was reduced 37%. Atropine had no effect on behavior but abolished bradycardia. Tactile stimulus resulted in withdrawal of feet and head and reduction of heart rate by each of the turtles. Heart rate was reduced 68%. Atropine abolished bradycardia but did not alter behavior. Reduction in heart rate was instantaneous and occurred during the first R-R interval following stimulus. Forced diving reduced the heart rate 56%. Bradycardia was abolished with atropine. Bradycardia onset was gradual, suggesting chemoreceptor involvement. Voluntary diving was not accompanied by bradycardia.
30159978|The effect of water deprivation (dehydration) on cutaneous water evaporation (CWE, E,) was studied in seven heat-exposed rock pigeons (Columba livia). Dehydrated pigeons lost about 16% of the initial body mass after 48 h of water deprivation and additional heat exposure, resulting in a significant increase in hematocrit and serum sodium and chloride concentrations. Serum urea nitrogen concentration increased by 300%. These birds recovered almost all mass lost within 30 min of free access to water. At room temperature (30 C),
30152633|Hummingbirds subsist almost entirely on a liquid diet composed of floral nectar, and, when energy demands are high, they can consume more than three times their body mass in fluid per day. At the same time, however, the hummingbird's high metabolism requires efficient extraction of energy and nutrients from a dilute food source that is passing rapidly through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The ability of the hummingbird to efficiently process and excrete such large volumes of water must surely entail structural or functional specializations of the kidney and GI tract. The rate of waterflux and nutrient extraction efficiency are also influenced, however, by the animal's feeding behavior. Because meal size affects the passage rate of food through the digestive tract (and, therefore, assimilation efficiency), feeding frequency and the amount of nectar consumed per feeding bout will affect the efficiency of nutrient absorption. Ultimately, the water and nutrient content of the nectar produced by the plants should reflect the ability of the hummingbird pollinator to balance its required intake of energy and electrolytes with its ability to excrete the accompanying water load. The simultaneous regulation of water and energy balance in hummingbirds consequently involves the complex integration of renal and intestinal functions and of these physiological processes with behavior and ecology. The hummingbird is a unique animal: its kidney appears to be structurally similar to that of a reptile, but its rate of waterflux is more typical of an amphibian. Nonetheless, it sustains a metabolic level as high as that of any endotherm. The inextricable links among energetics, nutrition, and osmotic regulation in hummingbirds provide a fascinating example of the functional integration of vertebrate organ systems operating at the extreme.
10.1086/515931|The gutless hydrothermal tubeworm
30156120|The desert camel, like the goat, rapidly replaces lost water after being severely dehydrated. In contrast to the goat, however, the camel quickly absorbs water into its bloodstream, which allows for a rapid return to normal of its renal function. The GFR, renal plasma flow (RPF), and urine flow return to normal within  h of drinking. The urine becomes highly diluted in appearance as well. The changes in urea metabolism are probably associated with the decline in ADH concentrations. To prevent serious hemodilution, aldosterone secretion accounts for the slight drop in GFR and RPF 2 h following drinking. The camel has thus adapted to the desert not only by being able to withstand severe dehydration but also by being able to rapidly restore body functions, especially renal function.
10.1086/515989|Relative to small embryos, large embryos may have longer developmental periods and, subsequently, relatively greater maintenance budgets. Because of the potentially increased metabolic costs of maintaining large embryos for long embryonic periods, Salthe and Mecham (1974) suggested that as ovum size increases among amphibians, ovum lipids (the primary stored metabolic energy reserves) should increase at a proportionally greater rate. To test Salthe and Mecham's hypothesis, we quantified egg lipids for 13 amphibian species from the southeastern United States. As ovum size increased among species, total, nonpolar, and polar lipids increased at rates uniform with or relatively lower than rates of increase in ovum size, in contrast to the hypothesis of Salthe and Mecham. However, variation in ovum lipids among species may be related to differences in breeding biology. Our results indicate that the amount of lipids allocated to ova do not merely depend on ovum size, but rather on the selective environments of the embryo and neonate.
30159947|Changes in oxygen uptake in response to stepwise changes in environmental temperature have been measured in anomuran decapod Crustacea inhabiting a subtidal habitat (Paguristes turgidus, Elassochirus tenuimanus), an intertidal habitat (Pagurus granusimanus, Pagurus hirsutisculus) and a supratidal habitat (Coenobita clypeatus, Coenobita rugosus). Individuals of each species were housed in respirometers and subjected to three rapid, progressive 5 C increases above their initial acclimation temperature, with
30157876|Synthesis and secretion of antifreeze glycoprotein (AFGP) and other plasma proteins were studied by constant infusion of
30152561|Meliphaga virescens drinks nectar at a greater rate in the morning and at midday than later in the afternoon. This trend is due primarily to similar variations in the time spent drinking rather than changes in the rate of licking or frequency of visits to the nectar source. A progressive reduction in the amount of time spent flying throughout the day results in birds being able to accumulate excess energy at a relatively uniform rate. It has been suggested that this strategy helps birds in their attempt to stabilize body weights. When birds are switched from a 0.8 M to a 0.4 M nectar regime, they increase the rate of fluid intake and decrease the time spent flying. Compensation for calorific dilution is incomplete for birds switched to 0.4 M nectar in that the birds are unable to accumulate the same daily quantities of excess energy as before. This is probably the major reason for their apparent inability to stabilize morning and evening body weights.
30157891|Respiratory and photosynthetic rates of green and aposymbiotic Hydra viridis (Swiss strain) and of their freshly isolated symbiotic algae (FISA) were compared. The effects of some soluble organic nutrients on these parameters were examined. The respiratory rates of intact green or aposymbiotic hydra and the FISA of a single symbiotic hydranth were essentially equal to each other. Per milligram of protein, the relative respiration rates were 1: 1.47 :3.4 for green hydra, aposymbionts, and FISA, respectively. The photosynthetic rate of the algae of a single green hydra was 46% greater than that of the intact hydra. In green hydra, different nutrients stimulated both respiration and photosynthesis, photosynthesis alone, or had no effect on either process. No nutrient tested stimulated respiration by intact aposymbionts; however, several stimulated O consumption in homogenates of these hydra. No substrate tested stimulated photosynthesis in FISA, although many resulted in increased respiratory rates. We conclude that the establishment of the algae-hydra symbiosis involves regulatory changes in metabolism and cellular permeability of the cosymbionts.
30152536|Various aspects of the regulation of Na and Cl were studied in fiddler crabs adapted to 175% sea water. Turnover rate for both ions averaged 28% h. Total fluxes were partitioned into renal route, intestinal route, and the remainder which was presumed to occur across the general body surface. With urine produced at a rate of 0.5% body weight day, renal losses contributed 0.1% total flux for Na and 0.3% for Cl. Intestinal route provided approximately 5% total influx of both ions assuming complete absorption of all ingested salts. The transepithelial potential (TEP) was - 1.3  0.6 mV. In the absence of Na the TEP was -8.9  1.3 mV; in the absence of Cl it was +11.7  0.6 mV. Deletion of Na or Cl from the bathing medium reduced efltux of the corresponding ion, an effect associated with exchange diffusion. But other results indicate such effects could also be due to permeability changes in the absence of Na or Cl. Whether or not exchange diffusion occurs flux ratio analysis indicated both Na and Cl were actively pumped from crabs in 175% sea water. Hypotonicity is discussed in relation to estuarine environment the crabs inhabit.
30164252|An antagonistic pleiotropy between early fecundity and longevity has been well demonstrated in Drosophila melanogaster. It has been suggested that this pleiotropy may in part be due to a trade-off in energy allocation between reproduction and survival. We have tested this hypothesis by examining five populations of Drosophila melanogaster that show increased longevity following laboratory selection for postponed reproduction. These were compared to five control populations. We measured body mass, lipid and carbohydrate content, metabolic rate, and fecundity over the adult life span of the flies. Energy content brought forward into the adult stage from the pupae and adult metabolic rate were identicalfor short-and long-lived flies. Long-lived flies showed decreased fecundity and increased storage of lipid and carbohydrate compared to short-lived flies. Our study is the first to measure simultaneously allocations of metabolic energy resources between various forms of metabolic storage and reproduction in lines of Drosophila melanogaster and to measure their equivalence using a common energy unit (J). Energy equivalence analysis demonstrated that the trade-of in energy allocation between fecundity and metabolic storage was not quantitatively perfect with regard to energy values. Long-lived flies accumulated additional lipid and carbohydrate by forgoing early reproduction, but these accumulated metabolic resources were far lower in energy content than were the additional eggs produced by short-lived flies.
30156085|A study was made of the energetics of Spalacopus cyanus from high-altitude and cold burrows in the Andean Mountains and from low-altitude and warmer burrows near the Pacific Ocean in central Chile. Individuals from both populations are good thermoregulators at ambient temperatures between 2 and 30 C. They maintain a constant
30158513|Fish physiologists have provided the basic information on gill morphology, gill function, and vascular dynamics with which to understand branchial flux of gases, water, and ions. In addition, pharmacologists and toxicologists, working in the area of drug action, have characterized the physicochemical attributes of xenobiotic chemicals that determine their rate of movement across biological membranes. Recently, aquatic toxicologists have applied this information to the question of what mechanisms control the movement of organic chemicals across fish gills and how exchange is affected by chemical properties. This research on gill transfer mechanisms was extended to consider environmental conditions that have been reported to influence chemical exchange (e.g., dissolved and/or suspended organic material, hydrogen ion concentration [pH], dissolved O, content, and water temperature). Mathematical models were developed that predict gill exchange as a function of basic processes such as water flow across the gills, blood flow through the gills, partitioning of the chemical between water and blood, and diffusion between blood and water across gill epithelia. Such mechanistic models can predict the effects of environmental conditions on exchange rates of xenobiotics. To fully develop a predictive capability for xenobiotic uptake and distribution by fish, it will be necessary to incorporate these gill models into emerging, physiologically based models for the entire animal.
30158523|This study analyzes the total potential of the liver in terms of enzyme activities and hepatocyteflux in fed and fasted yellow perch. A 7-wk fast decreased the hepatosomatic index from 1.99 to 0.85 with an equivalent increase in liver DNA concentration, indicating atrophy of the liver with fasting. Total contents of liver and muscle glycogen and protein declined. As a function of body weight, enzyme activities all decreased with the exception of the lipid-catabolizing enzymes; gluconeogenic enzymes declined less than those of glycolysis, the NADPH-producing enzymes, and citrate synthase. No enzyme activities increased with fasting as a function of body weight. Phosphorylation-related changes in regulatory enzymes support the protection or maintenance of gluconeogenesis. Lactate, alanine, and glycerolflux to glucose in isolated hepatocytes all decreased as a function of tissue DNA, as did alanine flux to CO. Again, no increases influx were noted with fasting. These data demonstrate that after a 7-wk fast yellow perch are hypometabolic. The importance of considering changes in tissue size in the analysis of environmental stressors is discussed.
30164228|Thirty virgin female white (MF1) mice (Mus musculus) were divided into three groups: an unmated control group; a second, mated group, allowed to proceed to peak gestation; and a third, mated group, allowed to proceed to peak lactation. Nine unmated animals and eight of each of the two mated groups had their basal metabolism (oxygen consumption at 28 C) measured and were then killed by means of a CO overdose, and the wet masses of 14 different body components measured. Body mass of the control animals averaged 26.5 g, not significantly different from animals in the other two groups immediately postmating. At peak gestation body mass averaged 50.5 g, immediate postpartum mass was 35.5 g, and by the end of lactation it was 38. 4 g. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) of the control animals (0.313 W) was significantly lower than the BMR of both pregnant (0.78 W) and lactating (0.95 W) animals. Food intake of controls was 97.9 kJ d (3.6 X BMR). At peak gestation food intake was 119.3 kJ d (2.4 X BMR), and at peak lactation it was 405.5 kJ d (5.96 X BMR). If BMR had not increased throughout reproduction, the peak food intake would have represented 12.2 times BMR. Morphological changes associated with the reproductive cycle mainly included increases in the masses of the alimentary tract, liver, kidneys, heart, and lungs. A principal components analysis revealed four major dominant axes of variability in the morphology. The first principal component was dominated by the combined alimentary effects and explained 71.8% of the variation in BMR. These data are consistent with the hypotheses that maximal sustainable metabolic rate reflects a link between structure of the alimentary tract, maximal daily food assimilation, and BMR. That is, as mice progressed through reproduction, their increasing food requirements were beyond the capacity of their guts to supply them. This led to hypertrophy of the alimentary tract and associated organs, with a consequent increase in BMR.
30156248|We measured embryonic oxygen consumption (
30163920|Adaptation to the thermal environment depends upon heritable, intraspecific variability in the thermal dependence of organismal function. We tested for variability in the thermal dependence of crawling speed, population growth rate, and mating compatibility among four strains of the ciliate Euplotes vannus (LL1, Elba, Por7, and Sard6). In addition, we tested for differences in thermal acclimation of crawling speed among the four strains after more than 2 wk of chronic exposure to constant temperatures. The thermal dependence of crawling speed and population growth rate differed significantly among the four strains, as determined by ANOVA. Strains also differed significantly in locomotory acclimation to chronic, constant temperature treatments, as indicated by a significant interaction among the effects of strain, acclimation temperature, and test (experimental) temperature. One strain (LL1) showed evidence of positive thermal compensation, whereas other strains showed mixed or no acclimatory responses. The frequency of conjugation between strains of E. vannus was also temperature-dependent. This finding in particular has important implications for Euplotes systematics; genetic exchange may occur between some strains that were previously thought to be reproductively isolated. Differences in functional traits among these clonal strains represent genotypic variability that may broaden the range of thermal environments available to E. vannus and may, in conjunction with differential mating, accelerate the evolutionary response to selection. Such variability may be particularly advantageous for E. vannus, an organism common to shallow marine environments (e.g., tidal pools) that undergo substantial daily and seasonal changes in temperature.
30155940|Three different agents were examined for their effect on pigment concentration in the large erythrophores of Palaemonetes pugio: guanosine 3',5' cyclic monophosphate (cGMP), ouabain, and the divalent cation ionophore A23187. High concentrations (10 mM) of cGMP in the medium did not cause pigment concentration. High concentrations (1 mg/ml) of ouabain failed to inhibit pigment concentration induced by either the ionophore A23187 or the red pigment-concentrating hormone. The ionophore A23187, in Ca-containing saline, caused pigment concentration in the large erythrophores of three internal organs: ventral nerve cord, intestine, and ovary. When erythrophores whose pigment had been concentrated by the ionophore were exposed to Ca-free/EGTA-containing saline, pigment dispersion resulted. Erythrophores whose pigment was concentrated by long-term exposure to a white background did not disperse their pigment when treated with the ionophore in Ca-free/EGTA saline. The red pigment-concentrating hormone responded to Ca-free/EGTA saline by an initial concentration of pigment, followed by redispersion. The activity of the red pigment-concentrating hormone was greatly inhibited in saline whose calcium had been replaced with lanthanum. On the basis of the data above, it is tentatively proposed that the red pigment-concentrating hormone, upon binding to its receptor, behaves as a Ca ionophore.
10.1086/515421|Changes in the physiology and cost of living of fish were studied during exposure to simulated global warming and environmental acidification, alone and in combination. Trout were exposed to slightly elevated water temperatures (/27C), in the presence and absence of sublethal acidity (pH 5.2) in synthetic softwater for 90 d (87127C). Fish were either fed to satiation (ca. 1%3% of their wetbody weight daily) or fed 1% of their wetbody weight once every 4 d. Satiationfed fish exposed to sublethal pH showed no ionoregulatory disturbances but exhibited increased appetites and growth compared to fish in control pH waters. In contrast, fish maintained on a limited ration did not grow and showed typical ionoregulatory responses to acid stress, with lower wholebody Na/ and Cl0 concentrations and greater mortality. Detrimental effects were greater in the global warming scenario (/27C). Overall, a slight temperature increase and sublethal pH increased the cost of living as determined by increased food consumption in satiationfed fish and greater mortalities in fish maintained on a limited ration. Most important, these findings suggest that fish given sufficient food can compensate for increased energy expenditure or difficulties in maintaining ion balance associated with low pH exposure.
30156218|Whole-body lipids andfatty acid synthetase (FAS) activity of liver, white adipose tissue (WAT), and brown adipose tissue (BAT) infield-caught Richardson's ground squirrels were measured to determine the effects of reproduction on fattening. Whole-body lipids increased by 9 g and 8 g/wk, respectively, in males and nonparous females between April 1 and June 5 and by 10 g/wk between May 10 and July 1 inparous females. Males were always heavier than nonparous females, but thepercentage of body mass that was lipid was similar. The lipid mass accumulated by parous females by July 1 had been achieved by nonparousfemales 1 mo earlier. For both liver and WAT, FAS activity in males and nonparous females was similar throughout the active season. FAS activity of liver was depressed in late pregnancy. FAS activity of both liver and WAT was depressed during lactation, being 70 times greater in WAT of nonparous than of parous females. FAS activity in WAT and liver of postlactating females increased, but there was no compensatory increase in rate of fattening or FAS activity above that in males and nonparous females. Apparently, parous females hibernate later than other adults because reproduction causes them to initiate fattening later, and, once initiated, rate offat deposition is similar to that in other members of the population. WAT appears to be the principal tissue of fatty acid synthesis for prehibernation fattening.
30156161|Kangaroo rats are mainly granivores, and some species store large amounts of seeds in underground caches. These desert rodents do not drink free water under natural conditions but instead rely on preformed water in their diet and metabolic water produced by food oxidation. Moisture content may therefore influence kangaroo rat seed selection. Feeding experiments were conducted to determine both the effects of water content in seed preferences by Dipodomys spectabilis and the minimal preformed water requirements of these rodents. Results demonstrate that the minimal seed water content for a positive water balance is 10%-11% wet mass, under laboratory conditions. These rodents can sense a 6.05% difference in water content and always prefer the moistest seeds available, even when selecting among seeds containing over twice the minimal water necessary for a positive balance. These results indicate that kangaroo rats do not ingest only enough preformed water to meet their requirements but instead maximize water intake through their seed preferences.
30163341|Five small species of Australian scincid lizard (<20 g) heated more slowly than they cooled when exposed to step-function changes in ambient temperature. This is the reverse of the pattern typical of larger reptiles. Interestingly, this pattern was predicted by extrapolation from an earlier study that described the relationship between thermal time constant and body mass in reptiles. The reverse pattern is unlikely to represent an adaptive response, so physiological control over thermal conductance is apparently insignificant or lacking in small skinks, and perhaps other small reptiles also, in which thermoregulation must depend primarily on behavioral strategies. As most reptiles weigh <20 g, the importance of regulatory changes in thermal conductance as a mechanism for thermoregulation may have been overrated by some authors as a generalization applicable to the reptilia as a whole.
30158285|Sandgrouse of the genus Pterocles are good models for studying adaptations to deserts, with 14 species living in different parts of a habitat spectrum ranging from semiarid to extreme desert. To evaluate possible differences in bioenergetic and thermoregulatory ability within the group, we studied two species, black-bellied sandgrouse (Pterocles orientalis) and pin-tailed sandgrouse (Pterocles alchata). These two species are partly sympatric, but the latter also occurs in hotter and more arid regions than the former. Black-bellied sandgrouse had a mean resting metabolic rate (RMR) similar to the allometric prediction (5.53 m W g by day, 5.04 mWg at night; 97% and 110% of allometric prediction, respectively), whereas mean RMR in pin-tailed sandgrouse was lower than predicted (4.04 mW g by day; 62% of allometric prediction). Similarly, the pin-tailed sandgrouse was the better thermoregulator of the two species, especially at high temperatures, with a well-developed evaporative cooling ability. At 40C, evaporative heat loss (
30157890|The carpenter bee Xylocopa californica is active during the hot season in the southern California desert. It is endothermic during flight, with a
30152640|During the annual reproductive cycle, the pyloric ceca change in size and synthetic capacity. Changes in the amount of DNA indicated that seasonal changes in the size of the pyloric ceca resulted mainly from changes in the number of cells. The highest concentrations of RNA and the highest RNA:DNA ratios occurred during gametogenesis in the winter; lowest levels and ratios occurred in the summer or during environmental stress. Maximal activities of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6PDH), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6-PGDH), glycerolphosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-3-PDH), and pyruvate kinase (PK) occurred during gametogenesis. Exposure of Luidia clathrata to diferent temperatures in the laboratory did not affect the level of activities of G-6PDH, 6-PGDH, GPDH, and PK when measured at a constant temperature or concentrations of nucleic acids in the pyloric ceca. Activities of 6-PGDH, GPDH, and PK decreased, the concentration of DNA increased, and the concentration of RNA decreased in individuals exposed to low salinity. This resulted from decreased food intake and an apparent increase in the metabolic cost of cell-volume regulation. The significant efects of combinations of environmental factors indicate their importance when cellular responses during the reproductive cycle of L. clathrata are interpreted.
30163919|Incubation temperature determines sex in crocodilians and influences other features of hatchlings. We investigated the effects of incubation temperature, clutch, and sex on the dimensions, mass, and energy reserves of hatchling Alligator mississippiensis. Eggs from three clutches were incubated to pipping at constant temperatures of 29, 31, 32, and 33 C; females were produced at 29 and 31 C, mixed sex ratios at 32 C, and males at 33 C Incubation temperature affects hatchling size and yolk utilization in a consistent, but complex, pattern. Maximum yolk-free hatchling mass occurred at 32 C, and minimum mass at 31 C. Similarly, dimensions were maximized at 32 C and minimized at 29 C Residual yolk mass was inversely related to yolk-free hatchling mass. Higher yolk mass occurred at 31 and 33 C; at 29 and 32 C, values were lower. However, fat mass remained constant in all clutches. Strong clutch effects were present in nearly all traits. At 32 C, males were heavier and had less yolk than females. These differential effects of incubation temperature, and consequently sex, affect important hatchling characteristics and may influence hatchling survival and fitness, in accord with recent theory.
30158536|Our current understanding of how the rate of glycolysis varies with temperature and with the duration of exercise in amphibians and reptiles is derived from studies in which emphasis was placed on the importance of one or the other, but not both, of these variables. No single study to date has clearly documented the simultaneous effects of these two factors on glycolytic power input in a terrestrial ectotherm. Therefore, we measured the effects of both temperature and duration of exertion on the rate of glycolysis in a lizard (Anolis carolinensis) and a frog (Rana pipiens) known to rely heavily on glycolysis during muscular activity. In addition, we measured the influence of temperature and duration of exercise on jumping performance by R. pipiens. The rate of glycolysis during exercise increased with temperature, decreased with duration, and was influenced by the interaction of temperature and duration in both species. Jumping performance of frogs increased with temperature and duration and was also affected by the interaction of these variables. The speed of frogs increased with temperature and was highest early in a bout of exercise. Total body lactate concentration of frogs was strongly influenced by the distance traveled over the 16 combinations of temperature and duration of exercise.
30155695|Young-of-the-year bowfin, Amia calva, were tested for salinity tolerance and for their ability to survive after hypophysectomy. These animals lived well in 24% seawater but promptly failed when transferred into 30% seawater. They retained Na well, but lost whole-body K rapidly, in both distilled-deionized water and dilute seawater. It is suggested that K loss may reflect largely the effect of starvation on the young rapidly growing animals. Hypophysectomy caused an increase in Na permeability which was reversed by ovine prolactin. This hormone, however, caused a marked drop in serum protein levels. While ovine prolactin did prolong survival somewhat, it would not do so indefinitely. This hormone was highly toxic when injected into intact animals. Bovine prolactin and Amia pituitary injections were the most effective treatments found for prolonging survival after hypophysectomy; none of the animals, however, survived more than 17 days.
30152602|During transitions between hibernating and euthermic states, the rates and types of metabolism occurring in small mammalian hibernators undergo major adjustments. Total metabolic rate is severely reduced, and shifts between different fuels for energy metabolism occur. To elucidate the enzyme regulatory mechanisms responsible for these types of metabolic changes, we have examined the influences of temperature and pH on skeletal muscle phosphofructokinase (PFK) purified from the California ground squirrel, Citellus beecheyi. The acidification that occurs during entry into hibernation, approximately 0.3-0.4 pH units, acts synergistically with falling body temperature to promote a large inhibition of PFK activity. This temperature-pH effect is enhanced by the presence of low (25 mM) concentrations of urea. The loss of PFK activity is shown to be due to the freely reversible conversion of the active, tetrameric form of the enzyme to the catalytically inactive, but structurally native, dimeric state of PFK. Restoration of euthermic conditions of temperature and pH lead to rapid restoration of the tetrameric state and, thus, to PFK activity. Regulatory effects of these types could be important in reversibly inhibiting glycolytic flux during entry into hibernation and thereby eliminating the potential for shivering thermogenesis, while conserving muscle glycogen stores for thermogenesis during arousal and for bouts of locomotory activity following arousal.
30161220|To determine the cutaneous water-loss responses of birds to environmental temperature, we measured transcutaneous evaporation, skin and body temperature, and oxygen consumption in pigeons over a wide range of air temperatures. We used a general Fick diffusion model to estimate integumental plus boundary layer resistance to diffusion of water vapor. Cutaneous water loss (mean  SE) increased from 1.4  0.09 mg m s at 0 C to 3.0  0.09 mg m s at 30 C and increased sharply to 9.0  0.32 mg m s at 40 C. Whole-body vapor diffusion resistance of pigeons (mean  SE) varied with air temperature, decreasing from 130.0  8.2 s/cm at 0 C to 97.0  4.1 s/cm at 30 C and to 45.0  3.4 s/cm at 40 C. Measurements of the vapor resistance of the plumage made in isothermal diffusion chambers and estimates of the boundary-layer resistance to evaporation obtained from predictive equations indicate that the feather coat and associated layer of still air are together only 6.2%-25.8% of total vapor resistance and that the skin is therefore the primary barrier to cutaneous water loss in birds. Temperature-dependent reductions in skin vapor resistance that we observed in the pigeon may result from vasomotor adjustments, stearic changes in skin lipids, or hydration of the stratum corneum.
30158209|Honeybee drones (Apis mellifera) returning to the hive exhibited thorax temperatures (
30155688|Arginase activity has been demonstrated in the liver, kidney, and brain tissues of nine species of lizards. In addition arginase has also been shown in the testis, duodenum, ileum, and ovary of Calotes versicolor. In the light of these findings, Clementi's long-standing rule that arginase is absent from the liver of the uricotelic vertebrates stands invalid.
30156170|Doubly labeled water (DLW) estimates of field metabolic rates (M) and feeding rates (I) in free-living terrestrial vertebrates should be accurate to within  119%. In comparison with simultaneous DLW measurements, time-energy budget (TEB) determinations of M may be more than 40% too low, 55% too high, or very accurate. No one TEB model tested to date has been accurate in all cases. To yield reliable results, future TEB studies of small endotherms should include field measurements of operative temperature
10.1086/515991|The study of the role of carotenoids on the physiology and evolutionary ecology of birds demands methods for their quantification in the bloodstream. We compared colorchart scores of plasma hue with the actual concentration of plasma carotenoids obtained by spectrophotometry in 356 wild birds from 26 species. Repeatability of chart scores between three independent observers was high. However, color scores did not correlate with the spectrophotometric results in interspecific analyses. Within species (
30155741|Horizontal and vertical gradients of humidity and of temperature were set up in sand columns and the conditions within them monitored by appropriate sensors. Arenivaga nymphs, tagged with the radioactive isotope technetium 99m, were introduced and their movements observed and photographed by means of a gammascintillation camera. The maximum dose of ionizing radiation received by any insect was less than one-tenth of the minimum required to affect its ability to absorb water vapor or to survive. Insects moved to the moist end in both horizontal and vertical humidity gradients (>95%-<5% relative humidity). Orthokinesis is an important component of the orientation mechanism, and the sensilla involved are probably on the antennae. The insects also oriented in both horizontal and vertical temperature gradients, showing a preferred temperature range of 22-36 C, with maximum aggregations from 27 to 29 C. The observed behavioral mechanisms are adaptive in the insects' natural environment-desert sand dunes.
30158188|Metabolic rates were calculated from energy losses over time in fasting, freeswimming tuna (30-50 cm fork length). Water content accurately predicted caloric density measured by bomb calorimetry. A subsample that accurately predicted water and energy content in whole tuna was found. The mean metabolic rate for Katsuwonus pelamis starved < 1 wk was 0.36 kJd  g wet mass. Tuna kept for longer periods had lower and less variable swimming speeds and metabolic rates. Mean rates for 1-2 wk of starvation were 0.22 kJd g for K. pelamis and 0.18 kJd  g for both Euthynnus affinis and Thunnus albacares. For >2 wk of starvation, the mean rates were 0.14 kJd g for K. pelamis and 0.12 kJd  g for both E. affinis and T. albacares. Our energy-loss estimates of metabolic rate covered the same range as K. pelamis respiration rates. Energy losses in fasting tuna were about twice as high as in fasting cold-bodied fish under equivalent conditions.
30161222|Studies of thermoregulatory behavior and body temperature carried out on the house finch and blue jay indicate that there is no observable thermoregulatory stress induced by microwave radiation (MWR) of 10 mW/cm or less for 10 min at normal ambient temperature for Suffolk County, Massachusetts. House finches exhibit only slight stress at 25 mW/cm, while blue jays exhibit increases in body temperature and in behaviors which reduce thermoregulatory stress. At 50 mW/cm, both species experience thermal stress and show significant elevation in cloacal temperature during 10 min of MWR. Both species experienced significantly greater elevation in body temperature when the longitudinal axis of the body was oriented parallel to the E vector of the MWR than when oriented perpendicular. This study suggests that the level of microwave radiation proposed for use in a satellite power system (SPS), that is, 23 mW/cm or less, will have little effect on birds the size of blue jays or smaller. Larger birds may be at a greater risk if exposed to 23 mW/cm.
30163851|Regression models are presented that can be helpful in estimating and predicting the amount and fat and lean composition of nutrient stores in birds, when carcass data on body mass, fat mass, and body size are available. It is assumed that birds will show a breakpoint in composition during starvation, because stores, the nutrients accumulated in anticipation of shortage, have a different composition from that of the structural part of the body. The models differ only in the assumptions on the sources of variation in the data. One model, for example, assumes that all variation is due to unexplained variation in the mass of the structural part of the body. Another model assumes that the only variation is in the composition of the stores. It is shown that these models may yield completely different results. Examples suggest that the most reliable assumption on the source of variation differs among bird species. The need for ancillary information to verify the assumptions is emphasized. Prevailing methods, such as regressing fat mass on body mass and size, or regressing fat mass on condition indices such as body mass divided by size, are shown to be based on questionable assumptions, or to lack any theoretical justification, respectively. Their use should be abandoned.
30156035|Tasmanian devils were run on a treadmill in short sprints and long runs, and arterial acid-base status and lactate concentration were measured. During runs there was a steady increase in body temperature of 0.12-0.24 C/min, and the maximum body temperature observed was 41.7 C. During the short sprints there was a rapid rise in lactate to 6.5 mmol/liter, producing a simple metabolic acidosis. After this exercise, lactate and pH returned to normal within 30-50 min. During long runs there was very little disturbance of acid-base status. Overall, the Tasmanian devil shows very good regulation of arterial pH during exercise and rapid removal of lactate.
30156188|Shell thickness, water vapor conductance, pore density, and pore structure were examined in three regions (blunt pole, equator, sharp pole) of both unincubated and hatched mute swan eggs. There was a trend for shell thickness to increase from the blunt pole to the sharp pole in unincubated eggs. During incubation, shell in the equatorial and sharp pole regions was eroded so that shell thickness in all regions was similar in hatched eggs. Pore density and water-vapor conductance of unincubated eggs were significantly smaller in the equatorial region, compared with that in either the blunt or sharp pole regions, but increased during incubation. Pore structure of unincubated eggs was similar in all three regions. The removal of the mammillary knobs from the equatorial and sharp pole regions during incubation caused the shell to thin but had a negligible effect on pore structure. Therefore, the increase in water-vapor conductance in the equatorial region during incubation was directly related to the increase in pore density that occurred in this region.
30155793|Surface temperature (
30157967|Metabolic rate, branchial morphology, and modes of gill ventilation were studied in young (2-10 g) North American paddlefish, Polyodon spathula, with anatomical, behavioral, and physiological methods. Polyodon lacks the oral and opercular valves that are typical for fishes that rely on a buccal pump system to ventilate the gills, and the jaw opening system of Polyodon is poorly suited for regular pumping movements. Unrestrained, undisturbed juvenile paddlefishes swim constantly at a mean speed of 1.1-1.5 body lengths 
30164207|We studied differences in body composition and basal metabolic rate (BMR, measured in postabsorptive birds under thermoneutral conditions at night) in two subspecies of red knots, Calidris canutus: one that spends the nonbreeding season under energetically costly climatic conditions at temperate latitudes (subspecies islandica in western Europe) and one that winters in the hot and humid tropics (subspecies canutus in West and South Africa). To examine whether the possible differences would be upheld under identical conditions, we kept both groups in captivity as well Body composition was quantified with respect to the fat and lean components of 10 "organs" (breast muscles, leg muscles, stomach, intestine, liver, kidneys, lungs, heart, and the skin, and skeleton and attached muscle). Captive birds had lighter lean tissues than wild birds, especially those of the stomach, intestine, kidneys, and liver (the nutritional organs). During the northern winter wild islandica knots had higher lean masses than canutus knots in tropical Africa. Tropically wintering red knots had lower BMRs than their temperate-wintering conspecifics, and birds in long-term captivity had lower BMR values than their free-living counterparts. Average BMR values per category of birds (wild or captive of either subspecies) were strongly correlated with the group averages of lean mass. Prediction of BMR on the basis of total lean mass of red knots undergoing incipient starvation follows this same relationship because metabolically active tissue is being depleted. That the two subspecies converged to similar body composition in captivity indicates that individual red knots may possess considerable flexibility. We argue that red knots, and probably most other long-distance migrants, have metabolic machinery that is able to adjust continuously, depending on the ecological conditions and food types encountered in the course of the year. We further argue that variation in (functional components of) lean mass is the vehicle for seasonal adjustments in metabolic physiology to variable demand levels. Body mass adjustments offer a flexible response enabling red knots to economize on total daily metabolic expenditure whenever conditions allow a relaxation of metabolic scope, such as during winter in the Tropics.
10.1086/515997|When exposed to high ambient temperatures, birds defend body temperature by increasing evaporative water loss, via either respiratory or cutaneous water loss. Water deprivation can lead to changes in thermal responses and lower levels of water use for thermoregulation. We have studied the effect of 23 wk of water deprivation on the physiological responses of emus during exposure to an ambient temperature of 45C. Water deprivation led to a delay in the onset of panting (54 vs. 24 min after start of exposure) and to higher body temperatures (38.7 vs. 38.3C) at the end of exposure to 45C. After panting was initiated and body temperature stabilised, the waterdeprived emus had a lower total evaporative water loss (77 vs. 101 g/h), the same respiratory water loss (70 vs. 72 g/h), and a lower cutaneous water loss (7 vs. 29 g/h) than they did when hydrated. The factor contributing most to the lower total evaporative water loss in the dehydrated emus was a 47% reduction in dry thermal conductance, which led to a decrease in the exogenous environmental heat load and therefore the level of evaporation needed to defend body temperature. We suggest that the decrease in dry thermal conductance follows from the lower level of cutaneous water loss.
30156146|A rapid and nondestructive method for determining lean body mass and lipid stores in live animals is described. This technique relies on use of a commercial device to determine lean body mass from a noninvasive determination of total body electrical conductivity. The method yields adequate data for birds and mammals in a size range of 40-600 g if care is taken to ensure that animals are held in a standard position and are maintained at near normal levels of hydration and body temperature.
30157899|Thoracic and abdominal temperatures (
30155773|Embryos of the fork-tailed storm petrel survived exposure to 26, 30, and 34 C. However, during artificial incubation at 26 C, metabolic rate did not increase, and presumably development did not progress. When incubated at 30 and 34 C, eggs showed a gradual increase in metabolism commensurate with development, but success of pipping and hatching was much greater at 34 C than at 30 C. The reduction of metabolic
30155985|Last instar larvae of the corn earworm, Heliothis zea (Boddie), self-select an 80:20 protein:carbohydrate (casein:sucrose) ratio when offered two diets that are identical and complete except that one lacks casein and the other lacks sucrose. This ratio is nutritionally superior to four others, ranging from 100% casein to 100% sucrose, when incorporated in otherwise equivalent diets and fed to larvae throughout the last instar. The 80:20 ratio supports the best overall utilization of food (ECI) and the highest conversion of digested food to biomass (ECD). When the 80:20 ratio is fed throughout larval development, it is found to be better than the 50:50 ratio (the next best) with respect to growth rate and mortality. It is proposed that in nature most insects have both the opportunity and the capability to self-select a favorable nutrient mix. Herbivorous insects, for example, could self-select from an array of different plant species or from the various structures and tissues of a plant.
10.1086/515428|The primary energy source for migration is fat, but nonfat body components can vary in concert with lipid stores in some migrants. The goals of this study were (1) to validate for a small Old World warbler (the blackcap, Sylvia atricapilla) nondestructive methods to measure lean and fat mass, (2) to quantify the relative contribution of lean mass to bodymass change of migrants, and (3) to ascertain what lean tissues might be involved. Using totalbody electrial conductivity and dilution space of isotopelabeled water, we measured lean and fat mass with precision of 3%4% and 10%15%, respectively, In newly arrived migrants with apparently similar structural size (tarsus length), there was as significant prositivie correlation between lean mass and fat mass; 37% of each unit change was lean mass and 63% fat. Captive blackcaps, fed ad lib. for 7d, gained body mass, with 40% being lean mass. When captives were fasted 1.53 d, both body mass and lean mass declined; lean mass accounted for 42% of body mass lost. In Fasted birds, the masses of liver, stomach, and small intestine declined and accounted for 44% of the total lean mass decline, a disproportionate amount considering that these organs make up only 11% of a blackcap's lean mass. In freshly captured blackcaps, organ masses were positively correlated with lean mass minus the organ masses, suggesting that these organs are a source of lean mass catabolized by migrants. We conclude that migrants' need for protein to rebuild lean mass during stopover could constrain diet selection and require increased foraging time, thus slowing mass gain and lengtheing overall migration time.
30163946|Previous studies of the parthenogenetic whiptail lizard Cnemidophorus uniparens have provided the best evidence for an endogenous circannual rhythm of reproduction in a reptile. However, these studies were restricted to captive animals on constant photothermal conditions. We report the results of field and laboratory studies indicating that timing of reproduction is dramatically affected by seasonal temperature change. Our field data show that between-year variations in timing of breeding in natural populations are correlated with between-year variations in spring temperatures. Our laboratory data demonstrate that reproduction is delayed and synchronized by exposure to winter-like photothermal conditions. Thus, temperature appears to be the most important environmental cue regulating timing of reproduction in this species. However, the conclusion of previous studies that the natural reproductive cycle is controlled by a circannual rhythm is equivocal and requires further study.
30158226|The effects of elevated temperatures on mitochondrial respiration and the activities of selected mitochondrial enzymes were measured for several invertebrates endemic to the deep-sea hydrothermal vents to determine whether the differences in distribution patterns noted among these species are related to differences in temperature adaptation. Parallel studies were done with related (congeneric or confamilial) species from shallow marine habitats. Mitochondrial respiration of hydrothermal vent species living in zones with high water flux (high, variable temperatures), including the large tube worm Riftia pachyptila, the Pompeii worm Alvinella pompejana, and the brachyuran crab Bythograea thermydron, was more resistant to high temperatures than was mitochondrial respiration of hydrothermal vent species or shallow-living species in cooler waters, for example, the vent clam Calyptogena magnifica and mussel Bathymodiolus thermophilus. The temperatures at which Arrhenius plots of respiration rate exhibited sharp breaks were correlated with the apparent maximal habitat temperature of the species. The apparent Arrhenius activation energies of respiration also correlated with maximal habitat temperature, although not as closely as the Arrhenius break temperatures. Temperature inactivation of mitochondrial enzymes generally adhered to the pattern noted in the interspecific comparisons of mitochondrial respiration. These findings suggest that diferences in thermal adaptation exist among endemic vent species and that these differences are correlated with the microhabitat conditions the diferent species encounter at the vent sites.
30158193|Captive Costa's hummingbirds (Calypte costae) were fed liquid purified diets containing 0%, 0.75%, 1.5%, or 3.0% protein (dry-matter basis). The birds were weighed and excreta samples were collected at days 5 and 10 of 10-d experimental periods. Body-mass maintenance data revealed that the hummingbirds require about 4.5 mg N/d, or 1.5% protein in their diets. Nitrogen balance analysis suggested that these birds should be in balance when ingesting only 1.11 mg N/d (0.4% protein), but this level did not maintain body mass. Similar positive N balances without growth have been documented in other avian and mammalian species, but the fate of this unaccounted N has not been explained. The bodymass data indicated that adult, nonreproducing hummingbirds have a low protein requirement. These results are compared with published time-budget studies of free-living hummingbirds, which have shown that the birds spend most of their feeding time foraging for nectar to meet their high energy needs.
30163929|Environmental factors influencing habitat selection decisions were investigated in two species of water scavenger beetles. Tropisternus mixtus inhabits moderate pond environments, and Tropisternus columbianus inhabits the relatively extreme and spatially variable environment of thermal pools in Yellowstone National Park, where small pools separated by less than 1 m differ by as much as 75C in temperature and 10-fold in dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration. Water temperature and DO concentration in both study areas varied in similar diel cycles. While vegetation density is the primary determinant of habitat selection decisions in T. mixtus, T. columbianus appears to respond to the interaction of temperature, DO, and light. Although both species are negatively phototactic and able to detect and locate regions of preferred temperature in a thermal gradient, the strength of the phototactic response is greater and preferred temperature more narrowly delimited in T. columbianus. Tropisternus columbianus responds to severe hypoxia and elevated water temperature with increased activity, while dctivity in T. mixtus is not related to either factor. I conclude that the observed interspecific differences suggest that T. columbianus has evolved behavioral responses not present in T. mixtus that are correlated with extremes of environmental variation normally encountered in nature.
30155689|Oxygen consumption (
30164322|Hyper- and hypothyroidism were induced by subcutaneous injection of thyroxine and by oral administration of methimazol in Brandt's voles. The effects of the two treatments on metabolic thermogenesis at 25C and 4C were investigated. The level of resting metabolic rate was closely related to thyroid status: high in the hyperthyroid case and low in the hypothyroid case. However, no increase in resting metabolic rate occurred in either case during further cold acclimation. Hyperthyroidism resulted in an increased nonshivering thermogenesis, which was much enhanced by lower temperature, but hypothyroidism led to a suppressed nonshivering thermogenesis in the cold. The state-4 and state-3 respirations and the activities of cytochrome-c oxidase of liver mitochondria were elevated in hyperthyroid animals but attenuated in hypothyroid ones. However, these levels were scarcely changed after further cold acclimation. Both hyperthyroidism and cold acclimation induced the recruitment of brown adipose tissue, but brown adipose tissue was different biochemically in the two cases: in hyperthyroidism, the total protein was reduced, while fat content increased; in cold acclimation, the total and mitochondrial proteins were increased. However, in hypothyroid voles, the normal adaptive changes in brown adipose tissue were impaired in further cold acclimation. The activity of cytochromec oxidase in brown adipose tissue was increased by hyperthyroidism and enhanced in further cold. In contrast, its activity was inhibited in hypothyroid animals, though activated to some extent in cold. These results demonstrate that normal thyroid function is essential for the cold-induced increase of resting metabolic rate and nonshivering thermogenesis and that there is a synergism between thyroid hormone and cold acclimation in the regulation of nonshivering thermogenesis in Brandt's vole. In addition, the blunted response of brown adipocytes to the cold may be the cytological mechanism for the suppressed nonshivering thermogenesis found with hypothyroidism.
30158581|Rates of growth (Pr) and metabolism (Mr) as well as timing of metamorphosis can be precisely described using feeding rate (Cr) as the predictor in Rana tigrina and selected anurans exposed to variables of more than one environmental factor. To predict size at metamorphosis in these anurans, Pr and development rate (Dr) as well as stage-specific growth (Ps) are jointly used as the predictor. Since Cr can predict Pr and Dr, one must know Cr and Ps to predict size at metamorphosis when variables of more than one environmental factor are considered.
30164255|The aerobic capacity modelfor the evolution of endothermy contends that endothermy arose as a result of selection for enhanced aerobic capacity rather than for thermoregulatory considerations. An implicit assumption of this model is that basal metabolism (BMR) increases with an increase in sustainable activity (i.e., aerobic capacity). We tested this assumption for passerine birds using individuals of 10 diferent species to determine whether basal and summit (maximum coldinduced) metabolic rates were correlated. Metabolic rates were measured as oxygen consumption by open-circuit respirometry. Regressions of basal and summit metabolism against body mass (
30164312|From the first discovery of a hormone in a crustacean in the 1920s until the present, the field of crustacean endocrinology has undergone, as do many crustaceans during their development, a marked metamorphosis. The field has moved from the classical era of endocrinological techniques, such as extirpation and additive methods, to the modern era of sophisticated biochemistry and molecular biology. As new investigatory techniques have been devised, crustacean endocrinologists have quickly adopted them and, as a consequence, have made major advances. Nevertheless, there is still much room (and need) for the older techniques, particularly because there is still a vast gap in our knowledge of the endocrine mechanisms of the less highly evolved crustaceans. The bulk of the information we have about crustacean endocrinology has been derived from studies of decapods. Crustacean endocrinology not only provides information about the basic biology of this important group of organisms but also has the potential of greatly enhancing our ability to culture species used as food sources for humans.
30157975|In laboratory experiments, the effect of food composition and body temperature on digestive efficiency was investigated in the lizard Iguana iguana on Curaao (Netherlands Antilles). In a series of experiments the animals were kept in cages with a temperature gradient and different foods were offered ad lib. Mean selected daytime body temperatures were 35.0-36.4 C (mean 24 h
10.1086/515856|We examined oxygen consumption and total evaporative water loss of aardwolves
30155883|The time course following exhaustive exercise of changes in lactate in blood, muscle, skin, kidney, urine, and branchial exhaled water in larval Rana catesbeiana, and in blood and muscle of adult R. catesbeiana, has been investigated. Tissue concentrations of pyruvate, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity, and whole-animal
30163810|Aspects of electrolyte balance were studied in aquatic red-spotted newt adults (Notophthalmus viridescens). In the laboratory, newts subjected to aged tap water (ATW) at controlpH (6.20-7.40) experienced a slight net Na loss. However, the rate of net Na loss after acute exposure to low pH (4.24-4.32) ATW increased significantly. Chronic exposure to low pH, followed by a final transfer to pH 4.22-4.37, reduced the rate of net Na loss to less than that observed in control animals. Body K concentration was greater in animals taken from the natural habitat (pH 5.24-7.80) than in animals acclimated to any of the laboratory conditions. Both body mass and body K concentration were significantly reduced in newts exposed to either low-pH treatment. Total body Na concentration was virtually unaffected by low-pH exposure. Rates of unidirectional Na influx and efflux were dramatically altered as a result of the laboratory treatment regimes. The rate of Na influx was significantly less in newts acutely transferred to low-pHATW than it was in control animals, but chronic low-pH exposure restored the Na influx to control levels. The rate of Na eflux was higher in control newts than it was in animals acutely or chronically exposed to low pH. Apparently, red-spotted newt adults possess adaptations permitting a more favorable state of Na balance than occurs in most teleosts and amphibians exposed to lowpH conditions.
30163344|Electroencephalogram (EEG), electromyogram (EMG), and brain temperature (Tbr) were recorded from seven pocket mice (Perognathus longimembris) during euthermia and 22 bouts of torpor induced by food deprivation. All but one of a total of 22 entrances into torpor began during slow-wave sleep (SWS), and SWS continued throughout 89% of the entrances, whereas rapid eye movement (REM) sleep was almost completely suppressed. Although EEG amplitude diminished as
30158206|Gecarcoidea natalis and Geograpsus grayi are both ammonotelic but excrete ammonia by different routes and mechanisms. In G. natalis ammonium ions in the final excretory fluid (P) constitute 67. 7% of the total nitrogenous output of 38. 11  23.0 SD mol N  kg  h. The urine contains little ammonium (0.36  0.081 SD mmol  L) and is released into the branchial chambers where ammonium is added and salts are reabsorbed. When the P is finally released it contains 10.8  7.79 mmol NH  L, but individual values as high as 73 mmol * L have been measured. Starvation lowered the concentration of urea, ammonium, and amino acids in the hemolymph and reduced output of nonprotein nitrogen compounds in the feces. In G. grayi gaseous ammonia accounts for 82.3% of the total nitrogenous excretion of 106. 6  50.3 SD mol N  kg  h. Periods of excretion lasting 1-2 d alternate with similar periods of minimal excretion. Starvation did not alter the rate of ammonia excretion but caused a reduction in output of fecal N and a fall in the concentration of urea in the hemolymph.
30157941|Aspects of Na regulation of Enneacanthus obesus were examined to elucidate the adaptations that allow them to inhabit low-pH environments. We examined Na uptake kinetics in this native of extremely soft waters, and the mechanisms for the prevention of Na loss upon exposure to low pH. Active Na uptake (
30163777|Metabolic rate is one of the most intensively studied aspects of organismal physiology, but much of the large body of data on metabolism concerns adult animals while largely ignoring juvenile stages, and focuses on mean values of traits while neglecting to consider the significance of intraspecific variation. To study the importance of ontogenic change and individual differences in aerobic performance in a typical small mammal, we measured minimal resting oxygen consumption (
30163845|Thermal optima for physiological processes are generally high (30-40 C) in lizards. Performance decreases substantially at low temperatures, yet some lizards are nocturnal and are active with body temperatures below 15 C. We corroborated three hypotheses about the ecophysiological consequences of the evolution of nocturnality in lizards: (1) nocturnality requires activity at low temperature; (2) activity at low temperature imposes a thermal handicap that constrains performance capacity; (3) nocturnal species have higher performance capacity at low temperature than do comparable diurnal species. Field body temperatures during activity averaged 15.3C in Teratoscincus przewalskii, a nocturnal, terrestrial gecko from northwestern China. Individuals of T. przewalskii sustained exercise at 15 C on a treadmill for more than 60 min at 0.18 km  h. However, 15 C was suboptimal for sustained locomotion. Resting and maximum oxygen consumption at 15 and 25 C were similar to predicted values for diurnal lizards, supporting the hypothesis that much of thermal physiology in lizards is evolutionarily conservative. The minimum cost of transport (
30156050|Times for 50% lethality (
30155963|The steady-state energy expenditure of incubating starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) was studied at different air temperatures, at day and at night, and on different clutch sizes. During the night, energy expenditure (oxygen consumption) increases linearly from 20 down to - 10 C air temperature. During the day, the values at 25 and 10 C air temperature are 50%-60% higher than during the night but only 10% higher at -5 C. This increase is due to the digestive calorigenic effect of food at 25 and 10 C, but at -5 C the heat of the calorigenic effect substitutes for the thermoregulatory requirements. Increasing clutch size results in greater energy expenditure of the incubating starling below 20 C air temperature but has no effect in the thermoneutral zone. Each increase of clutch size by one egg increased the energy expenditure by 3%-5%. The lower critical temperature increased from 14.1 C for a clutch of two eggs to 23.6 C for a clutch of eight eggs. The consequences of different clutch sizes for the time and energy budget of free-living birds are discussed.
30155682|A multiple-regression equation was derived in which the statistical significance of the effects of six independent variables on metabolic rate could be arranged in the following order: exposure temperature, body weight, starvation period, feeding period, acclimation temperature, and percentage of lipids. Two multiple-regression equations were required to express the metabolism of Ligia oceanica without loss of accuracy when reapplied to the individual experimental data. One equation accounted for 84% of the variation of metabolism in animals acclimated to 5 or 12 C; the second accounted for 85% of the variation of metabolism in animals acclimated to 18 or 26 C. The rate:temperature curve for aerobic metabolism was sigmoid. A region of reduced temperature sensitivity occurred at intermediate exposure temperatures. Thermal acclimation had little effect on the level of metabolism of well-fed Ligia. The maximum metabolic rate shifted from 27.6 C in fed animals acclimated at 5 C to 28.2 C in those acclimated at 12 C, to 33.1 C in those acclimated at 18 C, and to 33.4 C in those acclimated at 26 C. The region of reduced temperature sensitivity shifted from 15-25 C at low acclimation temperatures to 20-35 C at high acclimation temperatures. The effects of starvation on oxygen consumption are controlled by body size, duration of starvation, and acclimation temperature. Metabolism is suppressed in small animals sooner than large ones at each acclimation temperature; high acclimation temperatures enhance the onset and magnitude of such effects. Exposure temperature and the period of starvation influenced the effect of body size on metabolism.
10.1086/516001|To assess how the highsugar/lowprotein content of fruit diets affects digestive function and nutrition of frugivorous birds, I compared intake, passage rate, sugar utilization, protein requirements, and mass changes of cedar waxwings (
30157924|The field metabolic rates (FMRs) of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were studied at low (1,230 m) and high (3,800 m) altitudes by means of the doubly labeled water (DLW) technique. Maximal rate of oxygen consumption (
30163948|The hypoxic resistance of hearts of a diving mammal (Ondatra zibethica) and of a nondiver, guinea pig, was investigated in a Langendorff perfused preparation. Hearts were perfused for 20-30 min under hypoxic conditions followed by 20-30 min of reoxygenation. Hearts were paced at 250 beats per minute and perfused at a pressure of 70 cm HO. In the absence of insulin, left ventricular pressure decreased less in the muskrat heart during hypoxia and recovered more during reoxygenation compared with guinea pig hearts. Lactate production was similar in the two species. Glucose uptake could not be demonstrated by chemical means. When insulin was added to the perfusion medium, glucose uptake was about 60% greater in muskrat hearts compared with the guinea pig hearts. Lactate production was also significantly greater. In spite of the greater anaerobic metabolism in the muskrat, left ventricular pressure was similar during hypoxia in the two species. However, during reoxygenation mechanical performance recovered more completely in the muskrat. When hearts were perfused with a buffer containing both glucose and palmitic acid under normoxic conditions, the preferred fuel was glucose for the muskrat and fatty acid for the guinea pig. It is concluded that increased energy supply and reduced energy demand are mechanisms that confer hypoxic resistance to isolated muskrat hearts.
30152625|Intestinal sucrase and maltase activities were measured in three species of hummingbirds and 11 species of passerine birds from western Mexico. Maximal sucrase activity standardized by nominal area of intestine was 2-118 times higher in hummingbirds than in the nine species of passerines that showed significant sucrase activity. Two species of passerines (Turdus rufopalliatus and Catharus aurantiirostris) lacked significant sucrase activity. Lack of functional sucrase activity has been reported in five species of passerine birds restricted to three closely related families (Muscicapidae, Sturnidae, and Mimidae). Interspecific variation in sucrase activity is probably influenced both by feeding habits and phylogenetic affinities. No allometric relation between sucrose hydrolysis capacity and body mass was found. When the two species with no significant sucrase activity were deleted from the sample, maltose hydrolytic capacity and body mass were allometrically related (exponent = 0.65). Maltase and sucrase activity were linearly correlated. Hummingbirds and passerines differed in the relationship between maltase and sucrase activities. It can be hypothesized that this difference is because the sucrase-isomaltase enzyme complex of hummingbirds has less maltase activity than that of passerines. The apparent affinity of sucrase varied almost 10-fold among species. This variation probably does not reflect differences in "real" affinity (i.e., the affinity of sucrase in solution) but can be attributed to unstirred-layer effects resulting from sucrase's being a membrane-bound enzyme. The presence or absence of sucrase activity in birds can have behavioral and ecological consequences. Birds lacking sucrase activity reject foods containing sucrose. The absence of sucrose in the pulp of bird-dispersed fruits can be partially explained by the lack of sucrase activity in bird frugivores.
30156214|The development of thermogenic abilities, evaporative water loss, and maintenance ofskin and rectal temperatures are reportedfor neonates of two cricetid rodent species difering in developmental mode. A thermogenic response to lowered air temperature developed rapidly in the precocial cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus) and more slowly in the altricial wood rat (Neotoma floridana). At any body temperature, neonatal cotton rats generated about twice the metabolic heatper unit body mass than did similarly aged wood rats. Newborn cotton rats maintained nearly constant metabolic rates from 35 to 20 C, but metabolic rate decreased with lowered air temperature below 30 C in newborn wood rats. Individuals ofboth species frequently exhibited local interscapular skin temperatures higher than colonic temperature. Cotton rats had higher skin temperatures and maintained higher body temperatures at younger ages than did wood rats, but neither species maintained body temperatures independent of air temperatures before weaning. At higher air temperatures, cotton rats dissipated more heat by evaporative cooling than was generated metabolically. Under similar conditions wood rats dissipated slightly less heat by evaporation than was generated metabolically. Evaporative water loss was correlated with body mass, air temperature, and metabolic rate in wood rats, but was correlated with skin temperature in cotton rats. Significant individual variation in metabolic rate waspresent in both species. For cotton rats, this variation appears to be related to skin and core temperatures, but not to body mass. In wood rats, this variation is not related to diferences in core or skin temperatures. The development of homeothermy in these species appears to be limited by diferentphysiological factors. In cotton rats, homeothermic status is strongly linked to ontogenetic increases in metabolic heat production. Development of homeothermy in wood ratsproceeds along a completely different pathway from that in cotton rats, and relies on the acquisition of significant insulation rather than on metabolic capability. The combination ofhigh metabolism and rapid growth in cotton rats violates subtractive theories of energy allocation.
30155850|The relationships of weight and temperature on the oxygen consumption of the land planarian, Bipalium kewense, from central Arkansas (U.S.A.) were studied. The coefficients (b) based on oxygen consumption of fully differentiated worms and asexually produced fragments of worms were .716 and .998, respectively, at 30 C. The b value of differentiated worms was close to the generalized b value of .75 for poikilothermic animals, but the b value of asexual fragments was almost directly proportional to weight. In the temperature ranges of 27-29 C and 29-31 C, the
30157882|Nymphs of the dragonfly, Erythrodiplax berenice, are common on rocky mangrove flats in the lower Florida Keys at salinities of 36-48 ppt. Erythrodiplax berenice appears to be the only truly marine odonate, and the nymphs are able to tolerate wide variations in salinity. Hemolymph osmotic pressures for nymphs freshly captured in seawater or held in artificial seawater were 358-412 mOsm. There was little further variation at salinities between freshwater and 260% seawater (2,612 mOsm). In 300% seawater, hemolymph osmotic pressure rapidly increases to about 1,000 mOsm, and death ensues. The transition point between hyper- and hypoosmotic regulation occurred at approximately 350 mOsm seawater. Freshwater- and seawater-acclimated nymphs differ little in body water content (about 80%), but Na content is elevated from 50 to 89 Mmol/g wet wt, respectively. In 35 ppt seawater, Na influx and efflux were approximately balanced near 400 mol/100gh. In freshwater (1 mM Na), these fluxes decline to about 10 mol/100gh. The time for complete turnover of body Na increases from 0.9 day in seawater to 21 days in freshwater. On rapid transfer from water of 470 mM Na to water of 1 mM Na, the Na efflux in 1 mM was only slightly higher than expected for freshwater-acclimated nymphs. At a water Na level of 0.25 mM, Na efflux increases greatly, and there is a large net loss of Na. Water influxes of nymphs in distilled water or 35 ppt seawater were similar (33 and 40 1/gh, respectively); complete turnover of body water occurs in about 0.8 day. Nymphs of E. berenice rival the better-known dipterans in osmoregulatory abilities and should be studied further to compare mechanisms of hypoosmotic regulation that have presumably evolved independently in these two orders.
30156244|American martens and white-tailed prairie dogs are mammals of similar body mass, exposed to periods of food deprivation, but of vastly different body fat content. While both species demonstrated a protein conservation phase during a short-term fast, martens had a greater reliance on protein as depicted by greater loss of body weight, higher daily urine volume, and glomerular clearance rates, as well as higher daily urinary urea excretion. Protein use was calculated to be 3.15 and 1.23 g/d for martens and prairie dogs, respectively. Martens did not hydrolyze a greater amount of urea as they were hypothesized to do in order to conserve water. Urinary beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHBA) excretion decreased during the fast in both species but prairie dogs had higher plasma levels of BHBA, which suggests that regulation of protein catabolism may be in part from ketone bodies. By using fat and protein in a ratio of about 2:1, martens may maintain suficient hydration, extend their fat stores, and retain muscle integrity during short-term fasts.
30155833|Triodopsis albolabris accumulated large quantities of fluid within the mantle cavity, i.e., pallial fluid, as a result of hydration. During periods of dehydration, pallial fluid quantities decreased significantly and the rate of pallial fluid weight loss reflected the pattern of body water (weight) loss. The contribution of pallial fluid weight loss to total animal weight loss during dehydration was relatively constant. Pallial fluid osmolality remained between 38 and 58 mOsm during dehydration of the animals, far below that of the hemolymph of snails both with and without pallial fluid. Hemolymph osmolality of snails retaining pallial fluid during dehydration was significantly lower than that of snails forced to expel pallial fluid prior to exposure to dehydrating conditions. Direct measurements of locomotor activity of individual snails using a treadmill apparatus showed that snails with pallial fluid were active significantly longer than snails without pallial fluid. The results show a direct relationship between the possession of pallial fluid and prolonged locomotor activity of T. albolabris. The present evidence strengthens the hypothesis that pallial fluid acts as a water reserve to replenish water lost to evaporation and mucus production as a result of exposure and locomotor activity.
30163780|Spore retention by the digestive tract of mycophagous rodents may affect the temporal and spatial dynamics of spore dispersal; rodents may also benefit from consuming a discrete resource rich in minerals and vitamins. Some research suggests that hypogeous fungi are not a nutritionally high-quality food item for small rodents, regardless of being highly consumed by these small mammals. Fungi may be a valuable dietary item when higher-quality food is in low abundance. However, the extent to which fungi are incorporated into diet will ultimately depend on the physiological capacities of organisms for digesting such a resource. Here we investigate digestibility of fungus compared with insects and young foliage of plants, and we draw inferences about digestive constraints in a forestdwelling, mycophagous, habitat-generalist rodent (Abrothrix longipilis) exploiting different diets. We show that the fruiting bodies of fungi are less digestible than young leaves of plants and insects. The intake of fungus, in grams of dry mass per day, did not differ from the intake of plants. However, the wet intake of fungus was 23.8 g wet mass  d, while the amount of plants consumed was 7.1 g wet mass  d and insect intake was 10.7g wet mass  d. In spite of small mammals' increasing the wet weight of food eaten as the quality and digestibility of the diet decreases, they may be unable to process the required amount of fungus fast enough to maintain their energy or matter budget and minimize the feeding time. Finally, and based on the fact that many insects utilize fungi as oviposition sites, we hypothesize for A. longipilis that a quantity of insect larvae ingested with fruiting bodies of fungi confers a nutritional benefit beyond that of the fungi alone.
30163857|The allocation of metabolic energy under fluctuating conditions of supply and demand was studied in isolated goldfish hepatocytes. Inhibition of glycolytic ATP production resulted in a decrease in the activity of one of the major ATP consuming components of cellular energy budgets, the sodium pump ((Na, K)-ATPase), because of the removal of substrates for the trichloroacetic acid (TCA) cycle. This was confirmed through restoration of activity to control levels by adding pyruvate and malate to the suspension. Ouabain-sensitive oxygen consumption constituted a fairly constant fraction of 15% to 25% of total oxygen consumption, whereas the relative load exerted by the pump on anaerobic energy metabolism (on the basis of measurements of Rb flux and lactate production) was much higher, ranging from 90% to 50% during the experimental period. Moreover, when pump activity was inhibited by the addition of ouabain, oxidative energy output decreased immediately, whereas under the restricted conditions of glycolytic energy supply a corresponding ouabain-sensitive component of lactate production was not observed. Such an apparent mismatch between supply and demand ofATP is interpreted as reflecting the flexibility of energy allocation under energy-limiting conditions. When ATP production was reduced by inhibiting either glycolysis or oxidative phosphorylation, the concentration of ATP in the hepatocytes dropped within 30 min from the control steady state to a new, lower, steady state that was maintained for at least 60 min.
30155724|We constructed estimates of daily energy budgets for male Eugenes fulgens and female Archilochus alexandri from daily time budgets, energetic rate functions, measurements of food intake, and nocturnal oxygen consumption. These budgets permitted us to examine the relationship between net energy gains and the occurrence of torpor. Results indicated that torpor was used only in "energy emergency" situations at a minimum "threshold" of energy reserves and not to reduce nocturnal energy expenditures when net energy gains during the day were sufficient for overnight expenditures.The feeding behavior of hummingbirds together with a threshold model of torpor generates a scheme of daily energy balance which produces the relationship between torpor and reduced net energy gains that is characteristic of several species exhibiting daily torpor. The absence of torpor except in energy emergencies suggests either a loss in energetic efficiency due to torpor or a constraint from entering torpor due to predation or some physiological risk.
30158162|Sodium cyanide (NaCN) was used as a chemical probe to help localize externally and internally oriented oxygen-Sensitive chemoreceptors and to identify the reflex effects they control in anesthetized, spontaneously breathing channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus). Fish responded rapidly to NaCN (500g) given in the inspired water flow (external NaCN) with transient bradycardia and a more prolonged stimulation ofgill ventilation frequency (
30156083|Evaporative water loss was determined at ambient air temperatures of 10-35 C in 10 species of dasyurid marsupials ranging in body mass from 9 to 900 g. Mass-specific evaporative water loss (
30159994|Migratory birds in captivity continue to show migratory restlessness throughout the normal breeding period. We investigated whether reduced endocrine activity of the testes of captive male white-crowned sparrows causes this extension of migratory state. Experimentally elevated circulating levels of testosterone at the time it attains maximum levels in free-living male conspecifics after arrival on their territories did not suppress the migratory activity of captive males. Also, exposure to estradioltreated females did not affect migratory activity. Testosterone treatment at the end of the reproductive period postponed the seasonal termination of migratory activity and the onset of postnuptial molt. It is suggested (1) that unknown environmental or neuroendocrine cues suppress migratory behavior during breeding; and (2) that testosterone indirectly delays the final termination of vernal migratory behavior of captive males by its delaying effect on the onset of photorefractoriness, which ultimately terminates the tendency to migrate to the breeding area.
30158271|The role of key Cori cycle organs, white muscle and liver, and a lactate oxidizing organ, heart, in the clearance of blood-borne lactate after strenuous exercise in winter flounder was examined. During recovery from exercise, the fish were injected with uniformly labeled
30158239|Goldfish, Carassius auratus L., were acclimated to constant (
30158154|Flow conductances (resistance) ofsaline-perfused gills ofCarcinus maenas and Ovalipes catharus varied with transmural pressure (
30156209|Comparisons of osmotic regulatory capabilities were made over a wide range of ambient salinities among three closely related cyprinodontids. Floridichthys carpio and Jordanella floridae were evaluated here and compared withprevious studies of Cyprinodon variegatus made by the senior author. Floridichthys is typical of nearshore marine areas, Jordanella of fresh waters, and C. variegatus ofsalt marshes, but in isolated instances the three species exist sympatrically. When groups ofacclimated individuals were used, Floridichthys showed bestplasma osmotic regulation at salinities from 435 to 2, 030 mosm/kg, while tolerating ambient salinities of 15 to 2,610 mosm/kg. Jordanella showed bestplasma osmotic regulation at ambientsalinities from 145 to 1,160 mosm/kg and tolerated salinitiesfrom that of fresh water to 2,320 mosm/kg. Cyprinodon variegatus showed goodplasma osmotic regulation over a wider range of ambient salinities than either of the other two, from fresh water to 2,030 mosm/kg, and tolerated ambient salinities from fresh water to 3,625 mosm/kg, greater than either of the others. All three species, regardless of present habitat, retain significant adaptive characteristics of euryhalinity.
30155792|Incorporation of
30157860|Spectacled hare wallabies (Lagorchestes conspicillatus) have a basal metabolic rate (0.32 cm Ogh) that is about 70% of the value that would be anticipated for most eutherian mammals of corresponding size (2.66 kg). The body temperature and heart rate of these marsupials are also relatively low by eutherian standards. Lagorchestes regulates its body temperature well in environments as cool as 6 C, relying on augmented heat production and heat conservation resulting from effective insulation and peripheral heterothermy involving the tail and distal portion of the limbs. The minimal heat-transfer coefficient for this wallaby is 1.1 kcal (mh C), a value similar to those reported for other macropodids. Hare wallabies cope with heat stress by a combination of controlled hyperthermia and evaporative cooling. The latter involves panting; breathing rates exceeding 400 cycles/min were noted in individuals tested in environments at 43 C. Panting resulted in a slight increase in blood pH after 2-4 h. Licking behavior also appears to contribute to evaporative water output at high temperatures. Cutaneous water loss is not an important component of this output, at least in the resting animals utilized in this study. Hare wallabies are nocturnal in nature and spend the day protected from solar radiation and high air temperatures within shelter provided by porcupine grass (Triodia angusta). Behavior thus serves to minimize requirements for evaporative output of water on hot days. The physiological performance of the hare wallaby is compared with that of the jackrabbit, an animal of similar size and ecology occupying North American deserts.
30163823|We studied the influence of body size on the development of temperature regulation in chicks of 10 North American and five European shorebird species belonging to the families Charadriidae and Scolopacidae. Neonatal body mass ranged between 4 and 55 g, and asymptotic body mass ranged between 20 and 650 g. We measured the change in body temperature of chicks individually exposed for 30 min to ambient temperatures of 2, 10, and 18C. An index of homeothermy for each species at each ambient temperature increased as a linear function of the logarithm of body mass. Before achieving homeothermy at 18C, chicks of small species almost tripled their body mass from hatching, whereas chicks of the largest species increased their body mass by only 10%. In the five European species we studied the development of resting and peak metabolic rate, and minimal thermal conductance, as a function of body mass. The development of homeothermy resulted mainly from a strong increase in the maximum mass-specific heatproduction due to thermogenesis (peak metabolic rate minus resting metabolic rate in the thermoneutral zone). The latter phenomenon is linked with a parallel reduction of the relative growth rate of the chick. These results are consistent with the hypothesis of Ricklefs (1979), who suggested that well-developed muscle function is incompatible with a high relative growth rate.
30152597|Hummingbirds depend on floral nectars for energy. This entails a significant water excess which is eliminated in chronic diuresis. In the eight species from which we obtained urine samples, solutes were conserved by reducing urine osmotic concentrations to approximately one-fifth of plasma levels. Sodium and potassium salts accounted for one-half to one-third of the osmotic concentration of urine. These salts can be replaced mostly from trace amounts in the floral nectars. Data from field, laboratory, and the literature are combined to account for salt and water exchanges of broad-tailed and rufous hummingbirds. Published accounts of avian renal morphology and physiology are consistent with hummingbird urinalysis.
30164277|The ctenophore (comb jelly) Mnemiopsis leidyi is a periodically abundant and voracious predator in U.S. coastal waters. Mnemiopsis leidyi is especially competitive at high prey concentrations because of its very efficient extracellular digestion. We investigated the functional basis for these outstanding digestion capabilities. Extracellular digestion takes place in the pharynx and consists of three distinct and consecutive phases. The three phases take place in different regions of the pharynx so that various prey items can be treated simultaneously in each phase. The first phase is acidic, while the second and the third are alkaline. Extracellular digestion is completed by ciliary currents that mechanically disrupt the predigested food. Bulky indigestible food fragments are expelled through the mouth. Except for a small area, the paths for ingestion and egestion are separate. Hence, both ingestion and egestion can occur simultaneously. The flattened and elongated shape of the pharynx provides the morphological basis for this flow-through system with various regions for different digestive treatments of the food. This system is highly elaborated compared with those of other lower invertebrates and allows for an efficient, fast, and simultaneous digestion of many prey items, which accounts for the outstanding feeding capabilities of M. leidyi.
30163847|In a previous study of lactating mice we experimentally varied litter size up to 26 pups. We found that mothers' food intake at peak lactation increased with litter size up to a maximum weanable litter size (14pups). That intake corresponded to a sustained metabolic scope (ratio of sustained to basal metabolic rate) of 7.2. Did that food intake represent a ceiling on intake and sustained metabolic rate, or would intake have increased even further if lactation had been extended (so that the mother mouse was still providing all the nourishment for her growing pups) beyond 15 d? To answer this question, we prolonged lactation to 24 d, using a cage with food at the top of a ladder that only the mother could climb. Pup and litter mass increased 39%-44%, but the mother's intestinal mass and uptake capacities for glucose and proline did not increase beyond their values at day 15. Food intake for mothers of either eight or 14 pups at day 24 was the same as reported for mothers of 14 pups at day 15. Thus, the observed food intake appears to represent a ceiling for lactating mice (under our experimental conditions). It remains to be determined whether that ceiling is imposed by the intestine itself or something else (e.g., by milk production), and whether it applies to other types of demand.
30156249|Clinocottus analis, a common tidepool cottid fish occurring in the marine intertidal zone in central and southern California, readily tolerated exposure to air for up to 24 h. Like species of amphibious marine fish, its rate of O consumption during air exposure was not different from that when in water, even after 24 h in air. Aerobic metabolism was suficient to meet resting metabolic needs, as shown by the absence of an increase in aquatic O consumption rate following air exposure and the lack of accumulation of lactate as a result of 6 h of aerial exposure. Aerial release of CO was high, and aerial respiratory exchange ratio (CO released/O consumed) was 0.82, suggesting that respiratory acidosis should not occur during air exposure. These results indicate that C. analis, although it may be emerged only rarely during low tides in nature, is able to respire in air.
30158160|The electrocardiograms (ECGs) and blood pressures in the lateral pericardium of palinurid lobsters were recorded simultaneously by implanted electrodes and catheters. Eachpulse of the ECG was followed by a transient drop inpericardial pressure (pericardial systolic pressure, PSP). The amplitude of PSP at rest was about 20 Pa. Electrocardiogram recordings often showed regular extended periods of bradycardia (1-15 min). At heart rates lower than 20 bpm, pericardial diastolic pressure (PDP) rose and reached a sustained level when hydraulic pressure on the lobster was constant. At heart rates above 30 bpm, summation of PSP occurred, resulting in progressive lowering of PDP. The maximum drop in PDP rangedfrom 200 to 500 Pa. The lowered PDP was capable of a motive force to fill the pericardial cavity with recurrent blood. When the lobster raised its antennae in an aggressive gesture, the heart rate quickly rose, while the amplitude of PSP slowly increased to 100 Pa. During feeding, PSP also increased gradually from 50 to 100 Pa in amplitude. With flinching PSP was often reduced from 50 to 20 Pa and recovered gradually. The change in PSP amplitude may indicate the change of cardiac performance associated with the behavior.
30163836|The midgut of the tobacco hornworm (Manduca sexta) undergoes structural reorganization during the last larval stadium. Changes in midgut active ion transport and metabolism during this transition were studied by monitoring short-circuit current, maximal enzyme activities, and mitochondrial respiration. The short-circuit current of midguts from feeding caterpillars was over seven times higher than that of wandering larvae. No short-circuit current was detected in midguts from prepupae, whereas the midguts of pupae had a small but significant level of active ion transport. Paralleling the decline in active ion transport during larval development was the decline in the activity of citrate synthase, a key enzyme in oxidative metabolism. Aerobic metabolism was explored further by monitoring the oxidation of substrates by mitochondria isolated from the midguts of feeding and wandering larvae. Oxidation of all substrates, except ascorbate, was lower in mitochondria isolated from wandering larvae. These results indicate that the decline in active ion transport during larval development may be caused by a decline in mitochondrial energy production. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that the highly aerobic larval midgut is reorganized into a pupal epithelium with low rates of ion transport and oxidative metabolism.
30164317|The tropical Australian turtle Chelodina rugosa normally lays its hard-shelled eggs in mud, under shallow freshwater, during the monsoon season. The eggs undergo developmental arrest until the water recedes and oxygen is able to diffuse into the embryo. This period of arrest can exceed 12 wk without embryonic mortality. To understand how the eggs avoid osmotic absorption of water leading to shell rupture and embryonic death, this study investigates the solute concentrations and volumes of the albumen and yolk compartments during submergence in distilled water. The albumen loses considerable sodium through the shell, particularly during the first week, and its osmotic concentration drops from 234 mmol/kg at laying to about 23 mmol/kg. Meanwhile, water from the albumen slowly moves through the vitelline membrane into the yolk compartment, which enlarges at a constant rate until it approaches the inside of the shell at about 22 wk. Osmotic uptake dilutes yolk solutes, decreasing the osmotic concentration from 281 mmol/kg at laying to 132 mmol/kg at 157 d. Loss of embryonic viability is associated with contact of the vitelline membrane with the inside of the shell. The principal adaptation of this species for protracted developmental arrest under water is a vitelline membrane of such low permeability to water that the expansion of the yolk compartment occurs about 10 times more slowly than in other chelonians.
30157965|As a possible basis for providing new insights into adaptive mechanisms and certain physiological processes, examples of similarities between plant and animal defense systems are presented. Some animals and plants have cryptic colorations to escape detection by predators. Animals often mimic plants or other animals to prevent their identification as edible; plants appear to mimic animals or other plants with the same result. If identified as edible, many animals avoid the approach of a predator by unpredictable responses. Certain plants fold their leaves when approached, apparently for the same reason. Furthermore, the mechanism of leaf movement involves propagated action potentials with characteristics similar to those in animals. Subjugation and consumption of plants and animals may be prevented by various forms of mechanical resistance and by substances belonging to similar chemical groups-alkaloids, steroids, various cyanogens, and proteins. With regard to escaping diseases, certain processes occur in plants that may be compared with vertebrate immune systems. For example, protein synthesis often occurs during infection. Although these pathogenesis-related proteins are not antibodies, the induced proteins are specific for microorganisms and may be found throughout the plant even after local attack. Long-term resistance to certain diseases is a property of the vertebrate immune system, but it can also be demonstrated in plants. Transgenic plants synthesize unnatural proteins that are harmless to the plant, but can prevent infections or discourage predation. Plants may also kill invaders by production of activated O in a manner similar to phagocytic action. Considering the profound developmental and structural differences between plants and animals, the similarities observed for defense purposes are striking. A familiarity with the pertinent literature for both kingdoms may lead to novel, productive approaches to old problems.
30163822|Like other penguin species, adult king penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus) fast several weeks when they molt and at the beginning of their breeding cycle. Moreover, chicks of this species can withstand up to 5 mo of food deprivation during the austral winter. To assess possible variation in the prefasting amounts of nutrient reserves, we determined body composition (water, protein, total lipid, and ash contents) of adults and chicks of king penguins at the beginning of their long-term fasts. Accumulation of subcutaneous fat stores anticipates each of these periods and appears to be an obligatory prerequisite to fasting However, prewinter chicks contained 1 kg more fat and, consequently, had a higher adiposity (34%) than premolting chicks (22%) and prebreeding adults (18%), indicating that the higher the fat stores, the higher the fast resistance. Prewinter chicks also possess a 19% lower lean body mass (6 61 vs. 8.12 kg in premolting chicks), that is, a low amount of metabolically active tissues, thus minimizing their fasting energy expenditure. When compared with adult breeding fast, adult molt is anticipated by a 3.3-kg body mass increase due mainly to water (67%) and protein (23%). Two tissues (integument and pectoral muscles) account for 84% of this body mass difference. The increase in integument (feather, skin, and subdermal fat) mass involves water and fat (59% and 28% of the mass increase, respectively), whereas that in breast muscle mass involves protein and water (32% and 68% of the increase, respectively). Such protein stores anticipate the use of endogenous body protein for new feather synthesis during the molting fast. This study clearly shows that different amounts of fat and protein are builtup in anticipation of fasts of different durations and nutrient needs in king penguins.
30156128|During starvation the metabolism of"nonfatty" fish, i.e., fish with limited reserves of lipid, is supported to a significant extent by the degradation of proteins in white muscle. We have investigated the effects of starvation on selected glycolytic enzymes and actin in white muscle of the barred sand bass Paralabrax nebuhlifer. The concentration of actin remains stable during 4 wk of starvation, but the activities of the glycolytic enzymes phosphofructokinase (PFK), aldolase (ALD), glyceraldehyde-3phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and pyruvate kinase (PK) all decrease. Using a new detergent extraction technique for separating the soluble and myofibrillar proteins of muscle, we show that the intracellular localization of these glycolytic enzymes shifts during starvation. A decreased percentage of the total enzymatic activity is found associated with the myofibrils in starved fish. PFK, an important regulatory enzyme in glycolysis, shows the most striking shift in compartmentation. Refeeding fish starved for 21 days led to a near-complete recovery of enzymatic activity within 24 h. However, only PFK regained the myofibrillar association noted in fed fish. The changes in the activities and intracellular localizations of these enzymes are discussed in terms of the energetics of starvation, the selective degradation of proteins during starvation, and the physiological significance of glycolytic enzyme distribution between soluble and myofibrillar compartments in muscle.
30152582|Circadian rhythms of metabolic rate (oxygen uptake) and locomotor activity (perch hopping) were measured in redpolls, Carduelis flammea L., exposed to light-dark cycles (LD 5.0:1.0 or 0.15:0.01 lux) with different periods as zeitgeber and to continuous illumination (LL 0.05 or 0.15 lux) following entrainment to LD cycles with different light times (photoperiods) and different zeitgeber periods (T). The redpolls showed a high degree of persistence (stability) of the circadian period (), demonstrated by the absence of significant aftereffects of long and short light times or of zeitgeber periods longer than 24 h. Summer-winter differences were observed in the upper limit of the ranges of entrainment of the rhythms of metabolic rate (
30162291|Following a period of water deprivation, Bedouin goats became rehydrated by drinking 0.9% NaCl solution. During one continuous drinking bout, these goats ingested 3.26  0.42 liters of saline and regained their initial body mass. The outflow from the rumen during the first hour after drinking saline amounted to 596  333 ml/h, eight times the rate recorded during the time when the goats became rehydrated by drinking tap water. Plasma protein concentration dropped more rapidly immediately following the drinking of saline than after drinking tap water. Within an hour after they had drunk saline, urine flow exceeded the predrinking levels. Six hours following drinking it barely regained the rate recorded at the end of dehydration period. The pattern of changes in GFR (creatinine clearance) and RPF (PAH clearance) was similar to that observed with urine flow. It is concluded that the rumen in the Bedouin goat "stores" water following the rapid rehydration with tap water but does not function as an osmotic protective mechanism when the animals become rehydrated with saline. Presumably, the rate at which water leaves the rumen is inversely related to the hypotonicity of the rumen fluid.
30158563|Field measurements of body water balance were made in the insular, herbivorous lizard Sauromalus hispidus during a comparatively dry year when succulent annual plants were not available. Lizards fed selectively but irregularly on potassium-laden fruits of perennial cacti and lost an average of 21% of their body mass between April and August; decreases in total body water accounted for ca. 82% of this loss in mass. Fluid volumes in chuckwalla "accessory lymph sacs" decreased significantly (>50%) over the lizard's active season. Despite these net losses in body fluids and the osmotic load imposed by their food, measurements of total osmolality, ionic concentration, and erythrocyte content of the blood indicated that lizards maintained osmotic stability of their extracellular fluid. Reductions in the duration of daily activity presumably accounted for an extremely low requirement of body water (7.3 ml/kg  day), which is less than one-half that predicted and is the lowest rate of water turnover measured in any vertebrate at steady state.
30164223|The composition of milk from free-ranging koalas was examined as part of a study of the energetics of reproduction in the koala, an arboreal folivorous marsupial that displays a number of energetically conservative characteristics often associated with arboreality and folivory. Koala milk composition showed a number of deviations from the general marsupial pattern that suggest koalas have adopted a lactational strategy different from that of most other marsupials previously studied. Milk solids decreased at the time of exit of the young from the pouch, in contrast with the solids content of the milk of most marsupials, which rises at that time. Lipids provided the major source of milk energy even in early to midlactation and did not rise at pouch exit, unlike lipid levels in other marsupials, which are low in early to midlactation and rise sharply at pouch exit to high levels in late lactation. The carbohydrates of late-lactation koala milk contained mainly lactose and some oligosaccharides, but little or none of the monosaccharide found in the milk of many other marsupials. Koalas share most of these features with the common brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) and common ringtail possum (Pseudocheirus peregrinus), the only two other marsupial arboreal folivores in which milk composition has been studied. This suggests that the koala'spattern of changes in milk composition may be common to marsupial arboreal folivores and may be associated with energetic limitations imposed directly by their folivorous diet or indirectly via selection for their long period of lactation and slow weaning. However, koalas' milk was more concentrated than that of the other two marsupial folivores, the importance of which, to the lactational strategy of the koala, can be resolved only by further study of milk production.
30163689|We compared the body temperature of arctic and temperate bumblebees in order to find out whether arctic bees have special thermal adaptations. The thoracic temperatures of arctic queens, drones, and workers foraging from flowers in the field were identical to those of temperate bumblebees. Arctic queens differed from temperate queens in maintaining higher abdominal temperatures (
30161262|The ventilation of the lugworm was studied at different controlled PO values in the ambient water at 20 C. When ventilation in normoxia is taken as a reference value, hyperoxia (300 and 500 Torr) depressed ventilation, mild hypoxia increased ventilation slightly, severe hypoxia depressed ventilation, and extreme hypoxia arrested ventilation. At each controlled PO, 30-s exposures to oxygen-saturated water (PO ca. 700 Torr) were performed-the "oxygen tests"-and the subsequent ventilation were measured. Oxygen tests led to no change of ventilation in hyperoxia, a fall of ventilation in normoxia and mild hypoxia, and an increase of ventilation in severe and extreme hypoxia. This ventilatory behavior is best explained by assuming, as a base ventilation, the low ventilation observed in hyperoxia that corresponds to the spontaneous activity of a pacemaker located in the nerve cord. The decrease of ambient PO toward normoxia and mild hypoxia activates a chemoreflex ventilatory drive, and ventilation increases. With stronger hypoxia, ventilation is inhibited by the activity of special chemoreceptors located near the tip of the tail, which discharge maximally in extreme hypoxia and anoxia. The functional significance of this unique ventilatory behavior relates to the way of life of the lugworm. Within its gallery in the sand of the intertidal zone, it is cyclically exposed twice a day to normoxia at high tide and to complete anoxia at low tide.
30156107|We investigated whether environmental temperature has any causal role in the winter fattening in certain finches of the subfamily Carduelinae. Correlational analyses between fat content of American goldfinches (Carduelis tristis) and various short- and long-term measures of temperature provide no evidence for a proximate role of this environmental variable in determining the degree of fattening of these birds in southeastern Michigan. Their fat content shows the best correlations (r = -.61 to -.63) with the long-term average minimum temperature or record low temperature for the date of capture. Furthermore, inclusion of long-term thermal measures in multivariate analyses excludes from significance temperature conditions surrounding the day of capture. Comparison of American goldfinches wintering in Michigan, California, and Texas, respectively, strengthens the conclusion that environmental temperature does not directly influence their fat content. Taken together, our data on this species favor the hypothesis that temperature is an ultimate, i.e., evolutionarily significant, rather than a proximate factor in winter fattening. Comparisons of American goldfinches, pine siskins (Carduelis pinus), and common redpolls (Carduelisflammea) in Michigan indicate that these similar-sized congeners show different levels of winter fattening under similar winter conditions. The differences in fat content among these species do not correlate in any simple way with their respective overall winter distributions.
30158648|Maintenance nitrogen requirements (MNRs) were determined in greater gliders fed Eucalyptus radiata foliage and in brushtail possums fed E. melliodora foliage. Both species had high nitrogen requirements compared with most other marsupial species; the greater glider required 0.56 g truly digestible nitrogen
30159983|The metabolic rate of three adult female polar bears (Ursus maritimus) was investigated under simulated denning conditions. Experiments were conducted during the winter, using a metabolic chamber as a simulated den. Ambient laboratory temperatures ranged from -10 to -35 C. Adult female polar bears were given the opportunity to enter the den of their own volition. Metabolic measurements were obtained by immobilizing the study animals and moving them into the respiration chamber. The study animals were in the den for a minimum of 1 wk prior to the measurement of oxygen consumption. A total of 50 metabolic measurements were obtained. The average standard metabolic rate for the study animals was reduced by 25% from expected values. The lowest observed metabolic rate averaged about 50% of predicted values for basal metabolism. The bears were held in the simulated den from 27 to 59 days. Weight loss for the three female bears averaged 0.70 kg/day.
30163339|Recently ovulated eggs and newborn of two species of viviparous reptiles, Gerrhonotus coeruleus (Sauria: Anguidae) and Nerodia rhombifera (Serpentes: Colubridae), were analyzed for organic (nitrogen, lipid) and inorganic (total ash, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium) content. Eggs contain 41%-48% water, 46%-56% organic matter, and 3%-5% inorganic salts. Total protein (based on measurement of nitrogen) is higher in egg yolk than total lipid. Analysis of the composition of newborn indicates that eggs of both species gain water and lose dry mass during development. Most of the dry mass loss is a reduction in amount of lipid, presumably due to catabolism. There was no substantial change in total nitrogen in newborn compared to yolk. There was evidence of an extravitellogenic source of mineral ions in both species. Newborn G. coeruleus have a substantially higher ash content than recently ovulated eggs. Although total ash was not higher, newborn N. rhombifera contain more sodium and potassium than eggs. Transplacental transfer of inorganic material occurs in both species but to a greater degree in Gerrhonotus than Nerodia.
30163696|We measured body temperature (
30158176|To test the hypothesis that heat produced as a by-product of physical activity substitutes for avian thermoregulatory requirements, we measured daytime CO production of a very active small passerine, the verdin (Auriparus flaviceps), at various standard operative temperatures (
30166505|We measured metabolic rates (mL O h, converted to kcal d), deep body temperatures (
30155736|Adaptation of energy expenditure to partial or complete food deprivation was studied in the laboratory rat. Energy expenditure was measured by means of a material balance technique and with indirect calorimetry. Increasing the temporal resolution of the latter method and combining it with other techniques allowed a detailed analysis of expenditure into its components. All experiments were done at a temperature of 30 C. Total expenditure during food deprivation went down by nearly three-fifths of its ad lib. value. Of the total decrease of 59%, 12%-13%, was due to cessation of food processing, 12% to reduction of activity, and 34%-35% to a drop of fasting resting metabolic rate. Finally the consequences of the expenditure changes for the regulation of body temperature were studied. The mean core temperature fell by 1 C while the animals reduced their thermal conductance. The adaptive significance of the findings is discussed.
30163842|We measured the energy costs of locomotion and load carriage in two species of the honeypot ant, Myrmecocystus. The diurnal forager, Myrmecocystus mendax, ran voluntarily in a running tube respirometer at 40 C. After running for about an hour, foragers were removed and given access to honey water, which they drank. The energy cost of carrying this internal load was then measured. The nocturnalforager, Myrmecocystus mexicanus, ran voluntarily in the running tube at 30 C. These ants could not be persuaded to collect honey water. The minimum costs of transport (MCOT)-160 and 105 J kg m for M. mendax (6 mg) and M. mexicanus (14 mg), respectively-were substantially below values estimated from current allometric equations relating MCOT to body mass. Using our voluntary locomotion regime, we found the Y-axis intercept of the relation between metabolic rate and running speed to be equivalent to standard metabolic rate for all species and load conditions. The cost per unit mass of internal load carriage in M. mendax (the smallest animal to date for which we have data on load carriage costs) was equivalent to that of body mass carriage. Internal load carriage therefore does not appear to offer cost savings compared with external load carriage.
30158164|The flight physiology of migrating Urania fulgens (Uraniidae) was studied under natural conditions. Airspeed, as opposed to ground speed, was measured directly for moths in free flight over Lake Gatun, Panama. The same insects were then captured, and their thoracic temperatures were measured. Detailed morphological measurements were made on all individual insects. Although significantly different in many aspects of body size, male and female moths flew at the same airspeeds and thoracic temperatures. These results suggest that, during a migratory flight, airspeed and thoracic temperature in U. fulgens remain independent across a range of ambient temperatures and morphological sizes. Surprisingly, although males and females differed in all other morphological parameters measured, they did not differ in body length. The invariance of mean body length between males and females suggests that this trait is constrained in some unknown way. It is argued that stored lipid reserves alone are unlikely to provide sufficient energy for the continuous flapping flight characteristic of U. fulgens during migration, and carbohydrates imbibed at flowers are the most probable source of additional energy.
30163697|I incubated eggs of the smooth softshell turtle (Apalone mutica) at 26, 28, and 30 C in 2 yr to investigate the physiological significance of temperature on developing embryos and hatchlings. In particular, I tested the hypothesis that temperature has a direct effect on physiology of developing embryos independent of the hydric environment, specifically as expressed through its effects on hatchling size and locomotor performance. Hatching success was lowest at 26C but did not differ significantly among treatments or between years. Survivorship of turtles to 2 wk posthatching varied significantly among temperature treatments, because relatively few individuals from 26C survived Duration of incubation was negatively related to incubation temperature. However, sex determination of hatchling turtles was independent of incubation temperature. All but one measure of body size of turtles varied positively with incubation temperature in both years, which suggests that temperature directly affected embryonic growth. Body size of hatchlings also differed significantly among clutches, even after accounting for initial egg mass, which implies maternal or genetic variation in embryonic development. Measures of locomotor performance (running and swimming speed) were significantly influenced by incubation temperature in both years, such that warmer temperatures produced faster hatchlings. In 1989, but not in 1990, larger turtles ran and swam faster than smaller individuals. Clutch exhibited a significant influence on running and swimming speed in both years, which suggests maternal or genetic effects underlying performance. Both measures of locomotor performance were positively correlated in both years, and the correlations were significant, which indicates that faster runners were also faster swimmers. Running and swimming speed were highly repeatable within the 1-d trials in both years and exhibited significant heritable variation. These findings highlight the pervasive influence of environmental and genetic factors on the physiological ecology of embryonic and hatchling turtles and indicate that growth and locomotor performance may possess the genetic variation necessary to evolve in response to selection pressures in nature. Experimental field studies of the ecological and evolutionary consequences of variation in these traits would prove valuable in elucidating the pervasive impact of environmental conditions during embryonic development.
30163744|Using metabolic (in vivo) labeling methods and immunoblotting (Western) analysis, we determined the threshold induction temperature for enhanced synthesis of heat-shock proteins (HSP70 and HSP90) and the constitutive levels of these two classes of HSPs, respectively, in brain, gill, and liver of four species of marine teleost fishes acclimatized to a common temperature (10C). For a given tissue of a species and among tissues of a species, little variation was found in HSP induction temperatures. However, among tissues of a species, the constitutive levels of HSPs differed substantially. Among species, wide variation was found in induction temperature (up to 8C when averaged for all tissues) and HSP concentration (greater than 10-fobld differences for a single tissue). These results, obtained by analysis of animals from natural populations, contradict many of the assumptions, based largely on in vitro studies of isolated cells and tissues, about the dependence of the HSP threshold induction temperature and HSP concentrations on the previous acclimatization temperature. The wide variation in the HSP threshold induction temperatures among the different species and the wide variation in constitutive HSP levels among and within species may reflect, in addition to recent thermal exposure, the thermal history of the species during its evolution and the occurrence in the individual's habitat of other stressors that, like temperature, are capable of activating the heat-shock (stress) response.
30155674|The Australian freshwater crocodile, Crocodylus johnstoni, heats significantly faster than it cools. Under the experimental conditions, cooling rate was found to be approximately 80% of heating rate in both air and water. Heart rate during heating is more rapid than during cooling. Convective transfer of heat within the body is effected by the circulatory system, and this far exceeds rates of heat transfer by conduction alone. Localized heating of the body surface results in a cutaneous vasodilation which promotes uptake of heat. Localized cooling of the body surface results in cutaneous vasoconstriction, promoting heat conservation. Increase or decrease in heart rate accompanies cutaneous vasodilation or vasoconstriction. The dilation or constriction of cutaneous blood vessels and the acceleration or deceleration of heart rate are seen as separate responses to surface heating or cooling. Together they promote heat gain or retard heat loss and provide physiological mechanisms contributing to thermoregulation in C. johnstoni.
30155722|Tiger salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum) showed significant routine daily cycles of oxygen consumption at 15 and 25 C. Routine blood lactate and blood glucose values at 15 C showed no significant variation over a 24-h cycle. Aerobic scope during 30 min of forced activity was 30.0 and 33.8 l g h at 15 and 25 C, respectively. Anaerobiosis was the primary source of energy production during activity; 61.4% and 66.5% of the total ATP produced at 15 and 25 C, respectively, was derived anaerobically. Correlation of O debt with lactate production suggests that the oxygen debt is primarily lactacid. The volume of the O debt would allow gluconeogenesis of only about half of the total lactate formed, the remainder presumably being otherwise eliminated. Liver lactate concentrations returned to resting levels before blood levels, an indication that other organs (nongluconeogenic) function in lactate removal.
10.1086/515969|Gulf toadfish,
30155747|In the laboratory, crowding inhibits pupation of larvae of Zophobas rugipes (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae). Pupation-ready larvae must disperse away from high-density populations in order to find an undisturbed pupation site. In the laboratory, the pupation chamber is defended against intruding larvae, and the success of occupants in preventing intrusion increases with isolation up to 96 h. Thereafter the larvae begin to enter the pharate pupal stage. Over a challenge period of 5-10 h occupant success declines to a plateau but remains above the randomly expected value for 24 h, provided the occupants have been isolated at least 12 h. Dispersal and single occupancy of chambers are due to fighting between occupant and challenger. The major components of the behavior are "shoveling" with the head, opening mandibles, biting the opponent, and violent side-to-side thrashing of the body. All these components increase rapidly during the first 24 h of isolation. Among mature larvae, success in chamber defense is not affected by relative weight (650-750 mg vs. 850-950 mg) or relative age (11-12 mo vs. 14-15 mo). Success is decreased but still significantly nonrandom if occupants are removed from chambers and forced to redisperse along with the challengers. Success is greatly increased if larvae are selected for success in a prior experiment. The ability to defend a pupal chamber successfully thus appears to be an intrinsic property of the larvae. Immobilized larvae are unable to prevent intrusion into their chambers, indicating that single occupancy results from active defense. Pharate pupae and pupae have a limited capacity to exclude intruders from their chambers. Immobilized larvae are subject to heavy cannibalism by active larvae.
30152624|Altricial birds are essentially ectothermic at hatching. Parental brooding is the primary thermoregulatory mechanism, and body temperature (
30157862|Bee-eaters excavate tunnel nests to a depth sufficient to blunt the impact of wide variations in surface temperatures on the thermal environment in the nest chamber. Thermal environment of the inhabitants is maintained within or near their thermal neutral zone. High chamber humidity, minimal thermal stress, and succulent insect food combine to stabilize water balance of nestlings. Diffusion of gases through soil and along the nest tunnel can account for maintenance of tolerable levels of O and CO; however, the absence of nest sanitation and presence of microorganisms causes significant periodic elevations in NH and CO and a decrease in chamber O. This latter circumstance is associated with windless conditions. Wind movements rapidly improve internal conditions by the formation of gas vortices which penetrate via the nest tunnel to the chamber while displacing chamber gas to the exterior. The piston effect of adult birds moving along the tunnels and thermally induced density currents further augment gas renewal. The combination of soil characteristics and nest design provides a generally equable and uniform microenvironment for the developing young, even though external conditions may vary widely.
10.1086/515854|Eggs of intermittently incubating birds are periodically rewarmed by a transient pulse of heat from the parent's brood patch. Estimating the energy cost of rewarming such an egg requires knowledge of the egg's thermal capacity, typically assumed to be the product of the egg's mass and its specific heat, designated here as the gravimetric thermal capacity. When chicken eggs are transiently warmed by an artificial brood patch, the energetic costs of the rewarming indicate that they have thermal capacities about onethird the gravimetric thermal capacity. In this article, I show that birds' eggs warmed locally by a brood patch have effective thermal capacities that differ substantially from the eggs' gravimetric thermal capacities, both in absolute magnitude and in response to varying the temporal properties of the transient pulse of heat. An effective thermal capacity exists because heat from a brood patch flows unevenly through an egg and because of thermal impedance effects on the unsteady component of heat flow into the egg. If these conditions in any way characterize the rewarming of eggs by intermittently incubating birds in nature, intermittent incubation may be considerably less costly in time and energy than has heretofore been assumed.
30157912|Ixodes uriae White (Ixodidae, Acarina) is the predominant tick on the Antarctic peninsula. This species has a circumpolar distribution in both hemispheres and is associated with or known to parasitize 48 species of seabirds. Large colonies of 1,000 or more individuals of all life stages were found beneath rocks on the periphery of Adlie penguin rookeries near Palmer Station, Anvers Island. All life stages (egg, larva, nymph, and adult) were intolerant of freezing. Engorged nymphs and larvae had supercooling points between -18 and -20 C. Eggs had the lowest supercooling points (-28.7 C), while adults had the highest values (from -7 to -13 C). Acclimation to temperatures between -12 and +25 C for 2 wk had no effect on the supercooling point of engorged immobile nymphs. Desiccation of engorged nymphs to 80% of their initial weight resulted in no change in supercooling points or glycerol levels. In January, engorged nymphs enter a state of apolysis and lose mobility. Correlated with this change is an increase in cold tolerance as evidenced by a decrease in supercooling points from -11.5 to -19.5 C. This species exhibits the greatest range of thermal tolerance, from -30 to 40 C, reported for any Antarctic terrestrial arthropod. Except for a short period associated with feeding, I. uriae remains in a permanent state of cold-hardiness throughout the year.
30158652|In certain circumstances, wild animals may obtain adequate nutrition merely by random consumption of foods but, in other circumstances, may need to feed selectively for specific nutrients. For instance, it has been argued that requirements for certain amino acids may be so great during periods of production such as egg laying or molt that highly selective feeding is necessary to avert malnutrition. We evaluated the ability of captive molting white-crowned sparrows to choose between two semisynthetic diets (Choice) that were essentially identical, except in sulfur-amino acid (SAA = cyst(e)ine + methionine) concentration. The high-SAA diet was more than nutritionally adequate, and the low-SAA diet was inadequate for molting sparrows. Two parallel experimental groups were fed only the high-SAA diet (Control) or the low-SAA diet (Deficient), respectively. Food was supplied to each bird in two glass food cups, side by side. Choice birds thus had free access to a high-low-SAA-diet pair, while Control (high-high-diet pair) and Deficient (low-low-diet pair) birds had free access to right- or left-hand cups containing identical diets. Daily food intake by Control birds was 50:50 from rightand left-hand cups before, during, and after molt. Their body-mass variation and molt pattern (duration = ca. 54 days) were normal. Daily food intake by Deficient birds was less (25%-30%); body mass was less (ca. 15%); and molt was longer (105 days) than in Control or Choice birds. Many new feathers in Deficient birds were malformed. A subgroup of the Deficient group that was given a high-low-diet choice midway through the experiment quickly regained normal body mass and accelerated molt above the normal rate, so that molt was completed in 75 days. Daily food intake, body mass, and pattern and duration of molt in the Choice birds were indistinguishable from these variables in Control birds. Choice birds consumed a 50:50 ratio of diets before and after molt but during molt preferentially consumed the high-SAA diet in rough proportion to molt intensity, with a mid-molt plateau at about 65% highSAA diet. Tests involving switching of diet (food-cup) locations showed that the birds can sense diet quality and respond to altered diet location within at least 16 h (1 feeding day).
30152575|Oxygen consumption of Rhea (Rhea americana) and Emu (Dromiceius novaehollandiae) eggs increases exponentially during the first 70% of incubation and reaches a maximum about three-quarters of the way through incubation. Rate of O consumption then declines to about 75% of the peak value, increasing again just prior to pipping. We suggest the decline in rate of O consumption is due to a decline in growth rate, and that growth of the embryo of ratites is essentially complete at the time of the peak in O consumption. Completion of growth prior to the normal end of incubation may permit ratite eggs of different ages to synchronize hatching within a clutch. Rates of O consumption just prior to the initiation of pulmonary respiration are 104  7 cm h in Rhea eggs and 75  7 cm h in Emu eggs. Calculated and measured air-cell gas tensions at this stage of incubation vary systematically with egg size between species of birds. Large eggs have higher air-cell O tensions and lower air-cell CO tensions than do small eggs. Water vapor conductance of Emu eggs is 46.2  9.6 mg day torr, much lower than predicted on the basis of egg size and incubation period.
30156132|Per os inoculations of migratory grasshoppers Melanoplus sanguinipes with the microsporidian protozoan Nosema acridophagus resulted in an increase in the grasshoppers' preferred temperature by about 6 C. Maintenance of grasshoppers at febrile and nonfebrile temperatures showed that fever benefited infected grasshoppers in terms of survival and growth. Febrile temperatures negatively affected the growth of uninfected grasshoppers, but, for infected grasshoppers, these costs were outweighed by the benefits. Nonfebrile infected M. sanguinipes were less fecund than nonfebrile controls, while fecundity of febrile infected M. sanguinipes did not differ significantly from febrile controls. This investigation is, to our knowledge, the first to show that (1) protozoal infections can generate fever in an ectotherm, (2) the costs of fever involve decreased growth rate of the host, and (3) a net benefit of fever occurs when the pathogen is introduced to the host by a natural route.
30161255|Foraging patterns of genetically similar colonies of Eastern tent caterpillars were continuously recorded in the field (in normal and artificially manipulated microenvironments) and in the laboratory. Frequency and duration of foraging bouts were similar despite average daytime body temperatures, which differed by as much as 15 C. Caterpillars which had access to radiant heat regulated their body temperature. Body temperature of caterpillars without radiant heating passively followed ambient conditions. Growth of tent caterpillars was positively correlated with body temperature and paralleled rates of food processing, as indicated by rates of feces production immediately after feeding. Behavioral thermoregulation enhances growth rates in tent caterpillars by increasing rates of food processing during inactive periods, presumably increasing the amount eaten in the next feeding bout.
10.1086/515867|We examined the influence of a wide range of environmental salinities on routine metabolic rate and critical oxygen tension in
30156184|In situ estimates of intracellular pH (
10.1086/516003|Wintering in a temperate climate with low water temperatures is energetically expensive for diving ducks. The energy costs associated with body cooling due to diving and ingesting large amounts of cold food were measured in tufted ducks (
30164308|The daily changes in body temperature experienced by Parabuthus villosus (Buthidae), a scorpion found on the gravel plains around Gobabeb, Namibia, and by Opisthophthalmus flavescens (Scorpionidae), a dune-dwelling species from the same area, were measured under similar field conditions. Thermocouples implanted under the segments of the mesosoma measured maximum temperatures as high as 43C in the shade. Air temperatures reached a maximum of 33C during the daytime and a minimum of 12C at night. Very low metabolic rates compared with those of other nonsedentary invertebrates were recorded in both species; oxygen consumption ranged from 8 L g h at 16C to 115 L g h at 40C. A pulsed Doppler system was used to measure heart rate in situ in free-moving scorpions. At night, heart rate declined to about 4 beats min in resting undisturbed scorpions. During daylight excursions and while scorpions hunted for food, heart rates as high as 180 beats min were observed. Heart rate was linearly correlated with temperature in P. villosus, with a slope of 2.37 (
30158518|Metabolic acidosis, whether endogenous (exhaustive exercise) or exogenous (ammonium sulfate infusion), had qualitatively similar effects on net ammonia flux (
30158204|The duration of natural intertidal air exposure was determined for a population of Chiton stokesii from the rocky intertidal zone of Naos Island, Panama. On-site measurement indicated that chitons seek protected locations during air exposure and are little affected by increased air temperatures. Construction of an artificial tidal system allowed hemolymph sampling and assessment of physiological compensation of chitons during air exposure in the laboratory. During air exposure chitons showed significant hemoconcentration associated with reduction in heart rate and intracardiac hemolymph pressure. Air exposure was also associated with the buildup of hemolymph Pco and the development of significant but largely compensated hemolymph acidosis. No consequent decrease in postbranchial hemolymph oxygenation occurred; indeed, the partial pressure of O in postbranchial hemolymph (Pao) had increased slightly but significantly at 17 h air exposure. This increased oxygenation was not associated with significant change in of O uptake (
10.1086/515885|We investigated the relationship between maintenance costs (standard metabolic rates, measured as O
30155744|Perch-hopping activity rhythms were studied in house sparrows that were kept under a variety of experimental lighting conditions. Circadian rhythms of locomotor activity were well defined and were entrained by 24-h light-dark cycles. When sparrows were kept in constant bright light (1169 Ix), 80% of them became arrhythmic within 2 wk. When special experimental lighting changes were imposed on the sparrows, the following results were obtained. (1) When sparrows were transferred from constant light (either 1169 or31 lx) to constant dark, all of them exhibited freerunning circadian rhythms. The phases of the sparrows' circadian rhythms were synchronized among the individuals as though the transition were a normal "dusk" for all the birds. (2) When sparrows with freerunning rhythms in constant dark were transferred to constant light (1169 or 31 lx), there was no synchronization of the phases of their ensuing rhythms; i.e., they did not respond as though the transition were a normal "dawn." (3) Sparrows entrained to a series of different photoperiods ranging from 1-23 h of light/day exhibit a coincidence of the ends of their locomotor activity with the end of the light time on photoperiods 8 h or longer. (4) Sensitivity to light (as derived from the phase-response curve for sparrows and from the photoperiodic testis response in sparrows) is greatest in the dark time or subjective dark time. This sensitivity is also seen in other species (both nocturnal and diurnal) if one examines their phase-response curves. The experimental results (for sparrows at the intensities used) are interpreted as meaning that the circadian "watch" is synchronized principally by dusk and that the measurement of day length depends on the presence of a sensitive period close to the light-to-dark transition. This may extend to some, but probably not all, other circadian systems.
30155742|Total body water (TBW) and the biological half-life of water (t-) were estimated by the tritiated water dilution technique using both plasma and urine samples. Values for t- did not depend on the source of the sample. Urine sampling overestimated TBW by 2%-3%. Since values for t- were identical and those for TBW were similar for plasma and urine sampling, urine sampling could be useful in field studies of water metabolism. Changes in water metabolism during the estrous cycle were different in each of the three species studied. Female rats showed very transient increases in t- during the night of proestrus, but no changes in TBW. During estrus, t- gradually increased in female spiny mice. Maximum t- occurred following ovulation, at the start of the diestrus phase of the cycle. Lowest values were seen at the end of diestrus and in spayed females. No changes in TBW or body mass were seen during the cycle. Food intake was decreased and TBW was increased in female prairie dogs at estrus, but t-, water intake, and body mass did not change at this time. Increases in TBW could be induced in anestrous prairie dogs by the injection of estradiol benzoate and progesterone but not by estradiol benzoate alone. Rats could not maintain their body mass when given vegetables as a water source, but both spiny mice and prairie dogs could. Spiny mice did not begin to lose mass until their water intake was reduced to 50% of ad lib. values. Prairie dogs began losing mass when their water intake was reduced to 30% of normal. Changes in water metabolism during the estrous cycle in spiny mice were probably a result of changes in water intake that were not sufficient to cause mass loss but did induce water conservation. Increase in TBW at estrus in the prairie dog were probably due to changes in body composition resulting from decreased food intake.
30163722|Rates of cutaneous evaporative water loss were measured in seven arboreal and 11 nonarboreal anuran species under controlled environmental conditions. Areaspecific rates of cutaneous evaporative water loss of arboreal species (genera Hyla and Osteopilus) were 47% lower than those of nonarboreal species (genera Acris, Atelopus, Bufo, Gastrophryne, Rana, Scaphiopus, and Xenopus). Body and skin temperatures of arboreal species averaged 4.4 C higher than those of nonarboreal ones. Boundary layer resistance was similar in both groups of frogs and averaged 0.80 s cm; skin resistance averaged 0.05 s cm in nonarboreal frogs and was 41 times higher in arboreal ones. The results of this study conflict with those of previous studies and emphasize the need for careful control of animal posture and water vapor density when measuring evaporative water loss.
30159972|The major anaerobic by-product of spiders is D-()-lactic acid. Minor accumulations of L-glycerol-3-phosphate may account for about 5% of the anaerobic ATP production. The possibility remains for other pathways, especially one that results in the accumulation of alanine and succinate. Lactate accumulations after maximal activity are greatest in the legs and prosoma and can be as large as 15 mol/g; accumulations of lactate in the opisthosoma seldom exceed 4 mol/g and average near 2.5 mol/g. Opisthosomal lactate accumulations are inversely correlated with the relative size of the spider's opisthosoma compared with its prosoma. Evidence is presented that suggests that, at a common level of exercise, an inverse relationship exists between prosomal lactate accumulation and book lung surface area.
30164267|Adult rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) were acclimated to artifcial soft water to evaluate potential physiological responses compensating for the thickening of the blood-to-water diffusion barrier that is known to accompany branchial lamellar chloride cell proliferation. Indirect estimates of gill ventilation volumes using the Fick principle demonstrated pronounced hyperventilation in the softwater-acclimated fish (2,280  434 mL min kg) when compared to the control fish (1,217  166 mL min kg). Despite the hyperventilation, the soft-water-acclimated fish displayed significantly lowered arterial Po values (93.7  2.4 Torr [1 Torr = 133.32 Pa] vs. 102.5  1.6 Torr); arterial Pco was unaffected by acclimation to soft water. An in vitro radioisotopic assay was used to demonstrate that an intrinsic acceleration in the rate of HCO flux through the red blood cell and hence accelerated HCO dehydration was not contributing to the maintenance of arterial Pco in the soft-water-acclimated fish. The construction of blood O equilibrium curves in vitro revealed an increased affinity of haemoglobin-O, binding in the soft-water-acclimated fish (
30152641|The South American field mouse Abrothrix andinus (Rodentia: Cricetidae) is a small mammal active throughout the year in the Andes, despite substantial seasonal environmental changes. Body mass exhibited a significant decrease during winter, and maximum metabolic rate for thermoregulation increased by 36.6%. In absolute terms, the maximum thermal differential between body and environmental temperatures increased 44 C during winter. On the other hand, body temperature and thermal conductance did not show significant changes through the year; however, mass-independent conductance decreased in winter. Parallel to these changes, the length and dry mass of the total digestive tract changed significantly with wintertime; at the same time the length and mass of the small intestine and the length of the large intestine also showed significance. Significant differences in gastrointestinal morphology between males andfemales were found only during the reproductive season (summer).
30158275|We investigated whether daily O consumption (
30155852|The constraints placed upon diffusive gas exchange by the eggshell, and parameters of embryonic respiration were examined in naturally incubated eggs of the Bonin petrel on Sand Island, Midway. The incubation period of the Bonin petrel egg was 49 days, or 184% of the predicted value based on egg mass; this is relatively longer than in larger members of the order. A low eggshell gas conductance was matched by a low egg O uptake (
30164280|Captive emperor penguins in Antarctica hand-fed Antarctic krill assimilated an average of 70.5%  1.7% (n = 3) of the energy in the diet. Water intake estimated by tritiated water turnover was 9.4%  2.4% less than that measured gravimetrically. Tritium took 1.5 h from injection to equilibrate with the penguins' body water pools.
30156183|The Australian wood duck, Chenonetta jubata, is a small (0.87kg) obligate herbivore that has few marked morphological specializations for the utilization of herbage. The ceca are relatively small, and there are no other obvious sites suitable for the extended retention and subsequent fermentation of dietary fiber. Nevertheless, an examination of the degradation of fiber components along the gut indicated that 40% of total fiber (as estimated from neutral detergent fiber) was apparently assimilated. Of the components of this fiber, the apparent assimilations of hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin were 74%, 11%, and 4%, respectively. Ducks were shot while feeding on natural forage, which consisted of almost equal proportions of short green grasses and small forbs. Naturally occurring manganese was used to estimate apparent assimilations between the gizzard and the rectum. Apparent assimilations based on lignin gave only slightly lower values. Overall apparent assimilations were dry matter 61%, energy 66%, cell contents 92%, and neutral detergent fiber 40%. Fiber digestion contributed 30% of the assimilated energy, with most coming from hemicellulose. Degradation of the hemicellulose occurred mainly in the proximal small intestine, but the ceca may also be involved since they contained high levels of volatile fatty acids.
30158572|Adenosine deaminase (ADA), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) activity levels were measured in mosquitofish populations from contrasting natural environments. Significant differences in enzyme level, in the level of soluble protein, and in length and weight were observed among populations from different habitats. MDH and LDH activities were highest in running-water populations, whereas ADA was elevated in coastal environments. Still-water females were longer and weighed less than running-water females. The regression relationships of length vs. weight and protein vs. weight also varied significantly among populations. The proportion of enzyme activity variation which could be accounted for by habitat, location, or log length was not the same for the three enzymes, suggesting that biological and physical factors influence the activities of various enzymes in different ways.
30152622|Most mammals attempt to increase their food intake when experiencing low ambient temperature (
30156074|The operative temperature (
30155845|The yolk-free body mass, the mass of selected organs, the rates of oxygen consumption, and the air cell gas tensions were measured throughout incubation in embryos of the bar-headed goose, Anser indicus, and the Canada goose, Branta canadensis. The embryo mass for both species increased exponentially with incubation time to a stage just prior to pipping when growth appeared to stop. The rates of oxygen consumption for the embryos paralleled the rate of growth for the first 40%-50% of the increase in embryo mass, followed by a period when the rate of oxygen consumption plateaued at a value of 43.9  0.7 cm O/h for the embryos of the Canada goose and 39.1  1.7 cm O/h for the embryos of the bar-headed goose. The oxygen tensions in the air cell decreased with time concomitant with the increase in oxygen consumption to a value of 96.3  2.0 torr for the Canada goose and 88.0  1.0 torr for the bar-headed goose. The lower air cell oxygen tensions in the bar-headed goose reflect a lower eggshell permeability and smaller egg size. When acutely exposed to hypoxic hypoxia, the normoxic embryos of the bar-headed goose were able to maintain rates of oxygen consumption at significantly lower oxygen tensions than were the embryos of the Canada goose. However, the embryos of the Canada goose were able to acclimate to incubation under conditions of hypoxic hypoxia as evidenced by a shift to the left in the oxygen tension necessary to reduce the rate of oxygen consumption.
30163340|Eggs of pied-billed grebes (Podilymbus podiceps) are incubated in warm, wet nests built of decaying vegetation 3-7 cm above the waterline. The daily mass loss (
30160963|Eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) absorb water across that portion of the eggshell in contact with the substrate and simultaneously lose water by transpiration from that part of the eggshell exposed to air inside the nest chamber. Depending upon the rates of influx and efflux, eggs may experience increases or decreases in mass during incubation, or mass may remain essentially constant between oviposition and hatching. Water exchanges are especially sensitive to such factors as substrate water potential, relative surface exposed to the nest atmosphere, hydraulic conductance of the eggshell, and conductance of the eggshell to water vapor. Hatchlings emerging from eggs absorbing and storing large quantities of water are heavier than hatchlings emerging from eggs taking up smaller quantities of water from the substrate. Furthermore, water absorption equal to, or in excess of, water loss by transpiration assures that the original shape of the egg will be preserved, thereby guaranteeing that sufficient space is available within the egg for normal development of the embryo.
30162286|The brine fly Paracoenia calida Mathis is known only from the hot (source temperature = 54 C) saline (22 ppt) waters of Wilbur Hot Springs, Colusa Co., California. To investigate whether the high salinity is responsible for the endemic distribution of P. calida, I measured its hemolymph osmotic and ionic (sodium, chloride, potassium) concentrations and salinity tolerance (50% lethal exposure) of larvae exposed to a range of salinities (0-102 ppt) and water temperatures (15-40 C). Results were compared to similar measurements made on a co-inhabitant of P. calida, the geographically widespread brine fly Ephydra goedeni Wirth. In hypertonic waters (380-1,900 mM sodium chloride; 22-102 ppt) both species maintained their hemolymph hypoosmotic at concentrations between 150 and 350 mM NaCl regardless of water temperature. In hypotonic waters (0 and 25 mM NaC1), both species regulated their hemolymph hyperosmotic at 100 mM NaC1 regardless of water temperature. In contrast to their similar patterns ofosmoregulation, larvae of P. calida had an extremely low survivorship in deionized (0 mM NaC1) and diluted Wilbur Hot Springs water (7 mM NaCl; 1 ppt), whereas E. goedeni larvae exhibited their highest survivorship in deionized water. Paracoenia calida larvae in deionized water had high concentrations of K in their hemolymph. Perhaps this excess K leaked out from muscle and nervous tissues in response to declining hemolymph levels of Na and Cl; or the loss of K from these tissues may be an effect of cell death. Regardless, I suggest that P. calida is restricted to Wilbur Hot Springs because it cannot tolerate dilute salinities. In contrast, E. goedeni occurs throughout western North America in part because it can tolerate dilute salinities.
30156201|The pattern and rate of microbial fermentation were studied in captive and wild-shot greater gliders (Petauroides volans) and captive brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) fed Eucalyptus foliage. The cecum and the cecum/proximal colon were the principal sites of microbial activity in the greater glider and brushtail possum, respectively. Total short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) concentrations were 36 mM and 70 mM in captive and wild-shot greater gliders, respectively, and 75 mM in the brushtail possums. SCFA production rates in the hindgut were similar in vitro in the two species (19-20 mmol/L/h) but slower than in the hindgut of most herbi-vores, although this was of set by the large volume of digesta contained in the hindgut. The pattern and rate of fermentation were similar in captive and wild-shot greater gliders. The difference between the initial molar proportions of acetate, propionate, and butyrate and their proportional contributions to total SCFA production in both species suggested that SCFAs were absorbed in proportion to their chain length. SCFA production contributed similar amounts of energy to both species, but as a proportion of digestible energy (DE) intake, SCFA was 15% of the DE intake of the brushtail possum and 7% of the DE intake of greater gliders. The relatively low level of SCFA production in both greater gliders and brushtail possums is largely due to the lignified nature of the fiber of Eucalyptus leaves and, in the brushtail possum at least, the inhibitory effects of leaf phenolics.
30157866|The levels of immunoreactive luteinizing hormone (irLH), testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), estradiol, estrone, and corticosterone have been measured through the course of the breeding season in the plasma of both sexes from a breeding population of white-crowned sparrows, Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis, on Camano Island, Washington. Birds were captured in nets or traps. After removal of the blood sample and performance of laparotomy to ascertain the developmental stage of the reproductive system, the birds were marked with unique combinations of colored leg bands for identification in field observations and on recapture for procurement of blood samples and for laparotomy. Males arrive on the breeding ground in late April with levels of irLH and testosterone significantly higher than in winter and with partially developed testes. During the ensuing period of establishment of territory, arrival of females, mating, and courtship, the testes attain full development, and irLH and testosterone reach maximum levels in the plasma. Females arrive after territories have been established by the males. Ovaries have begun development at that time; estrone and estradiol are detectable in the plasma; irLH and testosterone are at winter levels. During pairing, courtship, and mating, the ovary develops rapidly, and the plasma levels of irLH, estrone, and testosterone become conspicuously higher. The period of elevated testosterone is brief and coincides with the time during which the females participate in territorial defense. It returns to the winter level before the onset of oviposition at which time estrone has reached maximum level. Regression of the ovary during incubation is coincident with decreases in the levels of irLH and estrone. At this time in the males there is a decrease in irLH and a precipitous decrease in testosterone, which remains low, but above winter level, for the remainder of the year. There is a slight regression in testicular weight. Prior to the laying of the second clutch, the plasma level of irLH increases again but less conspicuously than in females. During the time of the second clutch, there is an increase in plasma androgens in females but not in males. Testes and ovaries return to the level of development attained prior to the first clutch. At the time of oviposition, plasma estrone in females is again maximal. By the time of fledging of the second brood, the levels of irLH and estrone are declining precipitously and gonads are regressing. During the postnuptial molt, testosterone, estrone, and irLH reach winter levels. In females maxima in plasma levels of corticosterone coincide with the two periods of oviposition. The single maximum in males occurs during the time of the second brood. During feeding of the young of the second brood, the corticosterone levels decline in both sexes and reach minimum levels during the postnuptial molt.
30164284|Associations of glycolytic enzymes with the subcellular particulate fraction of skeletal muscle and heart were examined during entrance to daily torpor in deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus). In skeletal muscle a significant decrease in enzyme binding occurred during torpor entrance for phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and pyruvate kinase, with an additional significant decrease for phosphofructokinase and pyruvate kinase during the deepest state of torpor. Reductions in enzyme binding during torpor entrance also occurred in heart; significant changes were observed in hexokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and pyruvate kinase binding. Contrary to the finding of additional reductions in enzyme binding seen in skeletal muscle, significant increases in enzyme binding during the deepest torpor state were observed for hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, pyruvate kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase in heart. These results suggest that a decrease in the binding of glycolytic enzymes to subcellular structures in skeletal muscle and heart may be at least partially responsible for initiating the reduction in metabolic rate during torpor entrance. This decreased binding may continue to mediate the metabolic reduction in skeletal muscle throughout torpor; heart, however, may require the use of different molecular mechanisms. The increased binding in heart during the deepest state of torpor may represent an anticipatory response in preparation for increased activity during arousal.
30158169|We studied the osmoregulatory strategy of salt-marsh savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis beldingi) in the field in Baja California, Mexico, and we compared these birds with a subspecies of savannah sparrow found concurrently in the uplands surrounding the salt marsh. Passerculus sandwichensis beldingi had higher plasma osmolalities (349 vs. 339 mmol/kg), higher ureteral urine osmolalities (577 vs. 477 mmol/kg), higher urine sodium concentrations (126 vs. 74 meq/L), higher urine flow rates (7-10 vs. 1. 7L/min), and larger kidneys (0.36vs. 0.21 g/pair of kidneys) than the upland sparrows. Other unusual findings in the salt-marsh birds were the presence of substantial volumes of hyperosmotic fluids (up to 811 mmol/kg) in the lower intestine and uric acid extending into the ileum. The rectal epithelium of P. s. beldingi was relatively smooth, with few low apical membrane extensions, whereas that of the upland sparrows had a dense apical microvillous brush border. The maximum urine concentration that we measured in freshly captured P. s. beldingi was 2. 7 times plasma osmolality. Our findings suggest an osmoregulatory strategy that includes a high intake of solute, a copious urine flow to excrete this solute load, and, at least at times, substantial refluxing into the intestines of hyperosmotic urinary fluids. This unusual strategy presumably reflects the unusual circumstance of a bird without salt glands living in a salt marsh.
10.1086/515423|California grunion, Leuresthes tenuis (Osteichthyes: Atherinidae), leave the ocean to spawn in the sand following extreme high tides in summer. Eggs develop out of water and are able to hatch within 913 d, the primary hatching period. Eggs hatch on immersion and agitation by waves at the next extreme hightide series. However, if the waves do not reach them and hatching is not induced, eggs remain viable in the sand for several weeks. During this period, grunion eggs will delay hatching, but will hatch at any time if immersed and agitated in seawater. Egg metabolism during embryonic development was measured by aerial respirometry. Metabolism increased linearly until the first date at which eggs were able to hatch. At that time, metabolic rate stabilized and remained constant for two additional weeks of embryonic incubation. Larvae induced to hatch after different durations of incubation within this period were not significantly different in length; however, the amount of oil contained in the yolk decreased linearly during the delayed hatching period. We suggest that the increase in grunion egg metabolism during the time to primary hatching capability, and the steady, high metabolic rate throughout the delayed hatching period, permit reproduction in the unique niche of these marine eggs. These semiterrestrial anamniotic eggs develop quickly and remain continuously ready to hatch over an extended period in response to an environmentally dependent and somewhat unpredictable embryonic timetable.
30155675|American alligators of both sexes ranging in weight from 0.60 to 7.64 kg were heated from 15 to 35 C and cooled from 35 to 15 C in air (300 cm/s air flow) and water. Under all conditions the heating rate exceeded the cooling rate. The difference between heating and cooling rates increased with increasing body weight. Heating and cooling rates in water exceeded heating and cooling rates in air. The thermal time constant () was used as a more meaningful measure of thermal response. Heart rate during warming exceeded heart rate during cooling for any given body temperatures. Cardiovascular adjustments were implicated as important in physiological thermoregulation of the alligator.
30158268|Hemocyanin (Hc) properties in Helix pomatia were investigated to ascertain functional consequences and molecular mechanisms associated with anomalously shaped O-binding curves reported earlier. Hemolymph oxygenation properties and in vivo arterial and venous O tensions showed that half the O-binding capacity of Hc is exploited in O transport and that Hc is responsible for two-thirds of the O delivered to the tissues in nonestivating animals. The Bohr effect was strongly biphasic; at 20 C, the partial pressure of O at 50% Hc saturation (
30163909|In northern pike, ovarian recrudescence and membrane lipid restructuring occur during winter and may thereby create physiological requirements for essential fatty acids (EFAs) that surpass dietary EFA intake. Seasonal changes in the fatty acid composition of pike ovary and whole-body lipids and mass balance comparisons were used to identify mechanisms that during winter help balance physiological requirements for EFAs with the dietary supply. Mature ovaries of pike exhibited a polar lipid:neutral lipid ratio (70:30; based on the weight of fatty acids) much greater than that of somatic tissues (30:70), yet the fatty acid compositions of ovarian and somatic total lipids were quite similar. This similarity resulted from an adaptive reduction in the percentage of n-3 EFAs in ovarian neutral and polar lipids to levels lower than those typical of somatic lipids. Adaptive features of ovarian fatty acid composition, combined with significant reductions in the n-3 EFA content of somatic neutral lipids during winter, reduced the n-3 EFA requirements associated with ovarian recrudescence by 55%. The fatty acid compositions of ovarian and somatic total lipids differed in one important aspect: ovarian total lipids were considerably enriched in 22:6n3. This may be an adaptation to the insectivorous feeding habits of larval pike.
30158157|Information on the blood systems of the gills of water-breathing crabs, and of the gills and lungs of air-breathing crabs, is summarized. Blood flow through the gill lamellae is channeled by rows ofpillar cells and the intralamellar septum, and distinct afferent and efferent areas are apparent. Potential flow-control structures occur at the junctions between afferent and efferent areas and where the efferent channels enter the efferent branchial vessel. The gills also receive a direct arterial supply of blood. The inner surfaces of the branchiostegites (lungs) of aquatic and amphibious crabs are vascularized, and in terrestrial forms this vasculature becomes extremely sophisticated. The lung systems of air-breathing crabs are highly effective in oxygenation of the blood. The partition of the respiratory system between and within the respiratory organs is discussed.
30155713|The oxygen uptake of the katydids Neoconocephalus robustus and Euconocephalus nasutus is about 0.03-1.5 ml O h g at rest. During the warm-up that precedes stridulation and during stridulation this rate increases to 18.4 ml O h g (maximum 26.4) in Euconocephalus and to 15.8 ml O h g (maximum 19.5) in Neoconocephalus. Oxygen uptake during stridulation is 1.5-1.9 ml O min per gram active muscle, a value similar to that of wing muscle of other insects in flight. The thorax temperature 'increases during warm-up and stridulation. Cooling that occurs when singing ceases is not a simple exponential function. Metabolic rates calculated from cooling curves are lower than measured values; we suggest they are lower because the rate of heat loss is about 23% greater during singing because heat is convected by wing movement. On the basis of measurements of abdominal temperatures we suggest that about 40% of the heat produced by the thorax is transferred to the abdomen and lost via this avenue.
30161221|The European green lizard Lacerta viridis heats more rapidly than it cools when tested during the activity portion of its daily cycle. In contrast, slower rates of cooling relative to heating are not typical when lizards are tested during their normal scotophase rest period. Furthermore, L. viridis cools at a slower rate than do other lizards of equal size. Simultaneously measured oxygen consumption displayed an inverse pattern during daytime heating and cooling with significantly higher metabolic rates during 75% of the entire cooling process, whereas nighttime metabolic responses were practically identical during both heating and cooling. Responses to acute heating and cooling varied according to the time of day tested, coinciding with the activity and rest phases.
30158161|We monitored the growth and metabolism of 28 nestling white ibis (Eudocimus albus) taken at 21 d of age and hand-reared for 3 wk on ad lib. diets of (1) freshwater crayfish (Procambarus clarkii; salt content 535 mosm kg; n = 12), (2) brackishwater fiddler crabs (Uca spp.; 1,080 mosm kg; n = 12), and (3)freshwater crayfish salt-loaded to a salt content approximating that of fiddler crabs (1,090 mosm kg; n = 4). Brackish water (480 mosm kg) or fresh tap water was provided to the birds on an ad lib. basis. Nestlings maintained on the unaltered-crayfish diet gained mass at rates similar to those of parent-reared nestlings. Birds on the fiddler-crab and salt-loaded crayfish diets lost approximately 3% of their body massper day until fresh water was substituted for brackish water 7 d into the experiment. Nestling hematocrits, serum osmolality, and serum electrolyte levels indicated that during the first week of the experiment, nestlings on the two high-salt diets were dehydrated and salt loaded. This occurred even though birds on high-salt diets exhibited hypertrophic development of their salt glands. When birds on the high-salt diets were allowed to drink fresh water, all began gaining mass within 2 d, and their serum osmolality and salt returned to levels similar to those of nestlings on the low-salt diet. Our experiments indicate that a physiological constraint acting on nestling ibis is responsible for the fact that ibis breeding in coastal colonies fly long distances inland to secure freshwater prey for their young.
30163900|Reciprocal variations in the heart rate (HR), pulmonary vascular resistance (
30158551|The accuracy of the tritiated water (HTO) and sodium-22 (
30158254|Miniature pulsed Doppler flow probes were implanted on the left pulmonary artery and left aorta of juvenile green turtles (Chelonia mydas) to measure the cardiovascular changes associated with intermittent ventilation at rest and its conversion to a continuous pattern during swimming at 0.4 ms. In resting turtles, respiratory frequency, tidal volume, and oxygen uptake were also measured and convection requirements and the oxygen-content difference across the lungs calculated. Respiration-related increases in heart rate and blood flow were most pronounced in resting turtles in which bursts of breaths, rather than single breaths, occurred in ventilatoryperiods. Hypoxia (10% O) produced continuous ventilation in resting turtles, and pulmonary blood flow was maintained at a high, steady level Increases in heart rate and both left pulmonary and left aortic blood flow were associated with the sevenfold increase in ventilation frequency observed during swimming. Most of the increase in left pulmonary flow during swimming could be attributed to an increase in cardiac output. However, left pulmonary flow increased more than left aortic flow, which suggests that pulmonary vascular resistance may have decreased during exercise.
30156210|The acid-tolerant banded sunfish (Enneacanthus obesus) survived losses in body sodium, due to low pH, that would kill other species. Asplasma sodium concentration declined, aproportionate decline of plasma osmoticpressure occurred, followed by shrinkage of the extracellularfluid volume (ECFV). ECFV declined from 44% of the total body water at control pH to about 30% after 1 wk at pH 3.5. Enneacanthus obesus compensated for the lowpH-induced osmotic disturbance in several ways. With body salt depletion, sodium shifted from the slowly exchangeable pool (SEP), where it was osmotically inactive, into the rapidly exchangeable pool (REP), where it helped to maintain the extracellular fluid sodium concentration. About 88% of the total sodium in the fish at the control pH was in the REP. The proportion declined to about 81% after 2 d atpH 3.5, but returned to control levels by 14 d. Sodium in bone constitutes one-fifth of all the sodium in the fish and is an important component of the SEP. The sodium concentration of bone declined during acid exposure, which indicates that it may be a significant reservoir during depletion of body sodium. Decreases in body water content and body potassium concentration helped reduce movement of water from the extracellular fluid into the intracellular fluid. These compensatory changes took days, andpresumably accounted at leastpartially for acclimation efects on sodium balance. In contrast, the sizes of the REP and ECFV of E. obesus that died after 1-2 h at pH 2.95 increased to 100% of body sodium and 59% of body water, respectively, even though they lost no more sodium than those that were alive atpH 3.5 after 1 wk. Toxic effects of low pH involve not only the total amount of body sodium lost but also the rate at which it is lost.
30157922|Water and sodium influx rates of fairy prions (Pachyptila turtur) and common diving petrels (Pelecanoides urinatrix) were measured in the field by means of isotope turnover techniques. The influx rates were similar and high in both species: about 800 mL HO/kg  d and 170 mmol Na/kg  d Seawater ingestion represented 17% of water influx and 35% of sodium influx in P. turtur, and 9% and 21%, respectively, in P. urinatrix. It was estimated that P. turtur and P. urinatrix consumed krill at rates of 704  157 and 854  173 g/kgd, respectively. The water and energy turnover rates of fairy prions and common diving petrels are compared with those of other foraging seabirds; allometric regressions with slopes of 0.64 and 0.61 were derived for water influxes and metabolic rates, respectively.
30156142|Unidirectional and net extrarenal calcium fluxes in water and in air on wet filter paper were obtained in the mudskipper, Periophthalmodon schlosseri, an obligate air breather, and in the marble goby, Oxyeleotris marmorata, which is fundamentally a water-breathing fish but which can survive extended periods of time on wet filter paper (facultative air breather). For comparison purposes, values were also obtained in water only from tilapia, Oreochromis mossambicus. This fish, which is an obligate water breather and cannot survive long in air, showed rates of influx, efflux, and net flux that were more than double those shown by the two species of gobies in water. In turn, the marble goby had significantly higher rates of influx, efflux, and net flux in water than seen in the mudskipper, Periophthalmodon schlosseri. The difference in net flux between Oxyeleotris and Periophthalmodon was not apparent when the fish were maintained on wet filter paper. On wet filter paper, when branchial/water contact was abolished, both the marble goby and the mudskipper showed significant reductions in unidirectional influx, but the specific activity of the blood was the same as when in water. Normal net flux rates were maintained because efflux decreased to near zero. The results suggest that much of the necessity to maintain an influx of calcium in fish is directly attributable to the necessity to replace calcium lost during branchial irrigation. We conclude, therefore, that these two species can perform cutaneous calcium transport at least when their gills are not exposed to water.
30155977|Hemolymph acid-base disturbance during 4 h emersion was qualitatively similar in large (>200 g) subtidal and small (<100 g) intertidal size classes of Cancer productus. Combined metabolic and respiratory acidosis, indicated by elevation of hemolymph lactate and CO tension (Pco2), was associated with increased CO content (Cco) and a small increase in hemolymph ammonia. Small crabs experienced a less severe acidosis in spite of greater increases in both lactate and Pco. It is concluded that compensation occurred largely via Cco elevation with only a small contribution from shell buffering. Restoration of acid-base balance following reimmersion involved a rapid phase, believed to be of respiratory origin, and a slower phase that could involve metabolic processes. Changes in
30157956|The osmoregulatory response of the red-backed salamander, Plethodon cinereus, to acidic substrates was studied. In the laboratory, animals exposed to low pH exhibited elevated sodium eflux rate constants. The efflux rate constant was elevated in two other plethodontid species under acidic conditions but was not elevated in efts of the red-spotted newt. Red-backed salamanders maintained on substrate of low pH for 14 d had reduced body sodium and body water levels and lost more mass than did salamanders maintained on substrate of higher pH. These results are consistent with earlier studies that have linked field distributions of P. cinereus and other salamanders to soil pH. However, in the field, body sodium levels of red-backed salamanders were not correlated with soil pH of the collection microsite, suggesting greater complexity of field than of laboratory conditions. Disruption of sodium balance by acidic conditions is well documented for aquatic amphibians but has not been demonstrated previously for terrestrial forms.
30163883|Long-neck turtles, Chelodina rugosa, inhabit seasonally ephemeral water holes on the coastal floodplains of the wet-dry tropics of Australia. Late in the annual dry season, the turtles bury themselves in the drying mud and estivate for as long as 4-5 mo until the wet season rains begin. We measured the oxygen consumption of five turtles that were induced to estivate in containers of mud at 30 C. This was typical of soil temperatures measured in natural estivation sites. The metabolic measurements of estivating turtles were compared to the standard metabolic rates (SMRs) at 30 C of these five postestivation turtles after they had spent 36 h in water and to the SMRs of 10 preestivation turtles. There was no difference between the pre- and postestivation SMRs, but the metabolic rates of estivating turtles decreased over about 2 wk to 28% of the SMR. This was not a response to starvation, because postestivation turtles were not fed. This metabolic depression conserves energy and, presumably, water during estivation, which lengthens the time the turtles can survive the dry conditions and allows them to emerge from estivation with more resources for growth and reproduction.
10.1086/515880|This study tested the hypothesis that there has been an evolutionary increase in locomotor performance capacity at low temperature in nocturnal lizards. Nocturnal lizards are often active at low and suboptimal body temperatures. An evolutionary decrease in the minimum cost of locomotion could increase endurance capacity at low temperature, partially offsetting the thermal handicap of nocturnality. In support of the nocturnality hypothesis, we discovered that minimum cost of locomotion of a nocturnal gecko,
30163736|Oxygen consumption rate, myoglobin content, and in vitro activities of key enzymes belonging to the major energy-producing pathways have been determined in the myocardia of sea raven (Hemitripterus americanus) spanning a 20-fold size range. Maximal oxygen consumption rate by the isolated, perfused sea raven heart scaled with body size in a direction similar to whole-animal oxygen consumption. The aerobic indicator, cytochrome oxidase, also showed a distribution that was consistent with the accepted metabolism-size scaling paradigm. The activity of lactate dehydrogenase, on the other hand, increased with increasing body size. This finding does not appear to be indicative of an expanded anaerobic potential in the larger hearts, since pyruvate kinase activity scaled in a negative fashion. This was in contrast to data obtained for sea raven white skeletal muscle, where both pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase activities increased as body size increased.
30166504|Stored lipid is the main source of metabolic fuel during winter fasts of small birds, yet relatively little is known about the environmental cues that stimulate lipid storage. The ultimate-temperature hypothesis, well supported for a number of species, suggests that birds fatten in anticipation of average or record low winter conditions on a given day. In contrast, the proximate-temperature hypothesis suggests that small birds respond directly to temporal and spatial variation in winter temperature and deposit an amount of body lipid appropriate to current metabolic demands. Dark-eyed juncos (Junco hyemalis oreganus) and song sparrows (Melospiza melodia morphna) in southwest British Columbia were subjected to warm (20 C) and cold (20 C, gradually reduced to - 12 C over a period of days) temperatures for 10 d in enizironmental chambers allowing free flight and seminatural feeding and roosting conditions. Total lipid content was significantly greater (P < 0.025) in the cold group than in the warm group in both the junco and the sparrow. The same result was obtained for lipid index (g lipid/g lean dry mass) in an analysis of mass-specific fat reserves. In addition, junco populations wintering at 951 m in the coastal mountains of southwest British Columbia showed significantly greater fat reserves than conspecifics wintering at and near sea level in British Columbia and northwest Washington. Finally, juncos in both British Columbia and Washington showed significant inverse correlations between winter fat and proximate temperature. These findings support the proximate-temperature hypothesis and corroborate similar experiments in Wisconsin juncos that repeatedly showed a direct fattening response to low proximate temperatures in environmental chambers (C. M. Weise, personal communication). Although an underlying ultimate component of the winter fat reserve (e.g., an endogenous cycle) in the junco and song sparrow cannot be ruled out by the present experiments, they nonetheless provide strong suggestive evidence for the evolution of a direct fattening response to low proximate temperature in small birds. A caveat is that proximate temperature need not be of paramount importance as a cue and instead may act in parallel or in interaction with environmental indicators of resource predictability, such as snowfall.
10.1086/515855|We examined the ionoregulatory capabilities of the blackskirt tetra (
30164219|The nitrogen and energy balances of the Egyptian fruit bat, Rousettus aegyptiacus (Pteropodidae), were determined in a series of studies of animals on five single-fruit diets differing in their nutritional content (carob, Ceratonoia siliqua; Persian lilac, Melia azedarach; loquat, Eriobotrya japponica; mulberry, Murus nigra; and sycamore, Ficus sycomorus). It was found that except for Persian lilac, these fruits, which are eaten in nature by the bats, can adequately supply their nitrogen requirements, while Persian lilac and loquat were insufficient for their energy demands. On the basis of average nutrient composition across the tested fruits, the Egyptian fruit bat (mean body mass 144 g) requires a mean intake of 6g dry matter per day for maintaining nitrogen balance, while a mean intake of 11 g dry matter per day is needed in order to fulfill its daily energy requirements. These results suggest that energy, rather than nitrogen, is the limiting nutritional component in the diet of the fruit bat. The maintenance nitrogen requirement determined from the balance studies, 0.247 g N
30164295|The atypical excitatory effect of acetylcholine on cardiac ventricular muscle was investigated in the horned shark, Heterodontus portusjacksoni. Electrically paced ventricular strips produced a massive 391.45% ( 26.39%) increase in basal force of contraction in response to exogenously applied acetylcholine. The response was similar in nature to that produced by applied adrenaline, which caused a 382.52% ( 72.47%) increase. The response to acetylcholine was blocked by the muscarinic cholinoceptor antagonist atropine and the competitive beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol and was reduced by bretylium, an agent known to inhibit the release of catecholamines from adrenergic nerves. These findings strongly suggest that acetylcholine mediates a localised release of a catecholamine via muscarinic cholinoceptors in shark heart. A cholinergically controlled catecholamine store has been proposed (cholinergic-adreno complex), implying that elasmobranchs may be capable of finer control of cardiac output than has previously been suspected. This complex may represent a transitional adrenergic state between humoral and neuronal regulation. The spontaneously beating atrium showed no evidence of such an excitatory response to applied acetylcholine but produced an atropine-sensitive slowing, a response typical of other vertebrates.
30157929|We examined the responses of Rana catesbeiana, Rana clamitans, and Xenopus laevis to a variety of emetic drug treatments. No treatment caused regurgitation or any emetic behavior (i. e., retching) in any premetamorphic tadpoles. The ability to vomit first appeared during metamorphosis, precisely when the transforming froglets were first able to swallow a large bolus of food. Postmetamorphic frogs exhibited intergeneric differences in their sensitivity to different emetics. The emetic behavior of Rana did not change when it was transferred from a terrestrial to an aquatic environment. Mechanical stimulus, that is, distention of the foregut, alone can induce regurgitation. Movements of the torso, along with contraction of the abdominal wall, appear to be essential for raising abdominal pressure during emesis in anurans. Rana and Xenopus differ in the body movements they exhibit during emesis: Rana dorsiflexes its presacral vertebral column on its sacroiliac joint; Xenopus instead telescopes its torso by sliding the ilia rostrocaudally on the sacral vertebra. These same sacroiliac movements have been previously related to differences in the locomotion of these two frogs. Our data suggest that the sacroiliac musculoskeletal complex of frogs is as important to the elevation of abdominal pressure during actions such as emesis, oviposition, micturition, etc., as it is to adult locomotion. Anurans do not develop their elongated ilia and their sacroiliac joints until metamorphosis. The inability to deform the torso may be one mechanistic reason why tadpoles neither vomit nor display any of the other behaviors requiring abrupt elevation of abdominal pressure.
30158606|We measured carbon dioxide (CO) production and water influx rates of free-ranging, foraging, wandering albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) attending chicks, by means of doubly labeled water. CO production for nine birds averaged 0.656  0.079 ml CO g h. This is equivalent to an overall energy expenditure of 3,354 kJ bird day or 1.83 times measured basal metabolic rate (BMR). This is the lowest field metabolic rate recorded for free-ranging birds and is attributable to the relatively low cost of the soaring flight used by wandering albatrosses as opposed to flapping flight. Energy cost of flight was estimated to be 2.35 times measured BMR. Breeding male and female albatrosses, respectively, spend 77% and 85% of their overall time budget and 83% and 89% of their overall energy budget foraging at sea. The advantage in having an energy-efficient mode of locomotion while foraging is evident. Water influx rates for 14 birds averaged 174 ml kg day, of which 57% could be accounted for by water in the food required by the adults alone. The remaining 43% is probably due to the additional food fed to nestlings, along with possible consumption of seawater. Annual food requirement of the population of wandering albatrosses (2,200-2,600 breeding pairs) at the Prince Edward Islands is ~1.69 x 10 kg, comprising 1.35 x 10 kg of squid, 0.17 x 10 kg of fish, and 0.17 x 10 kg of crustaceans and carrion.
30155812|The digestive capabilities of 11 species of fungus-feeding beetles, representing five families, were examined. All 11 species possess a well-developed capacity to digest fungal protein, and all but one species are able to digest -1, 3-glucans, which are major components of fungal cell walls. Seven of the species can digest -1, 4-glucans, which serve as storage polysaccharides in fungi, and a few species have low levels of chitinolytic activity. No activity toward the common cell wall polysaccharides of higher plants, namely, cellulose, hemicellulose, or pectin, was detected in any of the beetles' guts. Slightly acidic conditions prevail in the guts of these insects. The absence of regions of high alkalinity in the beetles' guts is compatible with the absence from their fungal diet of tannins or other polyphenols which bind to protein under acidic, neutral, or slightly alkaline conditions. Thus, the digestive system typical of fungivores is distinct from that of herbivores, both in terms of the enzymes present and the conditions of alkalinity maintained within the gut. It is further noted that many invertebrate detritivores possess digestive capabilities which are qualitatively more similar to those of fungivores than herbivores.
30156225|Retention of CO and respiratory acidosis have previously been reported to accompany entrance to hibernation, with acid-base and CO balance returning to normal upon arousal from hibernation. The present study indicates that these alterations are not limited to species which have the ability to undergo deep hibernation, but are also involved in another mammalian dormancy state, daily torpor. Deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were used to examine the time course of changes in respiratory quotient (RQ), metabolic rate (MR), and body temperature (
30152637|To determine the pathways for transvascular molecular transport in Rana pipiens we injected 0.25 mL 0.03% Evans blue (EB) in the peritoneal cavity or subvertebral lymph sac (SV) of 18 anesthetized frogs. Lymph hearts in nine frogs were immobilized with curare. Samples of plasma and subcutaneous lymph were obtained for up to 60 min to determine EB concentration. With lymph hearts functioning, EB was quickly detected in the blood and at lower concentrations in the lymph. These results are consistent with venous return of EB by the lymph hearts and subsequent interstitialpassage into the lymph sacs. With lymph hearts immobilized, EB injected into the SV was detected rapidly at high concentration in the lymph but was delayed in reaching the bloodstream. Evans blue injected into the peritoneal cavity gave similar results but over a longer time frame. We conclude that lymph passes from the peritoneal cavity via the mesothelial perforations into the SV from whence it is returned to the circulation. Another route for peritoneal drainage may be the nephrostomes, which link the peritoneal cavity to the renal venous circulation, but this route is inactivated when the lymph hearts are immobilized with curare.
30158274|Eggs of Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) lose water at a slow, constant rate (
30157889|Metabolic rate and body temperature (
30155726|While breathing air at rest, aquatic Taricha torosa consumed 0.054 cmO g h, which represent oxygen metabolism twice that of the terrestrial phase. There was no significant difference in the rate of oxygen consumption between phases upon submergence. Aquatic newts accumulated a significantly higher lactate debt than the terrestrial phase while underwater. Aquatic newts had a higher emerged heart rate and exhibited a significantly greater bradycardial response after 40 min of dive. Although initiation of the response was relatively slow in both phases, lowest heart rates were realized after 60-120 min. The reduced oxygen uptake and increased blood lactate levels during a dive by aquatic newts suggest that skin permeability may be a limiting factor for oxygen uptake. Data from this study do not indicate cutaneous changes to have respiratory consequence. Aquatic T. torosa skin exhibited significantly lower in vitro rates of water transfer in an osmotic gradient of 210 mOsm/liter and a significantly greater rate of sodium transport when compared to the terrestrial phase. The results of these experiments imply an osmoregulatory function for seasonal morphological skin changes displayed by T. torosa.
30155874|Taricha granulosa (the rough-skinned newt) exhibited no thermal acclimation of metabolism when measured at a low experimental temperature (ET) (5 C) but underwent pronounced acclimation at a high ET (20 C). Thermal acclimation markedly altered the substrate concentration at which enzyme activity was 50% of maximum activity (
30163921|In the eurythermal teleost Gillichthys mirabilis (family Gobiidae; longjaw mudsucker), the cytosolic form of malate dehydrogenase (cMDH) is encoded by two gene loci. One locus encodes a cMDH isozyme having a higher thermal stability and a lower apparent Michaelis-Menten constant (
30152559|At
30163924|Nasal gland activity was monitored in five freshwater and five saltwater-acclimated adult ostriches given an intravenous infusion of 1,500 mosm/kg sodium chloride for 90 min at 5 mL/min. The hyperosmotic infusion increased the plasma osmolality from 303.4  6.9 to 353.3  13.1 mosm/kg in the freshwater birds and from 299.4  16.2 to 328.8  15.4 mosm/kg in the saltwater-acclimated animals. None of the freshwater ostriches produced any observable nasal secretion. Two of the saltwater birds did show signs of glandular activity, but this was of short duration (5-10 min) and yielded insignificant volumes of fluid. The nasal glands of ostriches do not appear to play a quantitatively important role in the elimination of the administered saline load. Changes in plasma concentrations of arginine vasotocin (AVT) in response to the hyperosmotic infusion were also determined. Plasma AVT levels increased in parallel with the elevations in plasma osmolality (from 5.4  0.9 to 19.4  8.6 pg/mL in the freshwater ostriches and from 7.7  4.2 to 16.7  6.0 pg/mL in the saltwater-acclimated birds). The correlations between plasma osmolality and plasma AVT indicated osmotic sensitivities for AVT release of 0.25 and 0.21 pg/mL per mosm/kg in the freshwater and saltwater birds, respectively. These values are similar to those found in other avian species, which suggests that an enhanced sensitivity for AVT release is not a means by which ostriches cope with osmotic stress.
30158616|Many diurnal lepidoptera rely on solar basking to achieve elevated thoracic temperature. We examined the effects of wind, radiation, body orientation, and wing position on the thoracic temperature excess (
30156198|Sea ravens (Hemitripterus americanus), subjected to a temperature transition from 10 to 5 C over a 3-h period, showed a decrease in ventral aortic pressure from 42 to 18 cmH0 and a decrease in heart rate from 31 to 14 bpm. Isolated hearts, per-fused at 10 C with media containing 1 mM CaCl, were able to perform as well as in vivo hearts. When the in vitro preparation was taken from 10 to 5 C there was a small but significant decrease in performance and oxygen consumption over frequencies ranging from 12 to 48 bpm. The decrease in function in vivo was much more substantial than could be accounted for by the direct impact of temperature on the isolated heart. The small but significant decrease in performance by the isolated heart was not due to an impairment of energy-production mechanisms or limited extracellular calcium, as an increase in extracellular calcium resulted in an increase in oxygen consumption with no alteration in contractile performance.
10.1086/515425|This study analyzes the Capillarity and fibretype distribution of six locomotory muscles of gulls. The morphological basis and the oxygen supply characteristics of the skeletal muscle of a species with a marked pattern of gliding flight are established, thus contributing to a better understanding of the physiology of a kind of flight with low energitic requirements. The four with muscles studied (scapulotriceps, pectoralis, scapulohu meralis, and extensor metacrpi) exhibited higher percentages of fast oxidative glycolytic fibres (>70%) and lower percentages of slow oxidative fibres (>16%) than the muscles involved in nonflight locomotion (gastrocnemius and iliotibialis). Capillary densities ranged from 816 to 1,233 capillaries mm2, having the highest value in the pectoralis. In this muscle, the fast oxidative glycolytic fibres had moderate staining for succingate dehydrogenase and relatively large fibre sizes, as deduced from the low fibre densities (589665 fibres mm2). All these findings are seen as an adaptive response for gliding, when the wing is held outstretched by isometric contractions. The leg muscles studied a considerable population of slow oxidative fibres (>14% in many regions),which suggests thatthey are adapted to postural activities. Regional variations in the relative distributions of fibre types in muscle gastrocnemius may reflect different functional demands placed on this muscle during terrestrial and aquatic locomotion. The predominance of oxidative fibres and capillary densities under 1,000 capillaries mm02 in leg muscles is probably a consequence of an adaptation for slow swimming and maintenance of the posture on land rather than for other locomotory capabilities, such as endurance or sprint activities.
30156051|Small American alligators (200-400 g) were heated and cooled from 20 to 35 to 20 C in a temperature-controlled wind tunnel. Blood flow to the limbs and tail was periodically occluded, using remotely controlled occlusion cuffs. When blood flow in all appendages was occluded, the rate of heating was significantly reduced from that when blood flow was unrestricted. The rate of cooling was not significantly affected by occlusion of blood flow in all appendages, however. Blood flow to appendages, rather than a generalized perfusion of the skin, appears to be primarily responsible for the differences in the rates of heating and cooling in alligators.
30157950|During entrance into hibernation, the decrease in minute ventilation associated with the fall in body temperature and metabolic rate is accompanied by the conversion of continuous breathing to intermittent breathing in both the goldenmantled ground squirrel (Spermophilus lateralis) and the Columbian ground squirrel (S. columbianus). In hibernation, the former species exhibits an episodic breathing pattern, while the latter species exhibits a pattern of evenly spaced single breaths. The goal of this study was to compare the changes in the ventilatory responses of these two species of ground squirrel to changes in levels of inspired O and CO during hibernation, to test the hypothesis that species differences in intermittent breathing patterns may be explained on the basis of differences in sensitivity to hypoxia and hypercapnia. During entrance into hibernation, changes in ventilation and breathing pattern were accompanied by a change in the relative contribution of changes in arterial Po (Pao), Pco (Paco), and pH (pHa) as stimuli to ventilation. When awake at an ambient temperature of 22 C, both species showed strong hypoxic ventilatory responses and comparatively blunted hypercapnic ventilatory responses. During hibernation, both showed greatly reduced hypoxic responses but comparatively elevated hypercapnic ventilatory responses. This suggests that changes in Pao play a much greater role in the control of ventilation in euthermic animals, while changes in Paco/pHa play the predominant role during hibernation. Furthermore, during hibernation, the nonventilatory period-rather than the breath-became the primary controlled variable in the breathing pattern. This was true for both species, despite the differences in the intermittent breathing patterns each exhibited, and thus our results do not support the hypothesis that differences in intermittent breathing patterns are due to species-specific changes in sensitivity to respiratory stimuli as animals enter hibernation.
30158585|The swimming metabolism of yearling and adult harbor seals was measured by indirect calorimetry in a flow channel at speeds ranging from 0.5 to 1.4 ms. Minimum resting metabolic rates in still water were 5.1 and 4.6 ml Ominkg for the two yearling seals (body mass [
30156157|Body temperature has a very large effect on the rate of energy metabolism of ectothermic animals. Nocturnal lizards, which have low body temperatures when they are active at night, may have lower daily energy requirements than do diurnal lizards, which maintain high body temperatures while active during daylight hours. We tested the hypothesis that the nocturnal desert gecko Ptyodactylus hasselquistii has lower energy and water needs than do diurnal desert lizards by comparing doubly labeled water measurements of field metabolic rates (FMRs) and water fluxes for both groups. The FMRs and water influx rates of the geckos were statistically indistinguishable from those of diurnal iguanid lizards. We suggest that field observations of daily time and activity budgets, and thermal regimes, be made to permit evaluation of this surprising finding.
30158651|Blood respiratory properties were studied in several species of Brazilian hummingbirds. Three species, Melanotrochilus fuscus, Eupetomena macroura, and Amazilia versicolor, were studied with respect to O-Hb equilibrium curves and effect of pH and temperature. O equilibrium of purified hemolyzates and myoglobin solutions from pectoral muscle were studied for Melanotrochilusfuscus. Hematocrit, hemoglobin content, and myoglobin concentration were studied for 11 species. Hematocrits averaged 56.3%; corresponding O capacity was 22.1 vol%, and MCHC 27.0%. Average blood 02 affinity for the three species was 44.0 mmHg at pH 7.40 and 39 C. The Bohr coefficient  was -0.39. The Hill plots were nonlinear and had increasing n-values at higher 02 saturations. The influence of temperature on the O-Hb equilibrium of whole blood was moderate, expressed by H values of 7.0-8.0 Kcal mol The data are discussed with focus on the rapid changes in O uptake and body temperature in hummingbirds associated with entry and arousal from torpor and the high O uptakes of hovering flight. Hummingbird blood shows a very high unloading efficiency for 02. The increase in n-value at higher O saturation is important because it prevents arterial desaturation during flight and nocturnal hypothermia.
30164287|We measured metabolic rates (mL O h, converted to kcal d), deep body temperatures (C), and skin temperatures (C) and calculated whole-animal thermal conductances (mL O g h C) of five 3-yr-old harbor seals (Phoca vitulina concolor) at air temperatures between -20 and 35C. The mean thermal neutral zone of these seals extended from a lower critical temperature of -12.9  1.6C (SD) to an upper critical temperature of 28.6  1.7C. Hyperthermia was observed at an ambient air temperature of 35C. Mean standard metabolic rate was 1,553.6  168.2 kcal d, about 1.2 times the value expected for adult animals of similar body mass (mean mass = 49.2  7.5 kg). Mean deep body temperature increased from 37.5  0.30C at an ambient temperature of 30C and reached 39.3  0.33C at an ambient temperature of 35C. Skin temperature decreased with decreasing ambient temperature but remained well above ambient temperature. Mean whole-animal thermal conductance decreased from an ambient temperature of 35C until it reached a minimum value of 0.007 mL O g h C at -4.0C; it then increased with a further decrease in ambient temperature. In comparison to the thermal limits of the same seals during their first year of life, the results indicate a broadening of the thermal neutral zone with age: an 11C decrease in the lower critical temperature and a 3.5C increase in the upper critical temperature. These findings suggest that warm ambient air temperatures should not pose any particular thermoregulatory problems for larger and older harbor seals, even beyond the limits of their current annual distribution.
30159970|Seasonal changes in HO flux rates (HHO) were determined in free-living antelope ground squirrels (Ammospermophilus leucurus) in the Mojave Desert. Itemized HO budgets were obtained for ground squirrels in the laboratory eating natural vegetation, seeds, and arthropods. Ground squirrels obtained excess HO while eating succulent annual plants in the spring and arthropods. When provided with seeds and minimum HO they decreased their evaporative HO loss and reduced urine and fecal HO content. Changes in feeding rate, assimilation efficiency, or metabolic rate were unimportant in reducing HO loss. In the field, HO influx decreased from 238 ml
30158519|The slow-climbing free flight of a 3.36-g female Indian moon moth, Actias selene, was recorded with a cine camera. The mean stroke plane was at 13.4 to the horizontal, and the stroke angle was close to 180; the wingbeat frequency was 14.5 Hz. A semiconductor strain-gage probe was used to measure the instantaneous forces on the thorax of a 1.84-g male moth beating its wings in tethered flight. The wingbeat frequency of the tethered moth was 9.15 Hz, and the tethered moth produced a mean aerodynamic force only two-thirds of its body weight. The mid-downstroke instantaneous lift (2.93) and drag (2.14) coefficients of the tethered moth were larger than is consistent with quasi-steady-state aerodynamics. The possible causes of these high force coefficients are discussed. The aerodynamic power output, calculated from the instantaneous aerodynamic drag force, is 1.45 W/N of body weight. Published estimates for Lepidoptera are 0.6-0.9 W/N.
30156093|Standard rates of O consumption (
30155705|The function of thyroid glands of ground squirrels, maintained under conditions of constant illumination and temperature as measured by the release of radioiodine (
30155740|The Australian arid-zone crab Holthuisana transversa reduces both oxygen consumption and evaporative water loss by one-half when transferred from hydrating to dehydrating conditions. When crabs are placed in artificial burrows subject to progressive drying, oxygen consumption is further reduced by 30%-40% of the initial level, prior to the onset of conditions resulting in weight loss. We interpret these responses to represent a state of physiological dormancy, an energy-conserving device permitting these crabs to withstand long periods of drought in humid burrows where they are without immediate access to food.
30157893|This investigation assesses the ability of the heat-dissipating system of the mouse to respond to equivalent heat loads (e.g., J/g) administered at varying intensities (e.g., J/g/s or W/kg). Use of a microwave exposure system provided a means to administer exact amounts of energy at varying rates in awake, free-moving mice. Male AJ mice were administered average heat loads of 12-13 J/g at rates of 19, 68, or 194 W/kg by exposure to 2,450 MHz microwave radiation while evaporative heat loss (EHL) was continuously monitored with dew-point hygrometry. The sensitivity of the EHL response was calculated as the heat dissipated by evaporation in response to microwave exposure divided by the heat absorbed. This ratio yields a dimensionless number that is related to the sensitivity of the EHL response and, in this study, is defined as the open loop gain (OLG) of EHL (i.e., motor response/error signal). When mice were exposed at an ambient temperature of 32.5 C to a specific absorption rate (SAR) of 19 W/kg, the OLG averaged 0.17; thus 17% of the absorbed heat was dissipated by EHL and the remaining 83% of the energy was passively dissipated. Absorbing the same amount of heat but at an SAR of 68 W/kg resulted in an OLG of 0.42 and at 194 W/kg, OLG equaled 0.50. Since the OLG parameter is normalized to total heat absorption, these results demonstrate that the sensitivity of the mouse to a microwave heat load is highly dependent on the rate of energy absorption and less dependent on the total exchange of energy. The response time to microwave radiation (time required for EHL to increase to 63% above baseline) decreased as a power function with increasing SAR. These data contradict the notion that mammals have a fine control over whole-body heat exchange (i.e., thermoregulatory control) and instead support the hypothesis that the heat-dissipating system is highly influenced by the rate of temperature increase (i.e., temperature regulatory control).
30161264|Interspecies and interorgan distribution of angiotensin-converting enzyme-like activity (ACELA) was examined in representative species from all vertebrate classes. Activity was determined in tissue homogenates by measuring hydrolysis of the synthetic substrate hippuryl-l-histidyl-l-leucine (HHL). Nearly all animals examined exhibited ACELA in one or more organs, and ACELA was found in at least one species from each class. ACELA was predominant in respiratory (gill and lung), renal, and gastrointestinal tissues. These findings demonstrate that ACELA is (1) phylogenetically old, (2) present in all vertebrate classes, and (3) retained in the same or functionally homologous organs. These results suggest either that ACELA is necessary for the proper physiological function of specific tissues or that the placement of ACELA in strategic vascular locations is of general benefit to the organism. The presence of ACELA in a cyclostome and two elasmobranchs indicates that this enzyme predates the phylogenetic development of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Other peptides, possibly kinins, may have been the original substrates of primitive ACE-like enzymes.
30164264|It is well known that lizard species from thermally diverse areas differ in their use of thermoregulatory behaviors as a means of making short-term adjustments to differences in ambient conditions. In contrast, the extent of long-term adjustments in thermal physiology is poorly documented and still under debate. In this study we report a clear interspecific relationship between heating rates, measured under standardized laboratory conditions, and environmental temperatures within a small clade of lacertid lizards. Phylogenetically based ANCOVAs demonstrate that species with a northern or montane distribution warm at a faster mass-specific rate than do species from a southern (Mediterranean) climatic zone. Correlational analyses, using phylogenetically independent contrasts, confirm that continuous among-species variation in mass-specific heating rates is negatively related to clinal differences in environmental temperatures. A reduction of the time spent warming, associated with higher heating rates, should be especially advantageous for lizards from cool climates, which bask for large amounts of time. Thus, the observed relation between heating rates and climatic conditions could be a result of adaptive evolution. The behaviorally selected preferred temperatures were lower, but not significantly so, in the northern or montane species set; interspecific correlations with ambient temperatures were positive but not significant. However, the divergence of heating rates and the statistically nonsignificant difference in preferred temperatures have similar impacts on variation in the estimated amount of time spent heating. Thus, differences in both heating rate, a physiological trait, and preferred temperature, a behavioral characteristic, contribute equally to variation in heating times.
30156019|Biochemical fluctuations during egg development of a field crab Paratelphusa hydrodromous (Herbst) have been determined and the values calculated on a per egg basis. Water content increases significantly initially and then drops to increase again in the last stage after hatching. There is a steady depletion of carbohydrate and lipid, but protein shows a steady increase. Nonprotein nitrogen shows an initial increase but declines drastically in the subsequent stages. The calorific content of different stages has been determined using a semibomb calorimeter. In general, a steady decline in the calorific content parallels the changes in the values of carbohydrate and lipid. Of the various yolk components spent during embryonic development, over 92% is lipid. Qualitative changes in the protein and lipid have been analyzed employing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and TLC, respectively. Accumulation of metals like Mg, Cu, Co, Fe, Zn, and Mn has been analyzed using an atomic absorption spectrophotometer at each of the four stages of egg development. Ecological observations on the retention of juveniles in brood and the release of the young into the field have been made, and the time taken for incubation and retention of juveniles in brood has been calculated. There is a steady fall in the mean atmospheric temperature as egg development in brood progresses. The young are released during the peak northeast monsoon. Despite constancy in the onset of spawning, the maximum time spent in brood from spawning to release of the young varies considerably. The percentage of mortality is maximal during development between stages I and II, and this rate declines in the subsequent stages. About 50% of eggs spawned suffer mortality before release as juveniles. The nature of yolk components as well as their preferential utilization during embryogenesis has been discussed in relation to adaptive advantages of the crab for a terrestrial habitat.
30164298|The wood frog (Rana sylvatica), a temperate-zone anuran that overwinters within the frost zone, is adapted to tolerate the freezing and thawing of its tissues. Because the effects of freezing on complex neurobehavioral function are unknown and because R. sylvatica encounters subfreezing temperatures during its late-winter breeding season, we investigated the reproductive behaviors and physiology of male frogs after freezing (minimum body temperature, -2C) and postthaw recovery (4C). In tests simulating conditions at the breeding pool, these frogs, which otherwise behaved normally, exhibited reduced mate-searching effort and fewer assaults on mates and did not amplex females until 16-24 h after thawing. Although amplectic ability was ultimately restored in most frogs, they competed poorly for mates against never frozen controls. Further study suggested that the level of behavioral impairment depends on the severity of the freezing exposure. During freezing, tissues accumulated large quantities of the cryoprotectant glucose and desiccated extensively, responses that promote freezing survival. Freezing also caused marked hydroosmotic and metabolic perturbations, which may have impaired neurobehavioral function, perhaps by interfering with the processing of audio, visual, and tactile stimuli. Individuals that encounter subfreezing temperatures shortly before arriving at the breeding pools may incur reduced reproductive success.
10.1086/515995|The apneas of many torpid mammals can persist longer than estimated O
30156076|Sea raven (Hemitripterus americanus) liver metabolism is similar to liver metabolism in other teleost fishes, with the following two notable exceptions: (1) lactate dehydrogenase levels and lactate utilization rates are extremely low, and (2) fatty-acid oxidation rates are much lower than those in other fish. The interaction of variations in temperature and extracellular pH on sea raven hepatocyte metabolism and intracellular pH were examined by measuring their effects on (1) both the rates of release of
30158661|The oxygen equilibration between blood and water is almost as great in Modiolus demissus, which lacks a respiratory pigment, as in lamellibranchs with hemoglobin; however, only 14% of the oxygen in M. demissus is delivered to the tissues. The high blood PO in the mesosoma suggests that this is an important site for blood gas exexchange, along with the gill and mantle. In highly oxygenated water, blocking the circulatory system depresses oxygen consumption rates by less than 15%, indicating that the primary route of oxygen uptake is direct, into superficial tissues, and that the blood does not have an important respiratory role. At low ambient oxygen, there is an increase in heart rate and percent oxygen extraction from the water which cannot compensate for a lower ventilation rate and reduced oxygen availability; M. demissus is a poor regulator of oxygen consumption. When water PO falls below 40-50 torr, M. demissus generally closes its valves and ceases to respire aerobically. During air exposure, M. demissus extracts oxygen from the air, although its rate of oxygen uptake is somewhat lower than in water. At this time, the primary pathways of metabolism in deep tissue are believed to be anaerobic.
30158442|When breeding during the antarctic winter, male emperor penguins support fasts as long as 115 days (pairing, egg brooding, beginning of feeding chicks with esophageal secretion). Similarly, breeding females fast during 45 days from pairing to egg laying. Moreover, both sexes fast for about 1 mo during summer molt. Natural starvation did not seem to self-induce marked changes in plasma lipids (total lipids, TL; triglycerides, TG; phospholipids, PL; total cholesterol, TC), but experimental forced fasting induced a drop in plasma lipids, TC excepted, because of fat store exhaustion. In males, plasma TG were increased by 100% at the time of copulation; all plasma lipids were minimum during mid-incubation, TC excepted, and markedly increased at the time of egg hatching. In breeding females, plasma TL and TG increased tremendously and peaked at the time of copulation, i.e., 10-15 days before laying. In molting birds, all plasma lipids were depressed during feather synthesis and bypassed basal values at the end of molt. Breeding (egg, esophageal secretion) and molting (new feathers) productions, probably through endocrine influences, therefore markedly affect plasma lipids in emperor penguins.
30156213|During cold exposure, winter-acclimatized gray squirrels are capable of a peak metabolic rate 13.5 times their predicted standard metabolic rate (SMR). Some 20%-25% of the cold-induced heat production is due to nonshivering thermogenesis (NST). The remainder is attributed to shivering and indicates a capacity to reach a metabolic rate 10 times the predicted SMR by shivering This performance ranks among the highest reported for homeothermic animals. In contrast to shivering, NST is subjected to seasonal variation in the gray squirrel. The maximum noradrenaline-invoked thermogenesis is 3.2-3.5 times greater in cold-acclimatized than in warm-acclimatized animals. This isprimarily interpreted as a means to extend the thermal zone over which muscles can be freely allocated to activities other than shivering While the heatproduction induced by cold is independent of color morph in warm-acclimatized squirrels, black individuals have a greater NST capacity (by 11%) and a lesser rate of estimated heat loss in the cold (by 18% at -10 C) than gray ones. These results are consistent with the reported predominance of melanistic morphs in the northern part of the species' distribution.
30166500|We studied embryonic respiration in Crinia georgiana, an Australian frog that oviposits clutches of up to 70 separate eggs in small depressions of shallow water. We measured oxygen consumption (
30155868|Electrophoretic separation of lactate dehydrogenase (L-lactate; NAD-oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.27) isozymes together with the quantitative evaluation of muscle-type (A) and heart-type (B) subunits were carried out during different phases of tail regeneration in the regenerate as well as liver and skeletal muscle of the Scincid lizard Mabuya carinata. Both the electrophoretic pattern of isozymes and the subunit ratio (ratio of B-type to A-type subunits) indicate increased anaerobiosis during the period of wound healing in all three tissues. Blastemic and early differentiation phases are marked by an aerobic pattern of metabolic process, as revealed by the increased proportion of B subunits as well as the appearance of well-defined, fastmoving (anodic) LDH 1 and LDH 2 isozymes. From the differentiation phase onward there was a gradual reversal of this pattern, which finally attained, with the completion of regeneration, the original anaerobic pattern of isozymic profile and subunit ratio characteristic of the corresponding tissues of normal animals (with intact tails). These changes in LDH activity are discussed in terms of the overall subcellular metabolic adaptations pervading the animal body in response to the regenerative process.
30163757|Water contents, hemolymph volumes, and hemolymph composition were measured during dehydration in three terrestrial crabs. Holthuisana transversa, which is able to survive prolonged water deprivation, had a higher hydrated water content (72.3% total mass) and a relatively higher hemolymph volume (48.9% total water) than the supralittoral crabs Ocypode cordimanus (hydrated water content, 665% total mass; hemolymph volume, 35.0% total water) and Leptograpsus variegatus (hydrated water content, 67.2% total mass; hemolymph volume, 32.6% total water). Water was lost from both vascular and nonvascular fluids in all crabs. However, this loss was primarily at the expense of the hemolymph in Ocypode but at the expense of nonvascular fluids in Leptograpsus. With increasing desiccation of Holthuisana, water was lost first from the nonvascular fluids and then mainly from the hemocoel. These results differ from previous studies where water loss was either exclusively vascular (Birgus) or extravascular (Gecarcoidea). We suggest that these apparently different patterns may result from differences in the quantities of water initially stored in the gut or bladder rather than from fundamentally different processes. These differences in turn may depend partly on different basic morphologies of Brachyura and Anomura and partly on differing requirements to store water in their normal habitats. Unlike many insects, none of the crabs osmoregulated by excretion or sequestration of salts. Osmolality and ion concentrations in the hemolymph increased, but the total quantity of each ion in the hemolymph did not change greatly. Small shifts of Na, Cl, and Mg in Holthuisana, and of K in Leptograpsus, were consistent with the above partitioning and maintenance of internal osmotic equilibrium. Increases in hemolymph pools of Ca and total CO in dehydrated and emersed Holthuisana and Leltograpsus were considered to result from acid-base regulation associated with air breathing rather than from dehydration. Dehydration of Holthuisana depressed the urine filtration rate to less than half of the rate in emersed hydrated crabs. Hemolymph ammonia concentrations were reduced by a factor of three during emersion of both hydrated and dehydrated (fasting) Holthuisana.
30152539|Two-month-old mice which were cold exposed (5 C) from 0 to 25 days of age exhibited increases in brown fat, chose warmer substrate temperatures, and built smaller nests relative to controls, while mice cold exposed from 26 to 50 days of age responded by building larger nests and showed a smaller increase in brown fat. Thermoregulatory response to early cold exposure appears to emphasize increased thermogenesis, while late cold exposure enhances behaviors which reduce heat loss. Also, some early cold exposure effects (e.g., those on nesting and brown fat) are still apparent after 2 mo. The implications of these data in the study of evolutionary adaptation in natural mammalian populations are discussed.
30156242|The vitellogenic response to exogenous estradiol-17 in wild male and female tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) is extremely slow to induce. Tuatara given slowrelease implants containing 4-11 g estradiol/g body mass showed a marked elevation in plasma estradiol concentrations within 2 d (to levels of up to 2,967 pg/mL) but no marked increases in plasma concentrations of calcium, total protein, or inorganic phosphate within 11 d. A small increase in the amount of electrophoretically detectable vitellogenin in the plasma (expressed as a percentage of total plasma protein) was evident by 11 d. Plasma concentrations of progesterone in individual females and testosterone in individual males were low (<3. 7 ng/mL and <3.8 ng/mL, respectively) during the 11 d. Several individuals captured 4-9 mo after administration of implants showed very high plasma levels of vitellogenin (up to 59% of total plasma protein), calcium (up to 61 mmol/L), total protein (up to 108 g/L), and inorganic phosphate (up to 39 mmol/L); these concentrations are similar to those seen in other estrogen-treated reptiles within much shorter time periods. Estradiol-induced vitellogenesis in tuatara is slower to induce and may occur at a lower maximal rate than in other reptiles examined. These responses are probably explained by the cool body temperatures exhibited by tuatara and are consistent with the slow rate of natural vitellogenesis observed in wild female tuatara.
30158159|Hemolymph volume in restrained land crabs (Cardisoma guanhumi) was altered in 5% increments by rapid infusion of filtered seawater into, or rapid withdrawal of hemolymph from, an infrabranchial sinus. Associated changes in intracardiac hemolymph pressure and in heart rate were measured. Elevation of hemolymph volume resulted in a brief (<20 s) rise in hemolymph pressure followed by a return toward control levels. Heart rate changed in a reciprocal fashion to hemolymph pressure, briefly decreasing during and immediately following infusion and then rising back toward control levels. The net effect after infusion or withdrawal was a readjustment in both hemolymph pressure and heart rate to stable new levels. A significant inverse correlation between heart rate and hemolymph pressure was evident, with heart rate decreasing approximately 2 beats  min  mmHg rise in hemolymph pressure. Collectively, these data indicate that changes in hemolymph pressure result in reflex adjustments in heart rate in a manner analogous to baroreceptor reflexes in vertebrates.
30163949|Photosensitive female rose finches and yellow-throated sparrows were held under six photoperiodic regimens, consisting of a 6-h light period combined with dark periods of various durations. Ovarian growth (as well as oviducal growth in yellowthroated sparrows) was stimulated under cycles of 12 (6L:6D), 36 (6L:30D), and 60 (6L:54D) h, but not under cycles of 24 (6L: 18D), 48 (6L:42D), and 72 (6L:66D) h. These results are consistent with the Bunning hypothesis according to which a photoperiodic response occurs as the result of the coincidence of light with the photoinducible (photosensitive) phase of an endogenous circadian rhythm. The results indicate that circadian rhythmicity is involved during the initiation of the female reproductive system, as is true of many males, in photoperiodic birds.
30166349|Lactate formation of isolated swim bladder epithelium (gas gland cells) of the European eel Anguilla anguilla has been analyzed with a modified Ussing chamber over periods of up to 6 h. The rate of lactate production in these preparations was in the range of 120-250 nmol  min  g wet wt, which is typical for inactive swim bladder tissue, that is, during periods of no gas deposition. The swim bladder epithelium proved to be highly polar; about 80% of the lactate was released to the serosal side and only 20% to the luminal side. Under control conditions the rate of lactate release of the swim bladder epithelium decreased by about 25%-30% over the 6-h incubation period. Neither adrenaline nor the c-AMP analog dibutyryl-c-AMP had any influence on the rate of lactate formation of the tissue. The rate of lactate formation was, however, dependent on the extracellular glucose concentration. A long-lasting stimulation of lactate formation was achieved with bovine insulin and with carbachol at a concentration of 3  10 mol  L The calcium ionophore A 23187 caused a transient increase in lactate formation. It is concluded that the -adrenergic receptor and c-AMP are not involved in the regulation of glucose metabolism in gas gland cells. Stimulation of cholinergic receptors and an increase in intracellular Ca concentration can increase glucose turnover in swim bladder tissue. The maximal rates of lactate formation achieved in this study are much lower than the rates reported for an active, gas-depositing swim bladder. It therefore cannot be excluded that additional signals do exist that can stimulate glucose metabolism in gas gland cells.
30152579|Water-vapor conductance was determined for 78 eggs of Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica) collected along an altitudinal gradient in north-central Colorado and south-eastern Wyoming (range 1,486-2,896 m). Conductance of magpie eggs to water vapor is a function of the number of eggs in nests at the time of collection, indicating that conductance may be related to the order in which an egg is laid. A statistical relationship between altitude and conductance of eggs in our samples probably is spurious, and we conclude that water-vapor conductance of eggs does not vary altitudinally within the geographic area encompassed by our study. The altitudinal decline in water-vapor conductance that has been reported for eggs of several other species of birds seems not to characterize eggs of magpies.
30156013|Adult Drosophila melanogaster from populations that exhibit postponed senescence were compared to flies from control populations. Male and female flies from populations displaying postponed senescence were significantly more resistant than control flies to desiccation, starvation, and the vapor of a 15% ethanol solution. In the presence of desiccant or when humidity was not controlled, flies from postponed-senescence populations were more resistant than controls to heat stress in the range 37-39 C. Differences in heat tolerance disappeared when experiments were conducted at high humidity. Tolerance to starvation increased with age for females but remained approximately constant for males. Tolerance to desiccation decreased with age for both sexes. Differences between control and postponed-senescence populations with respect to starvation resistance and desiccation resistance were obtained at all ages examined. Females from postponed-senescence populations had lower proportional water content than did females from control populations. Differences in water content cannot explain the greater desiccation resistance of flies from postponed-senescence populations. Genetically increased life span in these D. melanogaster populations appears to result proximally from greater resistance to mortality arising from environmental stress.
30152567|Elephant seals, Mirounga angustirostris, are exceptional mammals in that females fast entirely during nursing while their pups may quadruple in weight over the 28-day suckling period. Obviously, all water and nutrients for both pup and mother must be derived from the females' body reserves. Thus one might anticipate changes in milk composition during nursing which reflect the physiological requirements of both parent and offspring. Milk samples were taken from 20 females in the field at known times in their respective nursing cycles during the 1976-77 breeding season on Ao Nuevo Island, California. The milk was analyzed for: percent HO, percent protein, percent fat, fatty acid composition, and the presence of reducing sugars. During the first 21 days of lactation, fat and water content of milk changed with mirror-image kinetics; fat rising from approximately 15% to a plateau of approximately 55%, while water content fell from approximately 75% to a constant level of approximately 35%. Plateau values persisted until weaning. Protein content remained fairly constant during lactation, comprising 5%-12% of milk by weight. Fatty acid composition of milk lipids varied little throughout nursing; 16:0, 18: 1, and 20:1 species accounting for 70% of total lipid. In all samples reducing sugars were below the detectable limit (0.25%). These results must reflect strong selection pressure for short, intense, and highly efficient nursing regimes in species which fast during lactation, as compared with conventional mammalian nursing strategies.
30156135|Blood flow rate and metabolic rate during activity were measured at various degrees of dehydration in Bufo marinus and Rana catesbeiana to evaluate to what degree cardiac output and aerobic metabolism were compromised with dehydration. Both aerobic and cardiovascular capacity were compromised in a similar way with dehydration. Both aerobic capacity and flow were less compromised under equivalent dehydrational stress in the more dehydration-tolerant species, B. marinus. The principal reason for the decline in flow was a decrease in pulse volume. A reduction in the maximal heart rate was a secondary effector in both species. Associated with the decline in cardiac output was a decline in the arteriovenous pressure difference. Peripheral resistance increased in both species during dehydration. The increase in peripheral resistance could be accounted for by hemoconcentration influences on blood viscosity in B. marinus but were greater than predicted in R. catesbeiana, which indicates vasoconstriction in this species. The results in both species indicate that loss of plasma volume is the principal stress on maintaining cardiac output with a secondary effect of vasoconstriction contributing to the more rapid decline of blood flow in R. catesbeiana.
30155837|Egg mass increased for about the first 65% of the incubation period, and then declined. The mean maximum gain in mass was 47.6%, and on the last day of incubation the mean mass of an egg was 32.7% greater than the mass at oviposition. The water potential of eggs varied throughout incubation. Frequent measurements are required to define the complex changes in egg mass and water potential that occur during incubation. Changes in the water potential of an egg may be related to ontogenetic patterns of nitrogen excretion. Calculated net hydraulic conductance varied throughout incubation. It may be inappropriate to define a unique hydraulic conductance value to reptile eggs with membranous shells. Measurements of mass change and water potential of eggs indicate that eggs may simultaneously transpire and absorb water while maintaining a net water potential below ambient water potential. Metabolic heat generation and active regulation of solute concentrations in extraembryonic water compartments may explain these observations. Eggs should not be considered as passive systems responding solely to changes in their physical environment. Ontogenetic changes in the water potential of eggs indicate that physiological processes of developing embryos may influence their rates of water exchange with the environment.
30163916|The major defenses against intracellular acidosis during anoxia include intracellular buffering and ion exchange of acid-base equivalents between intra- and extracellular compartments. It is unclear whether more anoxia-tolerant species have a higher capacity for such regulatory processes. Using
30163702|Studies of metabolism are critical to calculating ecological energy balance. Metabolism of rattlesnakes as a group has been little studied. I investigated the effects of mass, temperature, sex, time of day, population of origin, and species on O consumption of field-acclimatized Crotalus lepidus lepidus and Crotalus molossus molossus from two populations in Big Bend National Park. Factors that significantly affected O consumption included mass, temperature, sex, time of day, and population of origin. No mass-independent differences between these species were identified. Populations significantly differed in the relationship between body mass and metabolic rate. Oxygen consumption increased with increasing temperature and was lowest between 0700 and 1300 hours CDT Nongravid females had lower rates of O consumption at 25C than did gravid females and males. This is consistent with results of some previous studies. Massspecific metabolic rates of C. l. lepidus and C. m. molossus were lower than those of other snakes studied to date. Regression models for the prediction of maintenance cost as a function of body mass and temperature are reported.
30156158|We measured CO production and water flux using doubly labeled water in wild Anna's hummingbirds living in the Santa Ana Mountains of Southern California during autumn (September) of 1981. The estimated field metabolic rate (FMR) of a hummingbird maintaining a constant body mass (mean 4.48 g) is about 32 kJ/day, which is 5.2 times basal metabolic rate (BMR). Metabolic rates during daylight hours were about 6.8 X BMR, less than one-half that expected for an Anna's hummingbird in continuous hovering flight. We estimated nighttime metabolism to be near 2.1 X BMR, which is about what would be expected for a normothermic, resting bird experiencing cool air temperatures (as low as 15 C) but much higher than expected if torpor were employed. Water influx was about 164% of body mass per day in birds maintaining a constant mass. Most of this water intake was in the form of sucrose solution from feeders in the area, but some probably came from insects eaten by the birds. Hummingbirds probably did not drink liquid water from streams or ponds during the measurement period.
30155703|White-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) kept on constant photoperiods of LD 8:16, LD 16:8, and LD 24:0 for up to 2 years showed no signs of a recurrent cycle of testicular growth and regression. Photoperiodic tests at the end of long-term confinement showed that the normal gonadal responses to photostimulation were unimpaired. No evidence of an endogenous (circannual) cycle of reproductive function was found in this species even in constant light (LD 24:0). Alternatives to the endogenous-rhythm theory in the timing of annual cycles are discussed.
30164233|Blood gas and acid-base status in the purple shore crab, Hemigrapsus nudus (Dana), was determined before, during, and after 3 h of exposure to water with a PO of 20 mmHg. The ventilatory, circulatory, and O uptake responses were assessed during progressive hypoxia to a PO of 5 mmHg. The respiratory rate was independent of PO to 10 mmHg and was achieved by increasing cardiac output rather than hyperventilation or tachycardia. In contrast to the respiratory alkalosis seen in most other hypoxic crustaceans, Hemigrapsus exhibited a large and rapid metabolic alkalosis within 30 min of exposure to water with a PO of 20 mmHg. Subsequently, there was a smaller respiratory alkalosis so that by 3 h of elapsed time haemolymph pH had increased to a pH of 8.19. Return to normoxia prompted an almost immediate removal of both the respiratory and metabolic alkaloses. There was no evidence of any anaerobiosis. A small increase in circulating urate toward the end of the exposure period (0. 05 mmol L maximum) suggested that O use by urate oxidase might be limiting. Urate accumulation in Hemigrapsus was shown to be temperature-dependent. Exposure to 20 mmHg PO induced decreases in both arterial and venous O pressure and content, while O delivery was maintained, as was an arterial-venous difference. Fitting the in vivo data to O equilibrium curves indicated increased haemocyanin O affinity due to the alkalosis and increased urate, which served to maintain arterial oxygenation near 100%. Oxygen delivery switched from a reliance on dissolved O, in normoxic water to a dependency on haemocyanin O transport. The apparent perfusion-based compensation for reduced O availability, the rapid metabolic alkalosis, and the ability of the haemocyanin in Hemigrapsus to remain unusually well oxygenated are features quite different from those reported for other species of similar habit and habitat. This strongly implies that Hemigrapsus is well adapted to hypoxic exposure and that avoidance of hypoxic water is not a stimulus for this crab to assume air breathing. The role of aquatic hypoxia as a selective pressure in crustaceans evolving to life on land must be questioned.
30156002|Experiments were conducted to determine the influences addition of minerals to rearing water had on selected blood parameters of juvenile steelhead trout, Salmo gairdneri Richardson. Fish that were maintained in water with low mineral concentrations exhibited significant increases in plasma
30155775|The optic tectum and optic nerves of goldfish that were acclimated to 5, 15, and 25 C were examined for their phospholipid composition, and the acyl group composition of the various phospholipid species was determined. The acyl group composition of 1,2-diacyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (D-GPE) differs distinctly from that of 1-alkenyl-2-acyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (P-GPE); P-GPE of tectum resembles that of nerve, while D-GPE differs. The acyl group composition of choline glycerophospholipid (CGP) of tectum and nerve differs slightly but significantly. The acyl group composition of serine glycerophospholipid differs from that of D-GPE and CGP and is also different in tectum and nerve. Nerve possesses a higher content of P-GPE than tectum at all three temperatures. The ratio P-GPE/D-GPE + P-GPE increases with a rise in acclimation temperature, while the 1-alkenyl-2-acyl-snglycero-3-phosphocholine (P-GPC)/CGP ratio changes significantly only in nerve. An increase in acclimation temperature results in an increase in the content of saturated fatty acids, while the unsaturation index falls. The acyl group composition of tectum resembles that of synaptosomal fractions, while that of nerve is dissimilar to that of myelin. The findings show that acclimation-to-temperature changes include (1) an alteration in the proportion of plasmalogen, and (2) an alteration in the acyl group composition of all phospholipid species analyzed.
30155960|The green iguana, Iguana iguana, is herbivorous throughout life and utilizes a microbial fermentation system in the elaborated hindgut to degrade plant fiber. Iguanas degrade hemicellulose and cellulose approximately as effectively as their mammalian counterparts: mean NDF (total cell wall fiber) digestibility in food with a lignification index of 18 was 54%, compared with a mean of 60% in ruminant mammals. Iguanas also extract leaf protein effectively: protein true digestibility averaged 86%, compared with 89% in ruminants and 88% in nonruminants. Volatile fatty acids (VFAs), the products of fiber fermentation used by the herbivore for energy, were detected in the hindgut organs of Iguana in concentrations similar to those in the rumen of cattle (807 vs. 876 mol/g dry mass). The individual digestive organs maintain their relative proportions through ontogeny, and the ratio of digestive tract capacity to net body mass is the same in growing and mature iguanas. Contrary to previous assertions, reptiles can be as efficient herbivores as mammals.
30155848|Antarctic penguins occasionally encounter intense solar radiation while in the rookery. Heat dissipation can become a problem for brooding adults, and panting is necessary sometimes for long periods of time. This study has quantitatively examined changes in blood gases and acid-base balance in three species of penguins as a result of thermal loads. The species were Adlie penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae), chinstrap penguins (P. antarctica), and gentoo penguins (P. papua). During moderate heat loads body temperature increased and panting began but arterial and venous pH,
30164190|Crustaceans have been extensively used as models to study Ca balance because of their exoskeletons, which undergo Ca dynamics associated with the molting cycle. This article discusses major findings during the past 10 yr. Discussion of intermolt Ca regulation focuses on two areas: (1) mechanisms that enable extracellular (EC) Ca levels to be maintained irrespective of environmental levels and (2) evidence for acidosis-induced exoskeletal CaCO mobilization. Marine crustaceans routinely maintain EC Ca levels above ambient Ca levels by protein binding and in dilute seawater (SW) by active uptake; urine is isoionic with respect to Ca. Extracellular Ca rises when subtidal species are aerially exposed. Freshwater (FW) crayfish tolerate passive branchial Ca eflux while influx mechanisms are inoperative. Filtered Ca is extensively reabsorbed in the antennal gland so that renal loss is minimal. Circulating Ca can be altered by exposure to low-Ca water or hypersaline media. Acid-intolerant species may experience an elevation in EC Ca associated with a metabolic acidosis that is generally more pronounced in hard water. Calcium may also be elevated to maintain O transport when certain crayfish are unable to effectively respire in air. Terrestrial crustaceans depend on external water and food for their Ca supply. Urinary Ca can be postrenally reabsorbed in the branchial chambers. Increased EC Ca has been associated with severe acidosis under certain experimental regimes. However, there is only indirect evidence that this Ca originates in the exoskeleton. The second part of the article compares Ca dynamics and regulation throughout the molting cycle in crustaceans from different habitats. During premolt, skeletal Ca is reabsorbed into the hemolymph and excreted or stored. Postmolt crustaceans remineralize the new cuticle with stored Ca and external supplies. Calcium influx in marine crustaceans appears to be passive in full-strength SW, although an active component has been demonstrated in dilute SW Similarly, during postmolt in FW species enzyme-catalyzed mechanisms such as Ca ATPase, which had been silent during intermolt, are activated (or increasingly expressed). The uptake mechanisms are dependent on external HCO, Na, and pH. Behavioral ecology determines the degree of Ca storage in terrestrial crustaceans. Calcium is stored in the hemolymph, and exoskeletal Ca is reingested. The article concludes with a section on hormonal control of Ca balance. There appears to be little correlation between premolt Ca dynamics and the ecdysone peak immediately before ecdysis. A calcitonin-like peptide, however, peaks in the immediate postmolt period when Ca uptake is maximal.
30163898|This article attempts to draw out current themes in the comparative physiology of baroreceptors in order to point out potential areas of future research. The first theme concerns the distribution of baroreceptive zones in the central cardiovascular system. Baroreceptor populations are widely distributed among jawed vertebrates. Multiple baroreceptive zones commonly occur within segments of the central cardiovascular system derived from the embryonic visceral arch arteries and are innervated by the corresponding visceral arch nerves. Aortic (fourth arch) and pulmonary (sixth arch), but not carotid, baroreceptors are the most conspicuous populations, at least in terms of the consistency with which they have been functionally identified. A second theme that links baroreceptor structure to function has emerged recently. Unmyelinated baroreceptors have been identiied in amphibians, reptiles, and mammals. Such receptors have thresholds ranging from near to well above normal arterial pressures and act predominantly to mediate reflex responses to increases in arterial blood pressure above the normal range. In contrast, myelinated baroreceptors with thresholds well below normal arterial pressures have so far only been positively identiied in mammals. Quantitative data suggest that the reflex regulation of arterial pressure in nonmammalian vertebrates is of physiological importance. In the toad, open-loop analysis of the pulmocutaneous baroreflex suggests that the peak capacity of this reflex to regulate arterial blood pressure is of the same order of magnitude as that of the carotid sinus baroreflex in the dog. However, as only unmyelinated baroreceptors are present in the toad, expression of this reflex is largely restricted to arterial pressures well above the normal range. Finally, it is appealing to speculate that differences in the structure and function of baroreceptors between vertebrate classes are linked to corresponding differences in vascular anatomy and metabolic rate. Unmyelinated baroreceptors may be widely distributed in vertebrates, which would reflect a widespread need to protect the circulation from damaging increases in arterial pressure. In vertebrates with incompletely divided hearts, baroreflexes may be of particular importance in protecting the circulation of the gas exchanger from excessive pressures. Low-threshold myelinated baroreceptors may represent a relatively specialized addition topressure-regulating systems in endothermic vertebrates that have poor tolerance to even transient hypotension.
30159980|Dietary energetics of Dipsosaurus dorsalis were studied to test the hypothesis that high mass-specific food energy requirements of small (3.5 g) hatchlings preclude herbivory in early life. This was not the case. Hatchlings were no less herbivorous than adults; arthropod prey constituted only 1% of the diet of both age classes. Field metabolic rate, water turnover, and feeding rate were measured in different seasons for separate age classes using doubly labeled water
30163789|Castration of certain passerine migrants on short days prevents fat deposition in the following spring. Previously, we showed that spring fattening is independent of the presence of the testes in European quail. However, a requirement for testosterone could not be ruled out. The aim of the present study was to compare the seasonal pattern of testosterone levels between intact and castrated quail. In intact males maintained outdoors, testosterone was high during the breeding season and decreased in August. Levels were low during breeding in intact females and castrated males. However, all three groups showed increased testosterone levels from October to December, when luteinizing hormone was basal. High levels of testosterone were also secreted on short days by intact and castrated male quail caged individually in the laboratory. However, after transfer to long days, testosterone was very low in castrates, while levels in the intact birds increased. Thin-layer chromatography of plasma samples provided evidence that the testosterone antibody we used recognized testosterone rather than another steroid. These results suggest that European quail can secrete testosterone extragonadally. A requirement for testosterone to exert an organizational effect in winter to permit the expression of spring fattening may be a feature common to migratory birds.
30159996|Administration of 17-estradiol to reproductively active male rainbow trout results in the induction of synthesis of two estrogen-responsive mRNA, vitellogenin (VG) and ULER2, to high levels. The complementary DNA (cDNA) of these two mRNA were prepared by molecular cloning. Two genomic DNA fragments generated by EcoRI digestion of trout genomic DNA showed hybridization to VG cDNA. A quantitative RNA dot blot hybridization method was adopted for the determination of levels of estrogen-responsive mRNA in livers of male trout after 17-estradiol stimulation. This assay was used to determine the dose-response relationship and the time course of estrogen-responsive mRNA accumulation in juvenile fish.
30156109|In laboratory experiments, we determined the effects of body temperature and the quantity of food consumed on the probability of feeding, the passage time of food, and the digestive coefficient in the iguanid lizard Uta stansburiana. Between body temperatures of 20 and 36 C, the probability of eating increased curvilinearly with body temperature but was inversely related to the quantity of food offered. For lizards fed an unrestricted ration, the average consumption rate increased from 0 to 50 mg g day between body temperatures of 20 and 28 C and remained constant between 28 and 36 C. The passage time of food decreased curvilinearly as body temperature increased. For lizards fed an unrestricted daily ration, the mean passage time ranged from 4.6 days at 22 C to 1.2 days at 32 C. For lizards fed a restricted ration, the mean passage time ranged from 9.2 days at 22 C to 1.8 days at 32 C. Body temperature and feeding regime each had a small but significant effect on the digestive coefficient. In the restricted feeding regimes, the mean digestive coefficient ranged from 94% at 28 C to 87% at 36 C. In the unrestricted feeding regime, the digestive coefficient varied between 92% at 28 C and 84% at 36 C. We conclude that body temperature influences saurian digestive physiology primarily by affecting both the consumption rate and passage time of food while only slightly affecting the digestive coefficient.
30163922|Hatchling painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) overwintering in subterranean hibernacula may withstand exposure to temperatures as low as - 11 C Some workers contend that this ability to survive in the cold results from a tolerance by the animals for freezing of water in the extracellular compartment, but other workers assert that hatchlings actually sustain a state of supercooling and remain unfrozen. We performed three experiments in the laboratory in an attempt to resolve this controversy. Fifty percent of hatchlings confined in artificial hibernacula in damp, clayey soil survived exposure to temperatures between - 8 and - 9 C, and some survived to near - 11 C. Clean, dry turtles that were removed from contact with ice survived in a supercooled, unfrozen state at minimum temperatures averaging - 8.5 C, so animals seem not to be at serious risk of freezing by spontaneous nucleation at temperatures spanning the range encountered in nature. The integument in the axillary and inguinal pouches of hatchlings is highly conductive to ice, but skin on the extremities resists the penetration of ice into body compartments from the environment. By withdrawing their head and limbs inside the shell and thereby removing skin of the axillary and inguinal pouches from contact with ice, hatchlings generally were able to avoid inoculation and to survive in frozen soil at - 2.6 C for over 2 wk without freezing. However, a few animals experienced delayed inoculation, and all these turtles died. Thus, hatchling painted turtles overwintering in the field probably withstand exposure to cold by undergoing supercooling and not by tolerating freezing.
30155715|Heath has proposed that thermoregulatory behavior of lizards is controlled by maximum and minimum limit temperatures (high and low setpoints) separated by a nonthermoregulatory zone. On precursory examination this hypothesis seems incompatible with the unimodal distribution of body temperatures of lizards in the field and in continuous thermal gradient experiments. Evidence from two-temperature selection experiments indicates that the high and low limit temperatures are stochastically distributed. Based on this observation, we have formulated a stochastic mathematical model of the system which predicts the distribution of body temperatures of lizards confined in a temperature gradient. According to the model, an increase in the variance of the limit temperatures results in decrease in the variance of the unimodel distribution of body temperatures in a continuous gradient. As the variance of the lower limit increases relative to that of the upper limit, the model predicts a negatively skewed distribution of body temperatures, a common observation in continuous gradient experiments.
10.1086/515979|Studies of reptilian thermoregulation have tended to focus on diurnal heliothermic taxa that display overt thermoregulatory behavior, with nocturnal reptiles attracting less attention. We studied thermoregulation by the broadheaded snake
30157894|Different patterns of compensation are exhibited by the maximal catalytic activities (
30159943|The Australian water rat, Hydromys chrysogaster, faces thermoregulatory problems due to the variation in its thermal environment. The influence of temperature on the rodent's heat budget in air and in water at three levels of activity was examined. The water rat maintained
30151335|1. The quantitative precipitin technique described by Boyden and Baier (1929) has been successfully employed in a quantitative study of some factors affecting the precipitin reaction. 2. The relations of antigen to antibody have been shown quantitatively, by using simple and complex protein antigens, to confirm the results of others (Fleishman and Michaelis, Dean, Dean and Webb, Opie). 3. The volume of precipitate obtained is affected directly according to the quantity of antiserum present in the reaction mixture. 4. The curves obtained using serum, oxyhemoglobin, and crystalline egg albumin as antigens are relatively of the same nature. 5. There is no simple relation between the titer of an antiserum and the quantity of protein injected for antibody production. 6. The volume of precipitate obtained is directly proportional to the reaction temperature under the conditions studied. 7. The volume of precipitate obtained from the mixture of antigen and antibody has reached an equilibrium at the end of 1 hour of incubation at 37.5 C. 8. Using Van Allen thrombocytocrits, the volumes of precipitate obtained, after  hour of centrifugation at 2,400 r.p.m., show a fair degree of reliability. 9. The extreme possible error in reading the volumes of precipitate obtained in this study (taken from Table I, picked at random) is  10 per cent. 10. The hydrogen ion concentration of the incubation mixture affects the volume of precipitate obtained, with the range of precipitate formation extending from a pH of 4.6 to pH of 8.5. Between pH 6 and 8 there is little change in volume of precipitate. 11. Increase in the salinity of the incubation mixture of antigen and antibody causes a progressive slight decrease in volume of precipitate up to 20 per cent salinity. From 20 to 30 per cent salinity the salting-out effect of the serum proteins is evident. 12. The presence of a foreign protein (beef serum) in the reaction mixture of antigen and antibody causes an increase in the volume of precipitate obtained. 13. The probable error has been used in this study as a measure of the degree of reliability to be placed on the results.
30160957|Rectal temperature, metabolic rate and total evaporative water loss were measured and thermal conductance was calculated in five desert fat-tailed Awassi and in five mesic German Mutton Merino (GMM) ewe lambs. Measurements were made under laboratory conditions between 20 and 40 C
30158172|We examined the effect of reduction in food particle size on the rate and extent of fermentation of dry matter and cell walls in ruminants using in vitro and in sacco techniques. Large particles were digested at significantly lower rates, and time to initiation of cell wall degradation by microbes was signifcantly longer for large particles. Even after 144 h, large particles were digested to a lesser extent than were small particles. These results have important implications for digestive processing in herbivores, such as reptiles, that only minimally reduce food particle size. In these herbivores, digesta must be retained for much longer periods of time to achieve digestive efficiencies similar to those of herbivores that reduce food particle size to a greater extent. Length of retention time is a function of the amount of surface area exposed to microbial attack, not total surface area. Microbial activity concentrates in areas not protected by the cuticle. Because of the complexity of plant structure, relative rates of fermentation of diferent particle sizes cannot be predicted from relative particle size alone.
30157859|Hatchling Caiman crocodilus fuscus were tested for their tendency to emit a distress call and show an extension reflex as they were held by the base of the tail at cloacal temperatures (
30155789|Ventricles isolated from mussels adapted at 12  artificial seawater (ASW) were incubated in 12  and 32  ASW for 8 h in the presence and absence of the aminotransferase inhibitors, aminooxyacetic acid (AOA) and L-cycloserine (L-CS). The aminotransferase inhibitors at 1 mM did not affect oxygen uptake or heartbeat recovery in isolated ventricles during high salinity adaptation (12  ASW  32  ASW). Alanine-glyoxylate, glutamate-pyruvate, glutamate-oxaloacetate, and ornithine--ketoglutarate aminotransferase activities from the mussel ventricles had
30156056|The extent to which the muscles powering swimming in the little penguin utilize aerobic and anaerobic metabolism was investigated by examining oxygen stores, muscle ultrastructure, the activities and properties of catabolic enzymes, and muscle buffering capacity. Blood hemoglobin and muscle myoglobin contents are high. Muscle cells contain many lipid droplets, little glycogen, and numerous large mitochondria. Maximum activities of rate-limiting glycolytic enzymes are not high relative to pectoralis muscle of short-burst type flyers. The pectoralis and supracoracoideus have a lower proportion of LDH M subunits and display greater pyruvate inhibition of LDH activity than these muscles of emperor and Adlie penguins. The maximum Krebs cycle flux may be lower than in birds capable of rapid sustained flight. The buffering capacities of the swimming muscles are lower than in emperor and Adlie penguins or in diving mammals. These results show that the muscles used to power swimming in the little penguin are basically aerobic with limited capacity for producing ATP during muscle anoxia. This suggests that these birds do not rely extensively upon short bursts of rapid swimming or indulge in prolonged deep diving to a point where oxygen stores available to the swimming muscles are exhausted.
30158554|Continuous records of body temperature (
30157863|Chronic water restriction resulted in a 30% decrease in metabolic rate and an over 50% decrease in evaporative loss in jackrabbits with no change in body temperature. Thus, evaporative cooling as a means of maintaining body temperature was minimized. Accommodation to measuring technique may account for part of the decrease in O consumption. Fractional water content increased, and solids decreased associated with a 10.6% weight loss due to chronic restriction, whereas plasma and extracellular volume decreased in proportion to weight loss. The biological half-life of water, T, was increased from 5.8 to 11.6 days while water exchange decreased from 13.0% to 5.9% of the body water per day. In acutely dehydrated jackrabbits (3-5 days without water at 25 C), all body fluid compartments lost equal proportions (10.7%) with no change in metabolic rate. Similarly, oxygen consumption was unaffected, and plasma volume decreased in proportion to weight loss (5.5%) in jackrabbits acutely dehydrated in hyperthermic conditions (12-14 h at 35-40 C). The jackrabbit is similar to several other desert species in that it minimizes the loss of plasma volume when exposed to dehydration. Evans Blue space of 8.6% of body weight was shown to be a 36% overestimation of plasma volume as measured with iodinated (
30156226|Egg temperatures, embryo metabolic rate, and yolk-free wet embryo mass were measured in Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) to determine (1) changes during the last 7 d of incubation under control conditions at 37.5 Cand (2) alterations resulting from 15 d exposure (8 h/d) to cold ambient temperatures (
30155706|The effects of excitement, crowding, 5 C acclimation, and -40 C exposure on liver and muscle glycogen reserves and plasma glucose, urea, and FFA levels of the tundra vole and meadow vole are compared. These two closely related species were selected when the tundra vole failed to exhibit the usual hyperglycemic response when handled; while the meadow vole like the red-backed vole and collared lemming at least triple average plasma glucose levels within 5 min. Crowding of two or three voles, in a small cage, depleted glycogen reserves in the liver and muscle of both the meadow and tundra voles, with the former having a third less plasma glucose and a seventh more plasma urea nitrogen level than the latter. Cold acclimation provides a more striking contrast, for reserves of liver glycogen are nearly lost (95%) in the tundra vole and are retained in the meadow vole, while muscle glycogen of both remain at levels of unacclimated controls. Cold resistance at -40 C appeared similar in both species but related to the retention of liver glycogen levels of the meadow vole and not the tundra vole. Conversely, sensitivity to cold (
30157910|Total body water (TBW) and its turnover were measured in free-living nestling glaucous-winged gulls Larus glaucescens. Body mass (BM) was linearly related to age, and TBW was linearly related to BM in nestlings aged 4-38 days. Equilibration of intravenously (i.v.) injected tritiated water (TOH) was complete in  h; intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected TOH in 1 hour. TBW, ml = -28.4 + 0.88 BM, g(r = .99; 48 determinations, TOH dilution in nestling gulls). TBW decreased rapidly at the end of the maturation period with the largest nestlings (5) having TBW of 83.2% BM, which was higher (P < .001) than that of fledglings (5), 73.9% BM, which was higher (P < .025) than that of adults (5), 66.0% BM. TBW by TOH dilution exceeded that by desiccation to constant weight. Tissue tritium retention in growing gulls was negligible. Mean daily water flux (WF) in adult gulls (6) was 18.1% BM, and mean daily nestling water efflux (WE) was 28.6% BM, linearly related to BM over the growth period and the same during rainy and fair periods. Analysis of published data TOH studies showed that species with salt glands tended to have higher TBW and had significantly (P < .05) greater water flux:
30166344|Lung structure and function vary widely among vertebrates. Despite their diversity, all lungs are internal, fluid-lined structures that change volume and hence face similar biophysical problems. For example, if the surface tension of the fluid lining is high, this may lead to collapse or flooding of the lung In mammals, these problems are largely overcome by the presence of a mixture of surface-active lipids and proteins (pulmonary surfactant), which lowers the surface tension of the fluid lining, particularly at very low lung volumes. This action is due primarily to a disaturated phospholipid (DSP), predominantly dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), which exists in the ordered, gel state below 41C Cholesterol (CHOL) and unsaturated phospholipids (USPs) promote respreading upon inflation by converting DPPC to the disordered, liquid-crystalline state. It appeared to us that a DSP-rich surfactant, with its high phase transition temperature, is likely to be of only limited use in the lungs of ectothermic vertebrates that have body temperatures between 20 and 30C We determined the presence and composition of surfactant in species from a range of vertebrate taxa maintained at 23C and related variations in phospholipid (PL) head groups, CHOL/PL, DSP/PL, and CHOL/DSP to lung structure and function, phylogeny, and environmental selection pressures such as body temperature. All air breathers examined had a pulmonary surfactant containing USP, DSP, and CHOL. In general, mammals had greater amounts of surfactant lipids than did most nonmammals when expressed per gram of wet lung mass (g WL). However, when expressed per unit of respiratory surface area (cm RSA), most nonmammalian species tested had six- to 30-fold greater amounts of surfactant lipid than did mammals. Phosphatidylcholine was the predominant PL, and only the minor phospholipids varied between species. We observed surfactant to change in composition from a mixture of very high CHOL/very low DSP in primitive air-breathing actinopterygiian fish, to intermediate CHOL/intermediate DSP in derived lung, flsh and amphibians, to low CHOL/high DSP in reptiles and mammals. We have also observed smaller changes in surfactant composition between species and within individuals, which correlated with dfferences in body temperature, lifestyle, and lung maturity as well as with structure and function of the lung. We determined the pressure required to open a collapsed lung both before and after the removal of surfactant in several species of each vertebrate group and found in virtually all cases that surfactant functioned to lower the lung opening pressure. These findings were consistent with the surfactant functioning as an antiglue in these vertebrate groups. Possibly, acting as an antiglue represents the primitive function of surfactant. On the basis of the two apparently distinct types of surfactant composition, a high CHOL/ low DSP mixture in the primitive air-breathing fish and a mixture of low to intermediate CHOL and intermediate to high DSP levels in the derived sarcopterygiians and the tetrapods, we suggest that the CHOL -enriched surfactant may represent the primitive surfactant, or protosurfactant.
30163695|The cutaneous uptake of tritiated water was assessed in chronically catheterized, freely moving Bufo marinus. The isotope appeared rapidly (within 2.5 min) in the lymph and the plasma after addition to the ambient water, with significantly higher levels detected in the lymph than in the plasma from 15 min onward. A different pattern of isotope distribution was observed after injection of the tritiated water into the blood circulation. Within 5 min of injection, the plasma and lymph concentrations of tritiated water did not differ significantly from one another, and they remained similar for an additional 115 min. The site of lymph sampling did not affect the results. A bolus injection of arginine vasotocin (AVT) administered 1 h after the addition of the isotope to the ambient bath resulted in an immediate, although brief (10 min), increase in the rate of uptake of the tritiated water to both the lymph and the plasma, with the response being first observed in the lymph. The data suggest that some or most of the water crossing through the highly permeable skin enters the lymphatics first and is then drained into the renal portal system for transport to the general blood circulation or to the kidney for excretion.
30163860|We determined the influence of ambient temperature
30155754|Water metabolism in three sympatric Namib Desert rodents (Gerbillurus paeba, Desmodillus auricularis, and Rhabdomys pumilio) was measured using a complete water-balance methodology, with the objective of relating physiological characteristics to population-level properties in these species. Desmodillus auricularis was found to be capable of maintaining water balance on a diet of considerably lower water content than that needed by the other two species. Physiological differences among these species are correlated with differences in (a) their reproductive response to the provision of drinking water in an earlier field experiment; (b) the seasonality of their demographic patterns; and (c) particular features of their life histories. An argument is presented that the water-conserving abilities of these species are intimately related to population processes: G. paeba and R. pumilio, with relatively high water needs, are restricted to breeding during brief periods of high water availability, and their lifehistory traits reflect that high degree of seasonality; conversely, the lower free water needs of D. auricularis permit a relatively aseasonal demographic pattern, and its life-history attributes differ accordingly from those of G. paeba and R. pumilio.
10.1086/515985|The swimming velocity of the water flea
30152563|Throughout the year Sceloporus jarrovi is capable of significant supercooling of the deep-body temperature below the freezing point of its tissues. For S. jarrovi there was no seasonal acclimatization of the supercooling limit (SL). In fact, during the more severe winter of this study the ability to supercool decreased significantly from the levels measured during the summer and second, more moderate winter. There was a significant and positive linear regression of SL on freezing point (FP), and this relationship has a higher elevation than that reported for reptiles as a whole. There appears to be an optimum constant acclimation temperature for maximum supercooling (i.e., about 25 C). Below this level the ability to supercool decreases. Although constant low-temperature exposure decreased supercooling ability, there was no such effect following daily cycled-temperature exposure (-2 C to 30 C). There was a significant lowering by dehydration of the SL and FP at constant temperatures from 15 to 25 C. At 25 C a 5% water loss resulted in significant reduction in the SL and FP. Further dehydration beyond 5% did not lower either parameter. For animals measured directly from the field there is a significant relationship between both the SL and the FP and the body water content. The predicted effect on the SL may be overridden by exposure to constant low temperature. An animal of higher water content held at 30 C, for example, may actually have a lower SL than an animal of lower water content but kept at 15 C. It appears quite likely that supercooling is important for survival during the winter of populations of S. jarrovi at high elevations. At an air temperature of about -10 C, hibernaculum temperatures could be as low as -5 C, which approaches very closely the field SL for the populations studied.
30152540|Thermal tolerance was determined for two species of dragonfly nymphs, Libellula auripennis from a thermal effluent stream, and Macromia illinoiensis from a thermal recovery stream. Tolerances were measured at acclimation temperatures of 16, 24, and 32 C under different laboratory conditions. The major source of variation in thermal tolerance was acclimation temperature, which accounted for approximately one-third of the overall variation. Body size, investigator, rate of heating, species, time of day, and number of individuals per test flask had significant effects on thermal tolerance. Aeration of the test water was not a significant variable. Increasing acclimation temperature increased thermal tolerance in both species. Libellula nymphs acclimated at 16 and 24 C exhibited a daily cycle in thermal tolerance with a peak during midafternoon (1400-1600 h). Libellula nymphs acclimated at 32 C, and Macromia nymphs at all acclimation temperatures exhibited no daily cycle in thermal tolerance.
30163846|We have studied the physiology of musk turtles (Sternotherus odoratus) from the north-central United States during prolonged submergence (25 d) at 3 C in anoxic and normoxic water, conditions simulating the range of potential respiratory microenvironments during hibernation. We compare the results to earlier studies of musk turtles from central Alabama and to those of northern and southern painted turtles (Chrysemys picta). The acid-base status of anoxic northern musk turtles deteriorated slightly more rapidly than that of southern ones, the fall in plasma pH of southern turtles lagging by about 5 d. The northern turtles exhibited slouwer rates of decline of plasma [Na] and [Cl], indicating a better ability to maintain ion balance. The two effects seemed to be counterbalancing in that there was no difference in survival times in anoxic water between the two groups, although survival in normoxic water can reach at least 150 d in both. There was no physiological cline in survival during prolonged cold anoxic submergence among musk turtles, in contrast to painted turtles. Musk turtles from a gizven area are much less tolerant of submergence anoxia than painted turtles from the same area. We suggest that musk turtles may not be able to survive prolonged submergence in mud during hibernation. The difference in the physiology of the two species may be explained provisionally by considerations of historical ecology.
30163347|Paleotropical fruit bats (Pteropodidae) ingest up to 2.5 times their body mass in fruits nightly. On a mass-specific basis, this is about double the amount reported for neotropical fruit bats (Phyllostomidae). By manipulating the energy and protein contents of their diets, I found that the pteropodids' high fruit intakes are determined by the protein content of the fruits they exploit. Pteropodids appear to be obliged to overingest energy in order to obtain sufficient protein. Phyllostomid fruit bats may escape this protein constraint by supplementing their diets with insects, thus increasing the overall protein content of the diet. Differing abilities to supplement their diets may result in important differences in how pteropodid and phyllostomid bats nutritionally evaluate fruits, regulate their intakes, and function as seed dispersers.
30163735|The role of the CNS in the control of mucus secretion and transport in the gill of the mussel Mytilus edulis was investigated. Mucus was estimated by Alcian blue binding and absorption spectrophotometry. Relative rates of mucus secretion were measured by scintillation counting of
30158609|In this field study, I examine whether body mass affects flight behavior and thoracic temperature (
10.1086/515862|To investigate the energetic costs of lactation in a female mammal in relation to previous reproductive history, we compared the performance of adult female LongEvans rats that had preciously bred (multiparous) with young females that had not previously given birth (primiparous). All litters were standardized to 10  1 young. We compared maternal production (growth of pups), body mass, and energy intake (food consumption) of mothers, as well as their energy expenditure (resting oxygen consumption). The mass of litters at birth and the growth of pups during lactation did not differ according to reproductive history of the mothers. The body mass of primiparous mothers was less than that of multiparous mothers, and primiparous mothers showed an increase in mass during early lactation. To accomplish the essentially identical production of offspring under these circumstances, the primiparous mothers consumed and expended more energy than the multiparous mothers. This remarkable performance of firsttime mothers results in an overall efficiency of energy allocation to reproduction amounting to only 25%, compared with 38% in multiparous mothers. The energetic inefficiency of primiparous female lactation results largely from the excessive expenditures associated with physiological and behavioral performances of firsttime reproduction, together with a small component of additional expenditure due to further growth by the primiparous mothers. We suggest that this inefficiency probably contributes to the observed low reproductive success of novice breeders; furthermore, active restraint of fecundity may be an evolutionary response to the constraints of the energetic inefficiency of primiparous breeding by female mammals.
30156126|Metabolic rate and the relative contributions of aerobiosis and anaerobiosis to energy supply during unrestrained submergence were calculated in juvenile Crocodylus porosus. Voluntary undisturbed dives were short in duration (mean = 4.7 min  0.3 SEM; n = 60) and did not result in a decline in metabolic rate below predive levels. These dives were aerobic because negligible quantities of blood lactate were generated. Crocodiles surfaced before pulmonary O tensions (
30160961|Changes in circulating levels of thyroxine (T) and triiodothyronine (T) in the migratory Canada goose (Branta canadensis interior) during the different periods of its yearly life cycle in both its breeding and wintering grounds were investigated. Total plasma T level ranged from a minimal value of 1.156 g/dl in the fall postmigratory period to a maximal value of 1.737 g/dl in the spring postmigratory period. The T values during spring postmigratory period and breeding (1.700 g/dl) were significantly higher than those in the spring premigratory (1.175 g/dl), fall premigratory (1.327 g/dl), and the fall postmigratory periods. The T level during molt was significantly higher than that during the spring premigratory period and the fall postmigratory period but was not significantly different from that in the other periods. The peak level in plasma T (330.62 ng/dl) observed in the spring premigratory phase was significantly higher than that in all other periods, and the trough T level (71.72 ng/dl) noted in the fall premigratory period was significantly lower than that in all the other periods. No significant variations in T levels were noted during the spring postmigratory, breeding, molt, and the fall postmigratory periods. The T level was at its peak in the spring premigratory period when the ambient temperature was 20-25 C and daily photoperiod 11.5 h. However, the T levels were highest in the spring postmigratory and breeding periods when the ambient temperatures were from -12 to -3 C and from -3 to 0 C and the photoperiods 16 h and 18 h, respectively. It is concluded that the high T levels during these periods are indicative of the influence of the lower ambient temperatures and greater day lengths on the activity of the thyroid and the activity of the animal. The hypertrophy of the pectoral muscles in the spring pre- and postmigratory periods may be attributed to increased thyroidal activity. No definite relationship of thyroidal activity to molt was discernible, however.
30155965|Successful overwintering by insects is dependent primarily on one of two modes of adaptation: the ability to survive freezing (freezing tolerance) and the ability to avoid freezing by supercooling (freezing susceptibility). Studies on the larvae of the beetle Dendroides canadensis from northern Indiana during the 197 7-1978 and 1978-1979 winters revealed that this species was freeze tolerant, exhibiting supercooling points (SCP) between -8.0 to - 12.0 C with lower lethal temperatures (LLTs) of - 28.0 C. We report here that D. canadensis have switched from a freeze-tolerant to a freeze-susceptible mechanism of overwintering. During the winter of 1981-1982, larvae exhibited extensive supercooling (averaging approximately -26.0 C). The LLTs corresponded to their SCP temperatures; therefore, they could not tolerate freezing at that time. Evidence accumulated during 1979-1980 and 1980-1981 suggests that the switch in overwintering adaptations occurred between these winters. The only notable change in the cold-hardening parameters of D. canadensis throughout this time involves the apparent loss of ice nucleating proteins. Regardless of the overwintering strategy employed, LLTs are similar from year to year. However, this is the first known instance where the overwintering stage of a species has been observed to display both types of adaptations.
30158538|The hypothesis that water
30156070|Blood acid-base status and plasma ion concentrations and osmolality of freshwater turtles (Chrysemys picta bellii) were measured periodically during and following submergence in N-equilibrated water (Po < 5 torr) at 3, 10, 15, and 20 C. Submergence durations that resulted in similar reductions in blood pH or in plasma [HCO] at each temperature were 12 h at 20 C, 3 days at 15 C, 10 days at 10 C, and 13 wk at 3 C. At 3 C, 75% of the fall in pH during anoxia was due to metabolic acidosis, but the contribution of respiratory acidosis to the pH drop increased with temperature, being 50% at 10 C, 73% at 15 C, and 73% at 20 C. Plasma strong-ion difference decreased much less during anoxia than had been predicted on the basis of the increase in plasma lactate, owing to compensatory changes in plasma ions, including increased [K], total [Ca], and total [Mg] and decreased [Cl]. The magnitude of these ion changes was directly correlated with the increase in plasma lactate, which in turn was inversely correlated with temperature. Plasma lactate concentrations ranged from 96 mM at 3 C to 19.7 mM at 20 C. Recovery from anoxic acidosis at all temperatures occurred in two stages, a respiratory stage that rapidly restored blood pH and lowered blood PCo2 below control values and a slower ionic stage that corrected plasma lactate and the associated disturbances in other plasma ions. Plasma osmolality increased during anoxia, and the extent of the increase varied inversely with temperature, as did the net increase in measured plasma ions. We conclude that the prolonged tolerance to anoxia at 3 C is not due to specialized mechanisms absent at higher temperatures; rather, slow accumulation of plasma lactate, modest hypercapnia, and effective compensatory ion changes markedly retard the development of acidosis at this temperature.
30166350|We studied the relationship between the foraging radius and energy economy of least auklets (Aethia pusilla) breeding in colonies on three islands in the Bering Sea (St. Lawrence, St. Matthew, and St. George Islands). The distance to which auklets commuted on foraging trips varied by more than an order of magnitude (5-56 km), but mean field metabolic rate (FMR) did not vary significantly among birds from the three islands. These observations indicate that allocation to various compartments of time and energy budgets is flexible and suggest that least auklets may have a preferred level of daily energy expenditure that is similar across colonies. We modeled the partitioning of energy to various activities and hypothesize that the added cost of commuting incurred by auklets from St. Lawrence Island (foraging radius, 56 km) was offset by reduced energy costs while foraging at sea. Data on bird diets and prey abundances indicated that auklets from St. Lawrence Island fed on larger, more energy-rich copepods than did auklets from St. Matthew Island (foraging radius, 5 km) but that depth-averaged prey density did not differ significantly between the birds' principal foraging areas. However, previous studies have indicated that zooplankton abundance is vertically compressed into near-surface layers in stratified waters off St. Lawrence Island, which suggests that variation in foraging eficiency may have resulted in part from differences in the accessibility of food rather than its absolute abundance in the water column. Our findings demonstrate why long-distance commuting between colony and feeding areas need not significantly affect total daily adult energy expenditures, even in heavily wing-loaded species such as auklets. Interpretation of the energetic ecology of auklets and other seabirds can strongly benefit from information regarding foraging distributions, diets, and prey accessibility.
30155759|The daily energy budget (DEB) of adult Spermophilus tridecemlineatus during the active season (233 cal/g day) is significantly higher than during the interim season (82 cal/gday) or the hibernation season (70 cal/gday). DEB's for the interim and hibernation seasons are not significantly different if energy consumed during periodic arousals is included in values for average daily metabolic rates for hibernation. No significant differences were noted in DEB's or patterns of activity between males and females during any season. Activity patterns exhibited by animals during the active season were correlated with thermoregulatory needs, during the interim season insured rapid weight gain in preparation for hibernation, and during the hibernation season consisted of bouts of hibernation interspersed with periods of arousal.
30157976|Gastrointestinal transit times of fish, squid, and crustaceans of known in vitro digestibility were measured for five seabird species (a procellarii form, a sulid, and three species of penguin) to investigate the influence of (1) natural diet and (2) foraging method on mean retention time. Despite its relative indigestibility in vitro, squid is excreted faster than is fish by the four seabirds that breed at islands in the Southern Ocean, where squid is abundant. The Cape gannet excretes pilchard, its major natural prey item, more rapidly than it does squid. Mean retention times of these prey types were consistent with the ranking of gastric evacuation times within each seabird species. Mean retention time of digesta was found to be significantly correlated with intestine (small and large intestine plus rectum) length. Intestine length, volume, and planar surface area all scaled significantly with body mass. The slope of these three relationships differed between flying seabirds and penguins, significantly so in the case of intestine area. Greater gut surface area in penguins may be an adaptation enabling these birds to meet the relatively high energetic costs of swimming. Mean retention time was not directly correlated with body mass. Gut length appears to be the primary correlate of mean retention times, which are not invariably shorter in flying species than in penguins. Allometry provides a useful framework for consideration of the interaction between energy demands and digestive adaptations in seabirds.
30164286|The calcium demand of egg-laying birds is much higher than in other vertebrates during reproduction. We showed elsewhere that a low level of calcium availability can greatly affect the eggshell quality and reproduction of free-living passerines. However, there are few data on calcium demand and calcium intake in relation to egg laying and behaviour and egg-laying performance under conditions of calcium shortage in nondomesticated birds. We examined these aspects in an experiment with captive great tits, Parus major, on a diet deficient in calcium, with or without snail shells as an additional calcium source. More than 90% of the calcium intake for egg production took place during the egg-laying period. Females ingested about 1.7 times as much calcium as they deposited in eggshells. Removing the snail shells after the first egg resulted in eggshell defects and interruptions of laying after 1-3 d. Females without snail shells doubled their searching effort and started to burrow in the soil and to eat sand, small stones, and their own eggs. Most calcium was consumed in the evening, probably to supplement the calcium available from the medullary bone with an additional calcium source in the gut during eggshell formation. The results demonstrated that eggshell formation requires accurate timing of the calcium intake and that obtaining sufficient calcium is time-consuming, even in calcium-rich environments. These factors pertaining to calcium intake greatly affect the ability of birds to collect sufficient calcium for eggshell formation in calcium-poor areas.
30156014|Minimum cost of pedestrian transport (
30158197|The concept of symmorphosis postulates rigorous congruence between structural design and functional demand in physiological systems. We consider here the evolutionary limitations of symmorphosis and, more generally, models of optimal design in physiology. Such models presume that evolutionary forces of selection are well-defined and invariant. Because selective pressures vary in space and time, the level of performance required from physiological systems is not necessarily constant and uniquely specified. Morphological structures frequently perform multiple roles, and optimal design for one role may reduce the effectiveness of other functions. Developmental and genetic constraints may also preclude optimal matching of physiological design with functional requirements. The complexity and interdependence of most morphological structures and physiological processes suggest that perfect rate matching of all constituent components is unlikely. Similar allometry of different components of a physiological cascade does not necessarily imply design according to symmorphosis, which specifies quantitative equality of maximum capacity at diferent levels of structural organization. Although the notion of optimal design has considerable utility as a null hypothesis, the extent of matching between form and function in organisms is best described as a continuum of imperfection.
30160004|Adult Drosophila mojavensis are exposed to low-molecular-weight volatiles produced by fermenting tissues, "rots, " of several columnar cacti endemic to deserts of Mexico and Arizona. Because these cactus tissues lack carbohydrates required for adult survival, volatiles have been hypothesized to be sources of energy. Extension of adult longevity in 4% ethanol versus water vapor under starvation conditions and in thepresence of fermenting cacti used in nature for feeding was determined in a system designed to avoid hypercapnic side effects common to many studies. Adults from a mainland population survived longer in 4% ethanol vapor than adults from a Baja population, with females always living longer than males under starvation conditions. No carryover of stored metabolites derived from ethanol vapor was detected under starvation conditions. Metabolic rates, estimated by study of oxygen consumption in a closed system, were higher in ethanol vapor than in water vapor. Significant amounts of
30155739|Holthuisana is extremely tolerant of dehydration and withstands loss of ca. 45% total body water. During dehydration, water is lost at an equal rate from both hemolymph and tissue compartments. Dehydrated crabs rehydrate by drinking or by absorption of moisture condensing on permeable surfaces, but they cannot absorb water from damp clay soils. In the field, survival is enabled by construction of a vertical burrow (50-70 cm) in heavy clay soil which retains moisture and, therefore, provides high burrow humidity for long periods. The only sources of water available to the crabs during drought are condensation within the burrow and metabolic water.
30164244|Viviparity in squamate reptiles presumably evolves via gradual increases in the time that eggs are retained within the oviducts. We evaluated the extent and consequences of phenotypic plasticity in egg retention for the oviparous lizard Sceloporus scalaris. This species not only exhibits facultative egg retention, but has close relatives that are viviparous. Thus, S. scalaris may possess reproductive features that are transitional between oviparity and viviparity. We tested the hypothesis that oviposition normally occurs when further retention would impair embryonic development. To do so, we determined the efects of extended egg retention on embryonic development and on egg water balance for a population in which females normally retain eggs to Dufaure and Hubert stages 31.0-33.5. Under substrate conditions that inhibited oviposition, females retained eggs to stage 39.5, or 0.5 stage units short of hatching. Extending egg retention did not retard the development of embryos relative to that of embryos in control eggs. Water did not accumulate in the extraembryonic compartments of retained eggs as it did in control eggs; all water uptake was associated with the embryo. The pattern of embryonic development within retained eggs does not support the hypotheses (1) that oviposition occurs when gas exchange in utero is no longer sufficient to support the needs of the embryos, or (2) that increases in the duration of egg retention and decreases in eggshell thickness evolve concurrently. Our observations on water uptake additionally suggest that viviparity may evolve more easily in taxa that are able to preclude storage of excess water in the extraembryonic compartment of the egg while allowing retained embryos access to suficient water for normal embryonic development.
30159985|The buffering capacity () of red (RM) and white (WM) myotomal muscle fibers was measured in several species of marine teleost fishes chosen to represent a broad range of locomotory ability and anaerobic capacity. WM  differed significantly among species and correlated with WM anaerobic capacity (lactate dehydrogenase activity). Tunas had the highest WM , deep-sea fishes had the lowest , and there were significant differences between tuna and ectothermic species in the same family (Scombridae). WM  was significantly greater than RM . RM  did not differ intraspecifically. The components that contribute to muscle  were partially characterized by dialyzing muscle homogenates to remove all low-MW (<2,000 daltons) buffers. Thus,  caused by lowMW buffers and the protein-specific buffering capacity were estimated. Low-MW buffers contributed 48% and 67% to total  in RM and WM, respectively. Interspecific differences in WM  were due mainly to differences in low-MW buffers, but also proteins contributed more to  in scombrids than in nonscombrid fishes. A significant fraction of these low-MW buffers are most likely histidine and the histidine-containing dipeptides carnosine and anserine, which are present in WM of some fish species at concentrations approaching the concentrations of low-MW buffers determined in this study.
30158521|Oxygen uptake and the influence of declining oxygen pressures (
30163767|Effects of exogenous testosterone on the circadian system of the male domestic canary (Serinus canaria) were studied in light:dark (L:D) cycles with 16 h of bright light (ca. 35 lx) and 8 h of dim light (ca. 3.0 lx) during the nonreproductive (regressive)phase of the annual gonadal cycle. In addition, effects of testosterone implants were tested under L:D cycles (35:3.0 lx) with different L:D ratios and periods (T> 24 h). The question was asked whether male sex hormones affect entrainment properties of the circadian pacemaker system and whether they differentially influence circadian parameters of various behavioral functions (e.g., perch hopping, feeding, vocalization). During the regressive phase, at low levels of endogenous plasma testosterone, application of exogenous testosterone increased locomotor activity and vocalization (songs and calls) to the levels measured previously during the reproductive (progressive)phase. Differential effects of testosterone on amount and "activity time" () of perch hopping and feeding were not accompanied by differences in phase relations and entrainment patterns of the two rhythms with the L:D cycle close to the upper limit of the range of entrainment (T> 24 h). It is concluded that exogenous testosterone influences effector processes (locomotor activity, vocalization) but does not directly affect entrainment properties of the circadian pacemaking system in the male canary.
10.1086/515949|The role of steroids in locomotor performance and growth was examined in freeliving lizards. Male northern fence lizards (
30158543|In true seals (family Phocidae), the large energetic costs of lactation are supported primarily by mobilization of stored fat. We studied the magnitude of fat and energy depletion in lactating harbor seals (n = 17) on Sable Island, and fat and energy storage in their pups, using cross-sectional morphometric and isotopic methods. Initial mass of mothers studied ranged from 87 to 94 kg. Maternal mass declined by 33% over the first 19 d of the 24-d lactation period. Most of this loss (68.8%) was from the sculp (i.e., skin and attached blubber). Estimated maternal body fat, derived from dilution of deuterium oxide, decreased from 24% at parturition to about 7% at 19 d postpartum. Mothers lost 163 kg (78.7%) of their stored fat and 3.1 kg (20.0%) of stored protein, representing 713.8 MJ (169 Mcal) or 60.5% of stored energy. Newborn pups contained 93.0 MJ (22.1 Mcal) of energy, divided similarly between fat (46 4%) and protein (53.6%). Pup body mass increased from 10.6 kg to 25.8 kg. Sculp mass accounted for 62. 7% of mass gained by the pup. Total body fat of pups increased from 11% at birth to 35% at 19 d. Pups deposited 346 8 MJ (82.2 Mcal) or 48. 7% of energy withdrawn by females from body stores. Unlike large phocid species, lactating harbor seals initiate feeding during lactation apparently because energy reserves are insufficient to cover the combined costs of lactation and maternal metabolism.
30152604|Carp (Cyprznus carpzo L.) were acclimated to 19.0 C and habituated to a metabolic chamber. At 19.0 C the metabolic rate was 27.1  1.1 ml
30156117|The rock pigeon (Columba livia) reproduces successfully in breeding colonies at ambient temperatures (
30156134|Tissue-specific controls on carbohydrate metabolism regulate the response to anoxia in goldfish (Carassius auratus) and bring about the overall metabolic rate depression that is a key feature of anoxia tolerance. The effect of anoxia (24 h at 7 C under N/ CO atmosphere) on glycogen phosphorylase activity and on the content of fructose2,6-bisphosphate was determined in eight tissues (liver, brain, kidney, gill, spleen, heart, and red and white skeletal muscle) of goldfish. Anoxia resulted in an increase in the percentage of phosphorylase in the active a form in brain but significantly reduced phosphorylase-a content in liver, kidney, spleen, and heart; total phosphorylase activity (a + b) was also reduced during anoxia in liver and gill. Levels of the phosphofructokinase activator, fructose-2,6-P, dropped 10-fold in liver during anoxia and were also reduced in gill and spleen. Brain and heart showed the opposite response, a 3.5-fold rise in fructose-2,6-P during anoxia. The data support a relative decrease in glycolytic flux in tissues such as liver, spleen, gill, and kidney (in line with a general metabolic rate depression) and a relative increase in glycolysis in brain and heart. In liver, the sharp drop in fructose-2,6-P content is probably also important in directing glycogenolysis toward glucose export into the blood.
30163793|We compared growth and physiological function in pectoral and leg muscles of Japanese quail chicks from a line selected for 4-wk body mass (P line) and an unselected control (C) line. Growth rates of pectoral and, especially, leg muscles were higher in the P line than in the control line during the first week posthatching but not thereafter. Citrate synthase (CS) activity in pectoral muscle increased early in postnatal development but reached much higher levels in control chicks than in selected chicks; metabolic response to cold stress also was greater in C-line chicks than in P-line chicks. Pyruvate kinase (PK) activity and potassium concentration increased rapidly during the early postnatal development period and did not differ between lines except that the increase in PK in leg muscle was delayed in P-line chicks compared with C-line chicks. Exponential growth rates (EGR) of leg and pectoral muscles exhibited inverse relations to increasing PK activity that were indistinguishable between selected and control lines. Pyruate kinase activity was normalized to the peak value for each muscle mass within each line to establish an index to functional maturity (M) extending from 0 to 1. The negative relation between EGR and M did not differ significantly between type of muscle or between line. This result is consistent with the presence of a growth rate-functional maturity trade-off that governs the rate of growth of skeletal muscle during postnatal development. Accordingly, the growth response of leg muscles of selected chicks may be related to delayed maturation, as indicated by PK activity. In addition, although the growth rate of leg muscle in unselected chicks during the first week posthatch is less than expected from M, EGR values for leg muscles of selected quail are close to predicted values. Thus, the growth rate of the leg muscles possibly is down regulated in control lines but released in response to selection for rapid growth to realize more fully the growth potential of the muscle at a given state of maturity.
30155800|Heart rate of the fossorial mole rat at rest was compared with that of the similarsized white laboratory rat at normoxic, hypercapnic, and hypoxic conditions, in both thermoneutrality and cold. The heart rate of the mole rat in thermoneutrality and normoxia is 142  SD 15 min. It is less than 0.5 the heart rate of the white rat and about 0.4 the expected value for a normal mammal of its size. The heart rate is arrhythmic. The heart rate of the mole rat is insensitive to hypercapnia up to
30164227|In a single meal, the medicinal leech, Hirudo medicinalis, ingests up to 10 times its own body weight. Extra salt and water are eliminated rapidly by 17pairs of nephridia and bladders. The nephridia of jawed leeches are secretory organs. The primary urine-forming cells resemble a Cl-secreting epithelium and secrete hypertonic K-enriched fluid into their interconnected lumina. In the course of final urine formation, 85% of Na and 97% of K is taken out. After a blood meal, the combination of more primary urine of a higher Na/K ratio and a decrease of NaCl resorption leads to an 80-fold increase of NaCl output. As discussed here, the ability to control primary and final urine formation separately makes secretory organs preferable to filtration kidneys when dealing with high salt loads. In Hirudo, salt excretion is under nervous control. Sensory and neurosecretory innervation of the nephridia is accomplished by a single set of neurons, the peripheral nephridial nerve cells (NNCs). Their electrical activity depends on the extracellular Cl concentration, which changes under different physiological conditions. At normal, low extracellular Cl concentration, the NNC is spontaneously active and releases its endogenouspeptide, FMRF-NH2,, in the nephridium. FMRF-NH enhances NaCl resorption. An increase of extracellular Cl concentration, as after a blood meal or after the invasion of brackish water, inhibits the NNC's discharge and, hence, peptide release. Less NaCl is resorbed, which results in a strong natriuresis. This local feedback regulation is compared to the afferent and efferent control mechanisms of maintaining salt homeostasis in other species.
30156071|Pulmonary and nonpulmonary O uptake (
30158642|Dry heat transfer through the piloerected fur of dorsal pelt samples from neonatal Peromyscus leucopus was examined using a heated flat plate apparatus equipped with a microfoil heat flux meter. The effective thermal conductivity (
10.1086/515424|Because of its small body mass, the shrew Crocidura russula monacha has a relatively high surface area to volume ratio, thin skin, and high thermal conductance compared with larger mammals. This study was aimed at examining the possibility that such a mammal may exhibit a significant skin gas exchange. Gas composition was measured in subcutaneous gaspockets. CO2 and O2 exchange through skin were measured both in vitro and in vivo. In 7wkold gas pockets, the steadystate PO2 and PCO2 values were 50 Torr (where 1 Torr  133.322 Pa) and 35 Torr, respectively, compared with PO2and PCO2 values of 73 Torr and 33 Torr, respectively, in 1wkold gas pockets. These changes are attributed to an increased capillary density and a decreased skin thickness after 7 wk. There was no significant gas exchange through skin during in vitro measurements. In vivo measurements indicated that O2 uptake was 0.5% and CO2 loss was 0.9% of total body metabolism at 207C. At 357C, skin O2 uptake and CO2 loss increased to 1.3% and 2.9%, respectively. These values are only part of the expected skin metabolism; thus, the rest must come from blood. Because gas exchange through the skin of this shrew is within the range of other mammals, the relatively low PCO2 and high PO2 in the gas pockets is better explained by the relative hyperventilation state exhibited by this shrew.
30163871|The effects of salinity on the specific activity of ouabain-sensitive Na K ATPase were investigated in Artemia franciscana embryos and nauplii. Whole organismal specific activity of the enzyme was measured in organisms exposed to chronic (constant) salinity conditions of 5-, 12-, 32-, or 50-ppt seawater. During emergence and throughout early stage 1 naupliar development, the specific activity of Na K  ATPase increased at all external salinities. No significant differences in enzyme activities were observed among the salinity treatments. The pattern and levels of enzyme activity suggest a genetically determined program of enzyme synthesis that is not influenced by the external salinity. The specific activity of the enzyme was also measured after exposure of stage 1 nauplii to acute hypoosmotic and hyperosmotic conditions during both the early and late stages of the observed increase in enzyme activity. The apparent synthesis of Na K ATPase was not influenced when stage 1 nauplii were exposed to an abrupt salinity change. These results suggest that, in stage 1 nauplii, this ontogenetic program of enzyme synthesis overrides any acute osmotic stress responses that might involve changes in the total amount of the enzyme. During early naupliar development, modulation of the preexisting enzyme may be a more important mechanism of ion regulation than is modulation of the enzyme's synthesis and degradation.
30164216|The monomeric subunit composition of the O carrier hemocyanin was investigated in three pairs of sibling species in the fiddler crab genus Uca and a complex of two sibling species and their postulated hybrid in the stone crab genus Menippe. All but one species were polymorphic, though to quite different degrees. None of the intraspecific variation resembled that expected of different gene products encoded at the same locus. Even when the intraspecific variation was great, however, the electrophoretic phenotype was absolutely diagnostic of a species, suggesting that the crustacean hemocyanins diverged early in speciation. The hybrid stone crabs, however, did not differ significantly from one of their parent species.
30164214|We examined the energetic consequences to a ruminant herbivore of ingestion and absorption of low-molecular-weight phenolics, which commonly occur in ericaceous plant species. The first experiment simulated the entrance of absorbable xenobiotics into the general circulation, as might occur if the detoxification capacity of the animal were exceeded. Orcinol was administered intravenously to six sheep for 10 d at a low rate equivalent to about 5% of the total nontannin phenolics likely to be ingested by free-ranging sheep. This led to a 5% increase in energy expenditure (P < 0.05), measured by indirect calorimetry. In a further experiment orcinol and quinol were continuously infused into the rumen of five ewes, at a rate equivalent to the likely dietary intake of nontannin phenolics. When administered via this normal oral route, within the normal physiological range, the phenolics had no detectable effect on energy expenditure but led to a reduction in the intake of digestible energy (P < 0.05) and an increase in urinary energy excretion (P < 0.01). These experiments suggest that the effectiveness of the detoxification system is crucial to permit use of toxin-containing plants by herbivores, and it should be strongly associated with their foraging strategies.
30158287|In phocid species in which females fast throughout lactation, maternal energy reserves at parturition must support lactation. Thus, differences in body size and energy stores may influence the magnitude of maternal energy transfer. We examined variation in milk energy transfer and its consequence for pup growth in grey seals over a wide range of maternal body sizes. Milk samples (n = 42) were collected from 28 females over the 16-d lactation period. Milk yields were measured in nine mother-pup pairs by deuterium oxide dilution. Milk fat and energy content increased dramatically over the first half of lactation. At mid-to late lactation milk composition averaged 71.1% dry matter, 59.8% fat, 9.2% protein, and 24.8 kJ/g (bomb calorimetry). Initial maternal mass (149-256 kg) and daily mass loss (3-9 kg/d) were correlated with daily milk output (1.3-4.1 kg/d). Milk energy output (29-92 MJ/d) in turn explained pup mass gain (0.8-2.8 kg/d, r = 0.997). Pups with greater energy intakes had a greater ratio of fat to protein deposition and thus a greater efficiency of energy storage, increasing from 40% to 79%. Daily milk intake did not change over lactation, but growth rate was greater during the second half of lactation because milk energy intake was greater. Results of this study indicate that large females lose mass more rapidly, produce more milk, and wean larger, fatter pups than do small females. We conclude that differences in maternal mass and available energy stores may have substantial consequences for the pup and may account for much of the reported variation in pup growth both within and between populations of phocids such as the grey seal.
30156197|The ability of camels to walk and carry heavy loads for long distances in arid regions is well recognized. However, the metabolic requirement in walking and load carrying is unknown. The objective of this study was to measure the O used by man and camel walking side by side on a well-packed road. Three men (
10.1086/515860|The barrier to gas flux across the eggs of American alligators
30164218|We examined the effect of water stress on the ventilation of 4-mo-old unfed adult female Dermacentor andersoni using a CO flow-through respirometry system. Whether defined in terms of hydrational status or the ambient relative humidity of the air, water stress significantly affected the cyclic pattern of gas exchange. Hydrated animals exposed to humid air (95% relative humidity) ventilated discontinuously with long interburst periods in which no measurable CO emission occurred. Exposure to dry air (0% relative humidity) resulted in more frequent but smaller CO bursts and was accompanied by greater rates of water loss. Dehydrated animals, particularly those in humid air, displayed much higher standard metabolic rates than hydrated animals. This increase in CO emission was accommodated by an increase in cycling frequency and interburst gaseous exchange with an eventual breakdown of the discontinuous ventilation cycle. Higher standard metabolic rate in dehydrated animals (0% relative humidity) was not correlated with locomotary activity but rather reflected a decrease in water content since metabolic rate expressed on a dry-weight basis did not differ significantly from that of hydrated animals. A further increase in the rate of CO emission accompanied by very rapid cycling and water uptake occurred when dehydrated ticks were exposed to humid air. This increase in metabolic expenditure in dehydrated animals at 95% relative humidity includes the energy cost of active water vapor uptake.
30162290|The thermal relations of waterproof frogs of two genera (Phyllomedusa and Chiromantis) were studied in an outdoor enclosure and, in the laboratory, in a thermal gradient, in a heated wind tunnel, and under an imposed radiant heat load. When allowed to move freely in a thermal gradient, no frogs showed a distinct preferred temperature, although Chiromantis spp. consistently avoided the cool end of the gradient. Both Chiromantis spp. and Phyllomedusa sauvagei voluntarily tolerated high body temperatures of 38 and 40 C, respectively. When subjected to a convective heat load, either outdoors or in the laboratory wind tunnel, both C. xerampelina and P. sauvagei allowed body temperature (
30159929|The mudpuppy, Necturus maculosus, exhibited significant daily cycles of resting oxygen consumption and spontaneous locomotor activity at 5 C and 15 C with an LD 12:12 photoperiod. Resting whole body lactate levels did not vary with time of day at either acclimation temperature, therefore high levels of spontaneous locomotor activity are supported entirely aerobically. Lung breathing accounted for half of the oxygen consumed during periods of high resting oxygen consumption and high spontaneous activity at both acclimation temperatures. When mudpuppies were stimulated for 30 min to complete exhaustion during periods of high resting oxygen consumption, no further increase in oxygen consumption was observed. When mudpuppies were stimulated during a period of low resting oxygen consumption, an increase in oxygen consumption attributable entirely to air breathing was observed. Whole body lactate levels increased during stimulation independent of the time of day of stimulation and apparently independent of acclimation temperature. Mudpuppies did not exhibit an oxygen debt, but rather gradually reduced poststimulation whole body lactate levels over a recovery period of 24 h. The prolonged removal of lactate with no accompanying oxygen debt results in a considerable energy savings for this species. The major source of glucose for anaerobic energy production during exhausting activity is liver glycogen. The strong dependence on anaerobiosis for energy production over resting levels coupled with a prolonged recovery period significantly reduces the energetic cost of activity in Necturus and is further evidence for the "low energy evolutionary strategy" of salamanders.
30155855|To determine whether the unusual capacity of muscle of diving mammals to undergo extended periods of anaerobiosis is due to the expression of specialized forms of the rate-limiting enzymes of glycolysis, we examined the isozymic nature of the pyruvate kinase expressed in various tissues of the ringed seal Phoca hispida. Our electrophoretic results indicate that heart and skeletal muscle contain different forms of pyruvate kinase. Both of these forms are distinct from the cathodally migrating type K isozyme in the liver. Kinetic results show that both these forms are distinct from other mammalian type M pyruvate kinases in having an acid pH optimum and a sensitivity to alanine inhibition. The affinity of the seal muscle pyruvate kinase for phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) is lower than that of the heart form or of other mammalian type M isozymes. While the seal heart isozyme shows a decrease in affinity for PEP with a decrease in temperature, the PEP affinity of the muscle form is independent of temperature. This permits a more constant enzyme activity in the more heterothermic muscle. Muscle pyruvate kinase, with its acid pH optimum, lowered affinity for PEP, and increased sensitivity to alanine inhibition, is well suited for a tissue which undergoes prolonged anaerobic periods and then switches to aerobic utilization of lipids. We conclude that the differentiation of this distinct muscle pyruvate kinase is a special adaptation which may partially account for the ability of seal muscle to withstand considerable periods of anaerobiosis.
30155851|Examinations were made of the roles of pineal and extraretinal photoreceptors in determining the thermal preferences and thermoregulatory behaviors of a teleost fish, the white sucker Catostomus commersoni. Fish whose pineal regions were shielded from light spent significantly more time in the warmer and/or more illuminated portions of both horizontal thermal gradients and chambers maintained at constant temperatures. These shifts in thermal and light preferences could be reversed by removal of the pineal shields. Shifts in light and thermal preferences became completely developed over 3-5 days after shielding, suggesting immediate neural as well as long-term endocrine alterations. These data indicate that pineal and possibly other extraretinal photoreceptors of this teleost fish have a "dosimetric" function that is involved in sensing ambient illumination and mediating thermoregulatory behavior.
30164231|Respiratory gas transport, acid-base state, and ionic status of Hemigrapsus nudus before, during, and after 24 h of emersion from 10 C water were determined in the laboratory at two air temperatures (10 and 25 C). These data were compared to those from animals sampled in situ on the shore. During the initial 30 min, H. nudus exhibited an internal hypercapnic hypoxia. The arterial O content decreased from 0.69 mmol L to a mean 0.43 mmol L at 10 C and 0.34 mmol L at 25 C in air. A difference between arterial and venous O content was maintained throughout emersion, with no indication of anaerobiosis even after 24 b in air. The hypercapnia was temperature-dependent but stabilised, so that while haemolymph PCO was approximately 2 mmHg in water and less than 3 mmHg at 10C in air, it reached 73 mmHg at 25C in air (where 1 mmHg = 0.133 kPa). Acute haemolymph acidosis occurred at both temperatures, followed by a compensatory metabolic alkalosis within 4 h. In 10 C air, haemolymph pH stabilised at greater than 7.9 (compared with 7.83 in water). In air at 25 C, the haemolymph stabilised at a relatively acidotic pH, as predicted by the 15 C difference in temperature. Large changes in strong ion difference were evident during emersion, but their magnitude depended on air temperature. Sustained O transport and respiration in emersed Hemigrapsus was facilitated by the lung and not the gills since the arterial O content (0.26 mmol L) was lower than that of pulmonary blood (0.30 mmol L). There was no indication of enhanced carbonic anhydrase activity in the lung to facilitate CO excretion. Oxygen uptake was similarly limited in air as in water. An increase in cardiac output in air, exacerbated by increased temperature, suggested that Hemigrapsus may be near the limit of its aerobic scope during emersion. Increased circulating urate levels during prolonged air breathing at 25 C (but not 10 C) also indicated that O delivery to the tissues may be limiting during emersion on warm days. Hemigrapsus nudus exercised in air for 15 min at 25 C required significant anaerobiosis. Field data, at temperatures intermediate between those of the laboratory studies, supported the conclusions from the laboratory data. While the scope for activity for Hemigrapsus in air may be limited, it is clear that this species is an adept air breather and that foraging activities in air can be supported aerobically.
30155721|It has been argued that brachiation is an energetically cheap way to move since, like a swinging pendulum, it involves an alternate storage and recovery of kinetic energy in gravitational potential energy during each swing. Walking also involves an alternate storage and recovery of kinetic energy in gravitational potential energy during a stride, and it has been likened to an inverted pendulum. There seems no a priori reason to suppose that the suspended pendulum of the "brachiator" is an energetically cheaper mechanism for locomotion than the inverted pendulum of the "walker." We therefore measured the energetic cost of locomotion as a function of speed as spider monkeys brachiated on a rope mill and on a horizontal ladder mill and as they walked on a treadmill. We compared the energetic cost of brachiation, the most specialized form of suspended locomotion, with that of the simplest-upside-down walking in the loris. We found that spider monkeys used significantly more energy to move at any speed when they brachiated than when they walked. The lorises, on the other hand, used the same amount of energy whether they moved upright or suspended beneath a rope. Although brachiation requires more energy to move a given distance, it may allow animals to drastically reduce the distance per trip in an arboreal habitat by moving from branch to branch in the periphery of trees.
10.1086/515901|The current concept of ventricular filling in elasmobranch and teleost fishes is that atrial contraction is the primary, if not the exclusive, determinant of ventricular filling. Recent echocardiographic and online hemodynamic data for elasmobranchs, however, have demonstrated a biphasic ventricular filling pattern, characterized by an early phase that occurs during ventricular relaxation and a late phase that follows atrial systole. This study reports echocardiographic and hemodynamic analyses of ventricular filling in three teleost genera (
30156103|This study describes the effects on hard-water-adapted rainbow trout of prolonged exposure ( 1 wk) to very low external ion levels, those characteristic of very dilute soft water (NaCl = 0.06, Ca = 0.025 mMol/liter). Net losses of NaCl but not of Ca occurred. The gills were the predominant site of the net NaCl losses. Rates of loss declined with time, but initial ion balance was not restored except in animals maintained at threefold higher NaCl levels. The compensatory reduction in ion loss rate occurred because of an initial decline in branchial efflux and a later increase in both Na and Cl transport. Urine flow rate, an indirect measure of branchial water permeability, increased significantly as a result of low ion exposure but subsequently declined to levels typical of normal hard water. In contrast, mannitol clearance, a measure of branchial paracellular channel permeability, was unaffected by soft-water exposure. The chelating agent EDTA, used as a means of removing Ca bound to the gill surface, was effective at 2 mMol/liter in increasing ionic permeability of both hard-water- and soft-wateradapted fish. The latter, however, showed a significantly smaller effect of EDTA treatment, which suggests increased branchial Ca binding activity.
30152580|Maximum rates of oxygen consumption and lactate accumulation in hind limb muscles of Bufo marinus acclimated at 15 C or 25 C and LD 12:12 were determined in an experiment designed to test the relative effectiveness of electric shocks and mechanical rotation in eliciting burst-activity metabolism; no differences in oxygen consumption or in lactate production due to the method of stimulation were found. Mean
30155934|Simultaneous behavioral observations and microclimatic observations indicate a tight coupling between the daytime incubation behavior of Heermann's gulls (Larus heermanni) and thermal conditions in the rookery. By means of thermoregulatory behavior, these gulls are able to maintain their own thermal balance while protecting their eggs from overheating on the Mexican desert islands where they breed. The various components of their behavioral thermoregulation facilitate either heat retention or heat loss through modification of convective heat loss and evaporative cooling. These behavioral components were assigned arbitrary numerical values, and a thermoregulatory index ranging from -1.0 (heat retention) to 8.0 (maximum heat loss) was computed for a variety of thermal conditions. This index was most strongly correlated with substrate temperature (RHO = .87), evidently because this physical parameter integrates the thermal conditions in the rookery in a manner similar to that of the gulls themselves.
30163867|During postnatal development, young birds and mammals are neither strict ectotherms nor homeotherms. They have variable body temperatures
30155836|Two captive female common dolphins (59 kg and 55 kg) were given intravenous injections of tritiated water (HTO) and sodium-22 (Na-22) after the first day of a 5-day fast. Blood samples were collected each of the next 4 days. Total body water was 37% of total body weight, and the mean rate of water turnover was 77 mlkgday. This low value for total body water of a mammal is due to the high blubber content of the body. Exchangeable sodium levels were 37 and 40 meqkg, with turnover rate of 6 meqkg day. Skin was shown to be impermeable to sodium, so the only sodium source for these animals was seawater. Seawater drunk at a rate of 12 and 13 ml kgday accounted for the observed sodium turnover and about 1/6 of the total water turnover. Estimated water turnover from food and seawater consumption is the same as total water turnover predicted for terrestrial mammals of the same weight. However, the low body water content of these dolphins indicates that they have a high fractional rate of water turnover. Most of the body water turnover is due to the permeability of the skin. The rapid fractional water turnover, seawater consumption, and dilute urine indicate that conservation is not a major aspect of the fasting dolphin's water budget. Feeding dolphins, however, may benefit from the urinary osmotic space that seawater provides for the urea produced by protein catabolism.
30157953|To gain a better understanding of the possible effects ventilatory pauses may have on ventilatory requirement (
30157974|The Queensland blossom bat (Syconycteris australis) is a specialist nectar and pollen feeder. Its dietary maintenance nitrogen requirement (MNR), determined by feeding blossom bats varying levels of pollen in an artificial sugar solution, was 337 mg N 
30163852|Little attention has been given to the study of physiological variation within species of fish. This study examines whether a population of Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) found in the brackish Bras d'Or Lakes of Nova Scotia, Canada, has different physiological characteristics than a nearby Atlantic ocean cod population. Chronically cannulated cod from both populations were exercised to exhaustion in a swim-tunnel respirometer. Although exercise performance was identical between populations, the physiological bases of that performance differed substantially. Cod from the Bras d'Or system had greater metabolic, ventilatory, and cardiac rates as well as a greater estimated resting metabolic rate. The Bras d'Or population used a greater proportion of anaerobic metabolism in attaining its maximal performance level as surmised from a relatively greater metabolic acid-base disturbance and higher lactate levels during recovery from exercise in the Bras d'Or population. Bras d'Or cod also had generally more dilute plasma and lower levels of hemoglobin in its erythrocytes than conspecifics from the Atlantic Ocean. These results are discussed as possible clues to the physiological adjustments necessary for cod to succeed in the Bras d'Or system.
30158552|Time-averaged sustained metabolic rates (SusMRs) of humans and wild animals have been observed not to exceed about seven times basal metabolic rate (BMR), which suggests a possible ceiling on sustained metabolic scope. We tested experimentally for such a ceiling by subtracting or adding pups to vary the litter size of lactating mother mice between five and 26 pups. Mothers could regularly wean 14pups but not more (natural litter size is 8-10). Although food intake at peak lactation increased to as much as 3.4 times virgin values and increased with litter size, digestive efficiency remained constant The mass of the small intestine and of other gut compartments increased up to severalfold at peak lactation, and as a consequence so did the intestine's brush-border uptake capacities for glucose and for proline. Time-averaged sustained metabolic rate at peak lactation reached 7.2 times BMR; this ratio is evidently close to a ceiling on sustained metabolic scope. Estimates of intestinal nutrient uptake capacities exceeded nutrient intakes by only a modest safety margin of reserve capacity. Intestinal hypertrophy during lactation tended to preserve those safety margins and thus to maintain digestive effciency. Conversely, postlactational intestinal atrophy and the modest size of the safety margins tended to avoid waste of biosynthetic energy.
30158253|Drosophila melanogaster selected for postponed aging have increased resistance to desiccation and increased flight duration. These and other populations were tested for longevity, flight duration, glycogen content, and stress resistance under a variety of conditions. It was found that desiccation resistance was positively associated with flight duration and glycogen content, while glycogen was exhausted in the course of desiccation, as it is in flight Flies with postponed aging also have lower water-loss rates (WLRs) when dead, suggesting that factors other than glycogen content are partly responsible for their increased desiccation resistance. However, total epicuticular hydrocarbon does not appear to determine desiccation resistance. Starvation resistance does not vary in a manner that corresponds with desiccation resistance, under either selection or manipulation, but does vary in association with lipid level This suggests at least two physiological mechanisms by which aging has been postponed in these flies: increased lipid content and increased glycogen content. These mechanisms are at least somewhat independent, evolutionarily, genetically, and physiologically.
30156223|Biochemical indices of metabolic cold adaptation were studied in muscular tissues of ecotypically similar Antarctic and Temperate Zone marine fishes. Pairwise comparisons were made between sluggish bottom-dwelling (polar: Notothenia gibberifrons; temperate: Myoxocephalus octodecimspinosus) and more active pelagic (polar: Trematomus newnesi; temperate: Tautoga onitis) species to ensure that results reflect differences in thermal habitats rather than life histories. Maximal activities of enzymes from central pathways of aerobic energy metabolism (citrate synthase, cytochrome oxidase) were 1.5-5-fold higher in oxidative muscles from polar species than from Temperate Zone counterparts when assayed at 1 C. Under similar conditions, enzyme markers for fatty acid oxidation (carnitine palmitoyltransferase, 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase) were 1.3-27-fold higher in tissues from polar species, while those for both aerobic (hexokinase) and anaerobic (6-phosphofructokinase, pyruvate kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase) metabolism of carbohydrate were generally lower in tissues of polar than of Temperate Zone fishes. These data suggest significant metabolic cold adaptation of aerobic energy metabolism reliant upon fatty fuels inpolar species, but a lack of such adaptation in pathways of carbohydrate metabolism. In the Temperate Zone species, acute thermal sensitivities between 1 and 10 C of most catalysts from central pathways of aerobic energy metabolism were lower (
30159967|A study was conducted to determine the adaptive response to high salt diets of feral hogs living in the salt marshes of Ossabaw Island, Georgia. Two groups of hogs were used. One group consisted of three feral hogs from Ossabaw Island and the other of three domestic Hampshire hogs. Both groups were maintained in metabolism cages under constant environmental conditions and fed consecutive diets of 0.5%, 3%, and 6% salt (NaCl) content. During each dietary regime, observations were made on food, water, and salt intake and urine, feces, and salt output. The feral hogs required significantly less drinking water than the Hampshires. The major avenue of water loss was urinary, with ferals losing significantly less than the Hampshires. This difference was due to the greater renal concentrating abilities of the feral hogs. Urine osmotic concentrations were as high as 1,039.7 mOsm for the feral hogs and 712.1 mOsm for the Hampshires. The feral hogs' more efficient salt and water maintenance mechanisms may represent adaptations to an environment of high salt diets and minimal availability of freshwater.
30161268|Temperature selection in developing bullfrog tadpoles was monitored in the summer and in the winter. During the summer, premetamorphic tadpoles selected moderate temperatures (Taylor-Kollros stages; small 1-5 [3-5 g]: 25.4  2.4 C; large 1-5 [8-10 g]: 26.2  2.2 C; 6-10: 25.1  1.6 C; $\bar{X}$  SEM). Prometamorphic and early metamorphic climax tadpoles selected higher temperatures (14-17: 31.6  0.2 C; 18-19: 31.9  0.3 C; 20: 30.9  1.0 C; 21: 31.6  0.7; 22: 30.0  0.8); early metamorphic climax tadpoles (stages 18-22) displayed the lowest levels of activity and the highest precision of thermoregulation. Late metamorphic tadpoles selected the lowest temperatures (23: 16.1  1.8 C; 24-25: 18.1  2.2 C). Fed and starved postmetamorphic froglets showed no differences in selected temperature during a 3-wk test period. During the winter, premetamorphic tadpoles selected temperatures similar to those selected during the summer; however, prometamorphic tadpoles selected much lower temperatures in November and February. The ontogenetic and seasonal variations in selected temperature presumably reflect the relative optimization of growth and differentiation rates during the different developmental periods.
30156073|The plasma lipoproteins of the channel catfish were separated by ultracentrifugation into very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL), low-density lipoproteins (LDL), and highdensity lipoproteins (HDL), using the same density intervals employed to separate their human counterparts. Serum background density, ultracentrifugal flotation, and electrophoretic behavior of native catfish and human lipoproteins were comparable. In well-fed catfish the lipoproteins accounted for almost 30% of the total plasma protein and 95% of the total plasma lipid. The HDL was the major lipoprotein, containing 84% of the protein and 5% of the lipid in the plasma fraction d < 1.21 g/ml. Comparison of fed and fasted catfish showed the levels of VLDL and LDL to be closely correlated with the intake of dietary lipid, while the level of HDL was not. Fatty acid composition of the lipoproteins was similar to that reported for other fish species. Cholesterol esters had a high proportion of polyunsaturated fatty acids with 22:63 accounting for between 14% and 27% of the fatty acids. Analysis of the apoproteins by electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) or 8 M urea showed that there is a characteristic apoprotein content associated with each lipoprotein class. The major component of both apoVLDL and apoLDL was a peptide with a molecular weight of 250,000 daltons with properties similar to the apoB protein found in mammals. Catfish apoHDL showed six major bands on SDS gel electrophoresis with molecular weights of 11,000, 22,000, 25,500, 106,000, 128,500, and 159,000 daltons.
30156160|The doubly labeled water technique (DLW) for the measurement of free-living energy expenditure was validated by comparison with indirect calorimetry for nine small (<10 g) insectivorous bats (n = 7, Pipistrellus pipistrellus; n = 2, Plecotus auritus) over a fivefold range of daily metabolism. The DLW estimates were consistently greater than the indirect calorimetry estimates. The mean algebraic difference was +9.5% with the Lifson and McClintock equation, +5.1% with the Coward et al. equation, and +3.4% with the Schoeller et al. equation. These differences were not significant since the range of errors was large. Mean absolute deviation was 13.5%, 13.7%, and 14.5% for the three respective equations. The assumption of a constant respiratory quotient (RQ) did not introduce significant error. The overestimate of energy expenditure made by the DLW technique is consistent with previous validation studies on mammals. One potential source of this error is that the fractional turnover of the oxygen label includes some irreversible loss of label during urea synthesis; however, this source is unlikely to explain all of the wide range of error observed between individuals.
30155693|Seasonal changes in water flux rates (HTO) and diet (stomach content analysis) were determined in jackrabbits (Lepus californicus) kept in 1-acre (0.4-hectare) field enclosures that contained natural Mojave Desert vegetation. The water, electrolyte, and nitrogen contents of food plants were measured at different seasons. Itemized water, electrolyte, and nitrogen budgets in jackrabbits were obtained by measuring food utilization in caged animals fed natural diets. Field jackrabbits maintained body mass and obtained excess water while eating succulent annual plants in spring, but in summer and winter animals could not maintain mass or water balance while eating the drier vegetation present during those seasons. Diet utilization studies indicated that (1) jackrabbits could not maintain nitrogen balance on the winter diet, (2) ion regulation was no problem in spring or summer, and (3) jackrabbits can produce fairly concentrated urine (2.5-3.6 osM), very dry feces (38% HO), and can reduce evaporative water loss about 70% when water is restricted. Despite these mechanisms for conserving water, jackrabbits in the field have relatively high water requirements. We estimate that in summer a jackrabbit would require about 120 ml HO kg day to maintain water balance, and that its diet must contain no less than 68% HO in order to meet this requirement. As long as food plants contain sufficient water, their digest ibility, nitrogen, and electrolyte content will probably also be suitable.
30156038|Radioactive sodium and water were used to determine total body water (TBW), exchangeable sodium (ExNa) and water and sodium fluxes in free-living Crocodylus porosus in marine (hyperosmotic; salinity = 25-35) and brackish (hypoosmotic; salinity = 2-7.5) sections of the Tomkinson River in northern Australia. At capture, size-corrected TBW and ExNa pools in 62 crocodiles (hatchlings, juveniles, and subadults; weight, 0.108-54.4 kg) were independent of salinity history. To determine fluxes, all animals were released at their capture sites and left undisturbed until recapture. Thirty-seven were recaptured after 7-18 days. Fifteen of the 17 hatchlings recaptured from both salinity categories grew and maintained their condition and hydration status. In contrast, all 20 juveniles and subadults lost weight in the same period, and juveniles in hyperosmotic conditions showed significantly lower hydration and condition factors. Water effluxes in hatchlings were ~80 and ~160 ml 
30152626|We have investigated aerobic metabolism and blood O transport properties of the leatherback sea turtle (Dermochelys coriacea). During nesting, at a body temperature of 29 C, resting ventilation (9.2  1. 7 mL min kg) and O consumption (0. 25  0.04 mL min kg; three turtles) were slightly below values given for other sea turtles. Tidal volume was considerably smaller than in other turtles (4.0  1.06 mL kg) suggesting that Dermochelys has small lungs. Blood (measured in four turtles) had an extremely high Hb concentration (15. 6  1.8 g dL), hematocrit (39%  1.2%), and carried 21  2.5 mL  dL blood, which exceeds the blood O carrying capacity of other sea turtles and was similar to that of most mammals. Pectoral muscle myoglobin content, indicative of tissue O stores, was 4.9 g dL, twice that of other sea turtles. The
30156194|Scorpion (Palamneus phipsoni) tissues were assayed for the activities of the enzymes of the urea cycle and arginine catabolism. In the hepatopancreas, appreciable levels of arginase and ornithine carbamoyltransferase were present, but arginine synthetase activity could not be detected. None of the three enzymes was found in claw muscle and telson. The results suggest that a functional urea cycle is absent in this guanotelic species. Ornithine aminotransferase, -pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase, -pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase, and proline oxidase, which catalyze the interconversions of ornithine, glutamate, and proline, were present in scorpion tissues. The metabolic significance of these results has been evaluated in relation to arginine nutrition and ornithine catabolism in the scorpion.
30163712|Aerobic metabolism of Atlantic hagfish cardiac muscle was examined using an isolated electrically paced working preparation of systemic heart ventricle. Hagfish myocardium was shown to be capable of oxidizing both glucose and palmitic acid. The rate of D-glucose [
30152585|A time-dependent model describing mechanisms of heat transfer in fish was developed and tested. The model predicted thermal time constants of fish (100-1,600 g) and transient changes in body temperatures of fish experiencing step changes in ambient temperature (heating or cooling). Model sensitivity analysis indicated that body diameter, insulation thickness, and tissue thermal conductivity were controlling variables in the transfer of heat between a fish and water. Fish metabolic rate and water velocity across fish surfaces did not appreciably affect heat transfer rates. Results from experimental heating and cooling studies performed on Micropterus salmoides indicated that body wall thicknesses for three anatomical compartments (midgut, brain, and heart) were linear functions of body mass. Midgut and brain thermal time constants were dependent on body mass. Heart thermal time constants were independent of body mass, indicating that the temperature of the heart may be a factor limiting the thermal exploitive behavior of different-size fish. The midgut region exchanged heat at the slowest rate and the heart region exchanged heat at the fastest rate. The cranial region exchanged heat at rates intermediate to those of the midgut and heart. We found statistically significant differences between deep body thermal time constants of live and dead M. salmoides, indicating differential mechanisms of heat exchange for living and nonliving fish.
30157901|Hemolymph acid-base and ion levels and acidic equivalent exchange with the experimental water were monitored in rock crabs (Cancer irroratus Say) exposed to control normoxia (
30166503|We tested the hypotheses that (1) chronic water deprivation could lead to reproductive failures in northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus); (2) chronic water deprivation would cause changes in levels of serum corticosterone (B), progesterone (P), and osmolality; and (3) quail could acclimate to chronic water deprivation during the breeding season. Quail were subjected to ad libitum, 75%, 50%, or 25% water restriction for 11 wk during the spring-early summer breeding season. Additional birds were subjected to 50% or 25% ad libitum water restriction for 5 wk and then given ad libitum water for 6 wk. In females, water restriction inhibited ovary and oviduct development, which was reflected in a delay in egg production and a decline in egg mass. In males, water restriction was associated with a decline in testis mass. Although the effects of water restriction were pronounced, they were quickly reversed with administration of ad libitum water after the initial 5 wk of treatment. Water-restricted female quail had reduced levels of serum P, but normal levels of B. In contrast, water-restricted males had normal P levels, and in the most severely water-deprived birds, elevated levels of B. We found serum osmolality to be consistently elevated in water-restricted males and females. Thus, unlike the serum hormone levels, serum osmolality was consistently and similarly changed in both sexes during water deprivation. Our results indicate that chronic water deprivation could lead to reproductive failures in quail However, the bird's ability to continue laying eggs also indicates that it can partially acclimate to water deprivation during the breeding season to allow reproduction to proceed during periods of chronic drought.
30163950|Buffering capacities () (measured in slykes = micromoles of base required to titrate the pH of 1 g wet weight of tissue by one pH unit between pH 6 and pH 7) due to nonbicarbonate buffers were measured for the tissues of three marine molluscs, the oyster, Crassostrea virginica, the cherrystone clam, Mercenaria mercenaria, and the channeled whelk, Busycotypus canaliculatum. In general  was higher in muscle tissues (adductors, foot, heart, radular retractor) than in the gill and mantle, but hepatopancreas of the whelk had a  two- to threefold higher than that of any other whelk tissue. Selected tissues (gill of oyster, catch adductor of clam, heart and hepatopancreas of whelk) showed a significant increase in buffering capacity when tissues were isolated from animals held under anoxic conditions compared with control aerobic animals; however, no consistent effect of environmental anoxia was found, nor was buffering capacity related to the tissue levels of succinate accumulated during anaerobiosis. Tissues of oysters and clams showed a positive correlation between  and the activities of terminal glycolytic dehydrogenases, and white muscle-type tissues (adductors, foot) of all three species showed a positive correlation between  and total dehydrogenase activities (lactate, octopine, and alanopine/strombine dehydrogenases). Buffering capacity appears to be related to the tissue need for "burst" glycolytic energy production (functional anoxia) rather than to the capacity for long-term anaerobiosis (environmental anoxia).
30156015|The effects of acid stress on the locomotor and chemoreceptive behavior of Arctic char were determined by quantifying their movements within a laboratory trough. Three behavioral parameters were measured: activity, spatial preference within the trough, and the attraction to a plume of food extract presented at different concentrations. Char were preexposed for 14 days to pH 7.8 (controls), 7.0, 5.5, 5.0, 4.75, or 4.5, and then individually tested in the trough at the same pH. The behavior of pH 7.0 and 5.5 char was not statistically different from the controls. Char exposed to pH 5.0 behaved much like control fish but were more active and less responsive to the extract. Marked behavioral changes occurred when char were exposed to either pH 4.75 or 4.5. At these levels activity was sharply reduced, time spent at the ends of the trough increased, and attraction for the extract was highly depressed. Some individuals were strongly affected, while others were affected only moderately. We suggest that behavioral abnormalities brought on by acid stress are responsible, in part, for the disappearance of fish populations from lakes and streams where pH's have been chronically depressed by acid pollution.
30156230|In birds, as in other animals, the mechanism for photoperiodic time measurement is based on circadian rhythmicity. In models of this mechanism, the entrainment of circadian rhythms is a key feature. One can therefore ask whether any synchronizing agent (zeitgeber) that can entrain circadian rhythms could also induce photoperiodic responses. We addressed this question using known nonphotic circadian zeitgebers (playbacks of conspecific vocalizations, and nonspecific acoustic disturbance) in house sparrows. We subjected photosensitive male sparrows to stimulatory photoperiods (2L: 10D:2L: 10D and 12.5L: 11.5D) and to similar "phonoperiods" in which part or all of the light of the photoperiods was replaced by a combination of conspecific vocalization playbacks and nonspecific acoustic disturbance. Direct observation with an infrared visionscope revealed that almost all birds remained alert during the sound presentation. Their circadian rhythms were also entrained to the sound. However, whereas sparrows exposed to stimulatory photoperiods experienced testicular growth (from 6 mg to 311 mg), sparrows exposed to the corresponding phonoperiods did not. These results suggest that nonphotic zeitgebers cannot mimic the photoperiodic effect of light. Conceivably, however, photoperiodic-like effects might still be obtained with stronger nonphotic zeitgebers, as yet undiscovered in birds, or with nonphotic zeitgebers whose action would reveal itself only when the zeitgebers occurred at circadian phases other than those at which light is effective.
30158212|Heterocephalus glaber (the naked mole rat) is a highly social mammal, living in large underground colonies in equatorial Africa. Isolated naked mole rats exhibit unusual thermoregulation and cannot regulate body temperature (
30155831|Net water gain and loss by partially dehydrated female house dust mites, Dermatophagoides farinae, were measured in several combinations of water vapor activity (
30163872|Flux through glycolysis and the pentose shunt pathway and the rate of glucose oxidation to CO were examined as functions of body mass in the sea anemone Metridium senile. Minced tissues from anemones acclimated to 5C and 15C were incubated in media containing isotopically labeled glucose compounds to determine pathway fluxes. Double-logarithmic regressions showed that the specific rate of glucose oxidation declined significantly with increasing anemone mass at 15C (the mass exponent in the expression
10.1086/515893|We examined the effects of acute lowpH exposure on ion balance (Na
30152577|Thermal conductance is a measure of the ease with which heat is exchanged between a body and the environment. It may include or exclude evaporative heat loss. If evaporative heat loss is included, conductance in endotherms should be used only at temperatures below thermoneutrality because evaporation is of little importance only at these temperatures. The slope of the curve of metabolism on air temperature equals conductance if and only if the curve extrapolates to body temperature when the rate of metabolism is zero. Slopes fitted by the method of least squares (
10.1086/515917|Basal metabolic rate is one of the most widely measured physiological traits. Previous studies on lab mice and fieldcaught lizards suggest that individuals with relatively high basal metabolic rates or standard metabolic rates have relatively large masses of metabolically active tissues (e.g., heart, kidney, liver). As these are energetically expensive organs, there may be variability between breeding seasons dependent on, for example, availability of prey and capacity for energy intake. We present data from breeding tree swallows (
30155984|Green fig beetles (Cotinus texana; Scarabaeidae) were abundant around ripe fruit during the spring and summer in southern California. At low ambient temperatures (
10.1086/515913|This study aimed to describe the effects of change in environmental temperature, hypoxia, and hypercapnia on the breathing pattern of
10.1086/515845|Plasma alkaline phosphatase and inorganic phosphorus levels were determined for 52 nestling Spanish imperial eagles from two wild populations and 22 captive adults and subadults (10 adults and 12 subadults). The exact age was known for all birds. Mean alkaline phosphatase and inorganic phosphorus were higher in chicks than in the captive adults and subadults. Sex differences were not observed, and nestlings from different populations showed similar values. No significant regression described the relationship between age and alkaline phosphatase or inorganic phosphorus throughout the nestling period. However, alkaline phosphatase and inorganic phosphorus decreased significantly throughout the subadult period, with age explaining 98.2% and 50.5% of the variation in alkaline phosphatase and inorganic phosphorus levels, respectively. Nonfullyossified zones were measured in frontal bones of another 12 subadult eagles that died at known ages. Ossification increased throughout the subadult period and was significantly correlated with expected levels of alkaline phosphatase or inorganic phosphorus (i.e., values predicted from the regression equations derived from the first analysis). Minimum alkaline phosphatase levels and full ossification of the cranial roof coincided with puberty onset. We conclude that, in subadult Spanish imperial eagles, decreasing alkaline phosphatase and inorganic phosphorus values are related to the ossification of frontal bones, although a contribution of other unknown processes of late ossification cannot be excluded, and alkaline phosphatase (but not inorganic phosphorus) may be a useful parameter for agepredicting purposes.
30155887|Radioglucose metabolism in Richardson's ground squirrels was measured to study the relationship among the metabolic demands (maturation, pregnancy, and lactation) on different age and sex groups, subsequent prehibernatory fattening, and order of entrance into hibernation. The specific activity of
30160958|Bullfrogs were submerged for 25 min in water at 25 C saturated with either O, air, or N. The heart rates of all three groups were not significantly different prior to submergence. The heart rate of the O group did not change during submergence while the air and N groups experienced significant bradycardia. In paired comparisons, only the O and N groups exhibited significantly different degrees of bradycardia. The extent of bradycardia, therefore, was correlated inversely with the O saturation of the water. Upon emergence, heart rates were elevated above the initial rates in all three groups. All three groups showed predive arterial PO (
30159999|Characteristics of Puna teal (Anas versicolor puna) eggs laid at 4,150 m in the Peruvian Andes were compared with those of similarly sized eggs laid by other Anas species at sea level Mean eggshell conductance to water vapor (GHO, corrected to 760 Torr) was reduced below the average of most of the sea-level controls, but not to the same extent as the reduction in barometric pressure at the breeding site. In contrast to findings of previous studies, the reduction in GHO was not significant in three of four comparisons. Since the diffusion coeficient for water vapor increases inversely with barometric pressure, water loss during incubation was high, but relative water content of the eggs did not vary significantly during incubation. Variation in shell conductance was most likely due to alteration in the number of pores rather than to size. The characteristics of montane Puna teal eggs appear to reflect selection by conflicting requirements for preventing excessive loses of water vapor and CO and for maximizing O availability to the embryo.
30159966|A circadian rhythm appears to control the termination of the photorefractory period in redheaded buntings. A 6-h photophase coupled with scotophases of varying durations does not terminate the refractory period in the cycles of 12 (6L:6D), 36 (6L:30D), and 60 (6L:54D) h but terminates it in the cycles of 24 (6L:18D), 48 (6L:42D), and 72 (6L:66D) h.
30152601|Oxygen consumption (
30158276|We estimated energy requirements for plumage replacement in the kestrel (Falco tinnunculus) by comparing O, consumption
30164283|During a field study of carnivorous dasyurid marsupials in subalpine Tasmania, the trapping success for Tasmanian devils (Sarcophilus harrisii), but not for spotted-tailed quolls (Dasyurus maculatus) or eastern quolls (Dasyurus viverrinus), was significantly lower when winter weather conditions turned to sleet or snow or when deep snow lay on the ground. This field study was instigated to determine if devils and eastern quolls spend more time in burrows in severe weather conditions and if they enter torpor. Torpor is known to occur in eutherian mammals as large as devils and in a similar-sized congeneric marsupial, the western quoll (Dasyurus geoffroyi). Using radiotelemetry, body temperatures of Tasmanian devils and eastern quolls ranging freely in their natural habitat were monitored throughout winter. Neither species was observed in torpor, even under prolonged severe weather conditions, and the number of hours spent active did not differ between summer and winter or between moderate and severe winter weather conditions. Body temperatures averaged 36.5C (SD = 0.079, range of 33.5-38.6C) for the three male eastern quolls and 35.7C (SD = 0.575, range of 31.3-37.5C) for the four (male and female) devils. A diel cycle in body temperature occurred in both species; temperatures rose each evening when animals became active, remained high throughout the night despite ambient temperatures falling to the diel minima, and were lower during the day when the individuals were inactive in dens. The amplitude of this cycle was greater in eastern quolls (1.1C, SD = 0.142) than in devils (0.6C, SD = 0.252).
30158611|First-year larval Ambystoma tigrinum melanostictum were found in a saline (297 mOsm), alkaline (pH 10.2) pond in central Washington. These animals readily tolerate environments up to 350 mOsm (NaCl) in the laboratory. Osmoregulatory adjustments include a significant increase in plasma urea concentrations-42 mM or 12.5% of the osmotically active solutes in a 350-mOsm environment. The larvae maintain plasma hyperosmotic to the environment, whereas plasma levels of sodium and chloride are maintained below ambient conditions in solutions > 300 mOsm (150 mM NaCl). At salinities  400 mOsm NaCl, the larvae exhibit reduced feeding, loss of motor coordination, and a drastically reduced hematocrit. This demonstration of the larval tiger salamander's osmotic use of urea in saline environments is the first report of a larval urodele having the ability to accumulate significant amounts of urea.
30158201|We incubated Pseudophryne bibronii eggs at selected
30155760|In the autumn months (September-October) corn snakes digesting in the laboratory behaviorally maintained afternoon body temperatures (
30157911|We measured handling time and oxygen consumption for the scincid lizard Chalcides ocellatus feeding on crickets at temperatures of 25, 30, and 35 C in the laboratory. The time required for manipulating prey in the mouth and swallowing did not change significantly with temperature. The total net aerobic cost of handling, measured as the oxygen consumption in excess of resting levels during both handling and the 30 min immediately following handling, had a
30163906|Ballistocardiography or impedance cardiography was used to measure on a daily basis the heart rate (
30163348|Patterns of growth and metabolism by turtle embryos were examined in groups of eggs incubated on artificial substrates differing in water potential. Snapping turtle embryos in eggs incubated under wetter conditions attained larger size and consumed more oxygen than did embryos in eggs from drier conditions. Mass-specific oxygen consumption, however, was unaffected by hydric conditions of the incubation environment. No differences in growth patterns or oxygen consumption were observed in softshell turtle eggs in either treatment, although eggs on drier substrates lost significantly more mass than did eggs on wet substrates. The temporal pattern of oxygen consumption by turtle embryos resembles that of embryonic precocial birds, but total energetic costs of development in turtles are <50% of predicted costs for precocial birds of similar body mass.
30155733|Body growth as weight change during the initial year is described for 10 microtines: Microtus pennsylvanicus tananaensis, M. oeconomus macfarlani, M. o. operarius, M. miurus, M. abbreviatus, Lemmus lemmus, L. sibiricus, Dicrostonyx stevensoni and Clethrionomys rutilus; five cricetines: Peromyscus maniculatus borealis, P. m. bairdii, Baiomys taylori, Calomys ducilla, and Calomys callosus; and one murid, Acomys cahirinus. The growth curves constituted sets of linear segments and were characterized by their respective slopes and initiation points. A rapid growth phase was sometimes preceded by a slower initial phase and always succeeded by a slower attenuation phase. A stable adult weight was achieved in some species but not others. Early and later growth were compared using times for 40% and 80% of the weight (
30163903|Pressures have been measured in the dorsal vessel (DV), ventral vessel (VV), and lateral hearts (LHs) of the giant earthworm, Megascolides australis. Mean pressure in the DV (22.1  9.8 cm HO  1 SD) was similar to that in the VV (21.8  10.1 cm HO) although pressures were much more pulsatile in the DV than VV. Peak and minimum pressures in the DV were significantly above and below, respectively, those in the VV Contraction frequency of the DV was 6. 8  1.9  min. Neither imposing an orthostatic load by raising or lowering the tail, nor simulated autotomy, had any effect on pressure measured in the anterior segments of the worm. Injecting the
30158228|Communal roosting has been proposed as a mechanism for facilitating thermoregulation in bats. We examined the effects of cluster size on body temperature
10.1086/515899|The development of the locomotory muscles and associated skeletal structures of goslings and adults from a captive population of barnacle geese (
10.1086/515859|The relationship between growth rate and development of function in leg and pectoral muscles was studied in four species of galliform birds ranging from 125 g to 18 kg and, for comparison, in an altricial species, the European starling (80 g). An index to neonatal maturity (muscle dry content proportion as a fraction of adult value) was higher in leg than in pectoral muscles and lower in larger than in smaller galliforms. The maturity index was substantially lower in starling neonates. After the first week posthatch, however, the maturity index was highest in larger species. Exponential growth rates decreased linearly with increasing maturity in both pectoral and leg muscles, following similar regressions in all species including the starling. At a particular value of the maturity index, the exponential growth rate was higher in pectoral than in leg muscles. The exponential growth rates of muscles of neonatal large galliforms were lower than expected from their low maturity. This may represent the downregulation shortly after hatching of the high exponential growth rate needed to reach a large hatching mass in a short incubation period. A slower growth rate immediately posthatch may be necessary if the relatively immature neonatal digestive system cannot deliver nutrients or metabolized energy required for more rapid growth. Smaller species may not be faced with the constraint of rapid growth toward the end of the embryonic period.
30164297|Despite the apparent importance of solar radiation as a source of heat for free-living animals, there exists no substantial body of empirical data describing physiological responses to solar radiation under the range of convective conditions likely to occur in nature. We therefore quantified effects of simulated solar radiation and wind on metabolic heat production in the rock squirrel, Spermophilus variegatus. This diurnal mammal inhabits the Sonoran Desert and seasonally replaces its pelage in a fashion in which it retains constant external appearance but incorporates optical and structural changes that are thought to significantly alter heat-transfer properties of the coat. At a given wind speed, the presence of 950 W m of simulated solar radiation reduces metabolic heat production by 15% (at a wind speed of 4 m s) to 37% (at a wind speed of 0.25 m s). Independent of effects of irradiance, metabolic heat production significantly increases with wind speed such that as wind speed is increased from 0.25 m s to 4.0 m s, metabolic heat production is elevated by 66% (sunlight absent) or 88% (sunlight present). Previous analyses demonstrated that when exposed to identical radiative and convective environments rock squirrels with summer pelages accrue solar heat loads 33%-71% lower than those experienced by animals with winter coats. This reduction of solar heat gain during the extremely hot Sonoran Desert summer apparently constitutes a previously unappreciated mode of thermal adaptation by seasonal adjustment of radiative heat gain without changes in the animal's appearance.
30152566|Fork-tailed storm petrels (Oceanodroma furcata) forage at considerable distances from the nest and frequently are delayed in returning to relieve incubating partners. Consequently, embryos and chicks must be able to tolerate periods of parental neglect. In Alaska, embryos survived after being unattended a total of 28 days during the incubation period at internal egg temperatures of 9-12 C. We did not measure egg temperatures, even during incubation, greater than 27.5 C, which is well below temperatures of incubated eggs for any other species. Body temperatures of nonbrooded chicks fell as low as 12 C during the first week after hatching. Although one would expect nests to insulate eggs and chicks from the cold substrate, nests, if built, were simple. Nests absorbed moisture and harbored arthropods, both of which reduced chick survival. Adults preferentially faced away from the nest burrow entrance, possibly to minimize heat loss during incubation.
30156059|Carbonic anhydrase (CA) activity in gill and mantle tissue of Rangia cuneata, Ligumia subrostrata, and Corbicula fluminea increases when the animals are subjected to osmotic stress; there is no such increase in either adductor muscle or visceral mass. A 12-h exposure to the CA inhibitor acetazolamide impairs the animals' ability to maintain blood Na and Cl concentrations at normal levels above ambient, with blood Cl being lowered more than Na. In L. subrostrata, Na influx is lowered, and Cl efflux is raised by acetazolamide. We conclude that CA is important in the ion regulatory process, probably in generating H and HCO from CO, which act as counterions in Na and Cl uptake, respectively. The flux data indicate that the role of the enzyme in the specific mechanisms of individual ion transport needs further investigation.
30158548|The central Australian ant Melophorus bagoti is active during the hottest periods of the summer day. Despite soil surface temperatures exceeding 70 C and air temperatures at ant height exceeding 50 C, this species did not cease midday activity. Individuals were able to survive 2.5 min under these conditions without thermal respite. During natural foraging activity, however, thermal refuges were used during the hottest times of the day. In the laboratory the ants were found to have a critical thermal maximum (CTMax) of 56.7 C and were able to survive for 1 h at 54 C Peak activity in the field occurred when soil surface temperature was 60 C and air temperatures at ant height and ant body temperatures were both 46 C. Apart from being one of the most thermally tolerant animals known, M. bagoti is unique in its avoidance of "cooler" temperatures. During February and March this species did not begin its daily aboveground activity until the soil surface temperature reached a mean of 56.1 C and the air temperature at ant height was 43.9 C. In mid-April the corresponding temperatures at first activity were approximately 4 C lower, but activity ceased for winter shortly thereafter. There is no evidence linking polymorphism in this species with its thermal biology.
10.1086/515957|We studied the effects of substrate moisture and flooding on the arboreal eggs of
30164213|An animal's physiological capacities, the environment it inhabits, and their interaction determine the animal's water flux (turnover rate). The proximate physiological determinants of water flux (e.g., urinary concentrating ability, evaporative water loss, dietary water content, and oxidative water yield) are well understood. Excluding effects of diet type (e.g, herbivory vs. granivory) and free water availability (e.g., xeric vs. mesic habitats), ecological and environmental effects on water fluxes are less well known. We used labeled water to study the effects of large altitudinal differences (~ 3,000 m) on water fluxes of free-living deer mice. In absolute terms, high-altitude mice had higher water fluxes and field metabolic rates, but were smaller, than low-altitude mice. A multiple regression with altitude coded as a dummy variable indicated that after adjusting for mass and field metabolic rate, altitude had no effect on water flux. However, using mass and field metabolic rate as independent variables in multiple regression is inappropriate because these variables clearly are not measured without error (an assumption of multiple regression). Consequently, we used structural equation modeling with latent variables to analyze the data more rigorously. We assessed the sensitivity of our conclusions to the reliability of field metabolic rate estimates by assuming that the error variance in field metabolic rate was 0%, 10%, 20%, or 40% of its observed variance. The direct effect of latent mass on water flux was sensitive to assumptions about the field metabolic rate error variance, but the effects of altitude were not. For all four error variance assumptions, the structural equation models indicated that altitude had significant indirect and total effects but no direct effect on water flux. Hence, altitude had substantial overall effects on water fluxes, but these effects are likely attributable to altitudinal differences in the thermal environment, not to changes in the partial pressure of oxygen. Physiologists commonly measure variables with error, and frequently they may be able to obtain multiple measures or indicators of those variables. Consequently, we suggest that structural equation modeling, particularly with the use of latent variables, holds considerable promise as an analytical tool for physiological ecologists.
30156130|Isotope dilution was used to measure milk intake of 43 California sea lion pups on San Nicolas Island, California, from 1982 to 1984. Deuterium concentration was monitored in serial blood samples collected at about 5-day intervals for 3 wk after isotope administration. Estimated milk intakes differed significantly between male (723  31.0 g  day) and female (609  24.0 g  day) pups but did not increase from the first to second month postpartum. On a metabolic size basis (
30158229|Two species of South American cricetid rodents differing in body mass and gross morphology of the lower digestive tract were fed diets containing from 25% to 45% cellulose. The largest species, Holochilus venezuelae, has a digestive anatomy associated with herbivory (a large cecum and no gall bladder). Holochilus venezuelae digested 57% of dietary cellulose, while Zygodontomys microtinus digested 35%, when the diet containing 45% cellulose was consumed. However, cellulose digestion per unit of metabolic body weight did not differ between the two species (13 gper unit metabolic body weight per day). The mean retention time was 7.4 h in H. venezuelae and 15 h in Z. microtinus. Contrary to theoretical expectation, the smallest species had the longest retention time of digesta in the gut. Anatomical characteristics in the digestive system of H. venezuelae, as well as its higher capability for fiber digestion, suggest better digestive adaptations of this species for herbivory than Z. microtinus.
30157923|Sanderlings (Calidris alba) feed extensively on horseshoe crab (Limulus polyphemus) eggs during their 4-wk spring migratory stopover on beaches in Delaware Bay. To assess metabolizable energy (ME) present in such a diet, we studied the assimilation efficiency of seven captive C. alba fed a Limulus egg diet for 3 wk. Each bird ingested on average 30.9 g eggs d (or approximately 8,300 eggs d). The average metabolic efficiency was 38.6%  1.0%. Associated with this low metabolic efficiency was a rapid gastrointestinal passage rate of 63  2.5 min (n = 4). While on the Limulus egg diet, the birds maintained body weight (51.3  5.2 g); when switched to a diet of mealworms (Tenebrio larvae), they rapidly gained weight (1.8  0.20 g d) and exhibited an average metabolic efficiency of 75.9%  8.0%. We attributed the poor assimilation efficiency exhibited by C. alba when feeding on Limulus eggs to the resistance of the egg cuticle to chemical and enzymatic digestion; 72% of the ingested eggs are passed through the gastrointestinal tract unbroken. Calidris alba compensate for the low metabolizable energy of Limulus eggs by processing daily nearly three times the dry mass equivalent eaten on a diet of Tenebrio larvae.
30157917|Thirty minutes of strenuous muscular exercise in the blue crab resulted in apronounced drop in pH (pH = -0.2 to -0.47 units) and rise in lactate concentration (lactate = +4 to +44 mmolL) in hemolymph, light and dark levator, cheliped, and heart muscles. Muscle pHi was restored to control levels within 1 h, whereas restoration of hemolymph pH was not complete until 4 h postexercise. The lactate load in both hemolymph and levator muscles persisted for 4-8 h. Net H efflux to the environment was elevated sevenfold after exercise and is thought to be responsible for the rapid correction of muscle pHi. The pattern of lactate and H dynamics in the levator muscles suggests that the bulk of the lactate load was metabolized in situ.
10.1086/515894|Many techniques have been employed to measure metabolic and cardiovascular changes in diving marine mammals. Each of these methods has its advantages, but the methods also have drawbacks when applied to phocid seals. The aim of this study was to investigate heart rate and metabolic responses to diving in juvenile northern elephant seals that are not associated with forced changes in exercise state, and, secondarily, to investigate whether heart rate could be used as an indicator of metabolic rate in this species. Six seals were allowed to dive freely in a metabolic chamber while simultaneous measurements of heart rate and oxygen consumption were made. Within each dive cycle (dive and surface interval), the seals spent an average of 74% of the time submerged. Mean dive duration was 6.43  0.6 (SD) min. Mean oxygen consumption during diving was 3.32  0.4 mL O
30166501|Two aquatic amphipod crustaceans were investigated: Niphargus rhenorhodanensis (a hypogean species, which has to cope with severe hypoxic conditions during about 6 mo per year during the hydrological cycle) and Gammarus fossarum (an epigean species, which lives continuously in well-oxygenated water). The lethal times for 50% of the population (
30158202|Mechanical performance, oxygen consumption (
30156011|Male sand fiddler crabs, Uca pugilator, permitted to enter or leave seawater (SW) media at will (natural environment) hyperosmoregulated in 10% and 50% SW and hypoosmoregulated in 150% and 200% SW. Crabs forced to remain submerged in the SW media (immersion) did not osmoregulate as well, particularly in 150% and 200% SW. Gill sodium-plus-potassium-activated ATPase (Na,K-ATPase) specific activity was characterized in crude homogenates, and optima for K, Mg, ATP, and pH were determined. After 21 days acclimation in a 10% SW natural environment, gills 1, 2, 5, and 6 showed significant increases in gill enzyme-specific activity (ESA) compared to 100% SW controls. Acclimation to 50% SW caused significant increases in ESA only in gills 5 and 6; acclimation to 150% and 200% SW natural environments decreased or did not significantly change ESA. Gills 5 and 6 contained approximately 75% of total gill ESA in all media. Crabs immersed in the SW media showed similar changes in gill ESA. It appears, then, that changes in ESA in the posterior gills are important only in hyperosmotic regulation and in active Na uptake in dilute media. On transfer of 100% SW acclimated crabs to 10% SW (immersion), gill crude-homogenate ESA increased significantly after 3 days and reached maximal activity after 7 days. Gill microsomal preparations showed a slower time course; ESA did not increase significantly until 7 days after transfer and did not reach maximal levels until 14 days after transfer. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that increased gill ESA may be due to both the activation of existing enzyme and the synthesis of new enzyme by the gill epithelium in U. pugilator.
30164193|Amphibians are a diverse class of vertebrates that made the first highly successful transition from the aquatic to the terrestrial environment. Diversity in calcium ion regulation plays a significant role in their general diversity. Amphibians' extracellular [Ca] varies from species to species with terrestrial amphibians tending toward higher [Ca]. Another aspect of amphibian Ca regulatory diversity is expressed in the variety of Ca regulatory sites or potential regulatory sites. Skin, gill, kidney, urinary bladder, intestine, bone, and endolymphatic sacs have all been suggested as Ca exchange sites. This article will review data pertaining to these Ca exchange sites and present new data that suggest a regulated, active transport system for Ca in the skin of amphibians. In Rana pipiens Ca influx varies with external [Ca], is saturable, and occurs against the electrochemical gradient. Hypocalcemia stimulates this influx, as do parathyroid hormone and calcitonin. Xenopus laevis and Ambystoma tigrinum have similar [Ca]-related, saturable Ca cutaneous influxes oriented against electrochemical gradients.
30152534|Oxygen capacity of reptile blood in vitro is temperature sensitive and is reversibly reduced as much as 40% at the extremes of the temperature range that animals normally encounter. In several species of lizards and snakes, blood oxygen capacity is maximum within the species' activity-temperature range. The correlation coefficient between eccritic temperature and the temperature giving maximum blood oxygen capacity for all species tested was .79 (P < .01). (When the genera Sceloporus and Uta, which show a different pattern, are omitted from the analysis, the correlation coefficient for the remaining species rises to .92.) This adaptation of the blood is one of the mechanisms that produces maximum oxygen consumption near a species' eccritic temperature. In lizards of the genera Sceloporus and Uta and in turtles the maximum blood oxygen capacity occurs at the bottom of the activity-temperature range and may reflect adaptation of these animals to activity at low temperatures.
30156159|When an animal fasts throughout the period of measurement of CO production but is presumed to be eating, the error of estimating energy metabolism can be as high as 23% for herbivores; the error is small (3.2%) for uricotelic carnivores, and it increases steadily with the protein content of the diet for ureotelic carnivores. Errors in converting CO production measurements to energy metabolism are associated with small errors (for animals that are eating daily) when a respiratory quotient of 0.83 for all herbivores, 0.80-0.83 for mammalian carnivores, and 0.72 for uricotelic carnivores is used. Similar conversions of oxygen consumption measurements into energy metabolism are small (<3%) when urinary nitrogen excretion is not measured and RQ is assumed to be 0.8, regardless of the actual protein, fat, and carbohydrate mixture being catabolized by fed carnivores, omnivores, or herbivores. The error is even smaller in nearly all cases if the respiratory quotient is measured and is used to derive energy conversion factors (<0.6% for uricotelic herbivores and carnivores).
30155730|As in other photoperiodic species of birds, long days (>ca. 9 h) cause growth and development of the testes in male house sparrows (Passer domesticus). The logarithmic growth rate (k) is essentially a linear function of day length over the range in daily environmental photophases of ca. 9-16 h. Unlike most photoperiodic species, however, k in P. domesticus is an inverse function of day length for very short days (<ca. 7 h). These "ultra-short-day" responses have been investigated by use of light-dark cycles of varying (20-28 h) periods (T) with photophases of fixed duration (3 h) and exploitation of the coupling between the circadian cycles in motor activity and the photosensitivity of the response system in which the phase of the former leads that of the latter by ca. 135 (ca. 9 h in a 24-h cycle). Consistent with general experience with endogenous circadian periodicities, our results demonstrate that the phase-angle difference () between the cycle in motor activity and that of the Zeitgeber (environmental photocycle) increases as a function of T. Furthermore, our results show that, as T is increased beyond ca. 24 h, the rate of testicular growth increases as a nonlinear function of . We interpret these results to mean that the ultra-short-day photoperiodic response of P. domesticus is the result of an advance in the photosensitive phase of the response system so that it becomes at least partly coincident with the environmental photophase. Therefore the ultra-short-day photoperiodic responses as well as the long-day responses of this species can be explained by an external-coincidence model (Bnning hypothesis) that appears widely applicable to photoperiodic species. At this time, at least, we find it unnecessary to invoke a more complex internal-coincidence model. In a further series of experiments, male house sparrows were subjected to continuous darkness (DD) after photostimulation (16L 8D) for either 14 or 30 days. The effect of transfer to DD on the size of the testes was found to be dependent on the size attained at the time of transfer. After 14 days on 16L 8D (28 mg, mean testicular weight), the rate of regression after transfer to DD was the same as in another group transferred to 8L 16D. However, the onset of regression in the former was delayed longer than that of the latter. The levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) in the plasma of both groups declined sharply, but more extensively in the group transferred to DD. In contrast, after 30 days of photostimulation (261 mg, mean testicular weight), regression did not occur after transfer to DD. This is consistent with earlier observations and can be rationalized by an internal-coincidence model. Nevertheless, application of the Law of Parsimony to the currently available information suggests acceptance of a simpler explanation that combines an external-coincidence model and the established "carry-over" function of the neuroendocrine control systems of photoperiodic species of birds.
30156004|The desert iguana (Dipsosaurus dorsalis) precisely thermoregulates in an operant conditioning apparatus, where it must walk 1 m to obtain a short-duration thermal reinforcement. The preferred body temperature depends on the duration of the thermal reinforcement (30-180 s) and on the ambient temperature (20 C or 30 C). Variation in preferred body temperature is not due to physiological constraintsexcept perhaps in the shortest-duration reinforcement at 20 C-but reflects motivational variation. The precision of thermoregulation depends on the thermal reinforcement duration, the ambient temperature, and the extent of the elevation of body temperature above ambient air temperature. The body temperature distributions were negatively skewed except under the short-duration thermal regimens. The stochastic dual-limit model of lizard behavioral thermoregulation closely predicts the observed frequency distribution of body temperatures only when the cost for thermoregulation is low (i.e., when there is high thermal reinforcement or high ambient temperature).
30163853|Salmonids experience severe disturbances in the excretion and internal regulation of ammonia, acid-base balance, and ionoregulation when challenged with alkaline pH. We followed the responses of a high-pH-tolerant salmonid, the Lahontan cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki henshawi) for 72 h after transfer from pH 8. 4 well water into the alkaline water (pH 9. 4) of Pyramid Lake, Nevada. Fish that had been living in Pyramid Lake for 3 wk, 5 wk, and 2 yr were also examined. A combined metabolic and respiratory alkalosis (negative metabolic acid load
30161238|This study relates changes in plasma electrolytes induced by dehydration with changes in concentrations of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain electrolytes in Bufo marinus and Rana catesbeiana to evaluate the degree of regulation of the nervous system ionic environment. Plasma Na, Cl, and Ca concentrated passively in proportion to the volume of water lost during dehydration in both species. Plasma K initially concentrated less than predicted in B. marinus. Cerebrospinal fluid concentrations increased in proportion to plasma concentrations for all electrolytes except K, which increased less in CSF than in plasma in both species. Brain tissue water decreased, the apparent extracellular water (Cl space) remained constant and cell water decreased with dehydration. The equilibrium potential calculated for intracellular and cerebrospinal fluid K remained the same with dehydration. Changes in cerebrospinal fluid Ca concentration that were observed should lead to integrative problems for the nervous system, based on in vitro data.
30156173|The study of weather effects in insect ecology should focus on how physiological and behavioral characteristics of individual organisms translate into population and community dynamics. I present four case studies in which both the physiological mechanisms by which weather variation affects individuals and the consequences of such variation for fitness variation or population dynamics have been examined: (1) Larval metabolism and population variation in generation time; (2) thermoregulation, reproductive success, and population fluctuations in pierid butterflies; (3) temperature mediation of the interaction between ladybird beetles and pea aphids; and (4) weather effects on host-plant quality and population regulation in a woodland butterfly. The results emphasize two general roles that weather can play in population ecology: that of a limiting factor that determines the relative importance of various biotic determinants of population dynamics, and that of a source of environmental variation that affects physiological rate processes and thereby mediates interspecific interactions. Changing the focus of inquiry from mechanisms of population regulation to the interplay of biotic and abiotic factors reestablishes the conceptual importance of weather for population ecology.
30164192|The tilapia, Oreochromis mossambicus, is a truly euryhaline species in that it lives, grows, and reproduces in freshwater as well as in full-strength seawater. The gills, intestine, and kidneys show ionoregulatory adaptations fundamental for the calcium balance of this fish in these vastly different ionic media. This review focuses on calcium flows in these ionoregulatory organs and the changes that occur in the Cal-transporting mechanisms in the basolateral plasma membrane compartment of the cells that make up their ion-transporting epithelia. Influx of Ca via the gills is comparable in freshwater and seawater; also, the Ca-ATPase and Na/Ca exchanger in branchial epithelial plasma membranes have comparable activities in fish adapted to freshwater and in those adapted to seawater. Ussing chamber experiments with isolated opercular membranes (a flat epithelium with chloride cells) suggest that chloride-cell-mediated, inward Ca transport is largely dependent on Na-dependent mechanisms. The Ca-ATPase is thought to play a "housekeeping" role in cellular Ca regulation. Intestinal epithelial Ca flux is lower in seawater fish than in freshwater fish, and this may reflect adaptation to the imminent overload of calcium in seawater, where for the uptake of water the fish drinks a 10-millimolar Ca solution. Intestinal Ca transport is fully dependent on serosal Na. Accordingly, a powerful Na/Ca exchanger operates in the basolateral plasma membrane of the enterocyte, and in particular the capacity of this transporter decreases in seawaterfish. The kidney of freshwater fishes produces a typical dilute and hypocalcic urine; in seawater, urine production decreases and the urine calcium concentration is always higher than that of the plasma. Exchange activity of Na and Ca is undetectably low or absent in renal tissue plasma membranes. However, a high-afinity, high-capacity Ca-ATPase activity appears to correlate with Ca reabsorption, as its activity significantly decreases after transfer of the fish to seawater. It thus appears that ATP- and Na-dependent Ca pumps are differentially expressed in gills, intestine, and kidney. Their activity may explain an ATP- or Na-dependence of Ca flow in the pertinent epithelium.
30162284|Recruitment pattern of red and white muscle fibers and initial swimming speeds of white muscle activation by thermally acclimated striped bass (Morone saxatilis) were determined by electromyography. Fish acclimated to 9 and 25 C were induced to swim in a stamina tunnel both at their respective acclimation temperatures and at a common temperature of 15 C. Speeds of initial white muscle recruitment (maximal sustainable swimming speed) are 1.95  0.33 and 2.82  0.26 BL s (body lengths s) for animals swimming at their acclimation temperatures of 9 and 25 C, respectively. Thermal sensitivity of sustained swimming speed to acute temperature change is independent of the fish's thermal history, showing
30163837|Recent evidence for secretion of H (
30156186|Garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) submerge in a water-filled hibernaculum in Wisconsin where they remain for up to 5.5 mo during winter. Since ice cover may inhibit air breathing for long periods, this study examined the role of nonpulmonary ventilation in the overwintering biology of these snakes. During submerged hibernation, mean standard rates of oxygen consumption and cardiac activity were depressed by 54.8% and 77.0%, and O pulse (O consumed per heart stroke) increased 1.8-fold, relative to laboratory hibernation in air under otherwise similar conditions (5 C, total darkness). Owing to metabolic, cardiovascular, and behavioral adjustments to submergence in cold water, snakes were able to remain in oxygen balance during winter; lactate analyses indicated that, in normoxic water (
30152643|Researchers have historically assumed that short food retention time is a typical trait of frugivorous birds, and our data support this. Because absorptive efficiency is directly related to retention time and absorption rate, we predicted that either rates of nutrient absorption would be higher in frugivores than other birds to compensate for short retention or that absorptive efficiencies would be lower. In the fourpasserine species that we studied, the more frugivorous species had higher intestinal glucose (but notproline) transport activity than the more insectivorous and carnivorous species and higher intestinal sucrase activity. But compared with those of chickens and hummingbirds, small intestines of frugivorous passerines (four species) did not have high rates of glucose and proline uptake in vitro. In accordance with our prediction, in vivo digestive efciency of radiolabeled glucose was 92% in frugivorous cedar waxwings (88% for fructose) and 73% in fruit-eating American robins, less than the expected value near 100%. Digestive effciency for sucrose was even less (62% in cedar waxwings, 0% in American robins). Thus, it appears that the anatomy and physiology of fruit eaters result in less than complete digestion and absorption of sugars. Presumably there is some compensating advantage to short digesta retention thatperhaps increases net rate of energy intake. It may lie in the ability of frugivores to process large amounts of fruitper unit time in spite of the constraint gut volume might place on fruit intake.
30157973|The kinetic properties and regulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) activity during estivation and recovery were examined in foot muscle and hepatopancreas of the terrestrial snail, Otala lactea (Muller) (Pulmonata, Helicidae). During estivation, the percentage of PDH in the active a form (PDHa) decreased from a control value of 98% to an estivating value of approximately 60% in both foot and hepatopancreas but the time course for changes in PDHa activity was different for the two tissues. Foot PDHa steadily decreased from the initiation of estivation until 20 h; after this time, the levels of PDHa showed no further change. Hepatopancreas PDHa levels did not decrease until 20 h after the initiation of estivation, after which time they rapidly dropped to reach a new, constant, estivating level by 30 h. Recovery curves for both tissues showed that PDHa had reached control levels 1 h after the reintroduction offood and water. Kinetic parameters of PDHa were also examined. The Michaelis constant value (
30158613|Energy expenditure rates of three high-latitude seabirds (least auklet [Aethia pusilla], common diving petrel [Pelecanoides urinatrix], and South Georgia diving petrel [P. georgicus]) were measured during the chick-rearing period to test the hypothesis that power requirements for reproduction in pursuit divers are high relative to other seabirds. Oxygen consumption of resting adults was measured volumetrically using a temperature-controlled, closed system. Carbon dioxide production in free-ranging adults during the chick-rearing period was measured using the doubly labeled water (DLW) method. Standard metabolic rates (SMR) were 1.5 to 1.9 times predictions of allometric equations relating SMR to body mass in nonpasserine birds. Mass-specific CO production and fractional water-turnover rates in free-ranging adults were similar in the three study species. The daily energy expenditure (DEE)/SMR ratio ranged from 3.1 to 4.2. Among values of DEE for breeding birds measured by the DLW method, those obtained in this study were relatively high. Energy expenditure is apparently elevated in pursuit divers by high power requirements for flight and foraging, as surface-feeding seabirds had lower relative energy expenditures. The low gross foraging efficiency and high DEEs of the auklet and diving petrels suggest that the high energetic cost of foraging and food delivery to the nest constrains brood size.
30157880|Two 2-year-old harbor seals (Phova vitulina) were studied during free diving in a circular tank in which they were forced to come to a one-way valve to breathe. Expired gas volume and composition were used to calculate
30156239|Allometric analyses were carried out for osmotic flux, Na fluxes, urine flow, and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) for the tiger salamander, Ambystoma tigrinum, and for 41 species of amphibians on data taken from the literature or collected for this study. The allometric coeficients for larval A. tigrinum were for osmotic flux, slope (b) = .77, intercept (the value for a 1-g animal) (a) = .038 mL/h; Na influx, b = .52 eq/h, a = .636 eq/h; Na efflux, b = .60 eq/h, a = .681 eq/h; GFR, b = .55 mL/h, a = .012 mL/h. Data from a limited mass range of terrestrial adults overlapped the larval data for osmotic flux and GFR; adult Na influxes and etfluxes were somewhat lower than aquatic larval Na fluxes. The allometric coefcients for amphibians in general were osmotic flux, b = .72 mL/h, a = .046 mL/h; Na influx, b = .68 eq/h, a = .374 eq/h; urine flow, b = .73 mL/h, a = .046 mL/h; GFR, b = .73, a = .085 mL/h. When amphibians were subdivided by taxa and habitat preference it was found that terrestrial anurans tended to have greater osmotic and ionic fluxes and larger urine flow and GFR than aquatic urodeles.
30159962|This study was performed to determine whether frogs modify the mechanical properties of their muscles during long-term exposure to different temperatures. Rana pipiens were exposed to 12 C and to 28 C for 8 mo. Sartorius muscles were removed from these animals and tested at three temperatures: 5 C, 15 C, and 25 C. No differences were found in the shortening velocity, power output, or isometric force at a given temperature between muscles taken from frogs exposed to 12 C and to 28 C. Shortening velocity and power output were found to increase three- to fivefold between 5 C and 25 C, whereas isometric force increased by less than 20%.
30155720|Perch-hopping activity rhythms were studied in house sparrows kept under a variety of environmental lighting conditions with the following results: (1) Circadian rhythms of locomotor activity were well defined in the house sparrow and were entrained by 24-h light-dark cycles. (2) Constant light (870 lx) caused 80% of the sparrows to become apparently arrhythmic and constantly active; constant light of lesser intensity (240lx) produced arrhythmicity in only 20% of the sparrows. (3) When arrhythmic sparrows from constant light (870lx) or several photoperiodic regimens were placed in constant dark their endogenous circadian locomotor activity rhythms were apparent, and the time setting of the rhythms was derived from the time of the lightto-dark transition. The phase of the resultant rhythm was as if the sparrows took the light-to-dark transition as a normal "dusk" (lights-out, onset plus about 12 h). (4) Sparrows entrained to photoperiods of 8 h or more tend to end their activity at the time of lights out. (5) When the phase of a 24-h light-dark cycle was shifted abruptly (by 6 or 12 h) the rate of adaptation to the new cycle was usually faster if the phase shift was made by extending the light rather than the dark period. The experimental results have been interpreted from the point of view of hypotheses that light either stops or masks the clock, and the results have also been related to the role of the pineal gland in sparrow circadian physiology.
30152565|Littorina littorea, which were found in the intertidal zone throughout the year, displayed a seasonal change in freezing tolerance that was greatest during the colder winter months, was dependent on salinity acclimation, and was independent of temperature acclimation and photoperiod. Nassarius obsoletus, which avoided the freezing stress by migrating to subtidal areas during the winter months, displayed a seasonal change in freezing tolerance that was greatest during the warmer summer months and was dependent on both temperature and salinity acclimation. Acclimation to lower salinities reduced the freezing tolerances of L. littorea and N. obsoletus. The temperature-acclimation-dependent differences in the freezing tolerance of N. obsoletus and the seasonal changes in the freezing tolerance of L. littorea also decreased following acclimation to lower salinities. When collected during the winter months, L. littorea possessed a greater freezing tolerance than N. obsoletus under all of the conditions examined, but the freezing tolerance of L. littorea was lower than that of N. obsoletus when collected during the summer and acclimated to warm temperatures and high salinities. Continuous temperature recordings of intact snails exposed to their LD50 temperatures demonstrated that the seasonal and interspecific decreases in lethal freezing temperatures were not due to a lowering of the temperatures at which tissue ice formation occurred. Calorimetric determinations of the amounts of tissue ice formed at LD50 temperatures showed that the seasonal and interspecific decreases in lethal freezing temperatures were due to increased tolerances to greater quantities of tissue ice.
30156217|The nutritional ecology of desert wood rats (Neotoma lepida) was studied at a site in the Mojave Desert that lacked succulents such as cactus, yucca, and agave. During the late fall and early winter, before winter rains, wood rats ate primarily mature leaves and stems ofcreosote bush (Larrea tridentata), whereas after winter rains they ate newly germinating annuals. Wood rats lost body mass during the prerain period and some were visibly emaciated, whereas they suffered no significant mass loss at other times. In a laboratory feeding trial wood rats would not eat a diet of 100% Larrea but were in energy and N balance when the diet was supplemented with alfalfa pellets (average 74% Larrea, 26% pellets). Because of its HO content, Larrea should be marginally adequate in satisfying the wood rat's HO requirement. In spite of this, the HO flux offree-living wood rats was slightly less the minimum HO flux in the laboratory. This suggests that wood rats ate too little of a diet that contained adequate HO. Wood rats were apparently deterred from eating enough Larrea to satisfy energy requirements by Larrea's high resin content, but their need to maintain HO balanceprobably precluded them from relying heavily on other plant species, all of which contain less HO. Thus, until the winter rains and the germination ofannuals, wood rats suffered mass decreases and someprobably died.
30158650|The herbivorous land crab Cardisoma guanhumi is limited in growth when fed plants available in its natural habitat. Crabs maintained in the laboratory on a plant diet supplemented with casein contained more tissue and nitrogen than crabs trapped from the field or maintained on plants alone. Nitrogen limitation may explain the anomalously slow growth rate estimated for this species. Behaviors were observed that offset low nitrogen in a plant diet and that included predation and cannibalism. Although crabs were selective about the plants eaten in their habitat, the choice was not correlated with nitrogen content in the plants and indicates the importance of allochemical defense to both plant survival and actual plant availability to the crabs.
30161247|This study shows that differences exist among three species on exposure to hypoxia in their pattern of change in swim-bladder lift, in mechanisms used to regulate such lift, and ultimately in their buoyancy-related adaptations to hypoxia. Fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas), which are physostomes, maintained swim-bladder lift during a rapid decline in dissolved O (100%-5% O saturation in 90 min). Air gulping was used to offset gas loss from diffusion with surface access present, but, when this access was denied, fish used gas secretion. Physoclist brook sticklebacks (Culaea inconstans) increased swim-bladder lift during both gradual (100%-5% O saturation in 6 h) and abrupt (direct transfer from 100% to 5% O saturation) exposure to hypoxia by reducing internal pressure of swim-bladder gas allowing the bladder to expand compensating for initial gas loss and also by secreting gas into the bladder. On asphyxiation there was loss of swim-bladder gas (O) resulting in a decline of swimbladder lift. Ninespine sticklebacks (Pungitius pungitius), also physoclist, lost 5%-7% of swim-bladder lift during both gradual and abrupt exposure to hypoxia at 10% O saturation and required several hours to regain lift. The brook stickleback has more superior buoyancy-related adaptations to hypoxia than does the ninespine stickleback. It can regulate lift more precisely with its ability to alter internal pressure, faster rate of increase of lift, and greater resistance to gas loss in hypoxia. Control of swimbladder lift in hypoxia is critical to the efficient performance of aquatic surface respiration.
30158644|Wilson's storm-petrels are the smallest endotherms (mean mass ca. 40 g) living and breeding in the cold climate of Antarctica and might therefore be expected to require unusually large amounts of food and energy. We studied the energetics of this species by measuring rates of oxygen consumption in captive birds and rates of CO production in free-living storm-petrels (doubly labeled water method) during the breeding season. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) was 2.15  0.09 cm Ogh, equivalent to 37  2 kJday, 25% higher than values predicted by allometric models. Thermal conductance, measured at ambient temperatures between 1 and 3 C, was 0.117  0.011 cm O g hC, 15% below allometric predictions. The apparent lower critical temperature ( 16 C) was also well below predicted values (25-27 C). Mean CO production by incubating birds in the field was 3.11  0.82 cm gh, equivalent to 81 kJbird day. This is 2.2 x BMR and is the highest value yet published for metabolic rate during incubation in birds. Mean CO production by storm-petrels away from the nest (free flight) was 5.77  0.69 cm gh, equivalent to 157 kJ bird day or 4.2 x BMR. Flight is relatively economical in this species, and flight costs are comparable to those measured in other highly aerial birds. Integrated field metabolic rate (FMR) averaged about 119 kJbird day (3.2 x BMR) during the incubation and brooding stages, and 157 kJbird day (4.2 x BMR) during the chick-rearing period that follows. These are similar to values reported for tropical seabirds and birds in general. Rates of energy utilization were maximal late in the chick-rearing period, but estimated rates of energy capture required to meet the needs of the parent and its chick were probably greatest during the brooding period. Wilson's storm-petrels must consume between 120% and 154% of their body mass in krill per day of foraging to meet their energy requirements during their antarctic breeding season.
30158177|Oxygen consumption (
30163687|Cardisoma guanhumi in Puerto Rico spend much of the dry season in burrows that descend to groundwater Burrows are sometimes 3-4 m deep and may be capped with dried mud for over 3 mo. Samples of gas and water from burrows at three locations in Puerto Rico were analyzed for O, CO, and ions. Osmolality and ion composition varied widely with location, from about 10% to 130% of seawater. Both gas and water Po's were generally 90-120 mmHg, although some water samples were extremely hypoxic (Po < 20 mmHg). Most burrows were extremely hypercapnic, with gas and water Pco's up to 60 and 90 mmHg, respectively. Whether the burrow was plugged or even occupied by a crab made little difference to ion or gas concentrations. Radiotelemetry of the vertical position of crabs in their burrows indicated that they did not avoid hypercapnia and hypoxia by staying close to the entrance. Cardisoma guanhumi are thus exposed to extreme changes in Pco when they descend deep in their burrows after foraging at dawn and dusk. Impedance measurements of branchial ventilation and heart rate in resting crabs exposed to environmental hypercapnia in artificial burrows revealed two distinct types of ventilatory responses based on the degree and duration of hypercapnia: hyperventilation in response to gradual, chronic exposure to elevated burrow co, and apnea in response to rapid elevations of burrow co above 4%. These physiological responses suggest the presence of both "external" and "internal" receptors of hypercapnia that may allow Cardisoma to buffer large acid-base disturbances when moving between extremes in gaseous microenvironments.
30160965|Before a 5-h period of low oxygen stress and for 25 h after, oxygen uptake rates were measured in the subtidal snails, Acmaea testudinalis, Mitrella lunata, and Lacuna vincta and the littoral snails Littorina obtusata, Littorina littorea, and Littorina saxatilis. The A. testudinalis and L. saxatilis appeared to pay large oxygen debts after the low oxygen stress period. Payment of an oxygen debt was less in L. littorea, and none could be detected in L. obtusata, M. lunata, or L. vincta. Only in A. testudinalis were poststress oxygen uptake rates similar to prestress rates. The other five species displayed longer-term shifts not associated with any oxygen debt payment. For at least 25 h after the 5-h low oxygen stress period, L. saxatilis, L. littorea, L. obtusata, M. lunata, and L. vincta had oxygen uptake rates which were elevated, to different degrees depending on species, over prestress levels at all oxygen tensions. Prestress respiratory patterns shifted to a poststress pattern of greater oxygen independency, particularly at low oxygen tensions. Such poststress increases in oxygen uptake rates and shifts toward greater oxygen independency may constitute short-term compensatory physiological responses, which allow snails to maintain relatively high levels of aerobic metabolism under the occasional periods of low environmental oxygen tensions they may encounter. Compensatory response during hypoxia appears related to environmental oxygen availability. The sublittoral species, M. lunata and L. vincta, can frequently encounter hypoxic conditions and display the greatest capacity for compensation. In Littorina spp. this compensatory ability decreases in the species with increasingly more oxygenated microenvironments higher in the littoral zone. However, it is least developed in A. testudinalis which is restricted to the highly oxygenated sublittoral areas of rocky shores.
30164256|Although dietary intake is thought to be more important than endogenous reserves for egg production in small, altricial birds (such as passerines), few experimental data are available to address this question. I investigated the reproductive responses of female zebra finches, Taeniopygia guttata, to enhanced dietary intake of macronutrients during the period of egg formation. Lipid supplementation had no effect on egg or clutch size. In contrast, proteino-supplemented females laid larger eggs (10%-12%) than controls, both immediately (i.e., first clutch) and in the longer term (second and third clutches up to 21 d after cessation of protein feeding). Interindividual egg size variation was maintained on the enhanced protein diet. The effect ofprotein on clutch size was equivocal, with some evidence for a longer-term increase in size of second (replacement) clutches 10-14 d after protein feeding. Increased egg size involved an increase in both yolk protein and albumen content but not yolk lipid content. These data suggest that zebra finches are protein limited during egg production. Body mass decreased 2.4 g (15% of initial mass) during the laying cycle in control and lipid-fed females but did not change significantly in protein-fed birds. These mass changes are consistent with the idea that females use stored, endogenous protein for egg production. However, mass loss was reduced or nonsignificant during laying of second (replacement) clutches with the same number and size of eggs. Mass loss during egg laying may thus have an alternate, more complex, and individually variable physiological basis rather than simply reflect a negative energy or nutrient balance.
30159990|The thermal significance of interference (metallic) colors in insect cuticles was investigated by comparing the reflectivities and heat gain of cuticles from brightly metallic and achromatic morphs of two polymorphic tiger beetle species (genus Cicindela). The cuticular basis of color differences was determined using transmission electron microscopy. The reflectivities of metallic blue-green cuticle from Cicindela horni were 6.9% higher than black cuticle from the same species at wavelengths between 400 and 700 nm, but differences between 250 and 2,000 nm were only 1.2%. In contrast, the white elytra of C. formosa were 21% more reflective in the visible and 35% more reflective in the near-infrared than metallic red elytra from the same species. When elytra were heated in pairs within a closed chamber by visible light from a tungstenhalogen lamp, no differences were observed in the temperature excesses of iridescent green and black cuticles (elytra) of C. horni (mean difference = 0.01 C). In comparisons of white and metallic red elytra of C formosa, the metallic red elytra attained significantly higher temperature excesses (mean difference = 2.2 C). Our results confirm that metallic colorations in the elytra of tiger beetles are not effective in reducing heat gain from solar radiation, but that beetles with white elytra likely experience significantly lower body temperatures than either black or iridescent beetles under comparable environmental conditions.
30157886|This study reports information on several aspects of thyroid function in a monotreme (Tachyglossus aculeatus), some marsupial (Isoodon macrourus, Perameles nasuta, and Macrotis lagotis), and eutherian mammals (Oryctolagus cuniculus and Rattus norvegicus). Thyroidal uptake of
30163933|We examined the composition and function of pulmonary surfactant located within the faveolar and saccular regions of the garter snake Thamnophis ordinoides and the rattlesnake Crotalus atrox lung. While the faveolar region is well vascularized and septated and is used in gas exchange, the saccular lung is a thin-walled, smooth bag with very little vascularization that functions as a bellows and in gas storage. Both regions of the lungs of the two snake species contained large amounts of surfactant. The rattlesnake faveolar lung contained 2419.9  260.0 g of phospholipidper gram of wet lung mass, a value among the largest ever recorded for any species. However, snake faveolar lung surfactant is markedly different from all other vertebrate surfactants reported to date because it contains relatively little cholesterol (3%-8%). Faveolar lung surfactant of the rattlesnake had a greater phospholipid saturation level than that of the garter snake. The phospholipid profile of garter snake faveolar lung surfactant was very similar to that reported for most other nonmammalian vertebrates, with phosphatidylcholine (PC) the predominant phospholipid (64%), phosphatidylglycerol (PG), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), and sphingomyelin (S) either absent or present only in trace amounts (1%-4%), and intermediate (17%) levels ofphosphatidylinositol (PI). The phospholipid profile of rattlesnake faveolar lung surfactant, on the other hand, differed greatlyfrom that of most other vertebrates in that it contained unusually high levels of lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) and S (12%-18%), whereas PG and PI were virtually absent (0%-1.4%). Removal of surfactant by lavage increased the opening pressure (the initial pressure required to commence the inflation of a collapsed lung) of both regions of the garter snake lung (faveolar region, 1.32-4.51 cm H0; saccular region, 1.55-2.19 cm HO). However, the rattlesnake faveolar region did not collapse even after lavage, and an opening pressure was never obtained. The opening pressure for the rattlesnake saccular lungs (2.78 cm HO) was not increased by lavage (3.0 cm HO). The filling pressures were greater for the faveolar lung than for the saccular lung for both species. Filling pressure of the two lung regions was not affected by lavage in either snake.
30158666|There was no difference in the pattern of valve movements when Polymesoda was transferred from 10 to fresh water and vice versa. Transfer from 5 to fresh water had no effect on valve movements in Corbicula, but a transfer from fresh water to 5 depressed activity. When Polymesoda was transferred from fresh water to 10, the osmotic pressure of the blood increased exponentially toward an asymptote with a half time of 2.61 h; upon transfer from 10 to fresh water, the osmotic pressure decreased exponentially toward an asymptote with a half time of 4.25 h. In Corbicula, the half time for hyperosmotic stress (fresh water to 5) was 2.56 h while that for hypoosmotic stress (5 to fresh water) was 2.30 h. In Polymesoda, volume regulation in response to hypoosmotic stress (10 to fresh water) was complete in 6 h; volume regulation in response to hyperosmotic stress (fresh water to 10) was complete in 36 h. In Corbicula, volume regulation in response to hypoosmotic stress (5 to fresh water) was, as in Polymesoda, complete in 6 h; volume regulation in response to hyperosmotic stress (fresh water to 5) was incomplete.
30155999|Oxygen consumption (
30158607|Chukars (Alectoris chukar, body mass
30155944|Rates of respiratory oxygen uptake of Eisenia foetida acclimated at 15, 25, or 30 C were measured manometrically over a range of temperatures from 0 to 40 C. Whether rates of oxygen uptake were measured with a CO absorber (KOH) or a CO buffer (Pardee solution), effects of temperature were essentially the same: Rates increased approximately linearly from 0 to 20 C. From 20 to 25 C there was a plateau, i.e., a range of thermal compensation with a
30163732|Body mass (BM), oxygen consumption, and energetic food intake were measured in females of the white-toothed shrew, Crocidura russula monacha, during the gestation period of about 28 days. Maternal BM increased by 34% from the initial BM of 8.53 g  1.29 SD. This increase is almost entirely attributed to embryonic mass of 1.0 g  0.23 SD per pup (litter size = one to four pups). Mass-specific O consumption throughout gestation was 3.24 ml O (gh)  0.17 SD, which is 24% higher than that of the nulliparous females. Energetic intake in food increased from 23.68 kJ day  2.51 SD during the first days to 34.35 kJ day  0.88 SD during the last days of gestation. Nonreproductive females consumed 26.48 kJ  day  2.68 SD. Gestation duration is longer than predicted for eutherian mammals of this BM, and within this period the major BM changes and energetic intake occur during the last 2 wk. This presumably enables the main energetic effort to be directed toward lactation during the first 2 wk of gestation. Such time partitioning may be necessary for a small mammal that exhibits a postpartum estrus in order to be able to cope with the already high energetic demands of the nulliparous maintenance.
30156216|Several lines of evidence support the hypothesis that free-living male mountain spiny lizards (Sceloporus jarrovi) given testosterone (T) implants experience increased energetic costs as a result of increased territorial aggression. More aggressive T-implanted males expended more energy by having a longer daily activity period andperforming more territorial displays and movements. T-implanted males made fewer foraging attempts, caught fewer insects, and had lower gut content mass. The change infrequency of foraging attempts suggests a time conflict between territorial aggression and foraging. T-implanted males also had less stored energy in the form of neutral lipids and lower dry lean body mass for their snoutvent lengths. Decreased lean body mass suggests that T-implanted males may be trading increased aggression for decreased growth. These data suggest that energetic considerations could explain previously observed decreases in survivorship of T-implanted males. Survivorship diferences, however, may also be explained by increased conspicuousness topredators. T-implanted males may be more conspicuous than controls through increased daily activityperiod and greater number of displays and movements.
30156062|The testes of male white-crowned sparrows, Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii, subjected to a photoregimen of 12-h days (12L 12D) undergo quasiannual cycles of repeated growth and regression. These cycles decrease successively in period and amplitude and are not accompanied by postnuptial molts. This suggests that they are not physiologically equivalent to those of birds subjected to natural photocycles. Our results demonstrate that transfer of white-crowned sparrows undergoing testicular regression on 12L 12D to long days (20L 4D) induces both testicular growth and increases in plasma levels of luteinizing hormone at normal rates for 20L 4D. These data indicate that testicular regression on 12L 12D must be induced by mechanisms other than the development of photorefractoriness, which is the normal cause of regression on natural photocycles. This suggests very strongly that daylength functions as a driver of the independent components of the annual cycle rather than, as in some other species, a Zeitgeber for an endogenous circannual cycle.
30163862|A wide range of stressor stimuli activate the hypothalamo-adenohypophyseal-adrenal axis, resulting in a rapid rise of glucocorticosteroid secretion. Most studies on this subject have involved captive subjects and artificial stresses. Very few investigations have shown that stressful stimuli under natural conditions can have similar, rapid effects on the adrenal cortex. In this study, free-living common diving petrels, Pelecanoides urinatrix, captured at sea off South Georgia Island, showed highly significant elevations of circulating corticosterone levels after capture and handling stress. Plasma concentrations of corticosterone rose from a baseline of about 10 ng/mL immediately after capture to a peak of circa 40 ng/ mL within 30 min. There were no apparent differences between the sexes. During a severe storm on July 5, 1991 (with high winds, heavy snowfall, and near-zero visibility), birds had significantly elevated levels of circulating corticosterone immediately after capture. There was no further increase in plasma levels of corticosterone (for the 1-h period of sample collection), which suggests that these birds were already maximally stressed when captured. Body mass of birds captured during the storm was lower than during calm weather. In calm weather there was a significant negative relationship of maximum corticosterone level generated during capture stress to the ratio of body mass to wing chord cubed (a measure of body condition). No such relationship was observed during stormy weather.
30158668|A general model of animal heat exchange is modified for the special case of an incubating bird and applied to data describing the microclimate and nest/clutch/parent complex of the mountain white-crowned sparrow in southeastern Oregon. Heat exchange is mainly dependent upon meteorological factors and the measured thermal resistances of the nest and the bird's body. It is relatively insensitive to variation in a number of less exactly quantified factors, such as the thermal resistances of the eggs and the brood patch. Resting energy expenditure is estimated for a typical 24-h cycle and found to average 15% lower in an incubating female than in a bird perching outside of the nest but exposed to the same microclimate.
30161260|An isolated working heart preparation was used to measure the effect of low temperatures on cardiac output (CO), oxygen consumption ($\dot{V}O_{2}$), coronary flow (CF), and aortic systolic and diastolic pressure development in hearts from rats and 13-lined ground squirrels (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus). Cardiac efficiency (CE) was calculated using these data (CE = energy output [KCal/h/g]/energy input [KCal/h/ g]). Below 20 C, rat hearts became arrhythmic and were unable to produce CO. Cardiac arrest occurred at 16.5  0.8 C. Squirrel heart CO decreased progressively as temperature was lowered, but these hearts produced CO at 7 C. A declining spontaneous heart rate was compensated for by increased stroke volume. Mean aortic pressure (MAP) declined in rat hearts between 37 and 20 C, but MAP was maintained in squirrel hearts regardless of temperature. Cardiac efficiency increased slightly (10%-18%) in hearts from both species as temperature was lowered from 37 to 27 C, but squirrel heart CE increased by 60% when temperature was reduced from 17 to 7 C. The proportion of CO devoted to CF was significantly increased at lower temperatures in squirrel hearts but not in rat hearts. The ground squirrel heart has an intrinsic capacity to reapportion CF, make a more efficient use of metabolic fuel, and maintain CO and MAP at low temperatures. These adaptations support survival during deep and sustained hibernation.
30158615|Glycogen phosphorylase was purified from the phasic adductor muscle of the bay scallop, Argopecten irradians concentricus. Phosphorylase a was active in the absence of adenosine monophosphate (AMP), whereas the activity of phosphorylase b was dependent on the presence of AMP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) inhibited both phosphorylase a and phosphorylase b by reducing the binding capacity for inorganic phosphate (Pi). Both phosphorylase a and phosphorylase b were inhibited by glucose-6-phosphate (G-6-P) at physiological concentrations, but the inhibitory effect was more pronounced in phosphorylase b. The two interconvertible forms showed great differences in their respective binding capacities for Pi. In the presence of ATP (5 mM), the apparent
30157935|A BASIC program is given that fits two-segmented straight lines. It is applicable for analysis of data concerning the physiological response of an organism to varying environmental conditions where the response of the organism is to regulate some physiological parameter over a range of a relevant environmental variable (zone of regulation) and to fail to regulate that parameter over some more stressful range (zone of conformation). The program identifies as an example a critical point where the shift from metabolic regulation of O consumption to metabolic O conformation occurs (
30155966|Low environmental oxygen stimulates hatching in teleosts and amphibians. Our experiments show that hatching does not occur when oxygen is supplied at a rate that meets the respiratory demands of the embryo and, conversely, that hatching does occur when the metabolic rate of the embryo exceeds a limit set by the diffusion of oxygen through the water column. A mathematical model of oxygen diffusion indicates that a gradient exists such that the concentration of oxygen at the respiratory surface is less than that needed to saturate the blood. Hatching is stimulated when the growing respiratory demand of the embryo creates a hypoxic condition in the microenvironment surrounding the egg.
30164288|This study determined the interaction between energy assimilation and digestive constraints on the foraging behaviour of nectarivorous Gurney's sugarbirds (Promerops gurneyi), black sunbirds (Nectarinia amethystina), and malachite sunbirds (Nectarinia famosa) in the laboratory. Rates of sugar intake and consumption, transit time, and the concentration of sugar in the excreta were measured when birds were fed 0.25 mol L sucrose, 0.73 mol L sucrose, and 0.73 mol L glucose. For each species, intake rates by volume were greater at low sugar concentrations, such that energy intakes per 90 min were similar, irrespective of diet, which supports the idea of regulated energy intake for these nectarivorous birds. All species were efficient at energy extraction, excreting 1% or less sucrose equivalent irrespective of the initial sugar concentration of each diet. Transit times of solutions ingested increased with an increase in sugar concentration. Birds maximized energy assimilation on high- and low-energy nectar diets by having high extraction efficiencies and short transit times. Sugarbird and sunbird foraging behaviours may be limited by digestive processes and the cost of carrying high-energy reserves as nectar sugar concentration increases.
30155757|We measured rate of oxygen consumption
30157861|Alanine, glutamate, and succinate accumulated in the posterior adductor muscle of Mytilus edulis L. when subjected to combinations of hypoxia (40-50 and 80 mm Hg) and altered temperatures (22 C and 10 C after acclimation to the field ambient temperature of 15 C). The accumulations were greater at the lower of the two oxygen tensions. The time courses of the metabolite accumulations and subsequent declines were different for animals held at 10 C and at 22 C. The results support the hypothesis that anaerobic and aerobic pathways can operate simultaneously in the tissues of Mytilus. Aspartate declined in response to hypoxia, and a role in anaerobic metabolism is indicated.
30156148|Twenty-four juvenile beluga whales, Delphinapterus leucas, were captured in western Hudson Bay. Seventeen were blood sampled and released immediately, one was held in shallow water for 15 h before release, and six were retained in captivity for 10 wk. Plasma concentrations of triiodothyronine (T3) decreased markedly during the first 24 h after capture, and by 2-4 days there was a similar reduction in thyroxine (T4). Concentrations of both hormones remained suppressed throughout the 10-wk period in captivity. Stimulation of adrenal activity by injection ofadrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) resulted in a further decline in T3 after 6-12 h. Handling stress was alone sufficient to produce similar changes in whales injected with saline as a control. This study demonstrated the acute sensitivity of thyroid hormone balance to stress in beluga whales.
10.1086/515891|The production of milk by lactating females, and energy expenditure and foliage intake of their dependent young, were investigated in freeranging koalas. Koalas had the lowest massspecific daily milkenergy production at peak lactation so far recorded in a mammal, but the duration of reproduction was 58% longer than the combined marsupial and eutherian average. As a consequence, the total energy input to reproduction in koalas was similar to that in other mammals. We propose that the prolonged lactation and low daily rate of energy transfer to the young by female koalas is an adaptation to the low energy availability from their diet of
30155885|The bay scallop Argopecten irradians concentricus responds to the approach of a predatory gastropod with an escape swimming behavior which is produced by rapid contractions of the phasic adductor muscle. In addition, this species can survive under hypoxic conditions (PO < 20 mm Hg) for at least 10 h. Studies were undertaken to assess the mode of energy production in the adductor muscle during contractile activity and subsequent recovery and during environmental hypoxia. During the organism's initial swimming response, the bulk of ATP utilized in adductor muscle contraction was derived from arginine phosphate. Glycolysis provided the bulk of energy during additional swimming sequences, with tissue octopine levels rising from 0.05 to 8.22 mol  g wet
30158614|Northern blot hybridization analysis of RNA from fish acclimated to different temperatures revealed that the inducibility of antifreeze protein messenger RNA (AF mRNA) accumulation in winter flounder varies with fish from different seasons. A high accumulation of AF mRNA was observed in fish maintained at 4 C, but not 18 C, during the fall (Oct.-Dec.). This low temperature requirement was specific for AF mRNA, since low temperature was not required for the accumulation of a femalespecific mRNA (mRNA). No accumulation of AF mRNA was detected in either cold- or warm-acclimated fish during the spring and summer (Feb.-Aug.), although an effect of temperature on the decline of AF mRNA in females was noted. The synthesis of AF mRNA in vitro was investigated by Northern blot analysis and by hybridization of
30155972|Thermal responses were studied in the capercaillie and the black grouse roosting in closed snow burrows in northern Finland. For capercaillie, the air temperature within the burrow declined with the distance from the bird but was as high as 11 C adjacent to the bird when snow temperatures varied between -7.5 and - 11.5 C. The body temperature of the burrowed capercaillie was significantly lower than that of those roosting on the snow surface, indicating lessened alertness. In a comparison of the responses of the two species, the body temperature of burrowed black grouse was significantly higher than that of similarly situated capercaillie. The burrowed black grouse shivered occasionally but weakly during the night. Measurements of pectoral muscle electromyographic activity (EMG) were not taken for capercaillie. The results support the hypothesis that in winter, under suitable snow conditions, these birds are able to shelter in, or close to, a thermoneutral microenvironment.
30155734|Heart rates recorded in vitro for the bat at normothermic and hibernating temperatures were 450  26 and 34  6 beats/min, respectively. These rates are very similar to in vivo rates previously reported. Glucose uptake and utilization (efficiency) were 384  34 mol glucose/g dry weight (C/gdw) per hour and 58  6 beats/mol C/gdw for hearts at normothermic temperatures and 90  12 mol C/gdw per hour and 43  11 beats/mol C/gdw for hibernating hearts. Although lactate production was much greater among normothermic hearts when compared with those at hibernating temperatures (159  18 and 11  mol C/gdw per hour), both groups beat a similar number of times during the production of 1 mol lactic acid. Glycogenolysis was observed among normothermic hearts (40%) following 90 min of perfusion. Hearts from hibernating animals did not show any significant difference in glycogen content following perfusion.
30155933|Oxygen consumption, heart rate, and thermal tolerance were measured in week-old embryos of Heermann's gull (Larus heermanni). Heart rate and oxygen consumption are temperature independent between 30 and 40 C and average 120 beats/min and 1.87 cm O/(eggh). Below 30 C, these rate processes become strongly temperature dependent, and the heart stops beating when cooled to 7-13 C. The beat recovers when the embryo is rewarmed, even after 1 h at 6 C. The heart beat stops when the embryo is heated above 40.0-41.6 C but recovers with cooling. However, the beat does not recover after the embryo has been heated to 43 C for 1 h. The thermal independence of embryonic function over the 30-40 C range minimizes disruptions associated with variation of temperature during incubation. Unattended eggs at night may chill to temperatures which cause cessation of heart beat, but such exposure is not lethal if the eggs are rewarmed. Exposure to radiant heat during the day can rapidly raise egg temperature to levels which kill the embryo. Thus, an important aspect of incubation by adult Heermann's gulls is shading of the eggs and prevention of overheating.
10.1086/515868|The large nemertean
10.1086/515902|We tested predictions of a chemical reactor model of digestion by manipulating the shortterm costs of feeding and then measuring the effect on digestive parameters. We compared residence time of digesta and extraction efficiency of glucose in coldacclimated waxwings (
30156021|Previous studies tested in domesticated species the hypothesis that dehydration of avian eggs is regulated by short-term physiological adjustment of shell structure by females in response to environmental variation. I tested this hypothesis in a natural population of mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) exposed to a large seasonal change in environmental humidity. Measurement of shell conductance to water vapor, nest humidity, internal egg vapor pressure, and egg water loss reveal that females do not seasonally adjust eggshell conductance to cope with this humidity shift; nor is egg dehydration regulated by parental control of nest humidity. Consequently, nest humidity increases twofold and egg water loss declines an average of 25% with the onset of the humid season.
30152568|A mathematical analysis of continuously proportional and neutral zone (dual threshold) temperature regulation leads to criteria for experimentally distinguishing between these differing controls. Colonic, skin, and head temperatures were measured in a lizard as it shuttled between hot and cold environments. An analysis of body temperature when hot-environment temperature was 65 C shows that the lizard was thermoregulating (P < .05). A further analysis of behavior at a hotenvironment temperature of 47 C shows that the body temperatures initiating exit from the hot and cool environments were significantly (P < .05) different. Furthermore, shuttling ceased when cool-environment temperature was increased to 36 C or hot-environment temperature was lowered to 43 C. Therefore, it was concluded (P < .05) that thermoregulation was not single set-point continuously proportional. Our results, when combined with those of field and gradient observations, support a dual stochastic threshold (DST) control hypothesis. Exit skin temperature was unaffected by different hot-environment temperatures; however, as hot-environment temperature was increased exit colonic and brain temperatures decreased linearly, suggesting that peripheral temperature was regulated. We conclude (P < .001) that deep body temperature is not the major directly regulated variable.
30163951|Black goats, tended by Bedouin tribesmen in the extreme deserts of the Middle East, drink only once every 2-4 days and imbibe amounts of water that often exceed 40% of their dehydrated body weight. The water that the goats drink copiously is first retained in the rumen and only gradually flows into the other body fluid compartments. Five hours after the drinking, 81% of the water imbibed was still stored in the spacious rumen of the goat. The kidney of the Bedouin goat responded to the voluminous drinking by a drop in the blood flow that was followed by a compatible drop in both the GFR and the urine flow. The urine flow, even 4 h following the drinking, was below the rate recorded in the dehydrated animal. Urine Na concentration that amounted to 80.3 mM in the dehydrated animal dropped to only 37.7 mM following the drinking. A drop (from 144 mM to 49 mM) was also simultaneously recorded in Cl concentration; K and urea concentration, however, changed only slightly. It is suggested that the rumen in the goat serves as a water reservoir that helps maintain the osmotic stability of the body proper. The kidneys in these animals efficiently conserve the water imbibed as well as the body's Na and Cl. Studies of sheep that assign similar roles to the rumen and the kidneys indicate that the physiological mechanism described in the present study is generally shared by ruminants tended in a pastoral system.
30162282|Direct exposure to -10 C, in the absence of tissue freezing, causes high mortality in Sarcophaga crassipalpis: this result suggests that injury is due to cold shock. However, brief acclimation at 0 C enables larvae, pupae, and pharate adults of Sarcophaga crassipalpis to survive -10 C. Chilling for as short a period as 10 min enabled 50% of the flies to survive a 2-h exposure to -10 C. Enhancement of cold tolerance was linear over the first hour of chilling at 0 C. The optimal temperature range eliciting the rapid acclimation response was 6-0 C, but the effect could also be stimulated by high temperature (36 C). The rapid increase in cold tolerance correlates with concomitant increases in hemolymph osmolality and glycerol levels. This response suggests a novel role for glycerol in protecting insects against injury resulting from cold shock, although other unidentified mechanisms may be involved in this response. That both nondiapause- and diapause-programmed flies respond to short-term chilling indicates that this rapid response is not part of the diapause syndrome but probably functions in either type of fly as an adaptation to survive brief periods of low temperature.
30152558|Thomomys bottae maintain body temperature (
30158242|Plasma fat metabolites were measured during the nocturnal migratory flight in three species of small passerines. The birds had higher free fatty acid (FFA) and glycerol levels than resting birds that had been fasted overnight. In contrast to exercising mammals and large birds, they also had elevated levels of triglyceride and the very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) fraction. It is hypothesized that FFA reesterification in the liver and delivery of triglyceride-VLDL to the flight muscles helps to circumvent constraints in energy supply during endurance locomotion in animals with very high mass-specific metabolic rates.
30163726|The temperature of expired air at the external nares of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) was measured at inspired (ambient) air temperatures of 25, 30, 35, and 40 C, and over a broad range of humidities at each temperature. Expired air temperature was positively related to inspired air temperature and humidity; comparisons with published data for banner-tail kangaroo rats (Dipodomys spectabilis), deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), house mice (Mus musculus), and Australian hopping mice (Notomys alexis) showed similarities and differences among coefficients of multiple linear regressions describing analogous relationships. Simulations for a hypothetical mammal suggested how differences in the recovery of respiratory heat and water in nasal passages, and the loss of respiratory heat and water from the nose, should be affected by different relationships between the temperature of expired air and the temperature and humidity of inspired air.
30163694|The diffusion coefficients for H, Na, and Ca across the Atlantic salmon chorion were determined experimentally to be 3.2 X 10, 1.3 X 10 to 2.2 X 10, and 3.3 x 10 to 3.8 X 10 cm  s, respectively, depending on the model used. The ratios of diffusion coefficients for the three ions do not differ greatly from the relative mobilities in free solution (ca. 7.3:1:1.2), although the diffusion rates of Na and Ca through the chorion may be retarded relative to that of H. The chorion's capacity for ion exchange is low, relative to most commercial ion exchange materials. The diffusion coefficients were used to estimate flux of H into salmon eggs under pH gradients expected in nature as reported in the literature. The cation exchange capacities of the chorion and perivitelline colloids are insufficient to buffer H entry for more than a few hours. Since pH of perivitelline fluid (pvf) remains higher than ambient pH, it is suggested that the embryonic tissues must generate basic materials to neutralize acidity entering the pvf
30155794|The activities (units per gram wet weight of tissue) of two glycolytic enzymes (lactate dehydrogenase [LDH] and pyruvate kinase [PK]) and two citric acid cycle enzymes (citrate synthase [CS] and malate dehydrogenase [MDH]) were measured in epaxial white muscle of different-sized specimens of 13 teleost species. For CS, an enzyme associated with aerobic metabolism, the units of activity per gram muscle decreased with increasing body size, following the scaling pattern characteristically observed for aerobic respiration as a function of body size. The two anaerobically poised enzymes, LDH and PK, exhibited significantly higher activity per gram muscle in larger specimens. The dramatic increases in LDH and PK activities, both in terms of units per gram muscle and units of muscle activity per gram of total fish mass, were analyzed from the standpoint of power requirements for burst-swimming performance, since glycolytic capacity may determine a fish's ability to swim at high relative (body lengths per second) velocities. The scaling of muscle power required for maintenance of identical burst-swimming abilities (in body lengths per second) in large and small individuals of a species, based on calculations of drag scaling with body size and relative swimming velocity, agrees closely with the observed scaling of LDH and PK activity in white epaxial muscle. Brain enzymic activities were examined in three species to determine whether enzyme scaling with body size also occurred in a nonlocomotory tissue. The LDH and PK activities were virtually constant over a wide range of body size in all three species; CS activity exhibited a scaling with body size similar to the relationship found for white muscle CS activity and similar to the relationship expected between respiratory rate and body size. These different enzymic activity scaling patterns for aerobically and anaerobically poised enzymes are discussed in terms of the body-sizedependent aerobic. swimming abilities and body-size-independent anaerobic (burst) swimming abilities of fish. The ecological significance of maintaining size-independent burst-swimming ability, as measured in body lengths per second, is also considered. The contrasting aerobic and anaerobic enzyme scaling patterns found in this study indicate that the metabolic scaling paradigm observed in numerous studies of respiratory metabolism may not be applicable to anaerobic metabolism since different constraints on metabolic rate may apply under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Limitations on aerobic metabolism may derive from surface-volume relationships and on oxygen transport capacities, i.e., on intertissue relationships. In contrast, limitations on short-term anaerobic metabolism, as used in burst swimming, may involve only intratissue factors, notably glycogen concentration and the activities of glycolytic enzymes like PK and LDH that are instrumental in supplying ATP and in regenerating NAD.
30157873|The mass-specific power input (metabolic cost) of hovering is independent of body mass but is proportional to the 0.5 exponent of wing disc loading for the sample considered here. The efficiency of converting energy metabolism to aerodynamic power is approximately constant at 6.23% in hummingbirds with a wide range of body mass and wing disc loading. Actuator wing disc theory of helicopter aerodynamics appears adequate for comparing the energetic cost of hovering flight among hummingbirds. Differences in the power input for hovering due to differences in wing disc loading are greater for larger hummingbirds than for smaller ones. Impaired integrity of the outer portion of the wing disc caused by molt or breaking primaries 8, 9, or 10 greatly increases the required power for hovering. The unusual nonsequential pattern of primary-feather molt in hummingbirds may be of adaptive value in that it results in the most rapid restoration of the integrity of the wing disc.
30158184|Hydrochloric acid (HCl) infusion during aquatic normoxia increased blood pressure, gill ventilation, and air breathing in bowfin. These responses were associated with a reduction in arterial blood pH (
30156232|The maximal in vitro activities of enzymes of energy metabolism were assessed in systemic ventricle and the branchial hearts of the cephalopods Loligo forbesi, Sepia officinalis, Eledone cirrhosa, and Octopus vulgaris. Within each species, activity levels of enzymes of glycolysis (hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, and octopine dehydrogenase), citrate synthase, cytochrome oxidase, and total ATPase were higher in the systemic ventricle than in branchial hearts. The greater metabolic potential is consistent with the higher levels of pressure development and subsequent energy demand in the ventricle than in branchial hearts. The systemic ventricle is nourished by oxygenated blood, whereas branchial hearts receive deoxygenated venous blood. Despite differences in oxygen delivery, there is no suggestion from the enzyme profile that anaerobic metabolism is enhanced in branchial hearts. Pairwise regressions were assessed for all marker enzymes from ventricles and branchial hearts of the four species. There are strong linear correlations between phosphofructokinase and citrate synthase activities, and between hexokinase and cytochrome oxidase activities. This suggests that, as interspecific demand for carbon to support the citric acid cycle is increased, there is a concomitant expansion of carbohydrate flux. Consideration of the ventricle alone reveals higher activity levels of phosphofructokinase, citrate synthase, and ATPase in decapods than in octopods. This is consistent with the greater sustainable swimming capability of the former group and may reflect maximum rates of cardiac energy metabolism.
30164318|Standard metabolic rate and maximal metabolic rate during forced exercise are examined for nine species of goanna (genus Varanus), with body mass varying from 10 to 3,750 g. At 35C, the common pooled mass exponent for standard metabolic rate is 0.97 and at 25C it is 0.89, with considerable variation between species (0.43-1.20). Standard metabolic rate at 35C scales interspecifically with body
30164187|Resting metabolic rate (RMR), body temperature
10.1086/515857|The effects of arousal from hibernation and presence of plasma androgen on the expression of mating behavior in male big brown bats
30155877|The relations of the temperatures of the thorax (
10.1086/515858|In this study, we asked whether withinspecies variation in chick resting metabolic rate was related to variation in growth and whether this relationship changed during development in three galliform species (turkey,
30152627|Two otherwise similar species of golden-mantled ground squirrels differ in coloration; the dorsal fur of Spermophilus lateralis exhibits a reflectivity to solar radiation 58% greater than does that of S. saturatus. Despite this substantial difference in coloration, however, solar heat loads transferred to the skin are indistinguishable. This convergence of radiative heat gain results primarily from differences in the structure, optics, and thickness of fur beneath the superficial layer that produces the animal's external appearance. The results of this research support the view that coat properties modifying solar heat gain independent of surface coloration may represent an important mechanism for adjustment of heat balance in nature.
30159971|Diffusion of water, Na, Cl, and ethanol were studied in vitro across whole, fresh skins of six species of sea snakes placed between 1-M solute solutions and distilled water. Water influxes varied from 60 mol/cm  h in Pelamis to 240 mol/cm  h in Aipysurus laevis. In four species, including Pelamis and Aipysurus, influx exceeded effluix. This is a reversal of the flux asymmetry found in freshwater snakes measured under identical circumstances. Sodium and Cl fluxes across whole skins were low, with effluxes exceeding influxes in A. laevis. In shed skins of A. laevis, Na fluxes were considerably higher than in whole skins, but efflux exceeded influx by a factor of two to 16. In freshwater snakes, the reverse was true; ionic influxes exceeded effluxes. Thus the directions of asymmetrical diffusion of water and Na were opposite in marine and freshwater snakes. Since these asymmetries tend to slow the downhill diffusion of water and Na, they may be part of a previously unsuspected mechanism of osmoregulation residing in the integument.
30155945|Metabolic rates of walking and swimming marine iguanas (Amblyrhynchus cristatus) were measured in order to evaluate the locomotory specialization of this submarine foraging lizard. These data are compared to similar data for walking Galapagos land iguanas (Conolophus subcristatus) and to data for other lizards. Juvenile (mass = 500 g) and adult (mass = 2,900 g) marine iguanas could sustain walking speeds of 1 km/h aerobically for at least 20 min at basking temperatures of 35 C.
30158499|The ability to maintain a balanced energy budget through extended periods of thermal stress is a major determinant in the survival of birds resident in the north temperate zone during winter. We developed a time-energy budget for winter-acclimated merlins (Falco columbarius) to examine the relationship between energy expenditure and temperature, wind, and radiation and to learn how merlins cope with winter on a physiological and behavioral basis. Nine free-living birds were radio tagged and their activities monitored to establish an activity budget for the winterperiod (November 1 to February 28). The data were combined with thermoregulatory and activity costs of nine other merlins measured in an open-circuit respirometer. Basal metabolic rate was higher in females (6.96 kJ  h) than males (5.23 kJ  h) and both were more than 50% above level spredicted from their mass. Lower critical temperatures were 3.4 and 14.3C for females and males, respectively, and thermal conductance in males (0.267 mW  [g  C]) was about 7% lower than predicted from mass, while for females (0.245 mW  [g  C]) it was within 1% of the predicted value. The allocation of time in the activity budget was based on minimizing foraging activity and energy expenditure, rather than maximizing energy intake. Physiological adaptation shown by merlins suggests that biotic rather than physiological factors previously limited merlin abundance on the northern Great Plains in winter.
30163891|Goldfish (Carassius auratus: Cyprinidae) have a two-chambered swim bladder. The anterior chamber is thick walled, undergoes small volume changes, does not empty itself of gas, and assists in hearing. The posterior chamber is thin walled, undergoes extensive volume change that often results in bladder collapse, and controls animal buoyancy. Both chambers possess relatively thick inner lipid linings that differ in composition. The anterior-chamber lipids are rich in cholesterol and phospholipids, particularly in disaturated phospholipids. Posterior-chamber lipids are exceptionally rich in cholesterol but not in saturated phospholipid. Lipids from both chambers lower surface tension below that of water but are not more surface active than a cell membrane preparation. This study demonstrates a new technique for determining the role of the lipids in bladder inflation and compliance. The pressure required to initiate the inflation of a collapsed bladder (termed "opening pressure") increased after lipids were removed from the posterior chamber but not after they were removed from the anterior chamber. Posterior-chamber lipids act as an antiglue for collapsed bladders by preventing the folded inner surfaces from adhering. Anterior-chamber lipids did not act as an antiglue, and their function remains unknown.
30157875|Protein synthetic rates have been determined in vivo at - 1.5 C by the method of constant infusion in four species of Antarctic fish of McMurdo Sound of genus Trematomus (Nototheniidae) and Gymnodraco (Bathydraconidae). Parameters for liver protein synthesis were obtained by pulse injection and infusion methods in T. hansoni. Protein synthetic rates in liver averaged 6% of tissue protein per day. Synthetic rates in the other tissues studied fell in the following order: foregut > liver > gill = spleen = head kidney > trunk kidney > red muscle > white muscle. Rates in liver and white muscle are compared with data for temperate and tropical fishes at habitat temperatures and at reduced temperatures. The theoretical temperature dependency for protein synthetic reactions based on studies in temperate species is taken as
30163858|Crayfish (29.8 g) maintained at 25 C were examined with regard to their cardiovascular pressure-flow relationships. Pulsatile arterial hemolymph flows were simultaneously recorded in the three major arteries leading from the heart. Hemolymph pressures were measured throughout the cardiovascular system. Tail movements were also monitored. Flows and pressures were found to vary little during quiet periods. Arterial hemolymph flows were 1.3 mL  min in the anterior aorta, 5.2 mL  min in the sternal artery, and 0.8 mL  min in the posterior aorta. Mean heartbeat frequency was 125.6  5.2 beats  min, with a stroke volume of 2.0 mL  kg  beat and a cardiac output of 252 mL  kg  min (summation of arterial flows). Systolic intracardiac pressure was 9.5 mmHg, with a mean arterial pressure of 7.5 mmHg. Infrabranchial and pericardial sinus pressures (the pressure gradient allowing hemolymph to flow through the complex branchial vasculature) were 3.2 mmHg and 2.5 mmHg, respectively. During periods of spontaneous tail activity cardiac output and stroke volume increased with little change in heart frequency. Arterial flows and pressures showed significant deviations from control values during tail flexion.
30158175|We used a swimming respirometer to measure oxygen consumption (i. e., metabolic cost) of four species of stream fishes while they held position at diferent velocities. We tested naturally acclimatized individuals during spring, summer, fall, and winter at seasonal temperatures and photoperiods. Rosyside dace (Clinostomus funduloides), longnose dace (Rhinichthys cataractae), mottled sculpin (Cottus bairdi), and juvenile rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) all showed seasonal changes in oxygen consumption. Seasonal changes in standard metabolic rates seemed to be influenced by changes in reproductive condition as well as ambient temperature. The metabolic cost of maintaining position for rainbow trout and rosyside dace generally increased with velocity. At velocities below eight body lengths per second, longnose dace did not exhibit a significant change in oxygen consumption, because they held position without swimming. At higher velocities, however, long-nose dace swam to maintain their position and oxygen consumption increased rapidly. Mottled sculpin held position without swimming and therefore showed little or no change in energy use with changing current velocity.
30163700|To examine the effects of hindgut morphology and body size on the digestive performance of rodents, we fed diets of three different fiber contents (7%, 22%, and 28%) to three species of sciurids-yellow-pine chipmunks (Eutamias amoenus) (55-60 g body mass), Columbian ground squirrels (Spermophilus columbianus) (600-700 g), and hoary marmots (Marmota caligata) (2,000-3,000 g)-and to Townsend voles (Microtus townsendii) (55-60 g), a microtine rodent. All species generally maintained body mass on all three diets, except that chipmunks lost mass on the high-fiber diet. We measured intake and digestibility of the three diets and compared rates of passage of fluid digesta (marked with Co-EDTA) and large particles (marked with Cr-mordanted plant cell walls) on the 7% fiber diet. For voles, the mean retention time (MRT  SE) of fluid (14.8  1.9 h) was greater (P = 0.02, paired t-test) than that of large particles (13.1  2.4 h). This indicates separation of digesta phases in the proximal colon and selective retention of fluid digesta, probably in the cecum, which means that small, highly digestible food particles as well as bacteria are preferentially held in the cecum, which results in a more efective digestion by this system. In contrast, in the three sciurids, MRTs of fluid were the same or less than those of large particles, indicating no selective fluid retention. Among all species, MRTs increased with increasing body size. Dry matter digestibility was greater in the voles than in the chipmunks for all three diets and was greater in marmots than in voles for the low-fiber diet. Our results confirm the general prediction that voles can utilize more fibrous foods than chipmunks because of separation of digesta in a more complex proximal colon and selective retention of fluid in a larger cecum. Within the Sciuridae, increasingly larger body size (and hence a larger absolute gut capacity relative to metabolic rate) offsets the disadvantage of the relatively simple sciurid hindgut.
30163686|Terrestrial isopods (Crustacea, Isopoda, Oniscidea) are capable of active water vapor absorption from subhemolymph water activities. The minimum activity for absorption constitutes the uptake threshold (T), and animals can balance passive losses above the critical equilibrium activity (CEA). Values for Porcellio scaber are 0.889 and 0.913, respectively. Two major mechanisms can explain the uptake process. Maximum attainable uptake fluxes increase linearly with ambient water activity (
30159986|We continuously measured O and CO levels within four nest cavities of the northern flicker (Colaptes auratus) after they had been flushed with a low-oxygen, high-CO gas mixture. It took over 2 h for O and CO levels in cavities to return to free atmospheric values under isothermal conditions, even when the entrance to the cavity was open. Heating the interior of cavities with open entrances to 5, 10, or 15 C above outside air temperature reduced the time required for cavity gases to return to atmospheric levels to 5, 3, and 2 min, respectively; comparable values for sealed cavities are 65, 50, and 47 min. In open cavities, rates of O influx and CO efflux were not significantly increased by thermal differences greater than 5 C. Since air temperatures within occupied flicker cavities usually exceed those outside by 5 C or more, thermally induced convective exchange expectably would augment diffusive gas transfers between the cavities and free atmosphere and explain the moderate gaseous conditions within these cavities.
30156088|The maximum cold-induced oxygen consumption (
30157970|Overnight fasting in the passerine horned lark (Eremophila alpestris) is characterized by rapid changes in the concentrations of circulating energy substrates. These changes suggest an increased reliance on lipid fuels combined with sparing of carbohydrate and protein. During fasting, free fatty acid levels rose 36%, and -hydroxybutyrate levels rose fourfold, both within 5 h. Plasma triglyceride concentrations were elevated in the fed state and only decreased after 10 h of fasting The levels of both -amino nitrogen and glucose remained constant throughout fasting, the latter at the relatively high levels seen in many passerines (ca. 20 mM). Both liver and pectoral glycogen were significantly depleted after pvernight fasting. The quick onset of these protein sparing adjustments (as compared with larger birds) is probably a common feature in small passerines, because of their high mass-specific metabolic rates and their need to conserve muscle protein.
30163868|We tested a general model predicting the effect of body temperature
30157904|This study examined the acid-base and ionoregulatory responses by the skin and kidneys of adult bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) during and following hypoxic enforced submergence (38  3 min duration). Two groups were studied: large spring animals and smaller summer animals. Arterial and bladder catheters permitted repetitive blood sampling and continuous urine collection. Enforced submergence initially resulted in a combined respiratory/metabolic acidosis; there were no significant differences in blood parameters between the two groups. A marked lactacidosis ensued, with plasma lactate and nonrespiratory acid (
30156250|Development of brain temperature regulation was studied in the precocial chick of the Japanese quail from hatching to 21 d of age during exposure to ambient temperatures of 35, 30, 25, and 20 C. The newly hatched quail maintained a stable body-to-brain temperature difference from the day of hatching, although at relatively hypothermic levels compared to adults. Brain temperature and body temperature increased as a power function of age, approaching adult levels within 6 d and 9 d, at 30 -35 C and 25 C, respectively. The chicks could not survive exposures to 20 C during the first 5 d of age and approached homeothermy at an extrapolated age of 24 d. The significantly diferent exponents of the equations relating brain temperature and body temperature to age resulted in a significant linear increase in body-to-brain temperature difference with age, except at 20 C. The slope of the relation between brain temperature and body temperature (0.932) was significantly lower than 1.0 (P < 0.001), indicating an increased brain cooling capacity at higher body temperatures. The developmental pattern of brain temperature regulation revealed in the present study resembles in general those of precocial fowl and altricial pigeon chicks. The present findings that heat-defense responses develop earlier than cold-defense responses are consistent with the existence of a hierarchical order in the maturation of the central thermoregulatory system.
30164282|In mammals that undergo torpor and hibernation, a period of CO storage is often a prelude to, and may be required for, the onset of a bout of torpor. Storage of CO has been hypothesized to induce an energy-conserving metabolic suppression in torpid mammals. It is unclear whether CO storage also occurs in birds that undergo torpor. To study these questions, we measured rates of oxygen consumption (
30158566|The phototactic swimming activity of hemoglobin-poor (6.3 mg Hb/g dry wt) and hemoglobin-rich (115.5 mg Hb/g dry wt) Daphnia in low oxygen concentration at 20 C was studied to evaluate the role of hemoglobin in low oxygen concentration. The swimming speed of pale and red animals was 52.6  12.0 and 53.5  14.7 cm/min, respectively. The total swimming distance of pale animals until the final cessation of antennal and pedal movement toward the light source was constant, approximately 10 m, when exposed to low oxygen concentration (0.075-0.3 ml O/liter). However, swimming distance in pale animals increased from 10 m at low oxygen concentrations to more than 100 m at 0.45 ml O/liter. Red animals swam a greater distance than pale animals even in very low oxygen concentration and rapidly achieved a greater distance with a very slight increase in oxygen concentration, totaling above 100 m at 0.15 ml O/liter. Carbon monoxide-treated red animals showed almost the same swimming activity in relation to oxygen concentration as pale animals. These results indicate that the high concentration of hemoglobin found in Daphnia living in a low oxygen environment plays an important role in swimming activity under low oxygen concentration.
30157909|Temperature selection in Rana cascadae tadpoles and adults was studied in the field and in the laboratory. In a mountain pond, temperatures spanned 8-30 C in the late afternoon and 5-12 C during the early morning. Tadpoles formed dense aggregations in the warmer portions of the pond during the afternoon and night and always selected the warmer portions of the pond. In the laboratory, studies in a temperature gradient showed that (1) premetamorphic tadpoles had high selected temperatures (27.3  0.6 C); (2) early metamorphic tadpoles selected the warmest temperatures (28.8  0.4 C) and had the lowest level of activity; and (3) late metamorphic tadpoles (19.0  0.6 C), froglets (14.5  0.4 C), and 2-yr-old adults (16.0  0.6 C) selected much lower temperatures. Temperature selection in tadpoles acclimated to 7 C (CA) was compared with that of tadpoles acclimated to 21 C (WA). In premetamorphic and metamorphic tadpoles, the CA groups selected lower temperatures than the corresponding WA group. In contrast, little difference was found between the two acclimation groups in late metamorphic tadpoles. Temperature appears to play an important role in tadpole distribution. The variations in selected temperature for the different developmental stages presumably reflect changing physiological requirements and modes of environmental optimization during maturation.
30155873|This study compared the effects of photoperiod and temperature on populations of Peromyscus leucopus from two different latitudes. Laboratory-reared mice which were descendants of Connecticut (CT) or Georgia (GA) wild-caught animals were exposed to either a long (16L:8D) or short (9L:15D) photoperiod for 12 wk. All mice were kept at 23 C for the first 6 wk, then half of each group was exposed to 13 C for the remaining 6 wk. Nesting was assessed during week 10 and spontaneous torpor during weeks 11-12. At the end of week 12, all mice were killed and examined for the presence of winter pelage. Testicular index, testes weight, seminal vesicle weight, spermatogenic index in males, and reproductive tract weight and follicular index in females were determined. Short days caused gonadal involution, molts to winter pelage, and torpor at both temperatures in CT mice. In contrast, the majority of GA mice remained reproductively competent, and thermoregulatory adjustments were less pronounced. At 23 C, short-day exposed GA mice did not become torpid, and only one animal (6%) molted. AT 13 C 27% of the GA short-day animals entered torpor and 20% molted. Nesting was increased by both short days and cold in CT mice, but only by cold in GA mice. These results indicate that in P. leucopus there is considerable intraspecific variation in the use of photoperiod and temperature as environmental cues.
30152562|Mean water loss rates for the desert scorpion Hadrurus arizonensis determined in the laboratory using doubly labeled water (tritium and oxygen-18) were significantly higher than mean rates determined gravimetrically for unfed animals. Differences between isotopically and gravimetrically determined water loss rates were not significant in steady-state animals or when the experimental periods were sufficiently long. Water turnover rates and water loss rates determined isotopically in freeroaming field scorpions were much higher than those for laboratory-confined individuals. Highest water loss values for free-roaming scorpions were observed following periods of rainfall which presumably increased food availability and, hence, water input. Mean metabolic rates of free-roaming scorpions were two to three times higher than rates determined under laboratory conditions at comparable temperatures. The application of the doubly labeled water technique to arthropods holds much promise but will require further refinement to ensure that data obtained are valid.
10.1086/515853|We compared aspects of the thermal sensitivity of replicated lines of
30158636|Phosphofructokinase, citrate synthase, and -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activities were measured in heart and pectoral muscle from spring- and fall-acclimatized, active painted turtles. The enzyme activities derived were used as indices of glycolytic, citric acid (TCA) cycle, and -oxidative capacities, respectively. Heart tissue exhibited significantly higher TCA cycle and -oxidative capacities in fall relative to spring. Glycolytic capacity in the heart was similar in spring and fall and to that found in pectoral muscle. Glycolytic capacity in the pectoral muscle was slightly higher in fall, whereas -oxidative and TCA cycle capacities remained constant across seasons. Phosphofructokinase activities in fall-acclimatized tissues were higher and less temperature sensitive in the 15-25 C than in the 5-15 C range, possibly reflecting a seasonal compensation of the temperature optima for this enzyme. The marked changes in cardiac TCA cycle and -oxidative capacities and the relative stability of glycolytic capacities between spring and fall show a seasonal shift in the enzyme profile of this tissue type. The TCA cycle and -oxidative pathways potentially provide more energy during activity in fall, a conclusion corroborated by system-correlation ratios. Glycolytic capacity is maintained in both tissue types across seasons, suggesting that glycolysis is important for supplying energy over a wide range of conditions.
30156078|The reversed sexual size dimorphism of prairie falcons is near the extreme found among raptorial birds. Mean basal metabolic rate (BMR) for males (390.2  15.0 ml O/h) and females (504.8  23.3 ml O/h) and mass-specific metabolism (0.79  0.05 ml O/g h and 0.67  0.03 ml O/g h, respectively) differ significantly between sexes. Females have a slightly broader thermal neutral zone (TNZ) than males; the upper critical temperature (
30164285|In the cooperatively breeding Florida scrub-jay, nonbreeders are subordinate to the breeders with which they share a territory. Corticosterone is secreted in response to a wide range of stressors, including social stress, and suppresses reproductive and territorial behaviors in several taxa; thus, elevated baseline levels of corticosterone might be a causal mechanism of reproductive suppression. To test the hypothesis that nonbreeder Florida scrub-jays are reproductively suppressed through the actions of corticosterone, we compared corticosterone levels of nonbreeders and breeders and found no differences. However, baseline corticosterone levels only provide information about a bird's current hormonal status. Virtually all species exhibit a rapid rise in glucocorticoids in response to an acute stressor. If the adrenocortical response of nonbreeders is greater than that of breeders, this might be a mechanism whereby nonbreeders remain reproductively quiescent. We compared the responses of breeders and nonbreeders to the acute stress of being captured and held for 1 h. Both exhibited significant but equivalent increases in corticosterone titers. Because in some species heavier or fatter individuals have reduced glucocorticoid responses to stressors, we examined whether body mass was correlated with corticosterone titers. Both baseline and maximum corticosterone levels covaried with body mass, and the effect of body mass on corticosterone levels explained the increase due to capture and handling. Our data do not support the hypothesis that Florida scrub-jay nonbreeders are reproductively suppressed through the actions of corticosterone.
30156046|Severely hypoxic (ambient Po = < 30 torr) crayfish, Orconectes rusticus, frequently surface and voluntarily ventilate one or both branchial chambers with air (emergence response). Increase in ambient Pco to 13 torr at equivalent Po causes an increase in the duration but not the incidence of the emergence responses. Immediately on surfacing, hypoxic animals exhibit significant reduction in frequency of scaphognathite (ventilatory
10.1086/515959|Previous studies on crustacea have demonstrated significant diurnal rhythms in blood glucose. However, glucose concentration in the blood of fooddeprived
30158595|The lipid composition of gill tissue from the freshwater mussel Carunculina texasensis was determined. Particular attention was paid to the distribution of arachidonic acid, because the arachidonic acid metabolite prostaglandin E appears to be involved in the regulation of Na uptake by gills of freshwater mussels. Arachidonic acid is the most abundant fatty acid in the phospholipid fraction of gill tissue, but it is not prevalent in the neutral lipid fractions. In contrast with marine molluscs, in which fatty acids of the n-3 family predominate, fatty acids of the n-6 family predominate in the phospholipid fraction from C. texasensis gills. The effects of season on lipid composition also were investigated. Gill tissue from mussels collected in winter contained higher proportions of polyunsaturates and lower amounts of saturates than did gill tissue from animals collected in summer. The percentage of arachidonic acid, however, was uniformly high throughout the year, suggesting that this fatty acid serves an important function in which precursor stability is required. Seasonal alterations in the proportions of free sterols and triglycerides and in the phosphatide composition were observed. The functional significance of the various changes is not known, but they may be related to some of the aspects of gill function other than ion regulation.
10.1086/515422|Cardiac and posterior lymph heart function in the toad Bufo marinus (L.) were measured in response to hemorrhage and both systemic and lymphatic volume loading to evaluate the role of the amphibian lymphatic system in fluid regulation. In every animal, systemic volume loading elicited an initial sharp rise in mean arterial blood pressure, corresponding to an immediate cessation of lymph heart contraction lasting approximately 12 min. This was followed by a shortterm decrease in blood pressure, to 36% below normal. While stroke volume and lymph flow for the individual animals increased variably over a 6h period, mean lymph heart rate and pressure varied little. Lymphatic volume loading elicited only minor changes in blood heart and lymph heart rate. Again, stroke volume and lymph flow increased variably, with the effect lasting about 13h. Hypovolemia caused a sharp drop in blood pressure and corresponding rise in blood heart rate. Lymph heart variables changed little, with the exception of rate, which, in some animals, was elevated for approximately 20 min following hemorrhage.
10.1086/515983|Food consumption was measured in six female and seven male handraised marsh harrier (
30157907|Changes in relative tissue size and cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) activity owing to growth rate (ration size) are described for the largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) and interpreted as a response to the cumulative demands of specific dynamic action (SDA). CCO activity, an aerobic enzyme reflecting metabolic capacity, was significantly correlated with growth rate for all tissues combined (whole body). The influence of increased relative liver size with increased growth rate was negated by decreased CCO/g. Increases in relative size and CCO activity were observed for muscle and may reflect a cost for growth in this tissue-increased swimming activity did not affect muscle CCO activity. Relative gastrointestinal (GI) size and CCO activity/g were influenced by growth rate, with total GI CCO contributing as much as 30% of whole-body CCO activity. Growth efficiency was highest when total GI CCO activity, as a percentage of whole-body CCO, was highest; i.e., when relative "processing" capability was the greatest. In fish that lost weight, brain CCO activity/g was significantly reduced, and total liver CCO activity was a higher proportion (15%) of whole-body CCO activity. Compensation by the heart for increased demand was accomplished by ventricular hypertrophy. Relative heart size, which was significantly correlated with growth rate, may be useful for studying the metabolic capacity of wild populations of fish. These results suggest that, in the largemouth bass, the SDA response is largely due to increases in GI and muscle metabolism.
30158443|Short-day (9 light:15 dark), cold-acclimated Peromyscus leucopus known to enter torpor (no. = 24) and P. leucopus never observed in torpor (no. = 12) were compared with and without a 5-g nest at 13, 7, and 1 C over 9 wk. Oxygen consumption and body temperature were monitored approximately hourly for 2-3 days under each treatment. A second group of short-day, cold-acclimated mice (13 torpid and 14 nontorpid) were monitored for oxygen consumption with and without a 5-g nest at 13 C, first individually and 10 days later as huddles of three. For individual mice, the time required to enter torpor (3.0-4.5 h), duration of torpor (4-5 h), and minimum body temperature during torpor (21-23 C) remained fairly constant at different ambient temperatures. The metabolic rate [cmO/(g  h)] necessary to maintain minimum body temperature during torpor without a nest was 2.1 at 13, 3.0 at 7, and 3.7 at 1 C, while metabolic rates during the normothermic period at these temperatures were 4.8, 5.5, and 6.7, respectively. A similar trend, but with lower values, occurred with a nest. Without a nest, torpid mice had a mean daily metabolic rate which was 20% less at 13, 21% at 7, and 9% at 1 C than the corresponding value of nontorpid animals. Torpid mice with a 5-g nest reduced metabolic rate at those temperatures by 43%, 44%, and 34%, respectively, relative to nontorpid mice without a nest. Daily torpor and huddling together provided a 58% energetic saving at 13 C relative to individually housed, nontorpid mice. The addition of a nest fostered a 74% daily energy savings versus nontorpid, individual mice without a nest.
30152620|A tracer washout method was employed to study the kinetics of lactate disappearance from the blood in exercised and unexercised channel catfish. Following 5 min of strenuous exercise, the plasma lactate rose from 0.34 to 6.57 mol mL, but glucose did not increase significantly. The peak lactate concentration in the plasma was reached 10 min after exercise and fell to control values by 4 h after exercise. As the plasma lactate declined following infusion, there was a pulse of radioactivity in glucose, indicating significant gluconeogenesis. The rate constant for lactate clearance was not significantly elevated after exercise, indicating little change in the dynamics of lactate metabolism. Catfish appear to handle the lactate load from anaerobic exercise much faster than other species of fish and do not appear to retain significant amounts of lactate in muscle.
30158579|We measured water fluxes and CO production rates of nestling Belding's savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) in the field, using doubly labeled water. We found no significant difference between rates of water flux or CO production of nestlings in broods of two compared with broods of three young, so we pooled these results. Nestlings were growing rapidly, and water influx nearly always exceeded water efflux. Although water fluxes increased with age, younger nestlings retained a greater proportion of incoming water than did older birds. Nestling sparrows gained a total 51.1 ml HO during the 8-day nestling period, and they lost 43.4 ml. Nestlings apparently did not consume free water of any kind. Metabolic rates (ml CO/h) increased with age (days after hatching) according to the relationship, ml
30159928|All of the enzymes required for the digestion of native cellulose, as well as of xylan and pectin, are present in the gut fluids of adult workers of the fungus-growing termite, Macrotermes natalensis. Activity levels are highest in the midgut, suggesting that this portion of the gut, rather than the paunch, is the major site of polysaccharide digestion in this higher termite. The Ci-enzymes, active against crystalline cellulose, are acquired by the termites when they feed upon the fungus nodules which grow on their fungus combs. The
30163796|Variation in behavioral performance among animals often is closely matched to the functional capacity of muscles that support the activity. In frogs, a general correlation exists between calling activity and characteristics of the trunk muscles that support call production. I determined hourly calling rates and call durations from males of six tropical hylid species and two leptodactylid species. Samples of trunk- and leg-muscle tissue were collected and assayed for activity levels of the catabolic enzymes citrate synthase (CS) and -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (HOAD), which generally are correlated with tissue capacities for aerobic metabolism and fatty acid oxidation, respectively. Enzyme activity levels in the more aerobic trunk muscles were several times greater than in the more anaerobic leg muscle and were significantly correlated with average calling rates. Overall, species with higher calling rates had trunk muscles with higher enzyme activity levels. This study demonstrates a significant relationship among related species between characteristics of a natural activity, calling, and the biochemistry and physiology of the muscles involved in call production.
30158256|Diving and ventilatory behavior were observed in three species of bimodally breathing turtles: Trionyx spiniferus, Sternotherus odoratus, and Kinosternon subrubrum. These turtles have high, intermediate, and low reliances on aquatic gas exchange, respectively. Turtles with access to normoxic air were filmed in normoxic, hypoxic, and hyperoxic water. Ninety percent of all dives were shorter than 20 min. Despite differences in the partitioning of respiratory gas exchange, dive duration in normoxia did not differ among species. Dive duration was directly proportional to aquatic PO in soft-shells and independent of aquatic PO in mud turtles. Stinkpots had consistently but not significantly shorter dives in normoxia. Aquatic PO had no effect on the ventilation patterns of soft-shells. Regardless of PO, soft-shells typically engaged in one breathing bout, during which one breath was taken, per emersion period. Stinkpots and mud turtles underwent more bouts ofbreathingper emersion period and took more breaths per breathing bout than did soft-shells. Stinkpots in normoxia took more breaths than in hypoxia or hyperoxia, while mud turtles showed no response to aquatic PO. These results agree with previous research that found soft-shells to be the least reliant of the three species on aerial respiration. These results also indicate that aquatic PO is an important factor in the regulation of diving and ventilatory behavior in at least some bimodally breathing turtles.
30163859|Combined effects of food quantity and quality on physiological components of growth (feeding rate, absorption efficiency, and metabolic rate) were analyzed in cockles (Cerastoderma edule). Associated processes of digestion were given special consideration, including determinations of gut passage time of food particles and gut contents. Experiments were designed to provide independent variations of both dietary descriptors that were standardized on a volumetric basis: cubic millimeters of particles per liter and milligrams of organics per cubic millimeter of particles, respectively. Feeding response to increasing food availability appears to be characterized by regulation of ingestion rate. As ingestion increases, absorption rate tends to be constrained by morphological limits imposing a faster passage of food throughout the gut; however, within the limits set by regulation, the indirect costs of digestion represented by organic endogenous losses become the main limiting factor acting to restrict net absorption. With increasing food quality, net energy gain is maximized through a combination of enhanced feeding rates and increased absorption efficiencies. Enlarged gut capacities were recorded with high-quality particles enabling increased rates of ingestion along with extended gut residence times of food. Direct metabolic costs of feeding and growth represent a constant fraction of absorption (10%), which implies that no extra expenditure is incurred with increasing rates of food processing.
10.1086/515889|Nectarivore sugar preferences and nectar composition in the Cape Floristic Kingdom (southern Africa) differ from trends reported for analogous systems in America and Europe in that sugarbirds and sunbirds show no aversion to sucrose, which is the dominant nectar sugar in many of their food plants. To elucidate the physiological bases (if any) of nectarivore sugar preferences, we determined apparent sugar absorption efficiencies in a passerine endemic to this region, the Cape sugarbird
30155939|At night during the rainy season in Tsavo East National Park, Kenya, dung beetles were active in enormous numbers. A half liter of fresh elephant dung attracted as many as 4,000 beetles within 15 min. Deposits of 10 or more liters of elephant dung were usually rendered useless for ball making in less than 30 min. The activity time of the large, nocturnal, ball-rolling dung beetle, Scarabaeus laevistriatus, largely coincided with that of the small endocoprids that were mainly responsible for the rapid dung depletion. Scarabaeus laevistriatus sometimes maintained endothermically elevated thoracic temperature (38-42 C) during terrestrial activity (air temperatures 23-26 C) for as long as 25 min. The rate of ball construction by S. laevistriatus was related to thoracic temperature. Moreover, when the S. laevistriatus first arrived at a dung pile they routinely attempted to steal balls already constructed by beetles of the same and other species. Spirited fights invariably ensued, and the winners of these fights were primarily those with a higher thoracic temperature, and secondarily those of greater body size. The evolution of the capacity for facultative endothermy during terrestrial activity in S. laevistriatus appears to be related to the intense competition for dung that they experience. For them to be successful in this competition requires that they sustain near maximal rates of activity, which in turn requires that they maintain body temperature near the level obligatorily produced during flight.
30163725|In the laboratory, Helix aspersa show three discernible activity phases: an actively foraging and feeding phase that occurs during the dark of a 14L:10D photoperiod, a torpid phase that occurs during the light, and a long-term dormant phase ("aestivation") that may last for several weeks. These phases are characterized by changes in the rate of oxygen consumption. During the daily torpid phase, oxygen consumption is reduced to 50%-60% of the maximum seen during activity. During the long-term dormant phase, oxygen consumption is further reduced to about 20% or less than maximum. The oxidation of succinate and D-mannitol by intact hepatopancreatic mitochondria does not change during the daily cycle. There is a small percentage decrease in succinate oxidation by these mitochondria during aestivation, but this may be of limited significance metabolically. Some key enzymes of glycolysis and cytochrome oxidase also showed small decreases. Of the enzymes measured in hepatopancreas tissue, only the soluble aminotransferases changed sufficiently to affect metabolism, and these decreased by 50% or more during dormancy. These observations and the almost instantaneous arousal from dormancy indicate that, at least in laboratory-induced aestivation, there are few changes in the enzymes of energy metabolism in hepatopancreas.
30156072|Body composition changes during hibernation were measured for garter snakes maintained in a laboratory hibernaculum and snakes from a natural hibernaculum in Wisconsin. Laboratory animals were maintained at 4 C, 24-h darkness (DD), for 165 days, the period of natural hibernation. Twelve randomly selected individuals were assayed at the beginning and end of natural hibernation and for every 6 wk of simulated hibernation. The final laboratory assay was performed concurrently with field emergence. Glycogen and proteins from liver and muscle tissues were utilized by both laboratory and field snakes during hibernation. Muscle catabolism of these substrates accounted for 76.5%-78.7% of the total winter energy budget. No change was observed in total body weight, liver weight, tissue lipid content, fat-body weights, organic matter, inorganics, or water content. The similarity between energy budgets for field (0.45 cal/ g/day) and laboratory (0.42 cal/g/day) hibernating snakes indicates that natural hibernation was closely simulated.
30152576|Evidence is presented for quantitative enzymatic changes in fishes in response to the oxygen content of their environment. Fundulus heteroclitus significantly increased the specific activities of lactate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, and glucose-phosphate isomerase in liver tissue during the first 28 days of acclimation to hypoxia (1.5-2.5 ppm dissolved oxygen). However, the activities of these enzymes returned to control levels after 35 days of hypoxic existence. Unlike liver tissue, white skeletal muscle demonstrated no consistent pattern during hypoxic acclimation. Blood hematocrit increased and red blood cell organic phosphate levels decreased and remained so during the entire acclimation period (35 days). These adaptations facilitate the uptake of oxygen at the gills in an oxygen-poor environment. Serum lactate concentration increased during the first 3 wk of hypoxia. However, this parameter returned to control levels by 28 days of acclimation. These observations, together with behavioral observations, are consistent with an improved delivery and utilization of oxygen after long-term acclimation in a hypoxic environment. The enzymatic changes are thus a short-term response to hypoxic stress.
30158185|We examined the effect of locomotion on the respiratory and acid-base physiology of the grasshopper Melanoplus bivittatus. Escape hopping was characterized by high initial power output and gradual fatigue over 5 min. Increased O, consumption was at least 10 times as important as lactate production to energy production during locomotion. Increased gas exchange during hopping was due to increased partial pressure gradients for gas diffusion rather than to increased tracheal conductance. Hopping was accompanied by a respiratory extracellular acidosis. During recovery grasshoppers ventilated rapidly, flushing accumulated CO and restoring depleted O stores. This resulted in gas exchange rates that were 14%-80% higher during recovery than during activity. A substantial portion of the O consumed during hopping (estimated as 35% at 20C and 18% at 35C) is obtained from tracheal O, stores rather than from environmental air. Body temperature had relatively little effect on locomotor performance, aerobic scope, lactate accumulation, or hemolymph pH changes during activity (
10.1086/515977|Our goal was to compare the internal physiological responses to acid challenge in an acidophilic tropical teleost endemic to dilute lowpH waters with those in nonacidophilic temperate species such as salmonids, which have been the subject of most previous investigations. The Amazonian tambaqui (
30158600|We examined the effects of cold acclimation ( 3 mo at 3 C) on maximum oxygen consumption (
30158439|Males (mean mass 1.7 g) called and amplexing pairs built foam nests in respirometer chambers. Mean oxygen consumption (
30160000|Water loss and thermal relations of the king penguin egg and its microenvironment (brood pouch) were studied under natural conditions. Despite the low ambient humidity (
30155681|Daily locomotor activity patterns of the desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, were recorded under light (L):dark (D) conditions of 12L:12D. These animals produced daily patterns which (a) were monophasic, (b) showed a response of the lizard to onset of light. Both of these characteristics accord with those reported for other day-active animals. The laboratory-recorded daily activity rhythms correlate remarkably well with the field behavior of movement in burrows before emergence, basking early in the activity period, foraging, and retreating to shade or burrow in the later part of the activity period. It is likely that the laboratory-recorded daily activity patterns would change according to the temperature in the activity chamber. These changes would correlate with the seasonal variations in daily activity patterns reported in field studies. Wide individual differences in phase-angle relationships between activity onset and light onset among lizards was observed. It is possible that these differences are due to one or more of the following factors; (a) the low intensity difference between the light and dark phases of the cycle, (b) individual differences in preferred body temperature, and/or (c) individual differences in daily light requirements.
30158178|The thermal environment of microhabitats used by yellow-bellied marmots (Marmota flaviventris) at three study sites in the Elk Mountains ofsouthwestern Colorado was characterized using the standard operative temperature (
30157921|Thermoregulatory variables were measured in captive beluga and killer whales to confirm earlier work on smaller cetaceans. Whales had body temperatures within mammalian range and maintained a skin-water temperature difference of about 2 C. Heat-loss coefficients were less than that reported for humans. Thermal conductance may be greater than or equal to small cetaceans and humans. The larger killer whales had smaller surface-area-to-volume ratios than the belugas, as expected. However, the largest whales of each species had a greater surface area devoted to the appendages. Respiratory evaporative energy losses were small owing to expired air that was cooler than core temperature and that was unsaturated with water vapor. Basal or resting metabolic rate was higher than expected for animals of their body weight. The best-fit regression equation for our data was metabolic rate =
30161254|Ingested fungal enzymes are responsible for cellulose digestion in the xylophagous larvae of four species ofcerambycid beetles from four different subfamilies: Bellamira scalaris (Lepturinae), Graphisurusfasciatus (Lamiinae), Orthosoma brunneum (Prioninae) and Parandra brunnea (Parandrinae). When the larvae are maintained on their normal diets of fungus-infected wood, their midgut fluids are active against microcrystalline cellulose, and they are able to digest $^{14}C-cellulose$. By contrast, when larvae are maintained on fungus-free, enzyme-free diets, their midgut fluids lack cellulolytic activity, and they are unable to digest labeled cellulose. We argue that ingested fungal enzymes may be responsible for cellulose digestion in many, perhaps even all, xylophagous larvae from the three coleopteran families Anobiidae, Buprestidae, and Cerambycidae.
30155751|Anna (Calypte anna) and rufous (Selasphorus rufus) hummingbirds exhibited regular diurnal changes in body mass, locomotor activity (flight time and frequency), and feeding activity (frequency and consumption) at ambient temperatures (
30164321|We investigated the interaction between plant structure and animal tooth structure and how it can affect digestive performance in two small mammalian herbivores. Mastacomys fuscus, an exclusively herbivorous rodent, and Rattus lutreolus, a less herbivorous rodent, were fed diets varying in fibre structure and level (18%-45% neutral detergent fibre). On high-fibre whole wheat diets, R. lutreolus was not able to maintain body mass. M. fuscus was able to maintain body mass, and this was related to a much greater intake by M. fuscus on this diet. We attribute this result to more effective physical processing by M. fuscus as a consequence of a highly developed dentition. On a milled-wheat diet, intake by R. lutreolus increased significantly compared with the whole wheat diet, although intake was still not great enough to maintain body mass. On diets that were lower in fibre than the wheat diet, and with different fibre arrangements, R. lutreolus was able to achieve intakes great enough to maintain body mass. This suggests that, in addition to gut constraints, the physical form of the plant diet and dental structure can have a significant effect on digestive performance by animals in feeding trials.
30161252|Oxygen consumption ($\dot{V}O_{2}$) Of the Humboldt penguin Spheniscus humboldti was measured during swimming over the range 0.23-1.26 m s. The fraction of time spent swimming submerged and on the surface was recorded simultaneously with VO. The power output ($P_{o}$), computed from surface:submerged swimming ratios and drag data, and the power input ($P_{i}$), from $\dot{V}O_{2}$, were determined for each speed. Overall energetic efficiency ($\eta_{o}$), the ratio $P_{o}$ :$P_{i}$, increased with swimming speed ($U_{b}$) as $\eta_{o} = 0.103U_{b}^{2.8}$ ($U_{b} = m s^{-1}$) with a maximum value of 0.192. The maximum propulsion efficiency ($\eta_{p}$), the ratio of $P_{o}$ :$P_{i}-less-maintenance-metabolism$, was 0.247. By changing from surface to submerged swimming as $U_{b}$ increases, the cost of transport remains constant at 13.4 J (kg.m) for $U_{b} = 0.5-1.26 m s^{-1}$. Increasing speeds without increasing transport costs enables the birds to reduce transit time to foraging locations without increasing energy expenditure, a distinct benefit when raising chicks on shore.
30158497|Various organic ions determine the O affinity of hemoglobin and hemocyanin. In the two pigment systems different ions are involved but both exhibit regulative mechanisms responsive to the severity of hypoxic stress. The depressing effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine 5-triphosphate (ATP), and guanosine 5-triphosphate (GTP) often determines the O affinity of hemoglobin in nonstressed vertebrates and is important during hypoxia, when organic phosphate concentration decreases. In crustaceans, hypoxia promotes increased uric acid and L-lactate blood concentrations, which increase the O affinity of hemocyanin. As with phosphates and hemoglobin, lactate and urate contribute to the O affinity of hemocyanin in nonstressed animals. Membrane receptors of erythrocytes from many vertebrates are stimulated by epinephrine. This stimulation results in a steady intracellular pH despite an extracellular acidosis. A constant intracellular pH prevents a decrease in hemoglobin O affinity and often in O content. The -adrenergic effect is mediated by membrane transduction mechanisms which may involve the phosphorylation of membrane ion exchangers. Hemoglobin itself may have a direct effect on the activity of the ion exchangers, depending on the oxygenation state of the pigment. Hemocyanin is an extracellular protein, but there is evidence for a direct effect of dopamine that may increase hemocyanin O affinity during severe or sudden shortfalls in O supply, with the same result as epinephrine stimulation of the hemoglobin O-transport system. In both hemoglobin and hemocyanin systems different types of hypoxic stress are met by a progressive involvement of organic modulators which, while very different in detail, have the same general effect of optimizing O delivery.
30157913|The developmental rate of embryos in the brood pouch of Daphnia magna was markedly affected by temperature. The hatchability of embryos stayed constantly high at temperatures below 27 C but decreased acutely with a temperature increase above this point. Fifty percent hatchability point was obtained at 29 C for embryos in the brood pouch of pale animals and at 30 C for embryos in the brood pouch of red animals. The hatchability of embryos in the brood pouch increased with an increase in oxygen tension and reached a steady high level. Fifty percent hatchability was obtained at oxygen tension of 12.6 torr for embryos in the brood pouch of pale animals and 8.6 torr for embryos in the brood pouch of red animals. The oxygen tension for 50% hatchability of embryos isolated from the brood pouch was 32.7 torr, and no significant difference was found between embryos isolated from pale and red animals. Daphnia synthesized hemoglobin even in high oxygen tension ranging from 120 to 600 torr. The hemoglobin content was not affected by ambient oxygen tension. It was 1.6 g per adult animal-2.0 mm in body length and 0.12 g per parthenogenetic egg.
30158292|We investigated the effects of supplemental thyroxine (T) and thyroid deficiency on evoked and spontaneous behavioral responses in a lizard (Ameiva undulata). We quantified spontaneous behavior as distance walked without external stimulation and evoked behavior as organismal excitability during the first minute of forced activity on a treadmill, as running time to exhaustion during graded-intensity exercise, and as the outcome of staged competition for prey. Plasma T was reduced to nondetectable levels by surgical thyroidectomy and was increased from 6.4  0.59 to 22.0  3.33 ng/mL (mean  SE; P < 0.001) by intraperitoneal T-pellet implantation. Standard metabolic rate (SMR) was reduced by thyroid deficiency (P = 0.008) but was not stimulated by T supplementation (P = 0.665). Excitability was increased by T (P < 0.025) but was unaffected by thyroid deficiency. Spontaneous behavior was replicable between duplicate trials (r = 0.47, P < 0.001) but did not differ among hormone treatment groups (P = 0.780) or among excitability categories (P = 0.881). Neither running endurance (P = 0.646) nor the outcome of staged competition for prey (0.05 < P < 0.10) were significantly affected by hormone treatment, and endurance was not correlated with spontaneous behavior (P = 0.148). However, running endurance was significantly lower in lizards of high than low excitability (P = 0.018), and winners in competition trials were usually more excitable than losers (P = 0.057). Physiologically realistic increments in plasma T can increase evoked organismal excitability without being reflected in spontaneous behavior and without stimulating SMR. Excitability is reflected in rapid fatigue during activity and in success during competition for prey. Thyroxine can induce significant behavioral responses without an obligate energetic cost.
30152599|Although the effective diffusion coefficient for gases is inversely related to barometric pressure, rates of daily water loss during natural incubation and final water contents of pipped embryos are independent of altitude in eggs of redwinged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) breeding from sea level to 3,050 m. These results indicate that the increase in diffusion of water vapor from the egg has been offset in some manner in populations of this species breeding at high altitudes. Eggs of redwinged blackbirds and robins (Turdus migratorius) breeding from sea level to 3,050 and 3,450 m, respectively, were analyzed for eggshell conductance, egg mass, water content, shell thickness, and incubation temperature. Of these, eggshell conductance showed the only meaningful relation to barometric pressure and may serve to control rates of gaseous diffusion at high altitudes.
30157933|The study of acid-base regulation may be seen as a continuation of research focused on physiological homeostasis, a concept first formulated early in the nineteenth century and spelled out by Bernard. Complexities of electrolyte-solution chemistry led Henderson and Hasselbalch to develop the empirical approximations embodied in the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, which stills serves admirably for acid-base analysis. More recent attempts to reformulate the approach to acid-base and electrolyte analysis, such as the "strong ion diference " method, require much the same kinds of approximations, and offer no significant improvement. The development of electrolyte chemistry was also important to understanding protein behavior in physiological solutions. The idea that constant protein ionization was important in understanding acid-base homeostasis was formulated in the 1920s, formalized by Reeves as the "alphastat" model, and is here reexamined in light of recent physiological and biochemical data. A modified charge-maintenance, or "Z -stat, " model is suggested as a refinement. Current trends in acid-base physiology point to a concentration in the future on cellular and molecular aspects.
30158260|Common ringtail possums (Pseudocheirus peregrinus) were fed Eucalyptus radiata or Eucalyptus ovata foliage or an artificial diet, and parameters of acid-base status and nitrogen and energy retention were measured. Eucalyptus radiatafoliage was more digestible than E. ovata foliage. This was consistent with differences in the fiber and lignin content of the diets. The higher terpene content of E. radiata leaf meant that digestible energy (DE) intakes were higher than on the other diets, but most of this energy was lost in the urine since metabolizable energy was only 60% of DE on the E. radiata diet but 85%-90% on the other diets. Animals fed E. radiata produced acid urines (pH 5. 7), whereas other diets led to alkaline urine. The acid urines contained more titratable acid and glucuronic acid and ammonium was their major form of urinary nitrogen, whereas on the other two diets urea predominated This did not reflect differences in urea recycling, because, although the proportion of urea produced that was degraded was similar, animals fed E. ovata diets produced and degraded significantly greater amounts of urea than did animals fed E. radiata. There were no significant differences in blood pH or Pco, accompanying these diqferences in urine composition. Animals excreted acid urine within 7 h of eating E. radiata leaf and changes in food intake were mirrored by changes in urinary ammonium and glucuronic acid. However, urinary urea excretion and pH declined as soon as E. radiata was introduced into the diet and were unaffected by changes in food intake. These results were interpreted as responses to disturbances to acid-base status resulting from the detoxification of dietary allelochemicals.
30166499|Specific dynamic action (SDA), the postprandial increase in metabolic rate that has been well documented in numerous vertebrates, intensifies demand for O delivery by the ventilatory and cardiovascular systems. Yet the well-documented increase in plasma pH following feeding (the "alkaline tide") should, paradoxically, result in a decrease rather than an increase in ventilation. The intent of this study was to investigate in the marine toad Bufo marinus whether there is a change in the relationship between metabolism, lung ventilation, and blood pH associated specifically with SDA. We measured
30164237|On the basis of structure-function analyses of mammalian muscle, an axiom for the ultrastructural design of vertebrate skeletal muscle has emerged that predicts that capillary supply should match the mitochondrial oxygen demand set by levels of aerobic muscle activity. To test this prediction in frogs, I quantified the ultrastructure of male trunk muscles in relation to different levels of vocal activity, an aerobically supported natural behavior. Mitochondrial volume was positively correlated with mean calling rate among seven species of Neotropical frogs from two families (Hylidae and Leptodactylidae) that varied approximately 22-fold in levels of vocal activity. This correlation suggests that mitochondrial volume is the basic structural descriptor of trunk-muscle oxidative capacity. Capillary length per fiber volume was positively correlated with mitochondrial volume across species, as seen in mammalian muscle. Capillary-to-mitochondria ratio in trunk muscles was, on average, 47% lower than that observed in and predicted from mammalian muscle. These data support the hypothesis that anuran trunk muscles may exhibit a respiratory design in which the microvasculature conforms to reduced mitochondrial respiration rates at tissue temperatures that are significantly lower than those of mammalian internal temperatures. Intracellular lipid volume increased linearly with mean calling rate across species, which suggests that trunk-muscle lipids serve as an important endogenous fuel source during calling. The extent to which lipids enhance oxygen diffusion rates in trunk muscles of tropical frogs remains speculative because of potentially high depletion rates of these intramuscular lipid stores during calling Results from this study suggest that the ultrastructural respiratory design of anuran trunk muscles may reflect the aerobic workload associated with a specific level of vocal activity and the thermal environment in which male frogs vocalize.
30161267|Marsupial standard metabolic rates (SMRs) average 70% of that predicted by Kleiber for domesticated eutherians. Only one marsupial, the water opossum (Chironectes minimus; Didelphidae) has been reported to have a level of metabolism near that (95%) predicted by Kleiber. This high SMR of Chironectes has been cited as evidence that marsupials are not phylogenetically constrained to low SMRs. Standard respirometry techniques were used to reexamine SMR, evaporative water loss (EWL), and heat transfer coefficients for four wild-caught water opossums (922 g) over a broad range of ambient temperatures (10-34 C). SMR was 64% of Kleiber's predicted value; this is 33% below that reported in an earlier study and 2% below the predicted value for a 922-g marsupial. Mean $T_{b}$ (35.7 C) and EWL (.700 mg g h) in thermoneutrality were consistent with a low SMR. Neither body fat deposited while in captivity, duration in captivity, nor measurement error appeared responsible for differences from the previous study. Wet and dry coefficients of heat transfer did not differ from each other or from predicted values; both were nearly half previously reported wet heat transfer for Chironectes. The SMR of Chironectes did not differ from other marsupials and does not represent an exception to the pattern of low SMRs within the Marsupialia. Chironectes provides neither an example of increased rates of metabolism in aquatic mammals nor a contravention of phylogenetic constraints on marsupial SMR.
10.1086/515427|The Ability of West Indian Manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris and Trichechus manatus manatus) to inhabit both fresh water and marine habitats presents an interesting model to study osmoregulation in sirenians. Blood samples were analysed from manatees held in freshand saltwater and from wild animals captured in fresh, and saltwater and from wild animals captured in fresh, brackish, and saltwater for concentrations of aldosterone, arginine vasopressin, plasma renin activity, Na
10.1086/515967|Trimethylamine oxide (TMAO) and urea levels in the blood of rainbow smelt,
30156042|Hearts were removed from anesthetized guinea pigs and muskrats and were perfused with a buffer containing glucose, pyruvate, lactate, and palmitic acid under both working and nonworking conditions. The uptake of glucose and the release of lactate was greater in muskrat hearts than in guinea pig hearts under all conditions. The uptake of pyruvate was small in the hearts of both species but was significantly greater in guinea pig hearts. The oxidation of exogenous palmitic acid was similar under nonworking and low-level working conditions, but the guinea pig hearts oxidized more palmitic acid under the higher-level working conditions than did muskrat hearts. Under all working conditions the muskrat hearts failed to produce a cardiac output in excess of that required to supply their own coronary flow. Guinea pig hearts produce a cardiac output and a rise in left ventricular pressure. Mitochondrial function in the hearts of the two species was similar except that state 4 respiration rate in the muskrat heart was almost twice as great as the rate in mitochondria from guinea pig hearts. Gross morphology of the hearts of the two species was different. Muskrat hearts were narrower and had thinner walls than did guinea pig hearts. Measurement of myocardial concentrations of glycolytic intermediates under normoxic and hypoxic conditions suggests that, in guinea pig hearts, glycolysis may be limited at the phosphofructokinase and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase steps. The rate-limiting step could not be determined in muskrat hearts. Lactate dehydrogenase activity was much higher in muskrat hearts than in guinea pig hearts and contained more of the M-type subunit. Compared to guinea pig hearts, muskrat hearts rely more on O-conserving carbohydrate metabolism and do not pump well under working conditions.
30163792|Specific dynamic action (SDA), also termed the heat increment of feeding, is defined as the postprandial increase in oxygen consumption. The physiological cause of SDA is poorly understood, but most studies point to energetic expenditures associated with protein synthesis. Although SDA has been quantified in many different animal taxa, it has seldom been measured in birds. The purpose of this study is to measure SDA in Adlie penguin chicks and to examine possible changes in SDA parameters during growth. Adblie penguin chicks of all sizes exhibited substantial SDA that increased with the size of the meal. The SDA coefficient was 10.0% of ingested energy and 14.8% of metabolizable energy. These values did not vary with body mass. Postprandial peak oxygen consumption rates did not vary with meal size. The time course of SDA increased with the ration level but did not vary with either body mass or meal size alone. Our estimate of the cost of growth in penguin chicks is intermediate between costs measured for other organisms. Specific dynamic action may serve a functional role in thermoregulation for Adlie penguins, which routinely experience temperatures below thermoneutrality. Cumulative SDA during growth is equal to about 62% of the energy deposited in new tissue.
30152541|Dragonfly nymphs were collected from ponds and streams thermally altered by reactor cooling water and from control ponds and streams. The critical thermal maxima of seven species of dragonfly nymphs were estimated at acclimation temperatures of 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, and 32 C. Within each environment, species with greater mean body length exhibited a higher thermal tolerance than smaller species. Species differences in critical thermal maximum (CTM) were statistically significant within each environment examined, but these differences were trivial relative to the much greater influence of acclimation temperature. Mean CTM was significantly regressed against acclimation temperature in each species. Nymphs from a thermally elevated pond exhibited a greater increase in CTM per degree rise in acclimation temperature than nymphs from other habitats. Mean thermal tolerances of dragonfly nymphs from the four environments increased in the following order: control stream, control pond, thermal stream, and thermal pond.
30155935|The water-vapor conductance (
30156037|Three months' starvation of Rana pipiens captured early in the summer markedly increased hepatic levels of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and decreased those of pyruvate kinase, thus increasing the gluconeogenic potential at this site. Although both fructose 1,6 bisphosphatase and phosphofructokinase levels decreased with starvation, the decrease in the latter was considerably greater than that of the former. These changes are apparent whether the data are expressed as units per gram wet weight or as hepatic units/ 100 g body weight. Hepatic levels of glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase, glutamate pyruvate transaminase, glutamate dehydrogenase, and malic enzyme did not change with starvation, while lactate dehydrogenase levels showed a small decrease and specific activities of malate dehydrogenase levels increased. Although enzyme activities were determined at 22 C, starvation caused similar changes at both acclimation temperatures (22 C and 4 C). Cold-acclimated animals consistently had lower levels of glutamate pyruvate transaminase and glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase. Hepatic glycogen declined with starvation particularly at 4 C. Both fed and starved animals had significantly higher glycogen levels at 4 C than at 22 C. The prolonged fast led to marked decreases of all skeletal-muscle enzymes measured.
30163934|This study reports baseline adrenocortical, hematological, and plasma biochemical values for clinically healthy juvenile green turtles from a discrete population at Kaneohe Bay, island of Oahu, Hawaii. Using a general linear modeling program, we compared mean values for these parameters with mean values of a group afflicted with green turtle fibropapillomas (GTFP). Turtles of similar size classes from both groups were collected under the same conditions in the same study area and season at the same time of the day. Corticosterone, hematological, and enzymatic responses to acute and chronic stress were characterized for each group at four different sampling periods: 0 h (within 2 min of capture), 1 h, 3-4 h, and 24 h postcapture. On the basis of the differences identified between groups and times within a group, we conclude that turtles with GTFP are chronically stressed and immunosuppressed.
30158535|The metabolic fate of lactate (and incidentally alanine) and the occurrence and importance of gluconeogenic processes in the hepatopancreas in Crustacea are still controversial. The use of isolated cells seemed appropriate to address this problem more directly. Cells isolated from the hepatopancreas of blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, were suspended in solutions reproducing as closely as possible actual in vivo acid-base and respiratory conditions during four different situations: control (C, pH = 7.6, CO = 0.25%, O = 21%, [L-lac] = 0.5 mM, [Ala] = 0.5 mM), hypoxia (H, pH = 7.9, CO = 0.1%, O= 2%, [L-lac] = 0.5 mM, [Ala] = 0.5 mM), postexercise (E, pH = 7.2, CO = 1%, O= 21%, [L-lac] = 15 mM, [Ala] = 5 mM), and recovery (R, pH = 7.6, CO = 0.25%, O= 21%, [L-lac] = 5 mM, [Ala] = 5 mM). We measured the production of CO and glucose from
30155997|Juvenile Tupinambis teguixin were placed in a conflicting situation: feeding vs. cold environment. To feed they had to leave a warm refuge (
30158189|Continuous O, consumption measurements of goldfish acclimated to 20C were carried out at a constant O concentration. The diurnal activity pattern was found to disappear in complete darkness, which resulted in a constant (resting) metabolic rate. After exposure to diferent anoxia periods the excess O consumption was quantified. Short exposures up to 3 h did not result in a significant O debt. However, starting from 4 h anoxia a linear increase of the O, debt was observed. Repayment of the O, debt lasted up to 24 h. There is a striking resemblance between the ethanol excretion by goldfish and the anoxia-induced O debt, which suggests that the O, debt is related to recovery of the glycogen pools.
30157928|We combined field measurements of metabolic rate, made with doubly labeled water, with data from our previous studies to examine reproductive energetics in 24 female little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus). Including estimates of tissue or milk production, M. lucifugus required an average of 33.7 kJ d of assimilated energy in pregnancy compared to 41.3 kJ d during lactation. Predicted insect consumption was 5.5 g d for a 9-gpregnant female and 6.7g d for a 79-g lactating female. About 2% of total energy assimilated during pregnancy was stored as new tissue, whereas lactating females exported 32% as milk. Estimated assimilated energy demand on the first day of lactation was 33.8 kJ d and increased to 60.3 kJ d at peak lactation. By subtracting laboratory measurements of roosting costs from observed metabolized energy expenditure, we calculated that foraging flight by 9-g pregnant M. lucifugus required 4.46 kJ h; this was 13% less than allometric predictions. Foraging fight accounted for the largest proportion of the daily metabolized energy budget during pregnancy (61%) and lactation (66%). The large amount of energy devoted to foraging by this aerial-feeding bat may partially explain the low proportion of energy it allocates to tissue production and milk export.
30158168|The terrestrial caecilian Ichthyophis kohtaoensis and the aquatic caecilian Typhlonectes compressicauda were comparedfor osmotic and ionic regulatory capabilities. The aquatic form has a lower rate of osmotic water uptake (0.09 vs. 0.24 L/10 g/h), suggesting a lower osmotic permeability. The terrestrial Ichthyophis reduces its osmotic flux to 0.17L/10 g/h) after 3 d of acclimation to water. The aquatic Typhlonectes produces a more dilute urine and has a lower glomerular filtration rate (GFR) (0.139 mL/10 g/h) and fractional water reabsorption (9.5%) than the terrestrial Ichthyophis (0.267 mL/10 g/h, 56.9%). Ichthyophis increases urine flow by reducing fractional water reabsorption to 32.3% when placed in water; GFR does not increase significantly. Analyses of net and unidirectional ionic fluxes and transcutaneous potential differences showed that both species actively transport Na and Cl across their body surfaces. The aquatic Typhlonectes has an apparent
30158190|The objective of this study was to determine the effect of low-quality diets and increased energy needs on nutritional aspects of the prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster). In the laboratory, high-fiber diets were correlated with higher rates of food intake and larger hindguts, as well as a lower digestibility of dry matter, cell solubles, energy, and nitrogen, but higher fiber digestibilities than low-fiber diets. Acclimation to cold temperatures resulted in higher rates of food intake than acclimation to warm temperatures. In addition, the size of the small intestine and cecum increased in response to cold acclimation. Although increases in intake, resulting from acclimation to cold temperatures, did not result in changes in the digestibility of the diet or dietary components, they did result in decreases in the dietary turnover time. Thus, increases in transit rate through the gut do not necessarily result in declines in the amount of energy extracted per gram of food ingested. More energy per unit time, however, can be extracted from the diet, perhaps because of increases in the size of the gut allowing maintenance of digestibilities and energy need in the face of higher transit times.
30155987|The proteolytic enzyme aminopeptidase-I (AM-I) is the product of the polymorphic Lap locus in the mussel Mytilus edulis. Genotypes with the
30163343|A mathematical model of body-core temperature change in fish was derived by modifying Newton's law of cooling to include an initial time lag in temperature adjustment. This model was tested with data from largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) subjected to step changes in ambient temperature and to more complex ambient regimes. Nonlinear least squares was used to fit model parameters k (min) and L (initial lag time in minutes) to time series temperature data from step-change experiments. Temperature change halftimes (
30155704|Molluscan cells volume regulate in dilute salinities by releasing amino acids from an intracellular pool. The magnitude of this efflux depends upon external divalent cation concentration. Incubation of isolated Modiolus demissus ventricles in a K solution isosmotic to 100% seawater (SW) results in membrane depolarization and an increased amino acid efflux. In the presence of Ca-Mg-free SW, the myocardial cell membrane is depolarized and an amino acid efflux occurs. Additional removal of Na repolarizes the membrane and reduces the amino acid release. Cyanide or 2,4-DNP in 50% SW result in a prolonged amino acid efflux from the isolated hearts. Decreased temperature markedly reduces the hypoosmotically induced amino acid efflux. These results indicate that the control mechanism of the amino acid release from molluscan cells stressed by hypoosmotic salinities depends upon external divalent cation concentration, membrane permeability, and ATP.
30164184|Rainbow trout (family Salmonidae, Oncorhynchus mykiss) were acclimated to 5 and 20 C for 4 wk. The acclimatory response of the C-start (fast-escape swimming) and the molecular, biochemical, and contractile properties of fast-twitch muscle were investigated. With peptide mapping, no change was noted in the expression of myosin heavy chains in fast-twitch muscles with thermal acclimation. The myofibrillar ATPase activity of fast-twitch muscle isolated from individuals of each acclimation group was determined at 5 and 20 C The activity of myofibrillar ATPase was highly temperature dependent
30159948|The viscera of mako Isurus oxyrinchus and porbeagle Lamna nasus sharks are significantly warmer than the water. The large suprahepatic rete mirabile in these fish is identified as a heat exchanger which retains metabolic heat to warm the visceral organs. An argument is presented that the efficiency of heat exchange in the rete must be greater than 97% to maintain the observed tissue temperatures and that this requirement explains the large size of the rete. A venous passage with a muscular wall which runs through the suprahepatic rete could allow blood to bypass the heat exchanger, and its presence suggests a simple mechanism for controlling temperature. However, measurements of temperature by acoustic telemetry from freeswimming sharks over a 4.5-day period do not give a convincing indication that stomach temperature is altered in a manner independent of the environment.
30158446|Thermoregulatory responses were examined in laboratory-reared, F neonatal, hispid cotton rats of lineages from northern Kansas and south-central Texas. These regions are representative of the northern and southern areas of the distribution of the subspecies. Rectal body temperature (
30164206|We examined the effects of variable body temperature on exercise recovery in the desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, because both temperature and nonsustainable activity play an important role in the life history of ectothermic tetrapods. We measured the rate of oxygen consumption (
30152551|During winter, ground-feeding bird species may occasionally be forced to fast when weather conditions (e.g., snowstorms, icing) make food temporarily inaccessible. To describe the response of White-crowned Sparrows to fasting, we (1) investigated variations of body weight and temperature in fasting and fed birds confined in a cold room for up to 64 h, and (2) periodically measured oxygen consumption and locomotor activity of fasting and fed birds through a 39-h night/day/night cycle while simulating natural conditions of temperature and daylength. Our data indicate that the unusual White-crowned Sparrow might survive 3 nights and 2 days without food at air temperatures near freezing, but typical individuals could not be expected to survive longer than 1 day and 2 nights. Males lose weight at a greater rate than females, but are able to endure fasting longer because they are initially heavier. This suggests that males may be more resistant to winter storms and food deprivation, and that this attribute may have contributed to the evolution of geographic variation in the sex ratio in this species. Physiological and metabolic responses to fasting included a nighttime decline in body temperature (ca. 3 C) that was greater than that observed in fed birds, and a 21% decline in oxygen consumption on the second night of the fasting cycle when compared to the first night. The drop in body temperature would be sufficient, in terms of the van't Hoff effect, to account for the decline of metabolic rate, but visual inspection of the fasting birds at night suggested that adjustments in ptiloerection and posture may also play a role in effecting the decline. During the day, locomotor activity was 1.5-10 times greater in fasted than fed birds. Oxygen consumption, however, did not differ, indicating (as one possibility) that fasting birds may be able to utilize heat generated by exercise to meet some of the cost of thermoregulation. The short-term adjustment to starvation under natural conditions may thus include a moderately reduced energy requirement and a partial diversion of energy expenditure from thermoregulation to foraging.
30155770|The black Bedouin goats which are herded in the extreme deserts of the Middle East are of small body size (16-26 kg). Even when lactating they drink only once every 2 days and can therefore graze far away from the widely spaced watering points. The water economy of the lactating Bedouin goats was studied under laboratory conditions (30 C, 30% relative humidity). Maximum milk yield was remarkably high (61-87 g kg day); the volume of water consumed by lactating goats (158 ml kg day) was three times the volume consumed before gestation. The rate of water turnover of the lactating goats (210 ml HO kg day) was double that found in nonlactating females. The ability of the goats to withstand 2 days of water deprivation without the milk yield being affected is attributed to a very high body water content (HTO space), amounting to 77%-85% of the body weight. Following dehydration, when given free access to water, the goats at once replenish their entire water loss. Blood plasma volume (Evans Blue [EB] space) was 9% of body weight in fully hydrated lactating goats. During dehydration EB space decreased in proportion to the decrease in total body fluids. Repeated periods of water deprivation had no effect on the ability to resume full milk production.
30166506|We describe a method for measuring metabolic rates (MRs) of ectotherms using successive measurements of radionuclide body burdens, which may provide an alternative means of measuring field metabolic rate (FMR). Although MRs can be measured in the laboratory, variability in food supply and quality, temperature, activity, and other factors preclude the direct application of such data to field conditions. Recently, the doubly labeled water (DLW) technique has been successfully applied to estimate FMR in a variety of animals, but this method is expensive, requires special equipment, necessitates the sampling of blood or other body fluids, and may be unsuitable for certain species. We compared the rates of elimination of seven radionuclides with estimates of MRs (CO production) from DLW measurements in the desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis. We observed temperature-dependent elimination for five of the radionuclides, and found a high correlation (r = 0.93) between the slopes of individual
30164250|Drosophila melanogaster is very tolerant of the toxic efects of ethanol and is able to use low to moderate levels of ethanol as a nutrient. Most of the ethanol is metabolized by the pathway initiated by alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), and much of it is converted to nontoxic lipid. sn-Glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) provides the glycerol backbone for lipid synthesis, and GPDH is induced by dietary ethanol in D. melanogaster larvae. Because of these apparent linkages, we examined some of the metabolic effects of dietary glycerol and dietary glycerol with ethanol on D. melanogaster. As little as 1.5% dietary glycerol was found to induce both ADH activity and GPDH activity in third-instar larvae. Maximum inductions ofADH and GPDH by 6% glycerol were reached in about 24 h, and higher concentrations of dietary glycerol did not result in greater levels of ADH or GPDH induction in that time frame. For 6% dietary glycerol a significant degree of induction occurred within 4 h for GPDH but only after 16 h for ADH. Ethanol was found to be an efficient inhibitor of the flux of[
30158520|Radical shifts in morphology and ecology of salamanders during metamorphosis affect many aspects of their life history. We quantify the effects of metamorphosis on burst speed and endurance capacity on a large sample of Ambystoma californiense. Locomotor performances are highly repeatable within metamorphic stages but change dramatically between larval and postmetamorphic stages. For burst speed, larvae are twice as fast as metamorphosed aquatic animals, and metamorphosed terrestrial salamanders are even slower. However, mean endurance of terrestrial animals is significantly greater than for either aquatic stage. Repeatabilities of burst and of endurance between metamorphic stages are zero, suggesting that they are under separate physiological control. In addition, correlations between burst and endurance, both within and among metamorphic stages, are zero. Metamorphosis seemingly decouples locomotor performance in different environments and promotes increased flexibility for organisms with complex life cycles.
30164211|For most vertebrates, locomotor activity begins at the time of hatching or birth. Although handicapped by small size, rapidly growing tissues, and navet, juveniles of most species must maneuver in the same environment and avoid the same predators as adults. Thus, it is not surprising that some ectothermic and precocial endothermic tetrapods undergo ontogenetic changes that allow juveniles to sprint almost as fast and jump almost as far as adults. Allometric changes that have been shown or suggested to enhance performance in juveniles include relatively longer limbs, relatively greater muscular forces and contractile velocities, and higher muscular mechanical advantage. Compensation for rapid growth has been shown to occur in the bones of precocial birds and mammals. The limb bones of these animals have relatively greater cross-sectional diameters and areas than those of adults. This maintains a parity of bone and muscular strength during periods of rapid growth, when bones are composed of weaker, more flexible tissue. In contrast to their sprinting and jumping performance, young animals appear to have significantly less locomotor stamina and agility than adults. The lower stamina may, in large part, simply be a consequence of juveniles being smaller than their parents. The awkwardness of youth appears to result from a conflict between the process of growth and the effective integration of the sensory, neural control, and motor systems. Because juveniles often suffer higher rates of mortality from predation, selection for improved locomotor performance is likely to be strong. Consequently, as a possible result of ontogenetic canalization, the adult phenotype may be determined as much or more by selection on the locomotor performance of juveniles as by direct selection on the locomotor abilities of adults.
30156010|Dehydration to 80% initial body weight had no effect on the skin and core temperatures at which desert iguanas exited the hot or cold side of an electronic shuttle box. Hyperosmotic NaCl loading resulted in a significant decrease in the upper threshold skin temperature (44.23  0.07 to 43.82  0.08 C) and both the lower threshold skin (37.52  0.16 to 34.93  0.20 C) and core (39.28  0.10 to 37.05  0.25 C) temperatures. Hypoosmotic NaCl loading resulted in a significantly higher upper threshold skin temperature (42.84  0.09 to 43.44  0.08 C) but significant decreases in lower threshold skin (34.93  0.11 to 32.11  0.14 C) and core (35.34  0.11 to 33.97  0.14 C) temperatures. While changes in thermoregulatory behavior can be correlated with changes in plasma osmolality, shifts in the lower behavioral threshold during osmotic manipulation may be due to ionic rather than osmotic influences.
30163701|Hooded seals (Cystophora cristata) have a lactation period of 4 d. The rate of milk energy transfer must be very high to ensure that pups are weaned with sufficient energy reserves to withstand the lengthy postweaning fast. Milk energy transfer was measured by isotope dilution (n = 6), and energy deposition was assayed by chemical analysis of pups at birth (n = 4) and weaning (n = 5). Estimates of body water content obtained by isotope dilution and direct analysis were not significantly different. Water constituted only 71.7%  0.50% (SE) of lean body mass at birth, indicating developmental maturity. Newborn pups were also high in fat (14.0%  0.78%) and energy (10.1  0.25 MJ/kg). Pups consumed 7.52  0.469 kg/d milk containing 187  11.6 MJ/d. Total milk and energy yields were estimated as 30.1 kg and 746 MJ. Pups deposited 88% of ingested fat, 41% of protein, and 84% of energy. Of the weight gain, 82% was fat. The energy content of pups increased nearly fourfold from birth to weaning, but protein content increased by only 11%. At weaning, the energy content of the pup was similar, relative to maternal metabolic size (
30157955|Because wind significantly increases heat loss from birds, its effects must be incorporated in studies of behavior, habitat selection, and ecological energetics. We studied dark-eyed juncos (Junco hyemalis) exposed to air temperatures (
30163826|Dehydration tolerance in mammals is associated with the degree to which an animal is able to maintain plasma volume. During thermal dehydration, rock pigeons (Columba livia), quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica), and white-necked ravens (Corvus cryptoleucus) maintained nearly constant volumes despite mean body mass losses of 17%, 15%, and 13%, respectively. During flight-incurred dehydration in tippler pigeons (C. livia), no changes occurred in plasma volume although the birds lost 6%-10% of their preflight body mass. Thus, dehydrated birds were found to be excellent plasma volume conservers, like the most xericadapted mammal species. We suggest that plasma volume conservation in birds is an adaptation associated with high heat loads incurred during flight. In contrast, plasma conservation in mammals is associated with their ability to inhabit arid environments.
30163706|California gulls (Larus californicus) breeding on barren islets in Mono Lake, California, utilize behavioral responses rather than special physiological adaptations to cope with high environmental temperatures. Young California gulls resemble the chicks of other gull species in oxygen consumption, evaporative water loss rates, thermal conductance, and body temperature. Successful reproduction is dependent on adequate shade for chicks, which are otherwise vulnerable to hyperthermia from high temperatures and intense solar radiation. At present, most shade is provided by parent gulls. Events which decrease nest attentiveness by adults expose the chicks to potentially devastating heat stress.
30158199|Altricial and precocial birds differ in thermoregulatory and locomotor ability at hatching and consequently experience different ranges of body temperature. To test the hypothesis that thermal performance physiology matches the usual range offield body temperatures, we examined the effect of temperature on maximum running and jumping speeds of northern bobwhite chicks (Colinus virginianus) and on in situ contractility properties of the sciatic-gastrocnemius system. We found that the optimum body temperature for locomotor and neuromuscular performance and the thermal performance curves (variation in performance with body temperature) did not change with age among 1-, 8-, 15-, and 21-d-old chicks. This contrasts with a pronounced increase in optimum temperature and narrowing of thermal performance curves with age seen in an earlier study of 1and 8-d-old red-winged blackbird nestlings (Agelaius phoeniceus). Thus, the stable thermal performance curves of precocial northern bobwhite chicks match a field body temperature that is probably fairly constant with age, whereas thermal performance curves of altricial red-winged blackbird nestlings shift ontogenically to track the higher and increasingly stable body temperature of older birds.
30155969|Renal clearance techniques were used to assess the effects of several neurohypophyseal polypeptides on renal function in Ambystoma tigrinum larvae. Hypophysectomy decreased urine flow (
30163890|We investigated the hypothesis that dietary composition can alter metabolic rate in the marmot. We provided marmots with two different diets: Purina standard Rodent Chow (no. 5001) and an essential fatty acid deficient (EFAD) diet (Purina chow no. 5803C). Metabolic rate was determined by indirect calorimetry during the summer and winter season. The mean metabolic rate measured during the summer was 7.54 mL O min kg 0.62 for the control group and 7.43 mL O min kg  0.34 for the EFAD animals. Both animal groups gained weight during the summer; body weights peaked in September. Fatty acid analysis of white adipose tissue from each group revealed significant differences (P < 0.01) in percent composition of fatty acid species 16:1, 18:1, 18:2, 18:3, and 20:0. Winter mean metabolic rates for the control group were significantly lower (P < 0.05) than they were for EFAD animals for all stages of hibernation (entrance, deep hibernation, and arousal). Average total hibernating bout length for the control group was 7.76 d, which is significantly higher (P < 0.05) than the 5.72 d for the EFAD group. These results support the hypothesis that essential fatty acids alter the metabolic rate in marmots and are necessary for normal thermoregulation during hibernation.
30158541|Growth of small anuran larvae (Bufo calamita) was inhibited in the presence of larger larvae (Rana temporaria) by an interference mechanism involving unicellular algae of the genus Prototheca. Protothecans sequestered only small amounts of available nutrients during their passage through the larval gut, but their presence in feces diverted small tadpoles from high-quality food sources and thus promoted coprophagy as an alternative feeding strategy. Large larvae produced protothecans in their feces in numbers inversely related to food supply, which accentuated growth inhibition of small larvae at low resource levels. A simple model of growth inhibition was developed to account for these observations.
30163818|Exposure of larval salamanders to acid water can reduce rates of growth and this may have significant fitness consequences. The reduction could be due to the effects of acidity on prey capture ability or on assimilation and allocation of energy. To investigate effects of acidity on prey capture ability, feeding performance and growth were measured weekly in Ambystoma maculatum larvae raised at different levels of pH (pH 4, 4.5, 6, and 7) and fed ad lib. Larvae raised in higher-pH water grew and developed more rapidly than did larvae in lower-pH water. In addition, larvae raised in higher-pH water responded to prey more often and were more successful in capturing prey than were larvae raised in lower-pH water. To investigate effects of acidity on assimilation and/or allocation, growth was measured weekly in larvae raised at different levels of pH (pH 4.5, 5, 6, and 7) and fed the same amount of food. There were no differences in growth between larvae raised at dfferent-pH levels. These results suggest that variation in the ability to capture prey, rather than in assimilation and/or allocation of energy, contributes to the differences in larval growth that are observed at different levels of pH.
30158237|A protocol has been developed for the separation of brush-border membrane (BBM) and basolateral membrane (BLM) fractions from the kidneys of the roach (Rutilus rutilus) and the Arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus), based on differential precipitation and differential centrifugation. Steady state polarization fluorescence was used to measure membrane fluidity in BBM and BLM from the kidneys of cold- and warm-acclimated fish. The "homeoviscous response" (%HR) in the BLM of cold-acclimated S. alpinus was about four fold higher (78.2%) than in the BLM of cold-acclimated R. rutilus. No %HR was shown by the BBM of R. rutilus, but a fairly strong one (54.3%) by the BBM of S. alpinus. Acclimation temperature had no effect on thermal stabilit, of the (Na + K)-ATPase from kidney microsomes of S. alpinus, but the preincubation temperature that resulted in 50% inactivation
30163721|We made simultaneous measurements of CO production by Savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) using doubly labeled water (DLW) and gravimetric (GM) methods in order to assess the accuracy of DLW measurements in these birds. The average DLW value was 6.5% higher than the GM value (4.26  0.54 [SD] vs. 4.00  0.47 g CO/day, n = 7). This difference is small but statistically significant (P < .01, paired t-test). A small systematic error in the GM method may account for this discrepancy. Labeled water injected into a pectoral muscle equilibrated with body water within 1 h. Body water volumes, calculated as
30156193|Metabolic responses to dormancy and anoxia were assessed in foot muscle and he-patopancreas of the land snail Otala lactea (Pulmonata, Helicidae). In both states cellular energetics (arginine phosphate content, adenylate energy charge) were maintained at a high level, fueled during estivation by aerobic metabolism and during anoxia by carbohydrate fermentation. D-lactate was the major product of anaerobiosis in hepatopancreas, but in foot muscle D-lactate, L-alanine, and succi-nate accumulated (in net amounts of 13.5, 3.5, and 1.8 molg wet weight, respec-tively). Changes in the concentrations of glycolytic intermediates were compared for both short-and long-term stress: 2 and 14 h of exposure to N gas atmosphere, 3 and 22 d of dormancy at 22 C. Both stresses appeared to include glycolytic activation in the short term in foot muscle, with crossover analyses indicating regulatory control at the phosphofructokinase, aldolase, and pyruvate kinase loci. Over the long term, however, this was reversed and a glycolytic rate depression was observed aspart of the overall metabolic rate depression of these states. In foot muscle, inhibition at phosphofructokinase and pyruvate kinase was apparent during anoxia, whereas aldolase and pyruvate kinase were the key sites of inhibitory control during estivation. In hepatopancreas, phosphofructokinase was the primary locus for inhibitory control during both prolonged anoxia and estivation. These data suggest that common molecular mechanisms underlie glycolytic rate depression during dormancy and anaerobiosis.
30159961|Data on environmental temperatures, skin temperature, animal size, the depth of fur, density of hairs in fur, hair length, and diameter of hair shafts were used to calculate fur thermal conductivity and heat loss, using a porous medium model modified from that of Kowalski and Mitchell. The total thermal conductivity of fur changed little with respect to the age of the animal, but calculated heat loss per unit area decreased because of a decrease in the thermal gradient across the fur caused by an increase in fur depth. A sensitivity analysis of the model showed that skin, air, and radiant environmental temperatures were most important in determining heat loss in all sizes of animals. Fur depth is the only important property of fur determining heat loss in nestling rats, but in adults, all the properties of fur exert significant effects on heat loss. The diameter of animals is a significant variable in all sizes of rats.
30164300|Winter diets of ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) and other galliformes are high in tannins. We fed quebracho, a condensed tannin, to ruffed grouse and found no effect on dry matter intake or body mass at levels up to 6% of the diet. However, a high-fiber diet with 8% quebracho resulted in reduced dry matter intake and body mass loss. Grouse could not tolerate a diet with 8% tannic acid, a hydrolyzable tannin, which caused a large reduction in dry matter intake and body mass. Northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) and ruffed grouse responded to dietary quebracho tannin by increasing the proportion of digesta that was excreted from the ceca. In the northern bobwhite, 59%-76% of the tannin recovered from the feces was in cecal feces. There was no difference in average passage rates of liquid and fiber digesta, although variation was high in tannin-fed birds. The role of the ceca in handling tannin requires further investigation.
30164303|The relatively large meal sizes consumed by sit-and-wait-foraging snake species make them favorable for investigating specific dynamic action, the rise in metabolic rate associated with digestion. Hence, we measured O consumption rates (
30157927|We reared wild-type flies in constant darkness for several generations, subculturing and handling them under a red safelight known not to affect Drosophila clock function or to be perceived visually by them. The locomotor activity rhythms of newly eclosed individuals were subsequently monitored in constant darkness, with no further exposure to light other than the far-red safelight. Only 23% of the flies had wild-type activity rhythms, and half of these had strong ultradian components, uncharacteristic of normally reared wild-type flies; an additional 10% had a novel phenotype: weak, short-period (20- to 22-h) circadian rhythms and relatively strong ultradian rhythms The remaining 68% were phenocopies of the period mutants, per-like, but apparently arrhythmic, lacking significant rhythmicity that could be discovered by our robust criteria; another 16% were per-like with significant ultradian rhythms. The balance (16%) were phenocopies of
30152639|Resting metabolic rates of young southern catfish (Silurus meridionalis Chen) weighing 10. 8-422.6 g were measured by use ofa continuous-flow respirometer. Mean specific metabolic rates at 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 C were 21.48, 40.47, 56. 81, 92.79, and 115.48 mg O/kg/h, respectively. Values of the mass exponent (b) in the relationship between metabolic rate (M) and body mass (W) (
30158211|To examine how hummingbirds that do not enter torpor at night store and utilize energy, open-circuit respirometry and a strain gauge were used to measure daily variation in O consumption (
30155861|The damselflies Heteragrion erythrogastrum and Argia difficilis selected markedly different perching sites within the same forest. Heteragrion erythrogastrum perched only in deep shade and exhibited thoracic temperatures that were within 1.0 C of ambient. Conversely, A. difficilis perched in the most brightly lit areas and on sunny days exhibited thoracic temperatures between 4.4 and 8.4 C above ambient. During sunny conditions A. difficilis foraged approximately five times more frequently than H. erythrogastrum and made longer foraging flights as well. Subsequent observations of A. difficilis under varying conditions of light, however, revealed that thoracic temperature, foraging rate, and foraging flight distance all varied directly with incident light level. Thus, during overcast conditions A. difficilis exhibited thoracic temperatures and foraging behavior much like H. erythrogastrum. These results suggest that, for these ectothermic predators, foraging rate primarily reflects the energy demand associated with a particular body temperature and rate of energy metabolism. The relative advantages of basking versus shade seeking are briefly discussed.
30163844|Rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and American eels (Anguilla rostrata) were exposed (15 min) to two levels of external hypoxia (water Po [Pwo] = 5.3 and 4.0 kPa for trout; 4.0 and 2.7 kPa for eels). Arterial Po (Pao) fell to 1.7-2.0 kPa in trout and 1.1-1.3 kPa in eel. Plasma catecholamines were elevated in trout during both levels of hypoxia but were unaltered in hypoxic eels. The goals of this study were to elucidate the mechanisms for the differences in these plasma catecholamine levels. Levels of stored catecholamines were measured in the kidney, posterior cardinal vein (PCV), and the heart. In both species the anterior region of the PCV was the primary storage site, with levels being greater in trout than in eels. The ability of the chromafin cells to respond to two chemical stimuli, 60 mmol L K or carbachol (10 to 10 mol), was assessed with an in situ saline-perfused PCV preparation. Trout released greater quantities of catecholamines in response to both stimuli than did eels. Differences in the cholinergic stimulation of the chromafin cells may account for the differences in plasma levels during hypoxia. In trout, carbachol selectively caused the release of adrenaline over noradrenaline, which suggests the presence of two populations of chromaffin cells, those containingpredominantly adrenaline and others containing predominantly noradrenaline.
30158262|We measured total evaporative water loss (EWL)for little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus) hibernating at 2 and 4C. Total EWL was not influenced by body mass or temperature but was directly related to the difference in water vapor pressure (WVP) between the tissue surfaces and the atmosphere. Evaporative water loss (mg bat d) is 3763 WVP (kPa). Metabolic water production, estimated at 1.68 mg bat d, will not compensate for EWL except at relative humidities greater than 99.3% at normal hibernating temperatures. Net water losses range from 3.62 to 28 88 mg bat d at temperatures and humidities ranging from 2 to 4C and 90% to 98%. Torpor durations predicted on the basis of net EWL correspond closely to those observed in laboratory and field studies, which suggests that water loss may be implicated in arousals from hibernation. We also measured respiratory frequency and tidal volume using a head-body plethysmograph. Bats showed an arrhythmic breathing pattern with bouts of apnea (31.6 1.4 min) punctuated by ventilation bouts lasting 1.6 0. 1 min and containing 71.2  0 1 breaths. Tidal volume was 47 2 L, and minute volumes were 100.6 L min. Pulmonary water loss was only 0.3%6 of the total EWL because of the low ventilation rates.
30155992|Larvae of Odontomyia cincta tolerate osmotic concentrations ranging from 3 to 5,415 mOsm. Hypoosmotic regulation occurs above an external osmotic concentration of 290 mOsm; hyperosmotic regulation occurs below an external osmotic concentration of 270 mOsm. Animals subjected to hyperosmotic stress (4-5,415 mOsm) lost 35% of their original weight within 48 days; animals subjected to hypoosmotic stress (5,415-4 mOsm) maintained their original weight. The hemolymph osmotic concentration accounted for by sodium ranged from 27% to 37%; there is no correlation between these percentages and external osmotic concentration. The hemolymph osmotic concentration accounted for by chloride between external osmotic concentrations of 30 and 5,415 mOsm ranged from 25% to 36%; these percentages are not correlated with external osmotic concentration. However, in animals acclimated to 3 mOsm, chloride accounted for only 17% of the hemolymph osmotic concentration. There is no correlation between external osmotic concentration and the concentration of hemolymph amino acids. There was no difference in the content of tissue free amino acids in animals acclimated to either 3 or 5,415 mOsm; thus cellular volume regulation is not mediated by free amino acids.
30155964|Sea snakes are unusual reptiles in two respects: (1) They are morphologically and physiologically specialized for marine life. (2) Most species of sea snakes occupy habitats with extremely stable temperatures, and these species probably experience less variation in body temperature during their lives than most terrestrial reptiles undergo daily. We tested two hypotheses about functional properties of the blood of sea snakes from different habitats. (1) Contrary to the prediction of our first hypothesis, the ability of sea snakes to dive for prolonged periods is not associated with unusually large blood volumes, hematocrits, or blood oxygen capacities in comparison with terrestrial snakes. We found no ontogenetic allometry in those parameters in Aipysurus laevis. (2) As predicted by our second hypothesis, sea snakes from stable thermal habitats did not exhibit short-term sensitivity of blood oxygen capacity to changing temperature. However, Laticauda colubrina, a species of sea snake that spends long periods of time on land where it may be exposed to a daily variation in body temperature exceeding 15 C, was as sensitive to temperature as are terrestrial snakes. The diverse thermal environments of different species and populations of sea snakes provide an opportunity to test hypotheses about physiological characteristics of reptiles that experience different magnitudes of variation in body temperature.
30162283|The vlei rat Otomys irroratus, a diurnally active rodent, lives primarily in grassland habitats aboveground, close to water sources, on a vegetarian diet of grass leaves, stems, and herbs. Heat production and dissipation and energy intake were studied in vlei rats (mean body mass,
30164306|Although the influences of dietary carbohydrate and protein on intestinal brush border membrane functions are well known, the responses to different dietary lipids are less clear, particularly for ectotherms. Therefore, we examined intestinal brush border membrane phospholipid fatty acid composition and rates of glucose transport of catfish fed two diets with different fatty acid profiles. Intestinal brush border membranes of fish fed a diet containing stearic acid had higher concentrations of monoenes, dienes, and trienes but were lower in polyenes and had a lower unsaturation index than those of fish fed a diet with menhaden oil. Rates of glucose transport at low, mid, and high temperatures were higher for intact tissues and vesicles prepared from the brush border membrane of fish fed the stearic acid diet. Our findings indicate that dietary lipids influence intestinal brush border membrane fatty acid composition and the relationship between temperature and rates of glucose transport. However, we can not exclude the possibility that dietary lipids can induce changes in transporter site densities and/or the physical characteristics of membrane microdomains in which the transporters might reside.
30163882|Nitrogen excretion was studied in the aquatic caecilian Typhlonectes natans by analyzing samples of the bathing medium over an 8-h period for total ammonia (
10.1086/515929|We manipulated diet quality, food availability, and ambient temperature to investigate the role of these variables in fat deposition by growing prairie voles
30157881|It was postulated that basking behavior in Hyla cinerea increased digestive rate and resulted in an increased growth rate for basking individuals. Laboratory experiments showed that increased body temperature resulted in an increased digestive rate and was associated with greater feeding rates. The results indicated that total growth (mass and length) was greater in basking than in nonbasking juvenile frogs, but there was no difference in growth conversion efficiencies between these two groups. No significant difference existed in growth rates or growth conversion efficiencies between basking and nonbasking adults. Regardless of sex or size, frogs basked in an all-or-none fashion. Initiation of basking behavior was random and was not associated with either feeding, ambient relative humidity, or availability of standing water. The conclusions drawn are that (1) the occurrence of basking in tree frogs is random, (2) basking increases growth rates, and (3) growth may not be the only advantage derived from basking.
30158257|Development rate and temperature selection were monitored in groups of bullfrog tadpoles during periods from early summer to early winter. After collection, the tadpoles were placed in 25C tanks with long (16L:8D), short (8L:16D), and natural photoperiods. Developmental stages (Taylor-Kollros) were assessed at approximately 3-d intervals, and temperature selection at approximately 1-wk intervals. For the first 2 wk in the 25C tanks, development was rapid (0.4 stages d) in early and midsummer but very slow (0. 02 stages d) in early winter. During this initial 2-wk period, the temperatures selected in early and midsummer (28.4C) were higher than those selected in early winter (24.0C). After 2 wk in the 25C tanks, the long-photoperiod group (relative to the short-photoperiod group) showed a slight decrease in development in early summer, no difference in midsummer, and a definite increase in early winter. Temperature selection was not altered by photoperiod length. These results suggest that endogenous annual rhythms for development and temperature selection are present in Rana catesbeiana tadpoles.
30163843|The effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY) alone and in combination with noradrenaline (NA) on cardiac performance were determined in isolated perfused dogfish (Squalus acanthias) hearts. Since inositol 1, 4,5-trisphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P) is known to be an important second messenger in the regulation of cardiac function, Ins(1,4,5)P levels in these hearts were measured with an Ins(1,4,5)P protein binding assay kit. Neuropeptide Y increased cardiac output by increasing heart rate, as stroke volume was not changed, whereas NA increased cardiac output by increasing stroke volume. Neuropeptide Y or NA alone did not have significant effect on pressure development. Neuropeptide Y plus NA, however, increased pressure development. Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate level was elevated by NA alone and was further increased by NPY plus NA. The present study indicates that NPY could potentiate the effect of NA in the dogfish heart. The changes in Ins(1,4,5)P may be implicated in the cardiac effects of NA and NPY in these hearts.
30155735|Cuticular permeabilities in two Arizona vejovid scorpions reflect the temperature/relative humidity regimes of the habitats in which they were collected. Four lipid classes are present in significant proportions in the epicuticular lipids of both species: hydrocarbons, free fatty acids, cholesterol, and aliphatic alcohols. Surface densities of total lipids and hydrocarbons are inversely correlated with cuticular permeability. Epicuticular lipids of the more xeric-adapted species are characterized by higher proportions of long-chain branched hydrocarbons and long-chain saturated free fatty acids. The results indicate that cuticular permeabilities can be altered to meet environmental requirements, and that in scorpions predictable changes in epicuticular lipid composition are in part responsible.
30155946|The black bedouin goat is indigenous to the Negev Desert and the Sinai Peninsula and is unusual when compared with other breeds of goat in that it uses sweating rather than panting as its main mode of evaporative heat loss. The sweat rate from the side of the head is greater than that from the thorax. The rate of passive diffusion of water is similar to that of other mammalian species. There is no evidence that circulating adrenaline, either at rest or during exercise, stimulates sweat gland activity. The high rate of sweating is achieved mainly by the individual sweat glands, which secrete at a rate five to 10 times greater than other bovid species. It is concluded that the relatively high solar heat load imposed on this breed of goat by virtue of its black color is primarily dissipated by the development of sweat glands with a high secretory capacity.
30158191|The Nile soft-shelled turtle (Trionyx triunguis) lays about 40 18-g hard-shelled eggs in a nest cavity buried 20-40 cm deep in sand banks along rivers. The eggs exchange heat, water, and gases with the surrounding substrate during the 65-75-d incubation. Measurements to determine the effect of constant incubation temperature (
30155701|The shore crab Ocypode platytarsis was induced to autotomize one walking leg, and its influences on free and protein bound sugars of the hemolymph were studied. Quantitative changes in blood sugars were also studied after bleeding stress. Results indicate that several sugars increase within half an hour after autotomy. Glucosamine and rhamnose, absent in the normal hemolymph of the crab, appear after autotomy. The protein bound sugar decreases in half an hour after both autotomy and bleeding stress. While free sugars increased during the same period after autotomy, they decreased during that period after bleeding stress. A simultaneous fall in bound sugar is attributed to degradation of the same. Fall in both free and bound sugar after loss of blood suggests that demand for sugar is greater after loss of blood than after autotomy. It is suggested that autotomy is a means not only to control loss of blood but also to prevent the loss of metabolizable substrates.
30162287|Bufo marinus is more tolerant of dehydration than Rana catesbeiana. Dehydration led to increases in plasma sodium, protein, and hematocrit. The increases in plasma protein concentration were greater in both species than predicted from passive concentration during dehydration, indicating protein redistribution to the vascular space. Increases in hematocrit with dehydration were delayed in Bufo, indicating that plasma volume was maintained. The colloid osmotic pressure of plasma increased with protein concentration during dehydration, as predicted by data for mammals. Venous blood pressures did not vary with dehydration in either species. Interstitial fluid pressure became more negative with dehydration. The balance of transcapillary fluid forces predict ultrafiltration during all stages of dehydration in Rana and during dehydration below 24% in Bufo. The transcapillary forces do not predict the fluid redistribution to the plasma space, which is consequently attributed to lymphatic return. The changes in plasma protein concentration during dehydration are consistent with lymphatic return. Greater interstitial fluid volumes may be an important corollary of enhanced tolerance to dehydration.
30163803|We examined activities of enzymes indicative of aerobic capacity (citrate synthase [CS]) and glycolytic capacity (pyruvate kinase [PK]) in pectoral and leg muscles of chicks of the European starling, northern bobwhite, and Japanese quail. The starling exhibits altricial development; the nestlings are highly dependent on their parents for food and maintenance of a high body temperature. In contrast, the quail species exhibit precocial development; at hatching, the chicks can feed themselves and thermoregulate under mild cold stress. In all three species, the proportion of muscle in the body increased with age; in addition, the proportion of pectoral muscle increased relative to that of leg muscle. Pyruvate kinase activity increased in all muscles, but especially in the pectoral muscles of the quail (from approximately 50 to 800 mol/min  g wet mass [IU/g] through day 21). In contrast, CS increased rapidly in the pectoral muscle of the starling (from 10 to 150 IU/g between hatching and 16 d) but not in quail. Citrate synthase activity initially was high in the leg muscle of quail (40-70 IU/g) but decreased with age; in starling leg muscle, CS activity increased through day 8 and then remained constant at about 45-50 IU/g. In the bobwhite, lactate dehydrogenase activity, which is associated with glycolytic metabolism, closely paralleled that of PK Muscle-mass-specific metabolic scope, estimated from peak oxygen consumption under cold stress, was higher in neonates of both quail species than in starling neonates, but within 2 wk it increased to a higher level in the starling (30-38 mL/h  g muscle). In general, total metabolic scope per individual varied in proportion to the total CS activity, not PK activity, of the pectoral and leg muscles, regardless of species and age. However, increases in the activities of both CS and PK activities in the starling during the first week were not accompanied by development of thermogenic capacity.
30157918|Cardisoma hirtipes can maintain sodium balance in media containing only 0.12 mmol  L Na and survives indefinitely in sodium concentrations of 0.5 mmol  L. The crab has a reduced hemolymph concentration and permeability to ions and water compared to marine species, but permeability remains greater than in freshwater crustaceans. The sodium uptake mechanism has a high affinity for sodium ions (
30158631|The physiology of torpor was investigated in the pygmy possums Cercartetus concinnus (18 g) and C. lepidus (12 g). Body temperatures (
30156012|Brush turkey neonates are able to thermoregulate between ambient temperatures of 10-38 C. They have a standard metabolic rate of 1.00  0.04 ml O  g  h, within a thermoneutral zone extending from 29 to 38 C. Evaporative water loss is 2.57  0.32 mg  g  h at temperatures below 38 C. Thermal conductance is 0.497 mW  g  C at temperatures below 29 C. Mean body temperature of homeothermic brush turkey hatchlings is 40.4  0.2 C at ambient temperatures below 36 C. Chicks are unable to remain homeothermic at temperatures below 10 C when 5-16 h old but can cope with these temperatures after 24 h. Body temperature and evaporative water loss increase greatly at ambient temperatures greater than 39 C. Brush turkey and mallee fowl (Leipoa ocellata) neonates have similar body masses and thermal conductances, but brush turkeys have a higher standard metabolic rate, rate of evaporative water loss, and body temperature than do mallee fowl neonates and are less tolerant of thermal stress. These differences may reflect differences in the physical conditions of the posthatching environment. Brush turkeys inhabit jungle and thick scrub environments and hatch into a more mesic and cooler environment than do mallee fowl, which inhabit semiarid mallee areas.
30163841|Although respiratory surfaces constitute a potential site for dehydration in terrestrial insects, only afew studies have addressed the problem of respiratory transpiration in a manner that explicitly separates water loss associated with gas exchange from cuticular and other avenues of water loss. The most promising of these studies are recent investigations conducted on adult insects that release CO intermittently (discontinuous ventilation [DV] cycle). Using either gravimetric techniques or electronic sensors to compare water lost during interburst (spiracles closed or fluttering, cuticular transpiration only) and burst (spiracles open, cuticular and respiratory transpiration) phases of the cycle, investigators have shown that respiratory water loss accounts for only a small percentage (1.9%-13%) of the total water loss at low to moderate temperatures (15 -30 C). The relatively low amount of water lost during the burst phase in lubber grasshoppers as well the timing and duration of discontinuous CO release raises serious questions regarding the presumed water-saving function of the DV cycle.
30157966|To test whether blood chemistry of an acid-tolerant fish species is affected by the history of environmental H exposure, we studied blood acid-base, ion, and metabolite status in a population of yellow perch from a naturally acidic lake (acid-lake perch, ALP). Measurements were taken after 16 h of moderate swimming in either pH 4.0 or pH 7.8 water. Responses of ALP were compared with those of conspecifics from a circumneutral lake (neutral-lake perch, NLP) and from a slightly alkaline lake (hard-water-lake perch, HLP). In addition, results from fish exercised to exhaustion, or exercised and allowed to recover 6 h, are presented. The ALP maintained a higher base excess (BE) and [
30152544|Water loss during incubation in the eggs of seven species of terns are reported. The nesting sites ranged from a relatively cold region, southern Alaska, to a tropical climate in the equatorial Pacific Ocean. In addition, measurements of various physical parameters of the eggs and eggshells were made, including the water-vapor conductance of the fresh egg, which allows one to calculate the total effective pore area of the shell. The rate of water loss during incubation was proportional to egg weight (9-39 g) but inversely proportional to incubation period (21-36 days); the eggs of all species lost about the same fractional amount of water, namely, 14% of their initial weight. The rate of water loss is determined by a species-specific water-vapor conductance or pore geometry of the shell, provided that a water-vapor pressure difference of about 27 torr is maintained between the egg and the microenvironment of the nest. Since water-vapor pressure in the incubating egg is determined by egg temperature and is about 47 torr, the microclimate of the nest must be maintained at a vapor pressure of about 20 torr. Therefore, the bird must achieve a nest ventilation which is a function of the water loss of the egg and brood patch and the difference between the water-vapor content of the ambient air and that in the microclimate of the nest.
30152596|We measured rates of metabolism for a pair of crab-eating foxes, Cerdocyon thous, over a range of environmental temperatures. Basal metabolic rates for Cerdocyon are exceedingly low, averaging 65%-75% of that expected from their body mass. In contrast, thermal conductances were very high, about 140% of that expected from their body mass. These low basal rates of metabolism, in comparison with those measured for other canids, are attributed to the omnivorous food habits of this species. These results suggest that the basal metabolic rate of canids is ecologically labile and sensitive evolutionarily to environmental influences such as food habits and climate. Oxygen consumption for both foxes huddling together was 5%-18% lower than that for both foxes when separated but in the same respirometry chamber. The effects of huddling could thus have a significant effect on the daily energy expenditures of this and, perhaps, other species of canids.
30152595|Ventilation volume (
30155809|The relationship between external salinity and the blood concentrations of Na, Ca, K, Cl, and HCO has been examined for six species of freshwater and brackishwater bivalve mollusks: Rangia cuneata and Polymesoda caroliniana (oligohaline); Lampsilis claibornensis and Corbicula manilensis (freshwater); and Ostrea palmula and Polymesoda maritima (marine euryhaline). The two euryhaline species are osmotic and ionic conformers in media of from 100 to 1,000 mOsM. The oligohaline species are conformers above ambient osmolalities of 100 mOsM; in more dilute media the blood is hyperionic with respect to Na, Ca, K, and Cl. In ambient osmolalites below 20 mOsM, the blood concentrations of Na and Cl, as well as blood osmolality, decrease sharply. Blood Ca and HCO concentrations show a concomitant increase. The two freshwater animals are conformers above, and regulators below, 100 mOsM. There is no decrease in the blood concentrations of Na or Cl in very dilute media.
30155803|Oxygen consumption, irrigation rate, and coelomic fluid
30158240|The existence of a link between the thermogenic capacity and the basal rate of metabolism (BMR) in mammals is still a matter of controversy. However, the question is important because of its evolutionary and ecological implications. The relationship between thermogenic capacity (estimated by both summit metabolism
30163873|We conducted a "common garden" experiment to compare aspects of thermoregulation and metabolism in wild and random-bred laboratory house mice (Mus domesticus) and their reciprocal crosses. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) indicated that, after accounting for effects of body mass and other appropriate covariates (e.g., age), wild (N = 12) and hybrid (N = 25) mice together tended to have higher (+9.7%; P = .0904) maximal nonshivering thermogenesis (max-NST) in response to norepinephrine injection than did lab mice (N = 18). Wild (-17.2%; P = .0941) and hybrid (wild dam:-23.1%; P = .0001; lab dam: -11.2%; P = .0749) mice also tended to have lower basal metabolic rates (BMRs) than did lab mice. As a consequence of these trends, wild and hybrid mice, analyzed together, had significantly higher (+ 18.2%; P = .0263) regulatory NST (max-NST minus BMR) than did lab mice. Paralleling the differences in regulatory NST, wild and hybrid mice together had significantly more (+21.2%; P = .0129) interscapular brown adipose tissue than did lab mice. However, plasma thyroid hormone levels (triiodothyronine
30163811|Splenic volume was estimated in northern elephant seal pups (Mirounga angustirostris) by calculating the reservoir volume required to accommodate measured shifts in hematocrit that occur during periods of sleep-associated apnea. In vivo total estimated splenic mass for 15 pups represented 2.8% of body mass, while adult female seal splenic mass was estimated to be between 7.3% and 10.5% of body mass, considerably higher than that of terrestrial mammals. The model was applied to several other species of pinnipeds. Splenic mass estimates by this method were in agreement with previously reported values obtained for some pinniped species by computerized axial tomography (CT) scan. The data suggest that splenic mass in seals is correlated to the blood volume to body mass ratio and that the large spleen of seals is an anatomical consequence of the increased phocid blood volume.
30159981|Anoxic heat dissipation of Lumbriculus variegatus, as measured by direct calorimetry, is reduced by up to 85% relative to aerobic rates. The decrease of anoxic heat dissipation and the diminution of activity peaks in the calorimetric output coincide with the disappearance of peristaltic movements under anoxia. A transfer from aerobic conditions with food to anoxia without food results in cessation of defecation when the gut is half emptied, whereas the gut is completely emptied under aerobic conditions within 6 and 8-10 h at 20 and 11 C, respectively. The aerobic retention time of the food is independent of worm length (10-50 mm). After aerobic feeding the gut content is higher than after anoxic feeding at 6 C. On return to aerobic conditions, heat dissipation increases immediately, whereas defecation is resumed only after a lag of 2 h. An anoxic component to the aerobic heat dissipation becomes apparent in relation to simultaneous respirometric measurements when feces accumulate in the calorimetric chamber. When the guts are completely emptied before the experiment, the theoretical oxycaloric equivalent yields an accurate estimate of heat dissipation, indicating that no significant net formation of anoxic end products occurs under aerobic conditions. Anoxic catabolism of glycogen may not fully explain the directly measured rates of heat dissipation under environmental anoxia. This has been suggested earlier for Lumbriculus and has since been confirmed for Tubifex on the basis of simultaneous calorimetric and biochemical measurements. Direct calorimetry is required to assess total rates of metabolic energy expenditure in anoxic oligochaetes.
30163708|We trained white-crowned sparrows to locomote (normal mixed gait) on the wiremesh substrate of a circular treadmill while we measured steady-state
30164323|Basal metabolic rate in the field vole (Microtus agrestis) was studied in relation to body composition and daily energy expenditure in the field. Daily energy expenditure was measured by means of doubly labelled water (
30156036|The development of thermoregulation and torpor was investigated in the kowari, Dasyuroides byrnei. Rates of cooling and oxygen consumption indicate that independent thermoregulation (euthermia) was achieved at the age of about 90 days at a body mass of 28 g. The development of endothermy was accompanied by the ability to enter torpor. Torpor in juveniles was reduced in summer at a body mass greater than 80 g. However, an increase in the tendency to enter torpor was observed in the juveniles with the approach of the following winter. In this season the torpor pattern was similar to that seen in adults.
30158629|Adrenergic blockade with a selective a antagonist (yohimbine) and  antagonist (propranolol) was employed to test whether catecholamine mobilization was involved in lactate and acidic equivalents (H) dynamics following strenuous exercise in chronically cannulated starry flounder. In control fish (not blocked) sampled repetitively for 8 h after exercise, arterial [lactate] remained characteristically low (<2 mmol/liter), and acid-base, hematological, and glucose changes were similar to those seen in other studies. Neither  nor  blockade immediately after exercise nor  blockade before exercise had significant influence on most responses, though hyperglycemia was inhibited by  blockade and prolonged by  blockade. Blood [lactate] was also marginally elevated, and red blood cell (RBC) swelling was reduced by  antagonism. A second series involving single-terminal sampling of cannulated flounder demonstrated that RBC intracellular pH (pHi), [NTP], and arterial PO remained unchanged in the face of severe postexercise acidosis; hemoglobin (Hb)-bound O per unit Hb ([O]/[Hb]) fell by 25% but had recovered by 1 h. White-muscle [lactate] increased to 10-20 times blood levels, and pHi in muscle, brain, and heart fell substantially, changes which were sustained at 1 h. Postexercise  blockade decreased RBC pHi, inhibited RBC swelling, prevented recovery of[O]/[Hb], elevated blood [lactate], and increased muscle [lactate] at 1 h. The pHi of muscle, heart, and brain were not significantly affected. In contrast to other investigators, we conclude that catecholamines have little influence on postexercise lactate and H dynamics in flounder but do help to sustain blood O transport in the face of extracellular acidosis. Apparent stimulation of lactate release by  blockade can be explained by increased production of lactate by muscle, owing to hypoxemia.
30152635|Muskrats (Ondatra zibethicus) freely diving for food in an indoor tank were monitored with a video camera and a VCR unit. The EKG was telemetered from the animals and recorded on the audio channel of the VCR tape. Heart rate responses to voluntary dives were analyzed and compared with those from escape andforced dives. Heart rate responses from decorticate and sham-operated muskrats were also recorded to elucidate the role that the cerebral cortex plays in the dive response. In intact animals voluntary, escape, and forced submergence resulted in progressively greater decreases in heart rate. At 5 s into the dive, heart rate had fallen by 56% in voluntary dives, 65% in escape dives, and 73% in forced dives. Intensification of the bradycardia in escape and forced dives to a lower heart rate than that seen in voluntary dives was mediated by the cerebral cortex. Heart rate in decorticate muskrats in escape and forced dives did not fall below that seen in voluntary dives. However, there appeared to be a recovery of cortical function in decorticate muskrats because intensification of bradycardia in forced dives reappeared with time after surgery. Diving bradycardia was not due to fear or stress but occurred as a result ofsubmersion per se, although there was a marked cortical influence on the response in that bradycardia was intensified in escape and forced dives.
30159952|Hepatocytes isolated from temperature-acclimated Fundulus heteroclitus were used in determinations of respiratory rate, maximal activities of regulatory enzymes, and evolution of
30158155|We investigated the mechanical properties of the antennary and sternal arteries of the crab Cancer magister and the dorsal abdominal artery of the lobster Homarus americanus by inflation of vessel segments in vitro. All vessels were highly distensible and resilient and had nonlinear elasticity. The crustacean arteries are mechanically similar to the aortas of other poikilothermic animals and should function as effective pulse-smoothing components in the crustacean circulation. These arteries contain lamellae ofa novel presumptive elastic tissue that is not amorphous like vertebrate elastin, but appears to be composed of 25-nm-diameter fibrils.
30155790|Like other reptiles, crocodiles use a combination of behavioral and physiological mechanisms to balance heat gain and loss. Changes in skin temperature precede changes in deep body temperature and closely parallel fluctuations in ambient temperature. The thermal time constant, , can be used to compare rates of heat exchange for both heating and cooling in step- or ramp-function conditions. Unrestrained crocodiles tend to avoid conditions of negative heat loading and accordingly prefer step-function heating and ramp-function cooling. In general, a crocodile can heat twice as fast as it cools. It is suspected that active cardiovascular control is an important factor in regulating the rate of heat exchange between a crocodile and its environment. The rate of heat exchange between a crocodile and its environment is directly dependent on its body mass. The prediction is made that thermostability may be possible for a sufficiently large crocodile.
30155810|Blood viscosity of the hibernators Spermophilus tridecemlineatus and Tamias striatus is similar to that characteristic of nonhibernators when measured in vitro under euthermic conditions (temperature = 37 C and shear rates greater than 100 s). However, under conditions occurring in parts of the microcirculation during torpor (temperature = 23 C or lower and shear rates less than 100 s), blood viscosity is substantially lower in the hibernators. This is largely because the viscosity of blood from the hibernators has a reduced shear-rate dependence resulting from a property of the plasma that minimizes erythrocyte aggregation when blood is flowing slowly. In addition, the erythrocytes from the hibernators are more deformable at low temperature than those from nonhibernators. These characteristics are present during both the hibernating and nonhibernating seasons and appear to be important in facilitating blood flow to tissues in torpid animals.
10.1086/515874|We measured nitrogen and energy requirements in adult North American porcupines (
30158224|The ability of intact hydrothermal vent clams, Calyptogena magnifica, to take up sulfide was tested in pressurized aquaria. In addition, stimulation of carbon fixation by sulfur substrates was tested in vitro with gill-symbiontpreparationsfrom live clams. The clams had the ability to concentrate sulfide from the medium, using the high-afinity sulfide-binding component in their serum, by about one order of magnitude, reaching internal sulfide concentrations as high as 6.6 mM. This binding ability was shown to be reversible in vivo. These clams were also shown to accumulate thiosulfate in their blood to about 1 mM and to quickly lose it when sulfide was removed The symbionts were shown to use sulfide as a substrate for carbon fixation, and the data also suggest that they can use thiosulfate. The symbionts were shown to be quite sensitive to sulfide, with inhibition of carbon fixation occurring at low sulfide concentrations. Incubation media containing sulfide-binding substances, either Riftia pachyptila hemoglobins or C. magnifica serum sulfide-binding component, were shown to protect the symbionts from this inhibition and to stimulate carbon fixation. A general model of the functioning of the symbiosis is presented.
30155825|Lactate contents of Anolis bonairensis (Sauria: Iguanidae) were measured to determine the extent of anaerobic metabolism under a variety of laboratory and field conditions. Groups of lizards in the laboratory which were resting quietly or active for 3 min contained an average of 0.55 and 1.45 mg lactate/g body mass, respectively. Anoles sampled in the field at four different times of day had a mean lactate content of 0.75 mg lactate/g, a value significantly greater than that of resting animals in the laboratory. Individual lizards in each field group exceeded lactate contents of 1.0 mg/g at all times of the day. Lactate accumulation was proportional to intensity of territorial defense in a separate series of territorial intrusion experiments. This anole commonly undertakes bouts of anaerobic metabolism under natural field conditions, and its behavioral repertoire is considerably extended by this anaerobic ability.
30155986|To determine the biochemical effects of ontogenetic vertical migration, enzyme activities in white skeletal muscle, isozyme composition, water and protein content of muscle, and pressure sensitivity of two NAD-dependent dehydrogenases were compared among the pelagic larval, pelagic juvenile, demersal juvenile, and demersal adult stages of the deep-living marine teleost, Sebastolobus altivelis (Scorpaenidae). Ontogenetic vertical migration in S. altivelis involves hydrostatic pressure changes of 130 atm or more. In comparison to S. alascanus, a shallower-living congener, S. altivelis adults display both quantitative and qualitative changes in their muscle enzymes adapting them to their depth regime. The activities (measured as units at 10 C per g wet weight of muscle) of pyruvate kinase (PK), malate dehydrogenase (MDH), and citrate synthase (CS) are highest in the pelagic larvae and may reflect requirements for energy from aerobic metabolism for protein synthesis and locomotion. There are no differences in isozyme expression among the life-history stages for 22 proteins compared by starch gel electrophoresis. The LDH and MDH of the pelagic stages were purified, and the effects of hydrostatic pressure on the apparent Michaelis constant (
30161235|We studied preferences of red-winged blackbirds, common grackles, and European starlings for the disaccharide sucrose and the monosaccharides glucose and fructose. We also tested the hypothesis that sucrose preference is correlated with activity of sucrase, the intestinal enzyme that hydrolyzes sucrose. All species preferred a 1:1 mixture of glucose and fructose over water at concentrations > 0.75 M. Starlings rejected concentrated solutions of sucrose and lacked sucrase activity. Red-winged blackbirds preferred sucrose solutions at intermediate concentrations (0.35 M) but rejected concentrated ones, whereas common grackles preferred sucrose at all the concentrations offered. Sucrase activity was higher in grackles than in red-winged blackbirds. Blood glucose levels were measured after a meal of a mixture of glucose and fructose or of sucrose. Blood glucose concentration increased in all species after the monosaccharide meal and peaked after about 30 min. In starlings the concentration of glucose in blood remained constant after a sucrose meal, whereas in the other species there was an increase similar to that observed after a monosaccharide meal. Because starlings are mainly insectivorous and blackbirds and grackles are granivorous, we hypothesize that relative activity of intestinal sucrase and hence the preference for sucrose are related to the proportion of complex carbohydrates in a bird's diet.
30164242|The maximum rate of energy assimilation in lactating Peromyscus maniculatus (100 kJ/d, body mass = 25 g) was lower than in cold-exposed females (115 kJ/d, body mass = 20 g). This pattern differs from that found in a few species of voles and mice, in which lactating females achieve higher rates of assimilation than cold-exposed animals. The results do not support the hypothesis that energy budgets of animals are limited centrally by the rate of energy assimilation from food, irrespective of which metabolic function constitutes the main energy expenditure. The discussion about physiological limits to energy budgets must involve information about the life strategies of the animals.
30163874|The aim of this study was to determine how a tropical tenrec, Echinops telfairi, is able to meet the obligatory extra costs of pregnancy and lactation. During pregnancy, mean body weight increased from 174.8 g (7.3 SD) to 279.0 g (10.0 SD), resting metabolic rate (RMR) from 28.7 kJ  d (0.4 SD) to 68.1 kJ  d (1.3 SD), and daily energy expenditure (DEE)from 42.1 kJ d (3.5 SD) to 87.2 kJ  d (2.9 SD). Females actively maintained homeothermy throughout pregnancy. Food intake increased from 49.6 kJ  d (2.5 SD) to 121 kJ  d (13. 1 SD) during midpregnancy then gradually fell to 70.2 kJ  d (10. 6 SD) prior to parturition. Throughout lactation, body weight was stable at 262.6 g (4.3 SD). The mean RMR was 35.3 kJ  d (0. 8 SD), and DEE was 61.4 kJ  d (14.2 SD) when one pup was suckled. Homeothermy was also maintained throughout lactation. Food intake increased dramatically to 151 kJ  d (20.3 SD), and the energy transferred as milk to the litter was calculated to be between 34.9 kJ  d and 116.3 kJ  d. We conclude that the extra energetic costs of reproduction were met by an increase in energy intake. Animals remained homeothermic, and there was no evidence of metabolic compensation.
10.1086/515925|In order to evaluate the normal (fed conditions) substrate utilization rates of rainbow trout (
30156164|Compensatory changes in blood volume following hemorrhage were studied in the toad Bufo marinus. Intact (n = 5), sham operated (n = 3), and animals with destroyed lymph hearts (LH-, n = 6) were bled to 78%, 78%, and 74% of their initial blood volumes, respectively. Post-hemorrhage changes in blood volume were estimated by analyzing changes in hematocrit and concentration of an injected plasma volume marker, Evans blue. Analysis of both markers indicated significant replacement of plasma volume following hemorrhage in the intact and sham animals. An acute compensation period lasting 10-25 min resulted in recovery to between 91% and 108% of initial blood volume. This replacement of plasma volume occurred without concomitant washout of an injected extracellular fluid (ECF) volume marker, SCN. Therefore, the compensation resulted from redistribution of ECF rather than mobilization of intracellular fluid. Animals with destroyed lymph hearts showed no evidence of acute replacement. The animals in this group exhibited progressive hemoconcentration until death in 1-3 days. These results provide the first clear indication of the rapidity and extent of volume recovery in B. marinus. The absence of fluid replacement among the LH- animals suggests an important role for the intact lymphatic system in the response.
30159960|The influence of the eyes and pineal gland on locomotor activity rhythms of channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus, and the extent to which varying light intensity altered these activity rhythms were evaluated. Locomotor activity was measured in normal, blinded, pinealectomized, and pinealectomized-blinded channel catfish exposed to a 12:12 light/dark photoperiod of decreasing light intensities (7,500, 175, and 0.7 lx). Normal, blinded, and pinealectomized fish exhibited nocturnal activity patterns which corresponded with the exogenous photoperiod. Fish without lateral eyes and pineal gland did not entrain to the photoperiod but had arrhythmic activity patterns. Neither treatment nor light intensity affected total locomotor activity. Blinding or pinealectomy decreased the level of dark-period activity at low light intensities, but the effect of light intensity was not observed in normal and pinealectomized-blinded fish. Normal and blinded fish under constant light or constant dark exhibited arrhythmic activity. The pineal gland functions as an extraretinal light receptor in channel catfish.
30158223|Developing embryos of Fundulus heteroclitus were incubated at three temperatures and three salinities until hatching. Each fry was scored for lactate dehydrogenase-B (LDH-B), malate dehydrogenase-A (MDH-A), glucose phosphate isomerase-B (GPI-B), and phosphoglucomutase-A (PGM-A) phenotype. Signiicant correlations with hatching time were found among single- and multiple-locus phenotypes at all four loci At 20 C the multilocus effects were generally additive, but the interaction between MDH-A/GPI-B dilocusphenotypes was synergistic. Temperatures above or below 20 C minimized these effects. Phenotype-specific mortality at high temperatures (30 C) was significant in both single and dilocus phenotypes. In general, phenotypes most common to high latitudes were most susceptible to heat stress. A negative correlation was observed between heterozygosity and hatching time at 20 C and 33 salinity. The basis of this correlation appeared to be a function of the proportion of individuals having single and dilocus slow-hatching homozygous phenotypes in each category. These proportions were largely determined by the allele frequencies in the population.
30161239|Crayfish acclimated to fresh water (FW) maintain hemolymph osmotic and ionic concentrations significantly above those in the medium by a combination of active ion uptake and reabsorption of ions from the urine. This pattern appears to persist even as hemolymph osmolality approaches the isosmotic line between 350 and 475 mosm, with new equilibrium values being reached after 3 wk. Animals transferred from 350 to 750 mosm underwent a transient period (48 h) in which hemolymph was hypoosmotic to the medium, but this disappeared over 3 wk as hemolymph became isosmotic. The activities of the two major transport enzymes, the Na/K ATPase and carbonic anhydrase (CA), in both the gills and the antennal gland were also dependent on environmental salinity. CA in both tissues increased on transfer from 475 mosm to FW but not from 475 to 750 mosm. There were no short-term changes in CA activity; rather, it appears that new enzyme was induced over a 3-wk period. CA activity was reduced in animals transferred from FW to either 475 or 750 mosm. The changes occurred over a 3-wk period, which was consistent with protein turnover rather than activation/deactivation. Changes in the Na/K ATPase activities were less pronounced, and they appeared to be regulated over both the short term (activation/ deactivation) and long term (induction/deinduction).
30158599|Ameiva festiva, a teiid lizard from Costa Rica, alternately basks in the sun at the edge of forests and then forages in the shade of the forest. We used this natural analog of behavior in a laboratory shuttle-box to examine the effect of thermoregulatory behavior on physiological and ecological performances of lizards in nature. We observed body temperatures (by radiotelemetry) and locomotor behavior in the field and measured the thermal dependence of sprint speed, stamina, and aerobic scope in the laboratory. The mean upper and lower threshold temperatures for shuttling in the field were 39.4  0.97 C (95% confidence interval) and 34.5  1.11 C (95% confidence interval), respectively, and corresponded to very high levels of sprint speed (90% of maximum speed), stamina, and aerobic scope. Nevertheless, the lizards apparently rarely use these high levels of locomotor capacity. Although these lizards are active foragers, their speed and duration of movement in the field fall far below the levels of speed and stamina that they achieved in the lab when measured at temperatures that they regularly experienced in the field. The only time that we observed an individual use its (apparently) full locomotor capacities was in a single high-speed, long-distance attempt at escape from a predator. Thus the locomotor capacities of Ameiva festiva may be analogous to the principle of excessive construction (sensu Gans), whereby the phenotypic capacities of animals are not shaped by routine activities but instead by rare events that may be critical to an animal's survival.
30155750|Water permeability of trout gills (Salmo gairdneri) was studied in vitro with fish adapted to freshwater (FW) and to seawater (SW). In adapted fish, diffusional water permeability is less in SW than in FW, whereas the apparent osmotic water permeability is invariant. The ratio of osmotic to diffusional water permeabilities is greater than unity. This result demonstrates the existence of two water transfer mechanisms, diffusion and bulk transport. Osmotic permeability is increased threefold by an instantaneous change of external salinity, while diffusional permeability remains unchanged under the same circumstances. The addition of 10M epinephrine to the perfusion liquid leads to an increase of diffusional permeability in FW-adapted fish (+110%) and in SW-adapted individuals (+60%). Osmotic permeability increases in both cases (+30%). In the course of rapid transfer experiments, epinephrine does not modify the behavior of diffusional fluxes, while it does attenuate the osmotic flux rectification mechanism. These kinetic results are interpreted in the framework of recent research on the morphology of the gill epithelium.
30158645|A significant positive association between body length and multiple-locus heterozygosity is reported in a strain of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri). There is also a significant negative association between the number of heterozygous loci per fish and oxygen-consumption rate. Although more heterozygous fish use less oxygen, the amount of variation explained by this relationship is small. No significant association between oxygen consumption and hatching time is evident, although fish in genotypic classes that had faster average developmental rates tended to use less oxygen. These results suggest that faster developmental and growth rates may be attributed partially to the greater metabolic efficiency of more heterozygous fish.
30164201|Christmas Island blue crabs, Cardisoma hirtipes, were sampled in the field during two different seasons (November 1993 and June 1994) to assess the ability of this species to maintain gas exchange in air and water. Hemolymph samples from the pulmonary vessel, pericardial cavity, and infrabranchial sinuses were taken from crabs breathing air and after 30 min of immersion. The pulmonary partial pressure of O (
30155835|Preferred body temperature (PBT), resting and maximal oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production (
30163911|The effects of stress caused by low ambient pH (4-5) were studied in two freshwater unionid molluscs (Anodonta anatina and Unio tumidus). Under soft water conditions (3.7 mg Ca/L, 30.0 ppm CaCO), a continuous exposure of 8 d and a recovery period of the same duration were studied and the levels of hemolymph gases (total CO, Pco, Po), pH, and electrolytes (Ca, Mg, Na, K, C, and HCO) were followed. In A. anatina, low water pH significantly decreased the pH of the hemolymph, while in U. tumidus acid stress did not change the acid-base balance to the same extent. Significant changes in hemolymph pH, HCO, Ca, Na, and Cl levels were recorded in A. anatina, whereas in U. tumidus only hemolymph [Na] declined As a result of acid stress, a significant decrease (approx. 60%-80%) in hemolymph oxygen tension occurred after only 6 h of acid exposure. During the first 24 h of recovery, an alkalosis was recorded in A. anatina, but at the end of the 8-d recovery period all hemolymph parameters were again at the control level, except for an elevated [HCO]. In U. tumidus, acid-induced changes in Po and [Na] of the hemolymph were not normalized during the 8-d recovery period. Results of this study indicate that unionids have a relatively good capacity to resist short-term acid stress under soft water conditions. Of the two species studied, U. tumidus appeared to be less sensitive to acidification.
30158583|Flexible-shelled eggs of the terrestrial turtle Terrapene ornata were incubated on wet (-150 kPa) and dry (-800 kPa) substrates at 29 C. Eggs on the wet medium absorbed water from the environment and increased in mass by 6% over the course of incubation, whereas eggs on the dry substrate lost water throughout development and weighed 17% less late in incubation than they did at oviposition. Availability of water to embryos had no apparent influence on hatching success, but embryos in the wet environment incubated longer, mobilized more of the nutrient reserve in their yolk, and grew larger before hatching than did those in the dry setting. Most of the ammonia released in catabolism of protein by embryonic Terrapene was detoxified by converting it to urea, which accumulated in eggs during incubation. In later stages of development urea attained concentrations inside eggs that may have been sufficient to inhibit metabolism of embryos, with the inhibition potentially being greater in dry settings than in wet environments. Differential inhibition of metabolism could have led to differences in rates of growth that contributed to the differences in size of turtles at hatching, The relatively large eggs of Terrapene ornata may represent the one adaptation of this species for development in terrestrial conditions, because large eggs of other turtles are more likely to hatch following incubation in a stressful hydric environment than are smaller eggs laid by conspecifics.
30163887|Temporal correlations between reproductive endocrinology and the breeding and molt cycle of the king penguin were studied at the Crozet Islands, in the southern Indian Ocean. This species is unique in having a long cycle (14-15 mo), mainly due to a prolonged fledging period (11 mo), which includes the austral winter. Plasma gonadal steroids and prolactin were at their minimum levels during the prebreeding molt. However, circulating testosterone (males) and estradiol and progesterone (females) were already elevated at the time of arrival at the colony to breed, and the levels peaked during copulation. After laying plasma steroids decreased but remained above basal levels during the following months. Prolactin was low during the sexual phase of the reproductive cycle of both males and females. It reached high plasma concentrations in incubating birds and remained elevated during the whole fledging period. Possible roles for sustained high prolactin levels in winter and spring, which involve the care of the single chick and the prevention of a new cycle, are discussed. The effect of nutritional status of birds on plasma reproductive hormones was also investigated in relation to brief (brooding shifts) and prolonged (incubation spells)fasting. No major effect of food deprivation on plasma hormones was found in incubating and brooding king penguins during normal shifts. However, birds with a low body mass (<9 kg), which progressively mobilized their body protein, presented higher progesterone levels and lower plasma testosterone and prolactin. The decrease in plasma prolactin may be involved in the spontaneous abandon of reproduction previously described in penguins that have depleted their fat stores.
30163781|European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) are omnivorous passerine birds that include significant amounts of starchy grains (e.g., oats and barley) in their diet when insects and fruit are not available. We predicted that starlings would have high levels of intestinal maltase activity (the main enzyme involved in the last step of the digestion of complex carbohydrates) and the ability to up-regulate intestinal hydrolases (maltase, isomaltase, and aminopeptidase-N) in response to changes in nutrient intake. Captive starlings were fed three diets: a diet containing 52.5% cornstarch, a carbohydrate-free diet, and an insect diet. Diet had a significant effect on intestinal morphology: birds fed the carbohydrate-free diet had significantly longer intestines and larger intestinal areas than those fed either of the two other diets. Diet had a significant effect on aminopeptidase-N and isomaltase activity. Both aminopeptidase-N and isomaltase increased with protein and carbohydrate intake, respectively, but the magnitude of increase was small. Diet had no effect on maltase activity per unit intestinal area, however. Surprisingly, total maltase activity was highest in birds fed the carbohydrate-free diet, perhaps because of increased intestinal area in these birds. We used standardized phylogenetic contrasts to compare maltase activity in starlings with that of closely related insectivorous and frugivorous species. Starlings had maltase activities that were not significantly different from those of close relatives that do not eat grain. Maltase activities were two to four times higher in five species of granivorous birds than in starlings. We concluded that the dietary flexibility of starlings seems to exist in spite of relatively low intestinal maltase levels and a surprising lack of digestive lability.
30158594|The gills of Synbranchus marmoratus become isolated from water for long periods of time while this fish breaths air or resides in moist burrows. In order to evaluate how interruptions in gill/water contact affect ionic regulation, we have undertaken urine collections and measurements of net and unidirectional sodium fluxes on intact, conscious fish. Comparative ionic flux measurements were made on the lungfishes Lepidosiren paradoxa and Protopterus spp. All three species demonstrated Na influx rates that are low for fish and freshwater vertebrates in general. Synbranchus marmoratus has an affinity (
30159987|The effects of osmolarity on oxidation of fatty acyl carnitines, pyruvate, and ketone bodies were examined in gill mitochondria from oysters (Crassostrea virginica) acclimated to full-strength seawater (FSW) and dilute seawater (DSW). In gill mitochondria from FSW oysters, oxidation of pyruvate was stimulated twofold by hypoosmotic incubation. Oxidation of acetoacetate and beta-hydroxybutyrate was not affected by hypoosmotic incubation. No stimulation of oxidation of C-2 or C-6 fatty acyl carnitines occurred, but oxidation of octanoyl carnitine (C-8) was stimulated by approximately 75%. Oxidation of other medium-chain fatty acyl carnitines (C-10-C-14) and longchain fatty acyl carnitines (C-16, C-18) was stimulated fourfold by hypoosmotic incubation. The stimulation of fatty acyl carnitine oxidation in response to hypoosmotic incubation was due to changes in osmolarity, not to assay medium ionic strength. Without exception, the stimulatory effects of incubation in hypoosmotic medium could be duplicated by acclimation to DSW with subsequent incubation in an isosmotic medium, indicating that osmotic effects on mitochondrial metabolite oxidation are due to changes in the matrical milieu. The physiological significance of these findings are discussed in relation to energy and solute metabolism during osmotic stress in bivalve molluscs.
30158158|Circulatory systems in the Mollusca vary structurally from the open system typical of most classes to the closed system in the Cephalopoda. The gastropod circulatory system serves transport and exchange functions while additionally playing various hydraulic roles. Yet the hydraulic functions of the system may not be as extensive as once believed, and many of these previously ascribed hydraulic functions are performed instead by muscular hydrostats. Nonetheless, the extent of openness reflects in large measure the nature and degree to which hydraulic capabilities are developed. In contrast, the cephalopod system carries out principally transport and delivery functions. In cephalopods, a majorfactor in ventilation-perfusion matching is increased venous return caused by the action of ventilation on adjacent capacitance blood vessels. This is a result of cephalopods' using muscles in place of the primitive cilia-driven ventilation. However, we present evidence ofa novel coupling of the cardiac and ventilatory pumps in a gastropod. Despite major differences in performance indices such as cardiac power output, our analysis indicates severalfunctional and morphological afinities between gastropod and cephalopod circulatory systems. These affinities support the placement of the two classes in the subphylum Cyrtosoma.
30163751|Whereas many terrestrial vertebrates can assume upright postures for long periods, some terrestrial snakes are unable to do so because blood circulation fails. Measurements of carotid arterial blood flow during head-up tilt in four viperid species demonstrate that blood flow to the head diminishes markedly when the body deviates from horizontal posture and ceases entirely at tilt angles greater than or equal to 30. In this respect, large ground-dwelling vipers are similar to aquatic snakes, which also experience circulatory dysfunction when tilted up-right in air. On the other hand, postural changes do not seriously impede blood circulation in arboreal species of snakes that routinely employ vertical postures. Examination of body size and habits among viperid species suggests that gravitational hemodynamics play a potentially important role in limiting the behavior and ecological radiation of these snakes.
30155978|Mechanisms by which terrestrial crabs take up interstitial water from soil, limiting conditions and rates of uptake, and their ecological relevance in nature were examined in the ghost crab Ocypode quadrata. Comparisons were made with two species of land crabs (Gecarcinus lateralis and Cardisoma guanhumi). Rapid rehydration, by bulk uptake of water, occurs in desiccated individuals of all three species when sufficient moisture is present in soil, regardless of osmotic gradient. Slow rehydration from hypoosmotic soil moisture also occurs, particularly in G. lateralis, even when the water content is below the threshold for bulk uptake. Ocypode quadrata has the lowest threshold (<5% water) for bulk uptake from damp sand. Water is collected from soil spaces by capillary tufts of setae, drawn into the gill chamber by suction up to 76 mm Hg, and at least some of it passed to the mouth and swallowed. This mechanism provides water ad lib. anywhere the water table lies near the surface of sandy soil. The highly terrestrial land crab G. lateralis is less capable of producing suction and of extracting soil water in bulk. In this crab's natural habitat, burrow soil never contains sufficient water for bulk uptake to contribute significantly to water balance, although gradual "osmotic uptake" may be important. Cardisoma guanhumi, whose burrows contain a pool of water, presumably need not rely on uptake of soil water. Nevertheless, it possesses structures similar to, and soil-water extraction capabilities superior to, those of G. lateralis. The great terrestriality of the land crabs, particularly G. lateralis, cannot be attributed to highly developed mechanisms for taking up bulk water from soil. These species meet the challenge of water balance on land by relying on conservation, while ghost crabs emphasize water uptake.
30158504|Kidney function in unanesthetized, unrestrained chukars (Alectoris chukar) was studied on three groups of birds eating diets differing in sodium content. Low-salt-diet birds ate mixed seeds (0.017 meq Na/g food) and drank tap water; birds on a commercial diet ate chicken mash (0.2 meq Na/g) and drank tap water; birds on a high-salt diet ate mixed seeds with salt added (0.2 meq Na/g food) and drank 1% NaCl. All groups achieved similar sodium and water balance. Glomerular filtration rate (
30155938|The ammonia hypothesis of calcium-carbonate deposition was tested to determine its general applicability to all land snails of the subclass Pulmonata. Ten shelled (snails) and four shell-less (slugs) species were evaluated. The ammonia-forming enzyme adenosine deaminase, or urease, or both were demonstrated in the mantle tissue of all 14 species. Adenosine deaminase predominated in 10 species and urease in only one. A hypothesis is proposed whereby ammonia is generated catalytically by a modified version of the purine nucleotide cycle. In all cases, the activity level of the enzyme was theoretically able to account for known rates of calcium-carbonate deposition. The pH optimum of either urease or adenosine deaminase from the mantle tissue of shelled species was between 8.6 and 10.0. The mantle enzyme of slugs displayed either an acidic optimum or no optimum. Tissue ammonia levels in shelled, but not shell-less, species were at least two and a half times as high in the mantle as in the foot. The results of this study support the hypothesis that ammonia gas is generated enzymatically to enhance the rate of calcium-carbonate deposition in pulmonate land snails.
30156077|At hatching and for many months afterward (until they reach about 50 g), diamondback terrapins cannot grow in salinities above about two-thirds seawater. Yet salinities near the nests are above this level. Very small terrapins reared in 100% seawater and offered one drink of fresh water every 2 wk can achieve limited growth. In 25% seawater at 28 C, growth of hatchling terrapins is stimulated in comparison with animals in fresh water or 50% seawater. Hatchlings grown in 0.25 Molal glycerol solutions, osmotically similar to 25% seawater, have the same growth rates as those in fresh water. Hatchling terrapins injected with NaCI have an elevated rate of sodium efflux (about 65 mol/100 g wet massh), indicating that the lachrymal salt glands are functional. At hatching, body water content (77.0%) is much higher than that of adults (64.5%), and body sodium concentration (mol/g dry mass) is slightly higher. However, sodium concentration in units of jmol/g wet mass is only 71% of adult levels. When feeding commences, body sodium concentration (as Ctmol/g wet mass) rises to adult levels. Further increases occur in salinities up to 50% seawater. There is an inverse relation between body size and water efflux in 100% seawater, and this difference appears to be one cause of the lesser tolerance of smaller terrapins to saline water. In contrast, sodium influx in hatchlings is only slightly elevated. The rate of sodium efflux in fed terrapins is directly correlated with feeding rate. However, the main source of sodium uptake at higher salinities appears to be incidental swallowing of water during ingestion of food-not the salt content of the food itself.
30160959|Freezing avoidance has been investigated in the cod, Gadus ogac, which inhabits the coastal waters of Labrador. The freezing point of the blood serum of fish collected from freezing seawater through the ice during the spring was -2.17 C, a temperature well below the freezing point of seawater. Antifreeze glycoproteins were isolated from the serum and shown to be responsible for half of the freezing-point depression of the blood. Chemical characterization of the glycoproteins indicated that they are the same as those present in the serum of the antarctic nototheniid fishes. The glycoproteins were found to be completely soluble in 40% trichloroacetic acid. This high solubility in trichloroacetic acid explains the previous observation of extremely high nitrogen concentrations in deproteinized G. ogac serum.
30155711|Polypeptide elongation factor 1 (EF-1) of toadfish liver has been characterized by the binding of aminoacyl-tRNA to ribosomes in vitro. The properties of high and low molecular weight EF-1 after 70-fold purification are compared. Levels of liver EF-1 in rat and toadfish and Arrhenius plots for the assay in vitro are analyzed in relation to the rate of chain elongation and its temperature dependency in vivo
30164248|Several fish species in the family Cottidae (sculpins) are able to exchange respiratory gases in air during periods of emergence from water. These fishes live in the marine intertidal zone and may be periodically exposed to air during low tides. Cottids are typically demersal, relatively inactive, cryptically colored, and have minimal or absent scales. They have no swim bladder and use the skin and gills to breathe air. However, gross morphological adaptations to the aquatic respiratory system are not apparent. Therefore, the possibility exists that this ability to exchange respiratory gases in air is an epiphenomenon, a consequence of low metabolic rate and sedentary habit rather than an adaptation to the highly variable intertidal habitat. Ifso, morphologically and behaviorally similar species from deeper water should also exhibit this ability. This study presents data on five species of cottids representing an ecological gradient from high in the intertidal zone to deep-water habitats in Puget Sound, in the Pacific northwestern United States. The results indicate that intertidal species have specific behavioral and physiological attributes permitting survival out of water and that similar species from deeper water lack such attributes.
30160960|In juvenile Crocodylus porosus, the dependence of oxygen consumption on temperature can be described by the relationship
30163764|Goldfish (Carassius auratus), acclimated to 20C and a Po of 16 KPa, were subjected to environmental anoxia for a total period of 10.5 h. To determine the presence of anaerobic fatty acid synthesis, the animals were injected intraperitoneally with
30164279|We validated the doubly labeled water (DLW) technique for measurement of energy expenditure in bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in captivity by simultaneously measuring metabolizable energy intake in a feeding trial. We calculated CO production using two equations, one typically used by animal ecologists (the "one-pool" equation) and the other typically used by human nutritionists (the "two-pool" equation). Metabolizable energy intake, as determined by feeding trials, for two adult eagles eating rats averaged 1,160  89 kJ d and for four nestlings eating fish averaged 2,124  40 kJ d. Energy expenditure measured from DLW turnover using the one-pool equation averaged 2.2%  7.1% higher than metabolizable energy intake measured by feeding trials (not significantly different, P > 0.50), but when the two-pool equation was used, energy expenditure measured with DLW averaged 17.7%  6.7% lower than metabolizable energy intake measured by feeding trials (significantly different, 0.025 < P < 0.05). Thus, the use of the DLW technique with CO production calculated by the one-pool equation was validated for bald eagles.
30164217|In a study using doubly labeled water, chinstrap penguins (mean body mass 3.79 kg) caring for chicks expired on average 2.06-2.44 mL COg h, depending on the equation used to calculate CO production from isotope turnover (the two-compartment and one-compartment models for isotope dilution). This is equivalent to 4,720-5,597 kJ d and 4.0-4.7 times the estimated basal metabolic rate. Energy use while guarding small chicks on the nest was 0.58-0.69 mL CO g h (1,768-2,124 kJ d, or 1.5-1.8 times the basal metabolic rate), and it was 2.37-2.82 mL CO g h (5,421-6,423 kJ d, or 4.6-5.4 times the basal metabolic rate) when foraging at sea. The field metabolic rates measured at sea are similar to those reported for Adlie penguins but higher than those in studies of other penguin species. Adult penguins expired 2.27-3.13 mL CO g h (5,033-6,995 kJ d) while foraging for chicks in the guard stage and 2.45-2.60 mL CO g h (5,693-6, 023 kJ d) while foraging for chicks in the crche stage. These values are not significantly different. Chicks of 40 d of age (3.34 kg) had field metabolic rates twice those measured in adults while on land guarding chicks but similar to those reported for chicks of other penguin species (1.11-1.30 mL CO g h, or 2,280-2,695 kJ d). We estimated that an adult in energy balance feeding grown chicks would consume 1.67 kg of fresh krill daily to sustain its energy requirements, while one of its grown chicks would consume 0.53 kg of food daily. That would imply for a breeding adult a 32% increment above the foraging effort required to sustain its own needs.
30155827|The standard rate of evaporative water loss (SRL) was defined as the mean of the lowest 25% of values recorded between 4 and 27 h after placement in the experimental chamber. The SRL of juvenile Sphaerodactylus cinereus (the smallest lizards yet measured at a mean mass of 0.1 g) in dry air (13.0% mass/day) was similar to that of adults (11.3% mass/day). Adults of S. notatus had an SRL of 15.1% mass/day in dry air. At 75% relative humidity (RH) the SRL of both species decreased to about 7% mass/day. Rates of evaporative water loss in these two geckos are near the high end of the range of values reported for this genus. In contrast with the geckos, Anolis sagrei is active all day, but it has a similar SRL of 5.1% mass/day at 30 C and 75% RH. Under the same conditions fertile gecko eggs have rates of mass loss as low as 0.15%/day. Therefore the eggs are much more resistant to desiccation than the lizards themselves. Standard metabolic rates for S. cinereus and S. notatus were about 0.1 and 0.15 cc O/gh at 26 and 30 C, respectively. The A. sagrei had a higher rate at 26 C of about 0.2 cc O/gh.
30163820|We investigated the effects of temperature on blood viscosity of two species of penguin, the Temperate Zone little penguin (Eudyptula minor) and the Antarctic Adlie penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae), and the domestic chicken. When the blood was adjusted to the same hematocrit, there was no difference between the viscosity of blood from the two penguins, while at all temperatures and shear rates the chicken blood had the highest viscosity. This contradicts the results of G. A. Block and D. E. Murrish, who claimed that, at low temperatures and low shear rates, the blood of Antarctic penguins had higher viscosities than that of other bird species. Block and Murrish suggested that high blood viscosity at low temperatures and shear rates would serve as a heat conservation mechanism. On the contrary, we suggest that the viscous behavior of penguin blood represents an adaptation to maintain blood flow in extremities during immersion in cold water.
30155961|In aerated water at 15 C the routine oxygen consumption (
30155676|The locomotor activity of four burbots (Lota lota L.) was studied in natural-light conditions north of the Arctic Circle (6642' N, 2025' E) during autumn and spring. The age of the burbots was less than 1 yr (5-7 cm). The burbot is generally night active during summer and day active during winter. The phase shift through 180 occurs in a few weeks twice yearly-that is, the active phase is reversed in relation to the light-darkness cycle. During the time of the shifts, which seems to coincide with the equinox, the activity of the fish is resynchronized. The phase shift seems to take place independently of the reduced light intensity that the icing over of the waters produces in the autumn. The light is the dominant time giver (Aschoff 1969) in northern latitudes. No influence of water temperature could be shown in this experiment. The phase shift is not a spawning rhythm, because the fish was not mature for spawning. The behavior of the youngest age class of burbots (in this case 5-7 cm) deviates considerably from that of older individuals. Markun (1936) and Mller (1960) maintain that young burbots, unlike older ones, live on trichopterans and plankton. Hytinkoski, Kukko, and Lind (1973) and Lehtonen (1973) have shown that when young, burbots seldom migrate vertically but stay at depths of 1-2 m, whereas when older they prefer temperatures of 2-12 C. The phase shift described seems to take place earlier in the autumn in young burbots and seems to be very strongly ruled by the light conditions as time giver in both autumn and spring compared to older, spawning mature burbots. Older models of biorhythmicity must be reevaluated and new light must be thrown on earlier physiological experiments, and, in accordance with these findings, correlation coefficients should be developed.
30163765|The Port Jackson shark is denser than seawater, like most other elasmobranchs. Its small liver, of relatively low lipid content, does not contribute significantly to buoyancy. Like other elasmobranchs, Port Jackson sharks accumulate high levels of urea and methylamines (trimethylamine oxide [TMAO] and betaine) in their body fluids as important balancing osmolytes. We calculate from the solute composition of plasma and muscle fluid, using molecular weights and partial molal volumes of solutes, that urea and TMAO in the body fluids of the Port Jackson shark contribute significant positive buoyancy. The high, positive partial molal volumes of urea, TMAO, and betaine provide this positive buoyancy despite their high molecular weights. The accounted solutes in plasma provide a net lift of about 2. 4 g L relative to seawater; positive lift is contributed by CI (3.6 g L), urea (2.8 g L), and TMAO (1. 7g L), and negative lift is contributed by Na (-1.8 g L) and protein (-3.5 g L). For muscle fluid, the accounted solutes contribute 6 4 g L lift; positive lift is contributed by Cl (1.2 g L), urea (2.9 g L), TMAO (3.4 g L ), and betaine (0.3 g L). We conclude that urea and methylamines are not only osmotic-balancing and counteracting solutes in elasmobranchs, but contribute significantly to positive buoyancy.
30163825|The Wombats Vombatus ursinus and Lasiorhinus latifrons are grazing marsupials from mesic and xeric habitats, respectively. Four wombats of each species were fed pelleted isocaloric diets containing 1.0% and 0.6% N. Urea kinetics (
30164205|Two experimental approaches were used to determine if burst swimming speed in Pseudacris regilla tadpoles is subject to selection by predatory garter snakes, Thamnophis sirtalis. In eight out of 10 experiments in seminatural arenas, fast tadpoles survived snake predation more often than expected (P < 0.01). In videotaped encounters, tadpoles that escaped attacks swam 1.68 times as fast (P < 0.0001) and nearly four times as evasively (P < 0. 05) as those that were captured. Burst swimming speed is clearly important to success at escaping snakes in experimental arenas and, given widespread snake predation on tadpoles, is probably subject to predator-mediated selection in nature.
30156053|Flexible-shelled eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) were incubated under controlled conditions eliciting different patterns of net water exchange between eggs and the environment. The temporal patterns of decline in dry mass of yolks and of increase in dry mass of embryos did not vary among eggs incubated in different hydric environments, indicating that rates of metabolism and growth of embryos were largely unaffected by variation in the amount of water available inside eggs to support embryogenesis. Nevertheless, embryos in wet environments assimilated more water during incubation than did embryos in dry conditions, and this extra water apparently enabled them to develop longer before hatching than was possible for embryos in the drier settings. Because of their longer incubation, hatchlings emerging from eggs in wet environments were larger (both in mass and in carapace length) and contained less residual yolk than turtles coming from eggs incubated in drier surroundings. Embryos accumulated three times more excretory nitrogen in the form of urea than in the form of ammonia, but the patterns of nitrogen accumulation did not vary among embryos exposed to different hydric conditions. Water potential of the yolk increased during the first 10 days of incubation, as water flowed from the albumen into the vitelline sac, and decreased linearly thereafter, as water was transferred from the yolk to the developing embryo. The predicted water potential of the yolk at the time of hatching was the same for eggs incubated in wet and dry environments, thereby raising the possibility that water potential of some compartment inside eggs provides the cue for hatching. Water exchanges by eggs of painted turtles incubating in natural nests probably affect survival of embryos to hatching as well as body size and level of tissue hydration in young turtles.
30163724|The Hardarian gland (an apocrine organ located behind the eye) was removed from one group of muskrats. Another group of muskrats was anesthetized and shampooed. The fur of shampooed and Hardarianectomized muskrats did not appear to repel water as effectively as sham control animals. Both shampooed and Hardarianectomized muskrats had higher rates of heat loss while submerged in a 4 C water bath than sham control animals. The magnitude of heat loss was less for the Hardarianectomized muskrats. Hardarianectomized and shampooed muskrats had elevated rates of evaporative water loss with an estimated cutaneous water loss of 52% and 66% of total evaporative water loss for Hardarianectomized and shampooed muskrats compared with 41 % for control animals. Coating the fur of muskrats with mineral oil tended to retard evaporative water loss. It appears that the Hardarian gland is an effective source of lipids which may be spread onto the fur from the nasal duct by both self and communal grooming. This lipid coat appears to help retard heat loss as well as water flux to and from the skin.
30156058|Tadpoles of the frogs Rana berlandieri and Rana catesbeiana increased total oxygen uptake through lungs, gills, and skin as temperature increased. However, the partitioning of oxygen uptake among lungs, gills, and skin was similar at all experimental temperatures (15, 25, and 33 C), with the skin being the major site of O uptake. This constancy of partitioning in tadpoles differs from the increased predominance of pulmonary respiration with rising temperatures reported for many other amphibious vertebrates. We suggest that neither the costs nor the physical constraints of aquatic O exchange limit its predominance at high temperatures in tadpoles and perhaps in other forms.
30155758|Pseudemys scripta lung volume decreases with increasing apneic time to an extent greater than predicted by the organismic respiratory quotients (RQ). Lung volume change is due primarily to sequestration of CO in body fluids and minimally to nonpulmonary CO loss. The stored CO is pulsed into the lung during the brief ventilatory phase of the respiratory cycle and is recoverable in expired gas at an appropriate RQ. The observed pattern of cyclic CO exchange is related to the decline in blood capacitance for CO and to right-to-left intracardiac shunting during apnea. Maximum voluntary diving time in the laboratory appears to be terminated at a critical
30163752|A camera and strain-gauge probe were used to record the wing beat and instantaneous vertical and horizontal forces on a sphingid moth flying in a wind of 3.36 m s. The data were averaged over several wing beats to remove beat-to-beat variation. The moth was producing suffcient upward force to balance its weight of 14.7 mN and approximately sufficient thrust to balance its drag. The film of the wing beat was used to predict the wing inertial and virtual mass forces. The experimental aerodynamic force was obtained by subtracting the inertial force from the recorded force. The film was also used to predict the quasisteady aerodynamic forces due to wing translation and rotation. The vertical experimental aerodynamic and total predicted (quasi-steady plus virtual mass) forces have a similar shape, but the experimental downstroke peak (70 mN) was larger than predicted (47 mN). The horizontal recorded forces are smaller than the vertical forces, and wing inertia is a large component. However, a small aerodynamic thrust in the downstroke and a larger thrust of about 25 mN in the upstroke are both predicted and recorded. The experimental aerodynamic power output was between 21.6 and 30.0 W kg body mass or between 72 and 100 W kg of flight muscle.
30164199|Previous studies have shown that some large African dung beetles maintain an elevated thoracic temperature while constructing and rolling dung balls, while others allow body temperature to decline to near ambient temperatures. These studies suggest a causal relationship between elevated thoracic temperature and intense competition for dung The ability for endogenous temperature regulation is well developed in Kheper nigroaeneus, a diurnal dung ball roller found in Kruger National Park, South Africa. We studied K. nigroaeneus on the dung of large herbivores during the rainy season. We here report that, although winners of conspecific contests for possession of already constructed dung balls have significantly higher thoracic temperatures than losers, K. nigroaeneus does not maintain an elevated body temperature while making or rolling dung balls under competition. Rather, K. nigroaeneus responds to inter- and intraspecific competition by reducing both ball construction time and ball volume prior to initiating ball rolling, thereby reducing potential loss of energetic investment. On arrival at fresh dung, beetles assessed both dung quality and intensity of competition and often rejected dung that had begun to dry or on which many conspecifics were already present. Alternative dung-handling strategies by other species (e.g, pellet sequestering and kleptoparasitism) are discussed.
30157892|Various renal functions were studied in the Baikal seal (Pusa sibirica), which inhabits freshwater, and in the ringed seal (P. hispida), its marine counterpart. The urine osmolality progressively increased during dehydration (and fasting), reaching a plateau after 35 h. The average maximum urine osmolality was 2,37460 and 2,052  100 mOsm/kg in the Baikal and ringed seals, respectively. Urea and electrolytes (Na, K, and Cl) accounted for 82.6% and 9.3%, respectively, of total urine osmolality in the Baikal seal, and for 72.6% and 16.1%, respectively, in the ringed seal. Administration of 500 ml 0.15 M NaCl solution (stomach tubing) during fasting had little effect on the level of urine osmolality; however, the contribution of urea to total urine osmolality decreased (to 60%) while that of electrolytes increased (to 23%). Using the endogenous creatinine clearance as a measure of glomerular filtration rate, it was estimated that about 0.2% of filtered water and 0.05% of filtered Na are excreted during dehydration. There was a significant positive correlation between urine osmolality and urinary excretion of ADH during the 70-h dehydration period; however, there was no significant correlation between urinary Na and aldosterone excretions. Administration of 1 liter water (stomach tubing) resulted in a marked diuresis accompanied by a reduction in urine osmolality. In one seal, a hypotonic urine was obtained. This diuretic response was not accompanied by a parallel change in creatinine clearance, but by a moderate increase in the excretion of solutes. Administration of 500 ml 0.5M NaCl solution (i.v.) resulted in a rapid increase in the excretion of water and Na. The Na (and Cl) concentration of urine increased to 350-500 mEq/1, while that of urea decreased to 800 mM/1. The percentage of excretion of filtered Na also increased to about 2.0. There were no major differences in renal functions between the Baikal and ringed seals. Moreover, the present results are qualitatively similar to those obtained from the harbor seal by previous investigators. It is concluded that the Baikal seal, isolated from seawater and living in freshwater for .5 million years, remarkably retained the renal function they possessed at the time of isolation.
30152636|In molting birds keratin synthesis is intense and continuous through day and night. Keratins are much richer in cystine than are most tissue proteins. We hypothesized that glutathione (-glutamylcysteinylglycine) helps to sustain feather synthesis and spare bodyprotein during overnight fasting by serving as a cysteine reservoir. To test this hypothesis, we measured the responses of liver and muscle glutathione and protein pools to various feeding schedules (cysteine supply) andperiods of overnight fasting (cysteine demand) in molting white-crowned sparrows. Our main purpose was to ascertain whether these pools change passively or are instead regulated in relation to cysteine need in the postabsorptive state. During molt, significantly more liver glutathione and pectoralis protein were stored by day and utilized overnight than in postmolt. Liver glutathione and pectoralis protein were stored and utilized diurnally during molt in proportion to the duration of the overnight fast (12 h > 8 h > 4 h). Diurnal changes in these pools resulted from significantly larger evening pools, not from significantly smaller morning pools. Liver glutathione and pectoralis protein pools appeared to be specifically regulated to support the demands of overnight feather synthesis. In contrast, changes in liver protein pools during molt were smaller than in postmolt and were unrelated to the duration of the overnight fast. The sizes of liver protein pools in evening were nearly the same in molting and nonmolting birds. Similarly, the size of pectoralis glutathione pools in evening was nearly the same in molting and nonmolting birds, butpectoralis glutathione was utilized overnight in molt in relation to the duration of the overnight fast. Liver protein pools and possibly other tissue protein pools appeared to be spared by storage of glutathione in the liver. Pectoralis glutathione pools appeared to be passively emptied according to overnight cysteine demand. Overnight force-feeding of chick starter mash or serial injection of cysteine (im) attenuated overnight utilization of liver and muscle glutathione, indicating a specific role for GSH as a cysteine reservoir. The dynamics of tissue glutathione and protein pools during molt in relation to photoperiod may have important consequences for the energetic and amino acid costs of molt.
30158207|Heart rate and swimming-speed responses to acute hypoxia were measured in skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) and yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares). Swimming speeds began to increase in both species when O tension (Po) reached approximately 124 mmHg. Bradycardia became significant in both species when Po reached approximately 130 mmHg. Heart rate fell with Po in yellowfin tuna, but, in skipjack tuna, it increased at the lowest O levels reached (89-70 mmHg). Bradycardia occurred in both species despite concomitant increases in swimming speed. A continuous infusion dye dilution system was used to monitor changes in ventilation volume (
30157887|A simulation model, based on Newton's law of cooling, was developed to predict body-core temperature in fish subjected to fluctuating ambient temperature. Under the model, body temperature "decays" exponentially, with rate coefficient k, toward the equilibrium temperature that existed L time units earlier. The latency period L is presumably indicative of the time required for the initial transfer of heat between a fish's deep-body tissues and its external surfaces. The computerized model simulated body temperature at 10-s intervals for comparison with that actually measured in five Lepomis macrochirus, two Tilapia aurea, and three T. nilotica as ambient temperature cycled irregularly between 18 and 33 C. The mean absolute error between observed and simulated body temperatures (411-540 comparisons per fish) ranged from 0.04 C (145.9 g T. nilotica) to 0.24 C (89.6 g T. nilotica). The maximum absolute error per series ranged from 0.14 C (145.9 g T. nilotica) to 0.67 C (89.6 g T. nilotica). Over 90% of the 4,564 prediction errors for the 10 fish were less than  0.3 C (mean absolute error = 0.13 C). The parameters k and L were estimated for each fish from thermal step-change experiments that both preceded and followed the cyclic-temperature experiment. Precyclic estimates of k were greater (P < .01) than postcyclic estimates at both the genus and combined levels. Lepomis macrochirus warmed faster than they cooled (P < .05). Data combined for the three species indicated a linear relationship between In k and In weight, with slope -0.59. Latency times were not correlated (P > .10) with fish weight, nor did they differ (P > .05) between pre- and postcyclic trials. In L. macrochirus, warming latency time was longer than cooling latency time (P < .05).
30157954|We have measured noninvasively the embryonic heart rate (HR) of the Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica), the chicken (Gallus domesticus), the duck (Anas platyrhynchos), the turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), the peafowl (Pavo cristatus), and the Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides) during approximately the last half of the incubation period. The average daily HR was determined over 30 s, every 5 min for 30 min. The HR was variable, particularly toward the end of incubation and during pipping. The time trend of changes in daily HR was similar in quail, chicken, and turkey eggs: a temporal increase occurred at 60%-70% of the incubation period, with a subsequent decrease toward the end of prepipping development, and then an increase with the breathing of air by the lungs. The duck and goose embryos decreased the HR during the last stages of prepipping development. Although the changes in internal pipping HR of the duck were various, the HR of the goose was predominantly increasing during pipping. A gradual increase in HR toward the end of incubation occurred only in the peafowl embryo. The prepipping HR of these embryos had a significant allometric relationship with fresh egg weight.
30157919|The hemocyanin from Cancer magister was confirmed to be sensitive to L-lactate, which increased oxygen affinity. Additions of various monoamines, reported to be released as neurohormones, from the pericardial organs of crab hearts were found also to potentiate in vitro the oxygen affinity of hemocyanin from C. magister. Of the compounds tested, the catechol dopamine was found to be the most active. In addition to increasing oxygen affinity, high concentrations of dopamine decreased the cooperativity of oxygen binding. Analysis indicates that these effects are due to an increase in the affinity of the deoxygenated hemocyanin. The effect of dopamine could be summated with that of lactate to increase the oxygen affinity of dialyzed hemolymph to that of the original blood sample. Preincubation of the hemocyanin with the dopamine antagonist butaclomol was found to abolish the effect Thephysiological significance of a potential neurohormonal modulator of hemocyanin oxygen affinity is discussed.
30163790|Seasonal variation in cold tolerance is a well-documented form of winter acclimatization in birds. The physiological mechanisms of metabolic seasonal acclimatization, however, are not completely understood. This study of house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) assessed the extent of seasonal changes in various parameters associated with lipid mobilization, including plasma levels of free fatty acids (FFA), albumin, and glucagon. Also, seasonal variation in the catabolic capacity of the pectoralis muscle was examined through the activities of key metabolic enzymes citrate synthase and -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase. Plasma FFA levels were seasonally stable in house finches exposed to moderate temperature. In birds exposed to severe cold stress, however, winter FFA values were significantly greater than those in late spring, suggesting a seasonal difference in lipid mobilization capacity. Mass-specific enzyme activities were seasonally stable, but greater pectoralis mass during winter resulted in increased total catabolic capacities in this muscle. Along with previous findings on body composition, these results provide evidence that adjustments in fat stores, ability to mobilize lipids, and catabolic capacity are all involved in metabolic seasonal acclimatization in house finches.
30157937|Milk composition, gas exchange, and energy intake in food were measured in whitetoothed shrews, Crocidura russula monacha, in lactating females (LF) and in simultaneously lactating and pregnant females (LPF). Milk contained 51.2%  11.3 SD solids and 9.4%  1.0 SDproteins. Milk fat increased from 28.5%  0. 46 SD on day 2 of lactation to 42.6%  3.5 SD on day 20. Lactose decreasedfrom 3%-8% during the first week of lactation to 2%-4% at the end. Energy content of milk paralleled fat concentration, increasing from 14.86 kJ. g + 0. 4 SD to 17.92 kJ. g  1.04 SD. Mass-specific oxygen consumption rate (Mspo) of the LF reached apeak value of 3. 68 mL. (g . h)  0.58 SD on days 6-8 of lactation, then declined to the nonreproductive value on day 16 (2. 48 mL. [g . h]). The Mspo of the LPF remained unchanged throughout lactation at 2. 75 mL. (g . h)  0.47 SD. Energy intake in food in both LF and LPF increased daily depending on litter size. In a onepup litter it increased from 31.4 kJ. d  4.4 SD to 62.3 kJ. d  11.2 SD on day 10, whereas in a four-pup litter it increased from 53.0 kJ. d  7.5 SD to 119.3 kJ . d  19.2 SD on day 10. The milk with moderate protein and high fat content suits the fast growth rate and heat loss of the pups. Although lactation imposes a severe energy load on the LF, this burden is mainly expressed by the up to fivefold increase in energy intake in food where Mspo increases only up to 1.5 times the normal value. The energy requirements of simultaneous lactation and pregnancy are not simple additives. They seem to overlap partially and thus are energetically less demanding
30156127|Standard rates of O consumption (
30164221|Taxidermic mounts are frequently used to quantify the operative temperature or standard operative temperature of complex natural environments. These thermal indices are subsequently used to estimate the metabolic heat production of freeliving animals. Such use has often entailed violation of two standards for biological data collection: that multiple samples be analyzed and that instruments be calibrated under the range of conditions used in empirical analyses. To explore the consequences of these practices, we compared the responses of both heated and unheated taxidermic mounts with those of live animals when exposed to combinations of wind and radiation that normally could be experienced in nature. Two mammals, the rock squirrel Spermophilus variegatus and the golden-mantled ground squirrel Spermophilus lateralis, as well as a bird, the verdin, Auriparus flaviceps, were studied. For all species, there was substantial individual variation in mount responses. Under a single set of environmental conditions, coefficients of variance for mount response were as high as 71%, and the range of values between mounts typically equaled the change in the group's average standard operative temperature that was produced by two-to fourfold increases in wind speed. For predicting physiological responses of animals, the adequacy of taxidermic mounts varied widely with species, type of mount, and environmental conditions. In some cases, predictions closely matched animal responses. In other cases, predictions using data from mounts produced errors of up to 28.5C in the estimate of standard operative temperature. The types of error observed, combined with the extensive investment of time and resources required to construct and determine the utility of mounts as operative temperature thermometers for a particular species, greatly reduces the attractiveness of this technique for quantifying the thermal environments of animals in nature.
10.1086/515892|This study describes the integrated cardiovascular response of instrumented turtles to acute anoxic exposure (2 h) and also determines the factors that regulate these responses.
30156211|Although water-loss rates and cuticular permeabilities have been investigated in several xeric arthropods, they are little known in ants, which are abundant and ecologically important in many arid regions. We report here the water-loss characteristics of Pogonomyrmex rugosus foragers; this harvester ant species (mean mass ca. 15 mg) is widespread in the deserts of the southwestern United States. Cuticular permeability at 25 C was 11. 6gHO
30161246|Eggshell water vapor conductance (GHO), shell thickness (T), and effective pore area (Ap) of eggs from pigeons (Columba livia) nesting under extreme conditions (high ambient temperatures and low humidity) were compared with those of urban pigeons and pure rock doves breeding in mesic conditions. Heat-acclimated pigeons had eggshells characterized by 30%-40% lower than predicted GHO. A significantly reduced Ap and higher than predicted shell thickness accounted for the observed reduction in GHO. We conclude that these pigeons were physiologically adapted to successfully breed under extreme conditions prevailing in their original colony.
30157959|The dorsoventral muscles of crabs extend between the carapace and the roof of the branchial chamber. In Carcinus they insert dorsally onto a row of conspicuous white spots, permitting precise location of electromyogram (EMG) electrodes. Contraction raises the branchial roof and compresses extensions of the hemocoel within the branchiostegites. Tonic EMG activity at ~2-14 Hz was observed in resting, forward-ventilating crabs. Stepwise elevation of internal pressure, by injection of saline or by placing a weight on the carapace, reduced EMG frequency (often to zero for a few seconds) before establishing a new, lower tonic EMG frequency. Following infusion of 2 mL saline into the pericardium (mean crab weight 124 g), EMG frequency fell to 15% of the initial value (mean over a period of 12 s), increasing to 37% of initial rate after ~ 1 min. Reduction of hemolymph volume and pressure increased the EMG frequency (stable rate 153% of baseline value after removal of 2 mL, 175% in first 12 s). A significant increase (17%) in dorsoventral muscle activity was detected after only 0.6% reduction in internal volume (2% of hemolymph volume). It is postulated that the dorsoventral muscles effect a baroreflex which reduces the change in internal hydrostatic pressure during short-term volume changes (e.g., urine release, ingestion, osmosis, and hemorrhage). As crabs have rigid boxlike exoskeletons, this could protect the gills from distension or deflation and, in turn, could control branchial perfusion. Inhibition of dorsoventral muscle activity occurred during aquatic ventilatory reversals. This may permit transient compression of the gills and may help to dislodge trapped particles. Vigorous forward ventilation, following a reversal, was accompanied by increased EMG rate, possibly promoting reflation of the gills. Reversed ventilation during the emersion response was associated with higher EMG rates consistent with the need for maintenance of gill perfusion and gas exchange.
30161263|The oxygen-binding and molecular properties of hemoglobin from Daphnia magna were investigated. There were negative correlation between p 50 value and hemoglobin concentration in hemolymph. The p 50 values ranged from 5.3 to 1.1 Torr and the n values from 1.2 to 1.6 in 0.1 M phosphate buffer of pH 7.2 at 20 C. The purified hemoglobin solution was separated into at least six components in isoelectric focusing. Hemoglobin solution from animals of different hemoglobin concentration had different proportion of the hemoglobin components, and the increase in oxygen affinity was concomitant with increase in relative amount of hemoglobin components of high pI values. These results indicate that Daphnia magna may become acclimated to various oxygen environments through adjustment of the proportions of hemoglobin components differing in affinity and subunit cooperation.
30158187|The potential for generating energy during swimming via anaerobic metabolism and the ability to recover from exhaustive activity were examined in an actively foraging (creek chub, Semotilus atromaculatus) and a characteristically sit-and-wait species of fish (mudminnow, Umbra limi). The anaerobic threshold, as measured by a rise in muscle lactate, occurred at a higher swimming speed for the creek chub (~ 5 body lengths s) than for the mudminnow (~2.0 body lengths s). Anaerobic scope, defined as the rate of muscle-lactate production during maximal sprint activity, was 87% higher for the mudminnow (5.84 mol g min) than for the creek chub (3.13 mol g min). Whole-body anaerobic capacity at exhaustion (4 min) was also greater for mudminnows (9.82 mol g) than for creek chubs (6.46 mol g). The rate constant for muscle-lactate disappearance following exhaustion, however, was slightly higher for creek chubs (-0.63) than for mudminnows (-0.40). The time required for muscle-lactate concentration to return to resting values in these 1-2-g fish (4-6 h) was much less than previously reported times for large fish. Muscle-glucose concentration during recovery from 8 min of exhaustive activity was relatively unchanged in the creek chub but increased threefold in the mudminnow. The rate of increase in muscle-glycogen concentration following exhaustive activity was approximately sixfold higher for the mudminnow (23.6 mg [100 g] h) than for the creek chub (3.7 mg [100 g] h). Estimates of the time required for complete glycogen restoration were 6 h and 14 h for the mudminnow and creek chub, respectively. These results suggest that increased potential for and reliance on anaerobic energy production during swimming is characteristic of sit-and-wait foraging behavior in fish.
30156005|Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) were measured in two species of Australian quail-stubble quail, Coturnix pectoralis, and king quail, Coturnix chinensis-under conditions of full hydration, dehydration, and salt loading. Iodine-125-labeled [
30157908|Isolated Malpighian tubules of the freshwater Cenocorixa blaisdelli secrete an alkaline urine following stimulation of fluid flow with cAMP. To determine the importance of this avenue of CO loss for pH and ion regulation, corixids raised in fresh water were compared to those acclimated to alkaline (pH 9.8) conditions, with respect to whole organism ion balance. The high-pH insects exhibited an increase in hemolymph chloride concentration and a reduced rate of drinking. Urinary loss of ions and CO could not balance the higher intake of sodium and CO in the alkaline-acclimated insects, although hemolymph concentrations of these components were not significantly different from those concentrations in insects maintained in fresh water. Isolated Malpighian tubules from the two groups of insects did not exhibit differences in their ability to secrete ions or CO. Extrarenal avenues may account for the increased chloride concentration and the constant sodium and CO concentrations. It is suggested that chloride cells which are present on corixids may be important for Na/H and Cl/HCO exchange under acute high-pH stress. However, other mechanisms may be functional in corixids adapted to alkaline conditions.
30156116|Trachydosaurus rugosus is a large, slow-moving Australian skink. The maximal sprint velocity of this species averages only 2.7 km/h and is apparently limited by short limbs that have relatively little muscle mass. Standard metabolic rate at 35 C is 0.073  0.009 ml O/(gh), and the maximal rate of O consumption is 0.722  0.019 ml O/(gh). The maximal aerobic speed is 0.67 km/h, and endurance at 1.0 km/h is 23  7 min. The net cost of locomotion (
30163821|The mean aerobic dive limit (ADL) for Weddell seals was calculated from data collected on diving metabolic rates (
30155691|Ventilation and oxygen uptake were measured in the elephant trunk snake, Acrochordus javanicus, during normal, undisturbed breathing. Ventilation is periodic, with ventilatory periods (VP) lasting 2.5-3.5 min, interrupted by nonventilatory periods (NVP) averaging 10 times longer at 25 C. Average tidal volumes ranged from 27.8 to 47.7 mlkg, while breathing frequency during VP ranged from 78 h to 155 h. Total ventilation (
30163731|Over a 2-yr period, the effects of season and food availability on daily torpor patterns were compared in wild-caught members of two southeastern species of Peromyscus with different elevational distributions. Animals were housed in large outdoor cages either in the mountains (P. maniculatus nubiterrae, n = 59) or in the foothills (P. leucopus leucopus, n = 52), and
30164320|Endothermy allows maintenance of a constant internal thermal milieu for optimal physiological functions but results in high energy expenditure and water loss. Since torpor can reduce both expenditure of energy and loss of water and thus reduces food and water requirements, we determined how different food and water regimes affect torpor occurrence and patterns in the dasyurid marsupial Sminthopsis macroura at ambient temperatures of 18C (well below the thermoneutral zone) and 28C (close to the thermoneutral zone). At 18C, torpor was more frequent and more pronounced than at 28C. Withdrawal of food reduced the average daily metabolic rate by 20%; withdrawal of water alone had little effect. The average daily metabolic rate of individuals displaying torpor was 20% lower than that of individuals remaining normothermic. At 28C, the average daily metabolic rate under food restriction was 85% of that with food available ad lib. However, this reduction of average daily metabolic rate at 28C seems due not to the use of torpor but mainly to a reduction of the resting metabolic rate. The results suggest that at low temperature, torpor is used to adjust energy expenditure to availability of food, whereas at high temperature, reductions of resting metabolic rate are employed.
30164315|We infused arginine vasotocin, the natural avian antidiuretic hormone, and two antidiuretic hormone analogues into house sparrows (Passer domesticus) to evaluate the vascular and tubular components of antidiuresis in a small (25-g) bird. During control infusion of 25 mmol L NaCl (0.6 mL h), urine flow rate was 0.73 mL h, glomerular filtration rate was 10.0 mL h, the ratio of polyethylene glycol (PEG) in the urine relative to that in the plasma was 16.4, and urine osmolality was 279 mOsmol kg. Infusion of arginine vasotocin (0.4 ng kg min) decreased urine flow rate by 50% and glomerular filtration rate by 27%, while urine osmolality and the ratio of urine PEG to plasma PEG rose to 150% and 140% of control values, respectively. A higher dose of arginine vasotocin (1.6 ng kg min) accentuated these changes. Infusion of the antidiuretic hormone analogue dPTyr(Me)AVT, designed as an antagonist to the V (mammalian vascular) receptors for arginine vasopressin, by itself (4.0 ng kg min) had no effect on any measured variable (P  0.1). Infusion of the analogue along with arginine vasotocin (0.4 ng kg min) abolished the effect of arginine vasotocin on glomerular filtration rate, which suggests that this analogue blocked vascular receptors for arginine vasotocin in house sparrows. Under these circumstances, changes in urine flow rate, the ratio of urine PEG to plasma PEG, and urine osmolality were reduced to nonsignificance. The analogue d(CH)[D-Ile,Ile,Ala-MH]AVP, designed as an antagonist to the effects of arginine vasopressin at V (mammalian renal tubular) receptors, also was without effect by itself. However, in the presence of this analogue, the effects of arginine vasotocin on urine flow rate and the ratio of urine PEG to plasma PEG were significantly enhanced, and this occurred without any enhanced diminution of glomerular filtration rate. Thus, this analogue appeared to activate a tubular mechanism of antidiuresis. Overall, the data suggest that action of arginine vasotocin at renal vascular receptors plays an important role in effecting antidiuresis in house sparrows. Blockade of renal vascular actions of arginine vasotocin by a V antagonist suggests that these receptors may be similar to the mammalian vascular (V) receptor. The data also suggest a separate action of arginine vasotocin at the renal tubules, but the receptors there apparently differ from the mammalian tubular (V) receptor.
30156041|Flower scarabs can warm up endothermically from 20 C to flight temperatures near 36 C in 3 min. Despite their impressive capacity for endothermy, however, foraging beetles stop heat production immediately on landing on a flower. In addition, they seek shade within seconds of landing and allow body temperatures to follow ambient thermal conditions. Foraging beetles spend at least 98% of their time perched and feed slowly. In the laboratory, beetles that are handled or otherwise disturbed warm up repeatedly by endothermic shivering, but in the field undisturbed beetles generally warm up to fly to another flower only when they have the opportunity to warm up by basking. Unlike other large strong-flying insects so far examined, these beetles do not regulate (stabilize) their thoracic temperature in flight, and they restrict flight to a narrow range of ambient temperature. We speculate that their lack of maintenance of an elevated body temperature ("hypothermia") when not in flight and their seemingly lackadaisical foraging is related to low foraging competition leading to a minimization of energy expenditure.
10.1086/515999|We exposed larval tiger salamanders (
30163685|We determined the potencies of the pigment-dispersing hormones, -PDH and -PDH, and the red pigment-concentrating hormone, RPCH, by the standard activity method in the marine isopod Ligia exotica, the fiddler crab Uca rapax, and the freshwater shrimp Macrobrachium acanthurus. In U. rapax, both PDHs exhibited the same dose-dependent activity, maximal dispersion being achieved at 3.0 pmol/animal; in L. exotica, -PDH had a dose-related effect, with maximal pigment dispersion at 100 pmol/animal, and only a partial, dose-independent dispersion was elicited by -PDH; in M. acanthurus, -PDH caused a dose-dependent pigment dispersion, with maximal response at 3,000 pmol/animal, whereas -PDH had no effect. There seems to be more similarity between L. exotica and Pandalus borealis PDH receptors than between L. exotica and U. rapax receptors, suggesting an evolutionary convergence of the dispersing chromatophorotropins and their receptor molecules. Concerning RPCH, no pigment aggregation was observed in melanophores of U. rapax or L. exotica, but full aggregating response was obtained in M. acanthurus erythrophores at 10 pmol/animal. Although these results point to differences between erythrophore and melanophore responses to RPCH, we should also keep in mind the possibility that different evolutionary patterns undergone by the three groups of crustaceans may have led to remarkable receptor variability.
30159927|NaK-ATPase activity of gills was determined in five species of euryhaline crabs placed in varying seawater (SW) concentrations for 1 week. Enzyme activity was highest in the gills of two semiterrestrial grapsids, Metopograpsus thukuhar and Cyclograpsus henshawi; intermediate in two osmoregulators, Thalamita crenata and Panopeus herbstii; and lowest in an osmoconformer, Calappa hepatica, when all animals were placed in 100% SW. When animals were placed in 50% SW, large increases in enzyme activity were noted in P. herbstii and T. crenata but no change was noted in the osmoconforming C. hepatica or the semiterrestrial M. thukuhar and C. henshawi. Enzyme activity is concentrated in the three most posterior gills of T. crenata with major increases in activity in these gills when animals were placed in diluted seawater. It is suggested that gill NaK-ATPase is associated in the osmoregulatory capacities of these crabs and that the enzyme is functioning both in the uptake of salts in hyperregulation and in the extrusion of salts in hyporegulation in crabs.
30157952|Contrary to some reviews, total body water (TBW) may fall below the expected value of about 65% in birds if measured as a percentage of total body mass. However, water constitutes a relatively stable proportion (659%-70%) of body composition when measured as a percentage of lean body mass (LBM). We demonstrate this by using data from two migratory phalaropes (Phalaropus tricolor and Phalaropus lobatus), which exhibit inverse relationships between TBW and body mass and between TBW and fat content. As the phalaropes fatten before migration, lipids increase but not at the expense of water, which also increases with gains in lean tissue. The gain in lean dry mass with body size is also correlated with migration. Because absolute water increases with body mass, TBW is a poor measure of hydration; however, because of the inverse relationship between TBW and fat, TBW can predict body fat accurately if a calibration curve is first generated. We provide equations that predict fat content in both species of phalaropes. We suggest that water normally be reported not as TBW (a percentage of total body mass) but preferably as "lean" body water (LBW, a percentage of lean body mass). In the absence of quantitative estimates of fat, we suggest that water be communicated in absolute amount, preferably with some estimate of condition (fat).
10.1086/515863|Caviomorphs stand out from other small rodents by producing extremely precocial young. Pups begin to nibble solid food right after birth and can survive weaning when 5 d old. We tested whether these properties of young lead to a low cost of lactation in guinea pigs (
30164229|Heart rates were telemetered from male and female adult salmon (Salmo salar L.) when they were ascending a river to spawn. In this specific period, males had higher heart rates than females, reflecting the higher activity levels and higher metabolic rates of the males. Analysis of the beat-to-beat intervals (using the heart rate variability spectrum) revealed a single spectral peak that differed between sexes, with males displaying a spectral peak at lower frequencies than females even when the heart rate was the same. The dual spectral peak observed in higher vertebrates and in some other studies in fish was not found. It is suggested that the single spectral peak is related to the activity of the blood pressure control loop. In this framework, the gender spectral differences could be explained by a differential vascular reactivity related to different sex steroid concentrations in plasma. Spectral analysis of beat-to-beat intervals is extensively used to understand short-term control of heart rate in mammals; this study indicates that it can also be applied to free-living fish to understand neural cardiovascular regulation.
10.1086/515846|Effects of the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone on total lipids in the hemolymph of
30158653|Exposure of organisms to high temperatures characteristically induces the rapid expression of a set of heat-shock genes. We hypothesized that acclimation temperature may alter the threshold temperatures for initiation of heat-shock protein (hsp) synthesis and for sustaining maximal rates of hsp synthesis. Hepatocytes were prepared from channel catfish Ictalurus punctatus acclimated to 7, 15, and 25 C. The cells were incubated at temperatures of 15, 25, 30, 32.5, 35, 37.5, and 40 C, and newly synthesized proteins were labeled with
30163917|Ticks can survive for a year or more between blood meals, making them the ultimate "sit-and-wait" strategists. We accordingly hypothesize that their standard metabolic rates (SMRs) are unusually low. We test this hypothesis by measuring the SMRs of several tick species and comparing them with modern literature values for other arthropods (ants, beetles, and spiders). By ANCOVA ants, beetles, and spiders share a common mass scaling of SMR (SMR = 906
30155756|Avian eggs lose water during incubation. Within a species, the rate of water loss can vary as a result of variations in nest humidity and because egg shells differ in their resistance to the diffusion of water vapor. While a certain amount of water loss is necessary, the chance of an egg hatching is decreased if it loses too much or too little water. There are several extraembryonic water compartments (yolk, amniotic fluid, allantoic fluid), and the water content of the embryo might be regulated by varying the water content of another compartment and, thus, protecting the embryo from some of the effects of variations in water loss. This study was designed to determine if variations in water loss affect all compartments equally or if the water content of the embryo is actively regulated. Whole-egg water loss of chicken eggs was varied by incubating them at different humidities. After 17 days of incubation, I measured the volume of water in the four compartments. As desiccation is increased, about six times as much water is lost from the allantoic fluid as from the embryo, and none is lost from the yolk or amniotic fluid. To better understand the mechanism responsible for this differential water loss, I measured the sodium, potassium, and osmotic concentrations of the plasma, amniotic, and allantoic fluids. Analysis of these data shows that removal of water from the allantoic fluid of eggs with high weight losses is only possible because solutes have been removed from the allantoic fluid. It appears that this is partially achieved by the transfer of sodium to the amniotic fluid against a concentration gradient. There are a number of interesting structural and functional similarities between the epithelia of the allantoic membrane and that of the toad bladder. The ability of the avian embryo to differentially partition the water loss results in a more stable internal environment for embryonic development.
10.1086/515847|An increase in body temperature in the bearded dragon,
30158565|Bimodal oxygen consumption of Channa maculata was measured at 15 C and 25 C in water of different oxygen tensions (
30156243|First, male starlings, held on a day length of 11 h of lightper day (11L:13D) until their testes had fully grown, were transferred to 18L: 6D for 8 d and then returned to 11L:13D. Some birds subsequently became photorefractory and molted, others molted but did not become photorefractory, and the remainder did not molt or become photorefractory. Among castrated birds treated in the same way, some birds molted, but most did not. These results suggest that molt and photore-fractoriness may be induced independently by long days. Second, male starlings held on a repeated sequence of 1 long d followed by 6 short d became photorefractory and molted Photorefractoriness occurred after approximately the same total number of long days as in experiment 1. This result demonstrates that the effect of long days is much greater than any opposite effect of short days.
30158540|We measured resting and peak metabolism in relation to growth rate in arctic tern Sterna paradisaea chicks over the first 10 d after hatching. For chicks with varying growth rate, body mass seems to be a better predictor of resting metabolic rate than age. The effect of changes in growth rate on resting metabolism of arctic terns is smaller than that found interspecifically in hatchlings. It is possible that differences exist in the heat increment of feeding between fast and slow growers that would further reduce the effect of growth rate on resting metabolism. Chicks that had body masses lower than 75% of that expected for their age were metabolically inferior in withstanding a thermal challenge compared with chicks of the same age but of normal mass. In contrast to resting metabolic rate, the extent of peak metabolic rate is related to both body mass and age. Thus, in part, the maturation of the thermoregulatory system proceeds steadily with time even when body mass lags behind.
10.1086/515903|The development of thermoregulation and growth during the nestling period of cockatiel
30155746|Thirty-five wild-caught Peromyscus leucopus were individually caged in outdoor enclosures throughout the year, and daily change in body temperature was monitored with telemetry. Spontaneous daily torpor (in the presence of food) was observed during most of the year, except during late summer, and was most frequent during winter. At this time mice became torpid on about 50% of the days that they were monitored. In order to study daily torpor in free-ranging populations, two 1.7-hectare study plots, consisting of either 72 or 60 nest boxes, were established in a Connecticut oakhickory forest. Daily torpor was observed in both mouse populations from mid-December through mid-February. The highest incidence of torpor occurred during early January when 20 out of 36 mice were found torpid. Torpor in free-ranging mice was never recorded on days when ambient temperature was above 3 C. Although abundant food was provided on one study plot, no decrease in daily torpor was observed. Free-ranging mice also exhibited considerable huddling behavior from mid-December through mid-February, and 96% of the animals in torpor were found in groups of two to six mice. In such cases, all mice in the nest box were usually torpid.
30152611|Embryonic oxygen consumption, gas transfer, and growth were measured during natural incubation in the black (Anous tenuirostris) and brown noddy (A. stolidus). The mean pre-external pipping oxygen consumption (
30164268|I used temperature-sensing radiotransmitters to investigate the effect of feeding on body temperatures of rattlesnakes in the Sonoran Desert. Six snakes were fed meals (rodents) averaging 34% of their body mass. Snake locations and body temperatures were monitored before and after feeding in midautumn. Body temperatures of snakes that had eaten were compared with the body temperatures of unfed controls and with environmental temperatures. Rattlesnakes exhibited preferences for elevated body temperatures following feeding, but the degree, timing, and duration of this response varied considerably. At this time of year, body temperatures of fed snakes were significantly higher than those of unfed controls only between 1200 and 1600 hours. The postfeeding thermophilic responses of snakes were restricted by thermal limitations in the snakes' environment and by reclusive behaviors following feeding. The elevated body temperatures selected by snakes after feeding were similar to those maintained during activity.
30158529|We validated the doubly labeled water (DLW) method for a tropical hummingbird (Amazilia saucerottei) in a humid environment. We compared daily water influx and energy intake, expenditure, and storage using two independent techniques: the DL W method (using
30152623|The pattern of growth in wet mass of Crocodylus johnstoni embryos is sigmoid and can be modeled with the logistic equation. The inflection point (time of maximum absolute growth rate) occurs when the incubation period is 77%-81% complete. Growth constants (r) from the logistic equation increase significantly with incubation temperature (T) over the range 28-33 C, but asymptotic mass decreases. High-temperature embryos grow relatively more quickly but hatch at a lower yolk-free mass than at lower temperatures. Absolute growth rates (g  d) are most sensitive to T early in development, during the period of differentiation and organogenesis. Rates of late-term somatic growth show no consistent trend with T. Rates of morphological change (differentiation) defined by development rate coefficients also increase at higher T, but the temperature effect differs from that on rates of growth in mass. Thus the relationship between rates of differentiation and growth in size may alter with T. Shifts in the relative timing of significant differentiation and growth events may alter the relative sizes and functional capacities of tissues and organs. Such variation among hatchlings is likely to be implicated in the long-term influence of the incubation environment on posthatch survival and growth in crocodilians.
30155867|Daily mass loss (
30155679|Oxygen consumption of the lizard Uromastix aegyptius was determined at body temperatures of 35, 38, and 42 C, while the lizard ran on a treadmill for 10 min at speeds of 0.5-1.5 kmh. Oxygen consumption increased linearly with running speed as the lizard doubled its speed from 0.5 to 1.1 kmh (fig. 1). At this speed range no significant difference in oxygen consumption was found when the lizards ran at 35, 38, or 42 C. When the running speed increased from 1.1 to 1.5 kmh,
30163812|The respiratory physiology and water relations of two acridid grasshoppers (Romalea guttata and Taeniopoda eques) were examined with a flow-through system that simultaneously measures O consumption, CO excretion, and evaporative water loss. Both species exhibited a cyclic pattern of resting gas exchange that was characterized by intermittent "bursts" of O uptake and CO emission. Increasing temperature shortened both the burst and especially the interburstperiods. Metabolic rates were strongly affected by temperature, but not hydration state. Dehydration, however, degraded the regularity of the respiratory cycles. Water loss rates (WLRs) for Romalea were significantly higher than for Taeniopoda at each temperature, with rates for hydrated animals (both species) greater than for dehydrated individuals. Respiratory transpiration accounted for only 2.1% to 3.8% of the total water loss in Romalea and 3.8% to 5.3% in Taeniopoda between 15 and 30C These data raise serious questions regarding the presumed water conservation function for cyclic release of CO in these insects.
30163713|When exposed to air, the Asiatic clam, Corbicula fluminea, periodically consumes oxygen across exposed mantle-edge tissues sealed together by hardened mucus. This behavior alternates with longer periods of valve closure (mean mantle-edge exposure time = 49 min; mean valve closure time =426 min). At 20 C, aerial oxygen uptake rates were very reduced during valve closure periods, averaging 0.03 l O/(mg dry flesh  h), whereas during mantle-edge exposure they averaged 0.88 l O/(mg dry flesh  h). Total aerial oxygen consumption was approximately 21% that of normal aquatic values in this species. This aerial respiratory behavior appears to be an adaptation to prolonged emersion, allowing both maintenance of substantial levels of aerobic metabolism and minimal evaporative water loss. Corbiculafluminea has a relatively short fossil history in fresh water, and many of its physiological adaptations appear to be intermediate between those of estuarine bivalves and the more highly evolved freshwater species. Its mode of aerial oxygen consumption is unique among bivalve mollusks and appears to be an adaptation that is similarly intermediate between the continual aerial gaping behavior of estuarine and intertidal species and the direct exchange of respiratory gases across continually closed valves, characteristic of certain freshwater unionid and sphaeriid bivalves.
30152610|The ascoglossan opisthobranch mollusk Elysia chlorotica is the most euryhaline osmoconformer yet described. Following a stepwise acclimation procedure, Elysia survived for at least 2 wk in osmotic concentrations ranging from 24 to 2,422 mOsm. Elysia is an excellent volume regulator in hypoosmotic salinities, but the mechanism utilized for this regulation does not involve intracellular free amino acids. The amino acid pool of Elysia varies with salinity, but the concentration of amino acids is very small. Measurement of total nonprotein nitrogen demonstrated that Elysia is utilizing a non-amino acid, nitrogen-containing osmotic solute. This solute is a quaternary ammonium compound of unknown identity, but it is not glycine betaine, trimethylamine oxide, choline, trigonelline, or homarine.
30156092|Oxygen consumption in incubating starlings during the rewarming of a clutch was measured. The energy cost of rewarming the eggs increased with increasing length of the preceding inattentive periods and lower ambient temperature but not with clutch size. The contradiction between the measured costs of rewarming and those predicted from a heat-capacity model suggests a regulation of the blood flow in the brood patch independent of clutch size. Furthermore, a clutch size of six eggs seems to be optimal with respect to the cost of rewarming per egg. The question is raised of how much energy has to be produced exclusively for rewarming under natural conditions. It is suggested that, during inattentive periods (flight, foraging), energy is stored, and during rewarming it is channeled to the eggs. Consequently, no extra cost for rewarming may be necessary.
30163932|In developing vertebrates the effects of temperature on physiological rates are not necessarily predictable. Chelydra serpentina eggs were incubated at either 24 or 30C on vermiculite with a water potential of approximately- 150 kPa. Measurements of oxygen consumption rate (
30163788|Hibernation and daily torpor are usually considered to be two distinct patterns of heterothermia. In the present comparison we evaluated (1) whether physiological variables of torpor from 104 avian and mammalian species warrant the distinction between hibernation and daily torpor as two different states of torpor and (2), if so, whether this distinction is best based on maximum torpor bout duration, minimum body temperature (
30155777|The physiological and ecological coupling of the desert shrew (Notiosorex crawfordi) to its environment has been examined. Mean standard metabolism between 32 and 36 C equaled 17.12 Wkg. Below 32 C metabolic rate increased linearly to a high of 79 Wkg at 10 C. The heat transfer coefficient was 3.05 Wkg  C below 32 C. At 37 C air temperature, heat lost by the evaporation of water equaled one-half of the total metabolic heat production. The kidney medullary thickness of the desert shrew is high, suggesting a considerable urine concentrating ability and only scant urinary water losses. By thus minimizing urinary and respiratory water losses, the desert shrew can maintain water balance without drinking even when some water is required for thermoregulation. The climate space of the desert shrew was determined and found to differ from that of the masked shrew. The desert shrew can tolerate higher temperatures than can the masked shrew in full sunlight (23 vs. 6 C) in its nest (38 vs. 24 C) and under the night sky (42 vs. 35 C). Energy metabolism, water loss, and daytime activity are all lower in the desert shrew than in other shrew species.
30155768|Tadpoles of Limnodynastes peroni show no evidence of any ability to undergo thermal metabolic acclimation when kept at 15 C and 25 C for periods up to 75 days. When kept for 90-120 days, small differences were seen between rate-temperature curves of 15 C and 25 C history tadpoles. The reality of these differences as evidence for thermal metabolic acclimation is difficult to assess. An overall equation to describe the effect of temperature (T, C) and weight (W, grams) on oxygen consumption (QO, ml g h) is
30163698|The hoatzin is the only bird known to have a well-developed system of microbial fermentation of plant material (mostly young leaves) in its crop. In this study, we describe the microbial inhabitants of the crop and discuss their nutritional significance. Bacteria, which were mainly Gram negative anaerobes, were found in counts of 10 per gram of crop contents. Strains resembling bacteria from the genera Clostridium, Bacteroides, Fusobacterium, Peptostreptococcus, and Veillonella were tentatively identified by morphological and substrate-utilization studies. Although no cellulolytic activity was demonstrated among isolated bacteria, cellulose degraders were found in a mixed culture by enrichment. No anaerobic fungi were found. Ciliate protozoa were found in the crop in counts of 10 per gram of contents. Protozoa have not been found in the crop of other birds. These microbial symbionts appear to play an important role in the nutrition of this bird.
30163806|We evaluated two competing hypotheses concerning how field metabolic rate (FMR) of birds should vary seasonally. The reallocation hypothesis predicts little seasonal variation in FMR, whereas the increased demand hypothesis predicts that FMR should reach an annual maximum during the breeding season. In both yellow-eyed juncos (Junco phaeonotus) and dark-eyed juncos (Junco hyemalis), winter FMR averaged 70.5 kJ/d, which is not significantly different from each species' average breeding season value and thus confirms the reallocation hypothesis for these species. The avian literature suggests that diet determines which of the two hypotheses applies to species that breed in seasonal environments. Birds that forage on prey that are difficult to capture follow the increased demand hypothesis, whereas other species exhibit reallocation. To maintain energy balance, yellow-eyed juncos had to forage longer during the winter than during the breeding season (6. O vs. 4.5 h/d) because their rate of metabolizable energy gain was 22% lower when foraging on seeds in winter than when foraging on insects during the breeding season (11.8 vs. 15.1 kJ per hour spent foraging, respectively). We used behavioral, meteorological, and laboratory metabolism data to calculate the energy devoted to thermoregulation under field conditions during the winter. Our analysis revealed that all of the heat produced as a by-product of physical activity contributed to thermoregulation. Basal metabolism and thermoregulatory costs combined constituted the juncos' entire winter FMR, with thermoregulatory costs averaging 57% of FMR in yellow-eyed juncos and 49% in dark-eyed juncos. Thus, behavior has no net energy cost at low temperatures in juncos. Our data also suggest that winter is a period of greater energy stringency for juncos than is the breeding season.
30162289|Mass loss and energy requirements of harp (Phoca groenlandica) and gray seal (Halichoerus grypus) pups were examined in individuals that spent the postweaning fast either on land or in water. Water-fasted and land-fasted harp seals lost body mass at the same rate (day) during an 8-wk fast. Approximately 50% of the mass loss (80% of energy utilized) was from blubber. The remainder was from the core (carcass and viscera). Specific metabolic rates did not differ between treatments. Gray seals fasting on land or in water lost mass at the same relative rate (
10.1086/515961|Numerous studies have examined sexual dimorphism in the morphology and behavior of vertebrates; very few, however, have explicitly investigated the possibility of gender differences in physiological performance, despite the observations of such differences in humans. In this study, I investigated physiological sexual dimorphism in the lizard genus
30152583|Parameters of various overt circadian functions (metabolic rate, feeding, locomotion) and their temporal relations were studied in redpolls, Carduelis flammea L., tested under light-dark (LD) cycles with different periods (T) and different light intensities during summer and winter. Seasonal differences in resting metabolic rate, mean level, and in the pattern (form factor) of the metabolic rhythm were found which were associated with differences in the ranges of entrainment and in the phase curves reported in the paper by Pohl (in this issue). The rhythm of metabolic rate showed a smaller period-to-period variation in onset of metabolic activity and in the pattern of the metabolic rhythm compared with the respective parameters of the rhythm of locomotion (perch hopping). The phase relations between the rhythms of metabolic rate and locomotor activity or between feeding and locomotion did not change systematically as a function of T. At the limits of the range of entrainment of the circadian pacemaker, it was shown that the rhythmic pattern of various activity functions are controlled by endogenous (spontaneous) and exogenous (light induced) components. Synchronization of the birds' locomotor activity rhythm to LD cycles with extremely long periods (T = 30 h), a small LD intensity ratio (amplitude), and a low mean light-intensity level (LD 0.15:0.01 lux) are interpreted as an expression of the behavior of secondary (damped) oscillators that are either uncoupled from, or only weakly coupled to, the circadian pacemaker.
30164189|In the past decade there has been increasing recognition of the ability of cells to transmit signals by means of transient pulses of calcium ions. The system can use both extracellular and intracellular calcium sources to generate these effects. The relationship of this signaling system to the more commonly discussed properties of calcium homeostasis and calcium transport offers interesting opportunities for future research.
10.1086/515882|Two species of herbivorous land crabs from Christmas Island,
30158210|Characteristics of the critical Po have been investigated by analyzing both O uptake rates and modes of energy production during hypoxic exposure in the toad Bufo marinus. After preacclimatization to moderate hypoxia, this oxyregulator exhibits constant rates of O consumption in a wide range of Po. Below 30-37 Torr, an increase in O consumption coincides with the onset of anaerobic metabolism. Consequently, a Po in this range is concluded to be equivalent to the critical Po. The early decrease in the levels of high-energy phosphates and the accumulation of large amounts of lactate in the kidney and, even more so, the heart indicate that limits in the O supply to aerobic organs determine the hypoxia tolerance of the animal. The appearance of lactate in the plasma and the concomitant increase in O consumption suggest that lactate may mediate this increase, thus eliciting a stress response.
30156022|Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance (
30155856|Oxygen consumption rates of the brachyuran crab, Bythograea thermydron, from the Galapagos hydrothermal vents were measured at temperatures of 2, 8, 12, 18, and 25 C; pressures of 272, 136, and 1 atm; and varying oxygen concentrations. The oxygen consumption rates were comparable to those of both shallow-living and deep-sea benthic decapods. Temperature had a minimal effect on oxygen consumption over the range of 8-18 C, and its effects increased at temperatures outside this range. Decompression of the crabs from their environmental pressure (272 atm) to 136 atm had no significant effect on oxygen consumption. Further decompression to 1 atm led to increased oxygen consumption. Vent crabs are able to regulate their rate of oxygen consumption down to an oxygen partial pressure of 13 mm Hg; this is unaffected by temperatures from 2 to 25 C and pressures from 1 to 272 atm. The crabs have an anaerobic capability exceeding 12 h. The results provide insight into the relative role of ecological factors (predation, competition) as opposed to environmental conditions (temperature, pressure, food) in selecting the characteristics of deep-sea species. The importance of temperature, pressure, and food availability in influencing metabolic rates in the deep sea are discussed. Habits and physiological capabilities of the crabs in the unusual vent environment are suggested on the basis of the crabs' physiological tolerances.
30155821|The African bullfrog, Pyxicephalus adspersus, becomes dormant (when subjected to desiccating conditions) and may form a cocoon which covers the entire body surface except for the external nares. The resting
30164307|Adlie penguins are very abundant in Antarctica and constitute a large biomass of predatory consumers in the Antarctic ecosystem. Adlies eat almost exclusively krill (Euphausia spp.), and to determine krill requirements by Adlies, information on energetics is needed, including energy intake of the chicks. I measured energy use and growth in Adlie penguin chicks, using both field and laboratory techniques. Field metabolic rate was quite variable, but mass-specific rates were not correlated with body mass. Growth followed the logistic equation: the growth constant was 0.143 d, and the asymptote for growth to fledging was 3,200 g. Different body organs had similar energy densities (in kilojoules per gram of dry mass), and total body energy density did not vary with chick mass. However, proportional mass of the skin increased rapidly as chicks grew, making the skin an important energy store in larger chicks. Metabolic efficiency measured in the laboratory averaged 69% and did not vary with chick mass. Total energy ingested over the 50-d development period was 162 MJ, which corresponds to approximately 33.6 kg of fresh krill. Previous studies of Adlie energetics have focused on adult energy balance and have calculated chick energy requirements indirectly on the basis of adults' stomach loads of krill and frequency of feeding chicks. Values from previous studies do not agree with those from the present study. The method used in the present study is more informative and accurate for measuring energy use by chicks, since measurements are made directly from chicks.
30155731|An egg diffusion hygrometer is described for measurement of absolute humidity in the nest air immediately surrounding bird eggs during natural incubation. The empty eggshell of the species under study is filled with a drying agent and calibrated by observing its weight change in time upon exposure to known water vapor tensions. Such an egg is then placed in the nest for several days and its rate of gain in weight recorded, from which the mean vapor pressure during exposure can be calculated. The vapor pressure in the nest microclimate of eight species varied from 18 to 26 torr. An indirect method for predicting nest air vapor pressure without the use of a hygrometer is also presented, and for 10 other species yields values similar to those of the diffusion hygrometer. The vapor pressure of nest air is always greater than that of ambient air; from the difference and the known rate of water loss of the egg, nest ventilation can be calculated.
30156087|The hemoglobin content in Daphnia magna was measured by spectrophotometry. The total hemoglobin content in red animals increased steadily with an increase in the body size. In pale animals, the total hemoglobin content was one-tenth that in red animals. It tended to increase in immature pale animals. However, in mature pale animals that had a large number of eggs and were larger in size than red animals, a steady increase was not observed. The lowest hemoglobin concentration was 0.24, and the highest one was 241 mg Hb/g dry weight. The hemoglobin content in eggs from pale animals was 0.17  0.05 and that from red animals was 0.53  0.07 g Hb. Approximately 0.11 g Hb in an egg decreased during the embryonic development. In low oxygen concentration, the hemoglobin concentration in immature animals increased quickly, while in large animals an increase in the hemoglobin concentration was slow, and animals larger than 3.0 mm were unable to become red animals and died. In aerated water, the hemoglobin concentration in red animals began to decrease after 24 h and it took 5 days for a 50% decrease from the initial value.
30158263|Numerous laboratory studies show that common poorwills (Caprimulgidae: Phalaenoptilus nuttallii) are capable of entering daily torpor when deprived of food. Using temperature-sensitive radio transmitters, I measured the skin temperature of free-ranging birds under natural conditions to test three hypotheses about the use of torpor by poorwills. I predicted that (1) poorwills would enter torpor only in "energy emergencies" (defined as birds with low body mass), (2) only the nonincubating or brooding member of a pair would use torpor during the breeding season, and (3) poorwills would be less likely to enter torpor on moonlit nights when longer periods of activity can be sustained. My results show that adult poorwills of both sexes enter torpor regularly in April, May, and September, but not during the breeding season. I found no evidence that torpor was used only in energy emergencies or that the lunar cycle influenced the use of torpor. Skin temperatures regularly dropped below 10C and in one instance fell below 3 C. On one occasion an individual bird remained torpid for at least 36 h. I found limited evidence suggesting that the temperature at twilight, but not insect abundance, can be used to predict whether birds will remain active or enter torpor.
10.1086/515987|This study evaluated the role of diet, specifically the relative importance of salt content versus energy content, in the response of juvenile rainbow trout to environmental acid stress in soft water (
30155816|Several parameters of the xeric adaptiveness of the desert blister beetle Cysteodemus armatus were studied in the field and laboratory. Field measurements demonstrated that these beetles were most active during warmer parts of the day with exposure to high air (>35 C) and soil (>55 C) temperatures. Beetles had body temperatures consistently higher than ambient air temperatures but less than substrate temperatures. Rates of water loss (173 mg day, including fecal losses), gravimetrically determined in the laboratory at 30 C, were higher than field-determined tritiated water turnover (125 mg day). The
30155692|Juvenile-hormone (JH) esterase activity is found in the hemolymph of last larval (nymphal) instars of Periplaneta brunnea, Schistocerca vaga, Samia cynthia, and Tenebrio molitor, but not in Sarcophaga bullata. In Samia cynthia larvae maximum activity coincides with the JH inactivation preceding metamorphosis; in young Hyalophora cecropia moths the increase in JHE activity coincides with a sharp rise in the rate of JH synthesis. Pupal hemolymph of T. molitor has the highest activity of any species or stage tested. The enzymes of Samia cynthia and T. molitor hydrolyze JH-1 and ethyl ester analogs, whereas the -cis isomer of JH-I and isopropyl ester analogs (only tested with T. molitor hemolymph) are unaffected.
30158635|Measurement of the rate of temperature change in muscle as ambient temperature varies allows blood flow to be calculated. The procedure is simplified by taking the temperature measurements in deeply sited tissues of large fish where convection by the blood is the dominant heat-transfer process and heat transfer by conduction is minimal. Rates of blood flow in free-swimming swordfish, Xiphias gladius, and blue sharks, Prionace glauca, have been obtained by using acoustic-telemetry techniques to measure water temperature and muscle temperature. Blood-flow rates of 34 ml  kg  min for the blue shark and 15 ml  kg  min for the swordfish are generally comparable to blood-flow rates measured in other fish via a variety of techniques. Temperature effects are considered and systematic variations of blood flow in the blue shark are related to changing activity as the fish ascends and descends.
30158592|The hypoxic depression of gill ventilation, along with other ventilatory and cardiovascular responses to hypoxia, were studied in the bimodal breather, Lepisosteus osseus. Air-breathing frequency increased hyperbolically as water
30163349|Water content, extracellular osmolality, and total solute content were measured in tadpoles and frogs of Rana muscosa submerged in the laboratory for 0, 1, 7, and 12 mo at 4 C. Edema was maintained at a constant level in both tadpoles and frogs during most of the natural overwintering period (7 mo), whereas extracellular osmolality and total solute content varied. During the first month of submergence, water content (excluding fat bodies, ovaries plus eggs, and tadpole digestive tracts) increased by 5.7% in tadpoles and 14.0% in frogs. Concomitantly, extracellular osmolality declined by 13.6% and 9.6%, respectively. The decline in osmolality was due solely to dilution in frogs, but it was due to both solute loss and dilution in tadpoles. Between 1 and 7 mo, water content in both tadpoles and frogs remained constant, whereas solutes were accumulated and extracellular osmolality increased. Between 7 and 12 mo, water content increased further, whereas solutes were lost and extracellular osmolality diminished. These findings are consistent with those for adult anurans of other species at low temperature, but the initial solute loss in tadpoles is not. The changes in water content, extracellular osmolality, and total solute content during overwintering were independent of body mass and skin surface area. Mass-specific water content was negatively related to dry body mass in both tadpoles and frogs, but tadpoles were more hydrated than frogs of the same size.
30156155|Embryos of the frog Pseudophryne bibroni develop on land in depressions underneath objects or vegetation. They hatch only after they have reached Gosner stage 26-27 and are flooded with water. Flooding of the nest reduces
30163833|Insects are an important and abundant component of the aquatic habitat They are used as indicators of water quality and provide food for fish and birds. The composition and abundance of insect assemblages are known to change with pH. The physiological mechanisms used by insects to cope with extreme environmental pH and regulate extracellular pH are virtually unknown. Evolutionarily, the movement into water from land has consequences with respect to gas transfer, as air has 20-40 times more oxygen per unit volume than water. Two functional respirator, systems have dezveloped within the aquatic insects to extract oxygen from water: water breathers, which use morphological gills; and air breathers, which obtain air from a bubble attached to the body or directly from the atmosphere. This article summarizes research to date pertaining to acid-base regulation in these two functional groups of aquatic insects and compares them with other aquatic ectotherms. Excretion appears capable of handling base removal in the feu alkaline-water-inhabiting species studied, and ion exchange mechanisms across the integumenzt may be involved in pH regulation of insects exposed to acid conditions. Future work should examine the use of respiratory processes in extracellular pH regulation to clarify the role dfferent tracheal systems play in insect acid-base balance. An understanding of the mechanisms involved in acid or alkali tolerance may help in the selection of species as bioindicators of water quality.
30156094|The water permeability and water content of the cuticle of the cricket Acheta domesticus were examined using gravimetric techniques as well as in vivo and in vitro methods used in conjunction with the transpiration monitor. At 30 C and <5% RH, water loss rates (WLR) in intact, untreated animals exceeded values for live (mouthand anus-sealed) and dead crickets. Individuals immersed in hexane or chloroform: methanol prior to testing exhibited markedly higher WLR. The permeability of thorax cuticle (untreated) measured electronically with a ventilated capsule (in vivo) was slightly greater than the mean value estimated from gravimetric measurements on dead crickets (.027 vs. .017 mg cm h mmHg, respectively); however, in vitro values determined on isolated segments of thoracic cuticle were approximately four times higher. The permeability of hexane-treated cuticle was also significantly higher than that of untreated cuticle, both in the in vivo and in the in vitro procedures. Cuticular water content of crickets kept in dry air was significantly lower than values for crickets held in Ringer-equilibrated air, but there were no significant differences between these measurements made in vivo and in vitro. All of the cuticular water appeared to be held in the endocuticle. The permeabilities of the endocuticle and combined epi-and exocuticles confirm the previously held view that the principal integumental barrier to water is at or close to the surface of the cuticle, with lipids being a primary contributor to this barrier. We conclude that the epidermis plays no significant part in regulating integumental water loss in this species. A simple, passive, two-layer model that is based on equilibrated water contents predicted values for the water content of cuticle having Ringer solution on the inside and dry air outside that are in reasonable agreement with those observed.
30157948|1. Ethanol is an end product of anaerobic metabolism in a surprisingly large variety of multicellular organisms. These include Angiosperms, Platyhelminthes, Aschelminthes, Acanthocephala, Arthropoda, and Vertebrata. 2. Ethanol formation proceeds in two steps (via pyruvate decarboxylase and alcohol dehydrogenase). 3. Pyruvate decarboxylase of plants is located in the cytosol, whereas that of animals is intramitochondrial and probably part of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. 4. Alcohol dehydrogenases of facultative anaerobes are NAD-rather than NADP-dependent, with the enzyme in the parasitic worm Moliniformis dubius as the only known exception. 5. Regulation at the pyruvate branch point in plants seems to involve three different mechanisms: (i) increases of pyruvate decarboxylase and alcohol dehydrogenase activity due to increased gene expression, (ii) control of pyruvate decarboxylase by the intracellular pH and the cytoplasmic NADH/NAD ratio, and (iii) inhibition of lactate dehydrogenase by ATP at low pH values. There is no evidence for increased expression of the pyruvate decarboxylase and alcohol dehydrogenase genes of animals during anoxia. Here, pyruvate decarboxylase is controlled by the intracellular pH and the mitochondrial phosphorylation potential, whereas the ethanol/lactate production ratio is dependent on the magnitude of the glycolytic flux. 6. The ethanol route has significant advantages (minimal acidosis, avoidance of osmotic problems, and endproduct inhibition of the glycolytic chain) but also has disadvantages (relatively low energy yield, loss of carbobydrate carbon). This may explain why only a few animals produce ethanol during anoxia, in contrast to plants, which generally respond to reduced O availability by alcoholic fermentation.
30155820|Wind speed had a negligible effect on the rate of evaporative water loss from chicken eggs. Mean water loss was 0.132 mg cm h in still air, and 0.138 mg cm h at 400 cm s. Boundary-layer resistance (
30163908|Is energy expenditure limited by shared metabolic machinery for energy assimilation or by bottlenecks specific to each mode of energy expenditure? We tested this question in mice by imposing peak energy burdens of lactation and of cold stress simultaneously. We measured food intake, body and organ masses, and small intestinal brush-border hydrolase and transporter capacities in virgin female mice and in mothers nursing approximately 5, 8, or 14 pups, at either 5 C or 23 C We had already observed that mothers of 14 pups are at a limit of lactational performance at 23 C, while virgin mice at 5 C are near their limit of food intake in response to cold stress. Nevertheless, the increments in food intake due to these two energy stresses applied simultaneously proved to be additive: food intake in lactating mice at 5 C was even higher than the peak intake in lactating mice at 23 C or in virgins at 5 C. Thus, neither during peak lactation nor during peak cold stress alone was energy expenditure limited by shared machinery for energy assimilation; assimilation could be pushed even higher by adding another energy stress. Masses of the small intestine, liver, and kidney increased with food intake even more than expected from increases in body mass. These increased organ masses are adaptive and permit energy-stressed mice to process ingested nutrients at rates exceeding the capacities of unstressed mice. Safety factors (load/capacity ratios) of three intestinal brush-border hydrolases and transporters for nutrients declined toward 1 with increasing food intake. The capacity of the brush-border enzyme sucrase to produce glucose remained matched to the capacity of the brush-border glucose transporter to absorb the resulting glucose, as both varied with food intake.
10.1086/515873|EctoATPase activity was measured for red blood cells, white blood cells, and whole blood from a variety of vertebrates. A large range of red blood cell ectoATPase activity was observed; for example, at 10C, red blood cells from a catastomid fish
30155822|Antelope ground squirrels rely on their extremely labile body temperatures (
10.1086/515850|All cells possess mechanisms that are responsible for the maintenance of cellular volume under isosmotic conditions. In addition, many cells are able to adjust cellular volume when incubated in hypo or hyperosmotic media. Much of the work on cellularvolume regulation has been done on epithelial cells, blood cells, or lines of cultured cells; cardiac muscle has received comparatively little attention. It seems probable that some aspects of cellularvolume regulation in cardiomyocytes vary from those present in other cell types because of the mechanisms associated with the excitability and contractility of cardiac muscle. For example, in myogenic hearts, the role of membrane ion channels in pacemaker potentials complicates models that implicate ion channels as mechanisms for volume regulation. Similarly, models for the initiation and control of volume regulation that rely on changes in cytosolic Ca
30155788|The steady-state responses to hypoxia and hypercapnia were studied in freely diving Amazonian manatees (Trichechus inunguis). Breathing room air, the manatees had an end-dive alveolar O Of 60 mm Hg and an alveolar CO of 71 mm Hg. Minute ventilation increased linearly with inspired CO during the hypercapnic breathing and the animals maintained a constant alveolar CO. No response to the inhalation of hypoxic mixtures was observed until the alveolar O was less than 30 mm Hg, following which ventilation increased markedly. The increase in minute ventilation during both the hypoxic and hypercapnic testing was primarily due to an increase in breathing frequency which corresponded to a decrease in dive time. It is concluded that CO, not O, is the important factor in the control of ventilation and diving in the manatee.
30156212|Carbonic anhydrase (CA) supplies bicarbonatefor urea synthesis in toadfish hepatocytes. Utilizing a multifactorial experimental design, we studied the effects of the acid-base variables (pH, PCO, and [HCO-]) on urea synthesis and intracellular pH (pHi) in toadfish (Opsanus beta) hepatocytes in order to determine whether this pathwayplays a role in acid-base balance in fish. Of the three acid-base variables, only changes in [HCO-] had a significant effect on urea synthesis; the pathway displayed saturating kinetics with respect to this substrate (
30157969|We investigated the daily food and water consumption of a captive colony of three brown long-eared bats (Plecotus auritus) for 51 d. The bats were kept in a free-flight enclosure exposed to the natural photoperiod and temperature during the winter (January to March 1991) at 57 N. Water was always available, but food was available only on some nights. The mean daily temperature inside a wooden box provided as a hibernaculum was positively correlated with and slightly elevated above (0.6-2.8 C) the mean daily temperature outside the box in the free-flight enclosure. The mean temperature inside the hibernaculum was 7.1 C and outside was 5.6 C. The mean relative humidity in the hibernaculum was 82% (range 67%-93%). The activity of the bats outside the hibernaculum was monitored by two Doppler radar units. The daily probability of an individual bat emerging from the hibernaculum was between 0.26 and 0.99. Emergence probability increased when there was food available and when it was warmer. The activity of the bats was strictly nocturnal, initial emergence occurring a mean of 64.4 min after sunset (n = 42, SD = 27.0 min). When denied access to food, the bats drank an average of 0.20 mL  bat  night on the nights that at least one emerged (n = 14 nights, SE = 0.05, range = 0.00-0.68). On warmer nights the bats were more active and ate and drank more than on colder nights. We suggest that typically in P. auritus winter flights may not be induced by the onset of starvation (and hence the need to feed) or by the onset of dehydration (and hence the need to drink). Rather, at typical winter temperatures P. auritus may fly frequently, almost daily, to try and ensure that neither energy nor water reserves approach critically low levels. Only during a prolonged cold period (mean night temperature <4 C) might many days pass without a winter flight.
10.1086/515963|We have examined starvation and desiccation resistance in 43 outbred populations of
30160956|The platypus, Ornithorhynchus anatinus had a minimum resting metabolism in air of 2.2
30164262|The relationship between temperature and the role of the gill in acid-base regulation was investigated in rainbow trout acclimated to 5 or 18 C. At rest and following exhaustive exercise, trout acclimated to warmer temperatures had greater net losses of both ammonia and basic equivalents to the environmental water than cold-acclimated fish. In contrast, there were no significant effects of temperature on the net fluxes of acid equivalents, Na, or Cl at rest. Following exercise, however, the net excretion of acid equivalents was about 1.5 times greater in fish acclimated to 18 C than in fish acclimated to 5C. In addition, net fluxes of both Na and Cl to the environmental water after exercise were greater in warm-acclimated fish. In a second series of experiments, the time courses for the clearance of infused acid loads (lactic acid and ammonium sulfate) from the blood space were compared in trout acclimated to either 5 or 18 C. Since the clearance of the metabolic proton load from the blood was not influenced by temperature under these conditions, it appears that the different rates of metabolic proton excretion after exercise at different temperatures may result largely from the effects of temperature on the movement of protons from the muscle to the blood. A compartmental analysis of the whole body acid load following exercise showed that the gills played only a small role in the overall correction of a blood acid-base disturbance in trout, regardless of thermal history. However, the quantity of metabolic protons removed from the blood across the gills to the environmental water was generally equivalent to the blood metabolic proton concentration. Temperature may therefore have an important effect on the recovery of the acid-base disturbance in the blood (extra cellular fluid) via branchial proton excretion. Temperature had its greatest influence on clearance of metabolic protons from the white muscle during the first 4 h after exercise.
30163884|We exposed short-tailed field voles, Microtus agrestis, to transient decreases in ambient temperature to evaluate the limits of their sustainable metabolic rates. We predicted that voles exposed to transient low temperatures would elevate their food intake until they reached some alimentary limit and thereafter they would withdraw reserves. During short-term (24-h) exposure to temperatures below the lower critical temperature (25 C) daily food intake actually decreased significantly to a minimum of 1.51  0.41 g at 10 C but was greater at 5 and -5 C. Weight loss (g) increased significantly with decreasing temperature; however, at 5 C vole mass increased. During more prolonged exposure for 4 d, food intake increased significantly with the duration of cold exposure (5 and 15 C) to a maximum on days 3 and 4. In a separate experiment voles were randomly exposed for 3-d intervals to a range of temperatures from 20 to 5 C and were returned to 25 C for 3 d between exposures. Both food intake and weight loss increased significantly with decreasing temperature; voles gained mass at 20 and 25 C. There was 40% mortality in voles exposed to -5 C for 24 h (n = 10). When voles were exposed to 5 C for 6 d before they were exposed to -5 C, there was zero mortality at -5 C for 12 d (n = 6). The basal metabolism (BMR) of voles before transient cold exposure, 1.71  0.41 mL  min, was not significantly different from that of the same voles after transient cold exposure (2.17  0.71 mL min). Maximum food intake at 5C (5.67  1.45 g  d) represented 1.7 times BMR, which is considerably lower than the limit on alimentary uptake of seven times BMR previously suggested. Our results suggest that the voles were using a strategy of energy minimization during transient cold exposure that combined increased energy intake with body reserve utilization. However, the duration of cold exposure had a profound effect on this strategy. The mortality data in this species at low temperatures combined with levels of food intake relative to BMR suggest that sustainable metabolic rate is not limited by constraints imposed centrally by the alimentary system but rather by constraints at the sites of energy utilization.
30158273|Locomotor performance of spontaneously foraging tent caterpillars (Malacosoma americanum) was videotaped under various thermal conditions as growing colonies progressed from the third through the sixth larval instars. Stride length and, therefore, speed increased with increasing body size. Speed and stride frequency were strongly temperature-dependent (
10.1086/515878|Carbonic anhydrase activity in the extracellular fluid of lower vertebrates is considered to be minimal, either because of the absence of carbonic anhydrase or because of the presence of naturally occurring inhibitors. The presence of carbonic anhydrase activity and circulating inhibitors was measured in plasma and subcellular fractions of gill tissue in elasmobranchs and teleosts. Plasma carbonic anhydrase activity was confirmed in the former but in extremely low amounts, especially compared with activity in red cells. The activity was correlated with plasma iron concentration and red cell hemolysis, which suggests that it is a byproduct of endogenous hemolysis during red cell turnover. A subcellular fraction of dogfish gills rich in microsomes contained significantly higher carbonic anhydrase activity than previously found in teleosts, making elasmobranchs the only aquatic lower vertebrates to possess putative basolateral membraneassociated carbonic anhydrase in the gill vasculature. It is suggested that branchial membraneassociated carbonic anhydrase is correlated more with a pH and/or CO
30152550|The diamondback water snake, Natrix rhombifera, exhibited significant daily cycles of rate of oxygen consumption (
30163897|Systemic arterial pressures of snakes vary interspecifically in relation to gravitational demands imposed by environment and behavior. Terrestrial scansorial and arboreal species are characterized by comparatively high pressures thought to reflect generally greater levels of total peripheral resistance. Pulmonary arterial pressures exhibit less interspecfic variation and are generally lower than systemic pressures, such differences being greater in arboreal species. Both systemic and pulmonary arterial pressures are regulated by neurogenic reflexes, with arboreal species demonstrating superior capability for regulating blood pressure during posture change. Baroreceptors have been identified in the truncus arteriosus and central arteries of snakes, and other mechanoreceptive sites are also likely. Efferent mechanisms affecting vascular muscle tone are correlated with dense adrenergic innervation of vessels that varies interspecifically as well as regionally within species. The evolution of dense but variable adrenergic and peptidergic innervation of the heart and vasculature of snakes emphasizes the importance of autonomic reflexes in mediating regulation of hemodynamics.
30158506|Harborporpoises (Phocoena phocoena) and spotted dolphins (Stenella attenuata) must cope with very different thermal situations. Harbor porpoises live in cold coastal waters where water temperatures average 10 - 15 C; spotted dolphins live in the Eastern Tropical Pacific Ocean ecosystem where water temperatures average 27 C. There are few options available to cetaceans for thermoregulation. Thepurpose of the present study was to investigate factors that affect heat loss in small Cetacea and to compare these factors in harbor porpoises and spotted dolphins. Phocoena had a smaller surface area, for a given mass, than did Stenella. This suggests possible selection for a decreased surface area/body mass ratio in harbor porpoises. Conductivity of harbor porpoise blubber (0.10  0.01 W m C, n = 29) was significantly lower (P < 0.05) than that of spotted dolphins (0.200.02 W m C, n = 16), signifying a higher insulative quality for Phocoena. In addition to being a superior insulator, Phocoena blubber depth (1.5  0.3 cm, n = 59) was double that of Stenella (0.8  0.1 cm, n = 16). Blubber conductivity varied inversely with lipid content. Harbor porpoise blubber was 81.6%  3.6% (n = 29) lipid, whereas spotted dolphin blubber was 54.9%  2.8% (n = 16) lipid. Conductivity values measured for Phocoena are the lowest recorded for any cetacean species. Measures of conductivity for Stenella are similar to those of other cetaceans. The morphometric and biochemical differences found in the blubber of these two species implies that small cetaceans can use a combination of surface area and insulative quality and quantity to thermoregulate. These responses are dictated by ambient temperature but are constrained by body size and, possibly, hydrodynamic considerations.
30156114|Resting oxygen consumption (
30163918|Very little is known about the early development of cardiorespiratory regulatory mechanisms in newly hatched amphibian larvae. We tested whether early cardiovascular responses to hypoxia reflect local-flow regulation in tissues and whether regulation of ventilation would improve during larval development. Cardiac output was calculated from heart rate and stroke volume, and buccal pumping rate was measured at 19 -21 C for Xenopus laevis larvae between Nieuwkoop and Faber stages 44 (just after hatching) and 57 (4-1,102 mg) denied access to air at a range of ambient aquatic Po from normoxia (150-155 mmHg) to severe hypoxia (27-45 mmHg). Cardiac output decreased in severe hypoxia in stage 44-49.5 larvae, but not in stage 51-54 larvae, because heart rate decreased significantly in the early larvae, probably a direct effect of O limitation on cardiac metabolism. Stroke volume did not change significantly in hypoxia in either early- or late-stage larvae. Thus there was no evidence of a tissue-mediated increase in cardiac output in hypoxia. Buccal pumping increased by about 50% over normoxic rates in moderate hypoxia in all larvae but sharply decreased in severe hypoxia, decreasing more in younger larvae than older. Younger larvae show significantly more variability in buccal pumping than older larvae, which suggests that regulatory mechanisms are not yet fully developed in early larvae. Cardiac output scales to body mass with a allometric coefficient of 1.15  0.15 (95% confidence limits), significantly higher than literature values for O uptake (0.83), implying that cardiovascular gas transport may be less important (compared to direct diffusion) in very small early-stage larvae than in larger, late-stage larvae.
10.1086/515888|We examined the adrenal response to handling stress of birds in different body conditions. In order to affect the birds' body condition, young (73d old) female American kestrels (
30163688|The present study examined the effects of two peptide hormones on rate, pressures, and flow generated by isolated in situ crustacean hearts. Saline, pumped by spontaneous contractions, was collected through a cannula attached to the sternal artery. Cardiac flow was measured directly with an electromagnetic low probe, while arterial and ventricular pressures were recorded with pressure transducers. Crustacean cardioactive peptide (CCAP), known to be present in the pericardial organs of Carcinus, increased cardiac output mainly by increasing heart rate. On average, CCAP caused a modest increase in stroke volume. Proctolin, another peptide found in the pericardial organs, also increased cardiac output, but generally elicited large changes in the stroke volume. Proctolin also increased heart rate, but to a lesser extent than did CCAP. Both peptides increased ventricular pressure, stroke work, and cardiac power. Mean effective dose (
30159934|Water content was determined for hydrated and dehydrated larvae of Onymacris marginipennis. In addition, the volume and osmolarity of the hemolymph were measured, as were the major components of the hemolymph: sodium, potassium, magnesium, chloride ions, amino acids, and trehalose. There is a positive linear relationship between the water content (mg HO/mg dry weight) and the volume of the hemolymph (l/mg dry weight). The osmolarity of the hemolymph is regulated between 320 and 450 mosmol/liter. The concentrations of the ions, amino acids, and trehalose are relatively constant despite changes in the volume of the hemolymph. The quantity of each of the major components increases as the volume of the hemolymph increases. These increases account for the observed regulation of the osmolarity of the hemolymph. All the major components of the hemolymph participate in the regulation.
30155687|The mean forms of 24-h circadian patterns of 12 male hamsters differed as a function of the clock hour of dark onsets in 24 h (12:12) light-dark cycles, independently of time of year. The forms of activity cycles for dark onset at 18:00 CST for three 3-mo periods, at three different times of year and including the first and third years, were strikingly similar to one another and moderately similar to cycles with dark onset at noon but were significantly different from cycles with dark onset at hours 24:00 and 6:00. The latter two were also different from one another. A very high correlation is seen for all series, between concurrent-cycle forms obtained on a stationary table and on tables rotating uniformly clockwise (CW) and counterclockwise (CCW) at 1 rpd. Uniform daily CW and CCW rotations (from above) effect a small phase delay in circadian cycles phase synchronized to imposed 12:12 light/dark (LD) cycles set to various times of day. A major minimum occurs during the first hours of darkness, a major maximum during the later hours of darkness. The CW rotation exerts a greater effect than CCW during the darkened portion of the subjective day and a lesser effect during the illuminated portion. The two directions of rotation yield, simultaneously, similar 24-h patterns of effect related to hour of solar day (CST). These are independent of phase of light-synchronized cycles or of free-running cycles. Differences between effects of CCW and CW rotations strongly suggest a bimodal 24-h pattern with CCW exceeding CW effects twice a day over sunrise and sunset. A mean lunar day (24.8-h) cycle was disclosed. The pattern, grossly unimodal, has a range about 14% of the daily mean with maximum lying between moonrise and upper transit and minimum between moonset and lower transit. The CW rotation reduces the amplitude of the cycle and CCW rotation completely inverts it. A synodic monthly cycle was described. Rotation tended to produce cycle inversion, CCW rotation weakly and CW strongly. An annual variation in effect of rotation is described. Statistically significant cycles in the response to rotation were described for each of the geophysical periods. These cycles are postulated to comprise phase-response variations to a pervasive atmospheric parameter such as the atmospheric electromagnetic field. Possibilities for these specialized responsivenesses to very weak, pervasive, atmospheric fields serving as the primary timers for the biological clock complex are suggested and discussed.
30156102|Histological and topographic features of brown adipose tissue (BAT) in the muskrat are essentially typical of those of terrestrial rodents. During unrestrained dives in 3 C water, interscapular BAT (IBAT) cooled to the same extent as a subcutaneous site in the middorsal lumbar (MDL) region. Yet when muskrats surfaced and withdrew from water, rate of rewarming in IBAT exceeded that of other body regions and also correlated closely with a postdive surge in oxygen consumption (
30163760|Predictions from an insect-herbivore digestion model (Yang 1993) were empirically evaluated in this study using the nondiapausing strain of a generalist-feeding grasshopper, Melanoplus differentialis (Thomas) (Orthoptera: Acrididae). Food residence time (FRT) within the digestive tract was manipulated by M. differentialis as a means of digestive compensation. Food residence time decreased linearly when diet was diluted from 5% total nitrogen (N) to 1% N Food residence time was 16% shorter in sixth-instar nymphs than in adults and was reduced 24% when ambient temperature increased from 30 to 35C. Approximate digestibility (AD) decreased linearly when diet was diluted from 5% N to 1% N. Adults digested food 43% more efficiently than sixth-instar nymphs. Approximate digestibility was positively related to FRT Digestibility rate (AD per unit of FRT) was not affected by body size, sex, or temperature but increased linearly with diet quality. Diet dilution did not induce gut size changes when grasshoppers were confined on poor-quality food for only 3 d However, the allocation of total dry matter to digestive tissue varied greatly between developmental stages as well as between sexes. The proportion of gut dry weight to body dry weight (G/ B) was 30% higher in smaller-bodied sixth-instar nymphs than in larger adults and was 6% higher in females than in males. Wet weight gain increased with diet quality. Sixth-instar nymphs gained more weight per gram of body weight than adults at each level of N content. But the nymphs were affected more by poor food quality than adults. Temperature had no effect on weight gain at either 3% or 5% N levels. But low food quality (1% N) combined with high temperature resulted in greatly reduced weight gain. Correct interpretation of differences in AD requires knowledge of the underlying whole-organism digestive responses. The relative stability of digestibility rate exhibited by M. differentialis in response to changes in food quality, developmental stage, and temperature suggest that, within certain physiological limits, insects may regulate digestive means to maintain an optimal or near-optimal digestibility rate. Digestibility rate, indicating the amount of limiting dietary component extracted per unit of time, should be a good index of an animal's digestive capability.
30158584|Hydrodynamic characteristics, including fineness ratios, coefficients of drag, and the influence of body size, shape, and position on drag were examined for harbor seals (Phoca vitulina). Drag for towing animals increased curvilinearly with velocity over the range 0.7 to 3.5 ms and was described by the equations: Drag(N) = 6.49 velocity (
30155672|The purpose of this study was to find out whether or not the lions' reliance on social hunting is correlated with physiological constraints which limit their speed and endurance. Oxygen consumption of two young male lions was measured as a function of running speed, first when they weighed 28-35 kg and again after they had approximately doubled their weight (50-57 kg). Oxygen consumption increased linearly with speed between 2.0 and 8.5 kmh, but at a rate more than three times the rate predicted for quadrupedal mammals. There was no difference between the weight-specific oxygen consumption of the lions as they doubled their weight. The observed slope for the relationship between oxygen consumption and speed was 0.36 ml O (gkm) versus a predicted value of 0.11 ml O (gkm). The observed y-intercept was -0.09 ml O (gh) versus a predicted value of 0.39 ml O (gh). The lions' maximum aerobic capacity appeared to be about 3 ml O (gh), a value about 13 times their predicted resting rate. This was reached at low speeds where the lions traveled at a slow trot because oxygen consumption increased so rapidly with increasing speed. The same maximum value was obtained on a level and on an inclined treadmill. Lions change from a trot to a gallop at a lower stride frequency than would be predicted. We are not able to account for the lions' unusually high energy cost for locomotion. Neither their limb morphology nor their immaturity offers a likely explanation. Our results help explain the lions' reliance on social hunting on physiological grounds.
30158445|The functional characteristics of the respiratory gas exchange systems of spiders were evaluated from relationships describing respiratory surface areas, lung volumes, rates of oxygen consumption, and heart rates as functions of change in body size. Most spiders have rates of metabolism lower than those of other poikilotherms: Those spiders with the lowest rates are adapted to live in environments characterized by low energy availability. Rates of metabolism are directly proportional to respiratory surface area and are positively correlated with lung volume. Modification of respiratory or circulatory variables potentially provides for aerobic scopes of three- to eightfold. These estimates agree with those reported for spiders based on measurements of rates of metabolism. These aerobic scopes for spiders are lower than those reported for insects. This comparison underscores the adaptive characteristics associated with the "sit and wait" style of predation in spiders. Their use of silk snares and poison to capture prey as well as their well-developed anaerobic capacity and ability to disperse passively by ballooning alleviates the necessity for high aerobic capabilities.
30163947|Interindividual variation in cuticular water permeability and epicuticular hydrocarbon composition was assessed in Tibicen dealbatus, using first-order kinetics theory to interpret water loss data. Water loss rates of T. dealbatus are among the highest reported for terrestrial arthropods and are significantly higher in live individuals than in those killed by exposure to cyanide vapor. Epicuticular hydrocarbons consist of
30158646|Hearts from 16 species of fishes, including representatives of cyclostomes, elasmobranchs, and teleosts, were examined. As a biochemical index of maximal ATP demand, ATPase activity of crude homogenates of ventricular tissue was measured under conditions which optimize activity of myofibrils and inhibit nonphysiological mitochondrial F-ATPase by inclusion of oligomycin in the assay medium. The activities of nine additional enzymes from pathways of energy metabolism and concentration of myoglobin-an intracellular protein involved in storage and diffusion of oxygen-were measured. Of all possible pairwise regressions between these biochemical markers, only the relationships among ATPase, carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT), and hexokinase (HK) and between HK and phosphofructokinase (PFK) were significant. The inability of elasmobranch myocardium to catabolize fatty acid is confirmed. ATP yields calculated from HK and CPT and corrected to reflect physiological conditions of the tissue suggest that catabolism of either carbohydrate or fatty acid fuels can meet maximal energetic demands of the tissue. The range of power developments encompassed by hearts of ectothermic fishes, although substantial, has not resulted in selective expansion of capacity to oxidize one particular metabolic fuel.
30166346|In studies of crustacean molting, eyestalk removal (ER) or multiple limb autotomy (MLA) has traditionally been used to precipitate ecdysis. This study was undertaken to determine whether the general physiological condition of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii, at 23 C, induced to molt either by ER or MLA, is comparable to that of animals molting naturally. Hemolymph was sampled every 2 d up to and for 3 wk following ecdysis. Samples were assayed for ecdysone (as an endocrine measure) and inorganic electrolytes (Ca, Na, Cl, K, Mg), which were selected for study since regulatory hormones originate in the eyestalk. Following surgery, ER crayfish underwent lethal ecdysis within 13 d, sooner than MLA crayfish (36 d). In the control group, ecdysone peaked approximately 5 d before ecdysis. For induced molts, the ecdysone peak was two times larger and was more protracted. Calcium was elevated 15 d before natural molts as a result of cuticular reabsorption, then returned to baseline level and exhibited a transitory decrease at ecdysis as a result of water loading. The MLA crayfish had a similar Ca profile, except that the peak occurred earlier and in advance of the ecdysone peak. A premolt Ca peak was not observed in ER crayfish; levels of all ions were greatly reduced at ecdysis because of excessive water uptake. The ecdysone and Ca profiles did not appear to be linked in any treatment. Sodium and Cl profiles were very similar in all treatments, essentially decreasing as a result of water uptake around the time of ecdysis. Potassium remained constant in control crayfish. In MLA crayfish it decreased around the time of ecdysis, and in ER crayfish it exhibited both a postsurgical decrease and a more pronounced decrease at ecdysis. Magnesium in control and MLA crayfish decreased in premolt and remained low, possibly contributing to exoskeletal mineralization; however, levels were elevated in ER crayfish. Collectively, the data demonstrate that ER crayfish experience severe hemolymph dilution at ecdysis as a result of increased water influx, which may contribute to death. The eyestalks appear to contain factors that regulate water and electrolyte balance. Although MLA crayfish molted successfully, the profiles for ecdysone and electrolytes, while superficially similar to those of control crayfish, were sufficiently different that the two groups cannot be considered physiologically or metabolically equivalent.
30156069|To test the hypothesis that the tripeptide glutathione (-glutamylcysteinylglycine) might function as a free-cysteine buffer in adequately nourished birds, we measured liver and muscle glutathione concentrations early and late in the 8-h overnight fast of molting and nonmolting white-crowned sparrows. During molt-when the overnight requirement for cysteine in keratin synthesis is greatest-liver glutathione concentration early in the overnight fast was greater than that during the pre- or postmolt stages, and the overnight loss of glutathione was greater than that in the postmolt stage. Liver glutathione concentration remained constant overnight or increased slightly during the premolt stage. Variation in muscle glutathione paralleled liver glutathione except that concentrations in muscle were greatest during the postmolt stage. These results suggest that glutathione pools in the liver and muscle of adequately nourished birds (1) could serve as a buffer that accepts or donates cysteine as required by the exigencies of supply (feeding bouts) and demand (intervals between feeding bouts) and (2) may have a homeostatic role in protein synthesis.
30158587|Crabs (1.9 g) were exercised for up to 60 min on a miniature treadmill respirometer. O consumption (
30164273|Drinking in freshwater-adapted rainbow trout fry was investigated in response to the administration of angiotensin I, angiotensin II, the angiotensin II antagonist saralasin, and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril. Rainbow trout fry (0. 8-1.5 g), as previously shown, drank at a rate of about 0.7-0.9 mL kg h in freshwater, and the intramuscular administration of angiotensin I or angiotensin II increased drinking rates maximally to about 4-5 mL kg h-1', while intraperitoneal injections at a similar dose were less potent. Intramuscular administration of increasing levels of angiotensin II (0.2-2 nmol g of [Asn, Val]-angiotensin II) resulted in a dose-dependent increase of drinking rate, and this response was partially but significantly inhibited by the administration of the angiotensin II receptor blocker saralasin ([Sar, Val, Ala]-angiotensin II). Drinking rates were also increased (maximally to about 5 mL kg h) in response to intramuscular injection of increasing levels of angiotensin I, with maximum responses between 0.26 and 0.35 nmol g, and this response was significantly lowered by the administration of enalapril and by saralasin. The administration of losartan (DuP 753), a selective inhibitor of the receptor subtype AT, in mammals, had an inconsistent effect on drinking in freshwater and seawater-adapted fish. Although the role of drinking in juvenile freshwater fish is not understood, the present results constitute further evidence for the involvement of the renin-angiotensin system in control of drinking in fish.
30158528|Herbivorous land crabs (Gecarcinus lateralis) in upland habitats have limited access to salts. They conserve ions extremely well and maintain high hemolymph concentrations in strongly hypoosmotic environments, despite producing urine isosmotic with their hemolymph. Location of the nephropores is favorable for transfer of urine to membranes with active transport pumps (gills, gut). We hypothesized that crabs minimize urinary ion losses by reprocessing (diluting) the isosmotic urine before discarding it, as previously shown for beach-dwelling ghost crabs (Ocypode quadrata). We infused crabs with deionized water (DW) or saline to produce volume loads with and without stimulus to conserve ions and analyzed 'final excretory product, " or p, discarded after urine was reprocessed. In saline-infused crabs, p concentrations converged to hemolymph values. In DW-infused crabs, decreases in osmotic, Cl, and Na concentrations of p (often to less than 10 % of urine values) drastically reduced losses of ions that initially had been voided in urine. Maximum ion conservation abilities of G. lateralis are similar to those of ghost crabs, despite the generally lower availability of salts in upland habitats. Both species apparently have adapted to the environmental extreme common to both habitats: fresh water. The option of retaining and "extrarenally" reprocessing urine, made possible by the subaerial environment, makes urine a concentrated salt resource in dilute surroundings.
30158597|The effects of some physiological conditions on the levels of L-histidine, carnosine, and anserine were examined in skipjack tuna, Katsuwonus pelamis. Also examined were the turnover rates of
30164305|The rate of
30155948|The variability of overwintering strategies of four insect species occupying identical hibernacula are compared over two climatic regions. Stepwise acclimation was accomplished over a 12-week "seasonal" cycle between 5, -40, and 20 C. The ball gall hibernaculum of Solidago sp. provides a minimal thermal buffer to its inhabitants. Separate populations of the gall maker Eurosta solidagensis demonstrate markedly different adaptive strategies during acclimation. Low temperature exposure results in an elevation of supercooling points (SCPs) in northern populations so that early freezing occurs. Southern populations depress the SCP upon similar exposures to avoid tissue-freezing encounters. The SCPs become synchronous between populations when ambient temperatures are reduced below the supercooling limit (-20 C). Warm acclimation is characterized by a major depression in the SCP in both populations. However, the temperature trigger has been shifted to higher temperatures in northern species (>5-< 20 C vs. >0-< 5 C for southern groups). Three other species overwinter in the gall: Mordellistena unicolor, a coinhabitant with E. solidagensis, and Eurytoma obtusiventris and Eurytoma gigantea, two predators. Each of these species have distinct overwintering strategies.
30164302|In this study an in vitro analysis of the force and mechanical work required to bite prey items of different size and physical character is combined with an in vivo analysis of prey-handling behavior in the tokay gecko (Gekko gecko). The force required to bite and the work of biting increase with prey size, but the rate of increase is prey specific, with crickets (Acheta domestica) requiring substantially more force and work per bite than larvae (Galleria mellonella and Manduca sexta) for all but the smallest prey. Prey-handling behavior is also prey specific. Geckos exert more bites per feeding event on small crickets than on small insect larvae, but the number of bites increases faster with prey mass for larvae than for crickets. Combination of the in vitro mechanical measurements with the in vivo behavior analysis allows the calculation of total mechanical work per feeding event and indicates that total work increases with prey size but that the difference between prey types is far less than predicted from the differences in structural properties of the prey. This occurs because the number of bites and work per bite relationships tend to cancel the differences in the total work necessary to process each prey type. Thus, when considering the effect of prey size, a 13-fold greater rate of increase in bite force and an 18-fold greater rate of increase of work per bite for crickets over larvae was partially compensated for by a threefold increase in the number of bites used on larvae relative to crickets. These results can be interpreted in two ways. The effect of mechanical work in feeding behavior suggests that the energetics of jaw adductor musculature could play a greater role in governing the feeding behavior of this lizard than has previously been expected. Alternatively, the scaling of work in feeding over a range of prey sizes suggests distinct differences in the geometric features of the prey that determine how they are processed.
10.1086/515884|Freshwater turtle eggs are normally subjected to fluctuations in incubation temperature during natural incubation. Because of this, developing embryos may make physiological adjustments to growth and metabolism in response to incubation at different temperatures. I tested this hypothesis by incubating eggs of the Brisbane river turtle
30164253|The effects of cortisol on metabolic recovery from exhaustive exercise in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and potential mechanisms of action were investigated. When the postexercise rise in cortisol is prevented in fish by blocking either cortisol synthesis with metyrapone or cortisol release with dexamethasone, there is a faster recovery of blood and muscle metabolites and acid-base status in those fish than in control fish. To investigate whether preventing the rise in plasma cortisol is responsible for these effects, two experiments were done. Cortisol infused intofish treated with metyrapone returned the rate of recovery to that of control fish. Treatment with 11-deoxycortisol or deoxycorticosterone, intermediates in the cortisol biosynthetic pathway, the levels of which are possibly increased by metyrapone treatment, did not increase the rate of recovery; indeed, plasma cortisol was elevated and recovery prolonged in fish treated with 11-deoxycortisol. These experiments indicate that preventing the postexercise rise in plasma cortisol is associated with decreasing the time required for metabolic and acid-base recovery. The mechanism of cortisol action is not alteration of net acid excretion at the gills or mediated by some action at the RU486-sensitive cortisol receptor. It is suggested that cortisol may play an adaptive role in recovery from exhaustive exercise by providing lactate as a postexercise aerobic fuel.
30163886|We describe the metabolic cost of voluntary pedestrian locomotion in adult male blowflies, Protophormia terraenovae (Diptera: Calliphoridae) from measurements made in a running tube. The minimum cost of transport (MCOT) based on interindividual comparisons for male blowflies is 254 J kg m (SE = 41). This value was similar to the MCOT based on intraindividual comparisons (208 J kg m, SE = 72). These estimates are very near the predicted MCOT for limbed arthropods of the same size, despite the fact that, unlike insects that rely exclusively on pedestrian locomotion, blowflies must carry a substantial mass of flight muscle while walking. The cost of transport for walking adult flies is almost an order of magnitude lower than the cost of crawling by larval flies. We also used ANCOVA to estimate the MCOT for individual flies tested at three temperatures: 28, 32, and 37 C. There was no detectable temperature-by-individual interaction or temperature effect on the MCOT, and the MCOT estimated by this procedure (319 J kg m, SE = 83) was statistically indistinguishable from the estimates based on intra- and interindividual comparisons at a single temperature.
30155819|In Corydoras aeneus the average swimming speed of fish surfacing to breathe air is influenced by water depth but not PO. Calculated time budgets and estimated energy budgets for the locomotor component of aerial respiration suggest that air breathing is substantially more costly than has been assumed on the basis of comparisons between air and water as respiratory media. We suggest that these costs greatly reduce the supposed advantages of using air as a respiratory medium and favor the continued use of dissolved oxygen, even by organisms with the capacity for aerial respiration.
30155881|When African clawed frogs (Xenopus laevis) were stimulated to swim as fast as possible over various distances, the amount of time swimming was a linear function of distance swum. Swimming speed, therefore, was constant and independent of distance with a value of approximately 0.25
30156195|The influence of body temperature (12.5-37 C) and thermal acclimation (20 and 30 C) on sprint speed in a thigmothermic lizard, Xantusia vigilis, was measured. Body temperature has a profound influence on sprint speed, which is maximal at 33-34 C and declines exponentially at lower body temperatures. Neither sprint speed nor its thermal dependence was modified by thermal acclimation over the body temperature range of 15.0-34 C. In contrast, acclimation temperature did affect sprint speed at more extreme temperatures: 20 C-acclimated lizards ran faster at 12.5 and slower at 37C than did 30C-acclimated animals. Acclimation also affected preferred body temperatures and critical thermal minima and maxima: all were significantly lower in the 20C-acclimated group (31.1, 4.5, and 40.5C, respectively) than in the 30C-acclimated group (33.0, 9.4, 43.0). Ac-climation may therefore shift critical thermal variables without affecting locomotor performance at intermediate temperatures.
30156144|Most gerbils (Gerbillinae: Cricetidae) that inhabit Mediterranean deserts are granivorous. The fat sand rat (Psammomys obesus), however, feeds almost solely on the saltbush Atriplex halimus. A parallel situation has evolved among kangaroo rats (Dipodomys; Heteromyidae) that inhabit deserts of western North America where Dipodomys microps feed almost exclusively on the saltbush Atriplex confertifolia and other Dipodomys are primarily seed eaters. Atriplex has succulent leaves but is high in electrolyte content, which can cause an osmotic burden on the animals. To overcome this problem, it has been widely accepted that P. obesus use mainly a physiological adaptation and D. microps mainly a behavioral adaptation; namely, P. obesus consume Atriplex leaves in toto and produce highly concentrated urine, whereas D. microps scrape Atriplex leaves with their teeth before consuming them and remove much of the electrolytes. However, contrary to what has been reported, it was observed that P. obesus scrape Atriplex leaves as well. The amount of leaf scrapings was related to the water content of the Atriplex. When offered Atriplex of 84% water content, they scraped off only 0.8% of the dry matter, and when they were offered Atriplex of 78% and 69% water content, they scraped off 6.4% and 14.3% of dry matter, respectively. Ash content per unit of dry matter of leaf scrapings was approximately 66% higher than that in nonscraped leaves, and Na, K, and Cl were 79%, 129%, and 85% higher, respectively. When P. obesus were offered Atriplex of 69% water content, scraping the leaves lowered the ash, Na, K and Cl intakes by 10.9%, 13.0%, 21.4%, and 17.8%, respectively. Psammomys obesus thus have some control over the amount of their electrolyte intake and generally do not have to produce an extremely concentrated urine. This study refutes the reports that P. obesus can survive on a diet of only A. halimus mainly through their physiological adaptations.
30155996|The breeding season of many species of birds is terminated by the onset of photorefractoriness; birds become refractory to the stimulatory effects of long-day lengths, and the gonads spontaneously regress. To determine what period of exposure to long-day lengths is necessary to induce photorefractoriness in the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris), intact and castrated males were first maintained on day lengths of 11L:13D per day for 20 wk. This day length is long enough to cause maximum testicular development in intact males and maximum plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) levels in castrates but not long enough to induce photorefractoriness. Both intacts and castrates were then divided into six groups. A control group was kept on 11 L:13D. Other groups were transferred from 11 L: 13D to 18L:6D for periods of 1, 3, 7, 14, or 21 days and then returned to 1 L: 13D. Six weeks after the treatment groups had initially been transferred to 18L:6D, all six groups were again transferred from 1 L:13D to 18L:6D to test whether they were photorefractory. Frequent blood samples were taken and then assayed for LH, prolactin, and thyroxine. Testicular size was regularly measured in intact birds, and molt was recorded in all birds. At least 7 long days were required to induce photorefractoriness and molt. Exposure to I or 3 long days did not induce photorefractoriness or molt but predisposed birds to become photorefractory rapidly when again exposed to long days. In intact birds, LH levels increased immediately after transfer to 18L:6D, but in birds exposed to 14 or 21 long days, it then declined to low levels and did not increase on return to 18L:6D. In castrates, LH also decreased in birds exposed to 14 or 21 long days but remained elevated in other groups. In both intact and castrated birds, at least 7 long days were required for increased prolactin secretion, but levels declined rapidly on return to 11 L: 13D.
30152537|Aspects of Na and Cl regulation in fiddler crabs adapted to 10% sea water were examined. Total body turnover rate averaged 8% h for Na and 19% h for Cl. Urine was produced at the rate of 5% body weight day. Based on the assumption that blood and urine were isotonic, the renal route represented 3%-4% of total efflux of both ions. The intestinal route provided a negligible influx of a salt as the rate of drinking was 0.6 l gh. The transepithelial potential (TEP) across the crabs' body surface averaged +4.7  0.7 mV. In the absence of Na the TEP -7.5  1.3 mV; in the absence of Cl it was +8.9  0.5 mV. Deletion of Na from the bathing medium caused little change in efflux of this ion. Deletion of Cl from the medium caused approximately 50% reduction in Cl efflux. However, Na efflux was also reduced in Cl-free medium. Flux ratio analysis indicated that both Na and Cl were actively absorbed by fiddler crabs in dilute sea water. Possible changes in osmotic and salt permeability are discussed in relation to the salinity of the environment.
30155755|Body temperature
30155834|Acute exposure of the sea anemone Bunodosoma cavernata to anoxia resulted in a rapid decline in ATP levels and parallel increases in ADP and AMP. The tissue ATP/ADP ratio and adenylate energy charge fell to 0.77 and 0.54, respectively, and remained essentially constant for 4 days of anoxia. Time course studies showed that the bulk of the changes in adenylates occurred within the first hour of anoxia. Return to normoxic conditions resulted in a shift of the components of the adenylate pool back to the preanoxic condition. This postanoxic recovery of the adenylates occurred within 12 h. When specimens of B. cavernata were maintained under anoxia in the presence of iodoacetate, the energy charge fell in 6 h to 0.3, indicating that glycolysis is essential in maintaining the anaerobic cellular energy state. We conclude that anoxia induces ar altered but stable cellular energy state in B. cavernata. This phenomenon may promote long-term survival under anoxic conditions due to a reduction in energy demands in this sea anemone.
30158593|Flexible-shelled eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) were incubated in wet (-150 kPa water potential) and dry (-750 kPa water potential) substrates to elicit different patterns of net water exchange between eggs and their environment. Embryos exposed to wet substrates consumed yolk more rapidly, grew faster, and incubated longer than did embryos exposed to dry substrates. As a result, hatchlings emerging in wet environments were larger and contained less residual yolk than hatchlings emerging in dry environments. Embryos exposed to wet and dry conditions relied on both yolk and eggshell to supply the calcium required for development. However, embryos exposed to wet substrates used the eggshell for a larger proportion of their calcium (56%) than did embryos exposed to dry substrates (40%). Residual yolk of hatchlings in both experimental groups contained less than 1 mg of calcium. Consequently, residual yolk cannot support growth of neonates at or near levels characteristic of late-term embryos. Thus, the larger energy reserve available to small hatchlings in the form of a large residual yolk probably can be used only to support maintenance metabolism, and young presumably must begin to forage soon after emerging from the nest if growth of both soft and hard tissues is to continue.
30163342|Thermoregulatory abilities and patterns of thermoregulation were explored for 12 species of African lizards. They all regulated body temperature (
30156133|Body temperature and rate of metabolism were measured in the Philippine tarsier, Tarsius syrichta, at ambient temperatures between 16 and 37 C. This primate maintained body temperature at 33.8 C or higher, depending on ambient temperature, had a basal rate that is 65% of the expected rate, and had a minimal thermal conductance that is 78% of expectations. Its basal rate is similar to those found in other, similarly sized, tropical mammals that feed on insects, or on a mixture of insects and fruit, including prosimians, tree shrews, and elephant shrews. Among these mammals, feeding principally on invertebrates, especially noxious insects, when coupled with larger masses, is associated with the lowest rates of metabolism. A tropical or subtropical distribution, small mass, insectivorous or insectivorous-frugivorous diet, low basal rate, and low body temperature may represent the suite of characteristics found in the earliest primates.
30163345|Sodium influx and efflux and body ionic contents of amphibian larvae were measured during acute and chronic exposures to acidic and neutral waters. Acute exposure to low pH's (2.5-4.0) depressed sodium influx and markedly accelerated sodium efflux. The resulting net loss of 50% of body sodium was fatal. Increasing the external calcium concentration extended survival time by slowing the loss of sodium. Chronic exposure to low pH caused a 21%-62% reduction in body sodium content; potassium content did not change. It also caused sodium influx to increase and efflux to decrease in comparison with fluxes measured during acute exposure at the same pH. Interspecific sensitivity differences were related to the relative magnitude of disruption in sodium balance. The three species of tadpoles studied differed in body sodium content under control conditions. Initial body sodium content was inversely correlated with acid tolerance and may represent a previously unknown mechanism for coping with physiologically stressful low-pH environments.
30163930|Allelic variation at the autosomal tail spot pigmentation locus in Xiphophorus variatus is correlated with variation in oxygen consumption, condition factor, growth rates, and other physiological parameters. To test whether the locus is also associated with effects on energy storage, we measured triglyceride and glycogen reserves in two sibships derived from test crosses. One sibship contained cut-crescent and wild-type genotypes, while the other contained crescent and wild-type genotypes. Cut-crescent males had significantly less muscle glycogen than wild types, while crescent males had significantly lower body fat levels than wild types. Liver fats and glycogen and gonad sizes did not differ among the three genotypic classes. Thus, diferences among genotypes may be compartment specific. Variation in muscle glycogen levels, growth rates, and oxygen consumption may reflect a common cause, such as mitochondrial respiratory efficiency. Our data cannot test whether the associations between tail spot classes and physiological traits are caused by alleles at linked loci or by pleiotropy. Nevertheless, the associations are stable over years and across localities in nature. The stable association of these traits with visible markers makes the system potentially valuable for the study of physiological variation in natural populations.
30156196|Freshly laid eggs of the painted turtle, Chrysemys picta, were located in northwest Iowa during the summers of 1985 and 1986. The eggs were weighe djust after laying and periodically throughout incubation. Near the expected time of batching, the eggs were removed from their nests and allowed to hatch in the laboratory, where hatchling wet and dry mass were measured. Soil water potential during incubation was measured with tensiometers placed near the nest. Soil water content was measured for a soil profile close to the nest. Nest temperatures were measured throughout incubation. On average, 12 eggs per clutch were laid, with an average initial egg mass of 6 6g. The eggs typically demonstrated constant increase in mass with time. The average daily water uptake (
30158221|The effect of epinephrine in regulating erythrocytic nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) concentrations was examined in blood and erythrocytes from Fundulus heteroclitus. Epinephrine decreased the NTP/hemoglobin (NTP/Hb) ratio by 44% over the Pco range of 1.5-7.6 mmHg. Decreases in erythrocytic pH, caused by increases in Pco, mediated the extent to which reduced NTP concentrations increased Hb O afinity. Both the Na/K pump and Cl/HCO exchange were involved in lowering erythrocyte NTP concentrations. Epinephrine stimulation, alone or in the presence of amiloride or ouabain, had no effect on erythrocyte pH. A marked intracellular alkalinization occurred in the presence of SITS (4acetamide-4-isothyocyanato-stilbene). The data suggest that the Cl/HCO and Na/H exchange are tightly coupled and responsible for maintenance of transmembrane pH. Finally, the decrease in erythrocyte NTP concentration following epinephrine stimulation was not accompanied by an increase in intracellular pH, which indicates that Donnan equilibrium was not maintained. This suggests that the Cl/HCO exchange may be active in F. heteroclitus erythrocytes.
30156141|I combined replicated measurements of aerobic metabolism and of locomotory performance with observations of behavior under natural conditions to determine whether individual variation in activity metabolism was related to variation in locomotory performance and foraging behavior among Fowler's toads, Bufo woodhousei fowleri. Although individual toads differed significantly in activity metabolism and locomotory performance, individual variation in metabolism did not explain variation in locomotory performance. In the field, toads that hopped frequently and moved greater distances also struck more frequently at prey and consumed more beetles than toads that were sedentary. However, activity metabolism and locomotory performance, as measured in the laboratory, were either unrelated to behavior in the field or showed relationships opposite to expectations.
30157920|Periodically breathing animals that store O primarily in the lungs must efficiently transfer O to arterial blood during apnea. Previous experiments on diving freshwater turtles indicate that such transferral is continuous during most dives, but there have been occasional observations of much more periodic O transfer between lung gas and blood. This study investigates the dynamics of lung O utilization and blood transfer during voluntary diving in the Australian long-necked turtle, Chelodina longicollis. Pulmonary arterial blood flow was measured by a relatively noninvasive impedance technique. The PO of pulmonary gas and systemic arterial blood was measured continuously with extracorporeal catheter loops, which minimize sampling disturbances. Lung gas PO declined relatively constantly during apnea at a rate of about 3 mmHg/min. Changes in arterial blood PO showed one of two very distinctive patterns during apnea. In the first pattern, evident in about two-thirds of 87 dives monitored in seven turtles, the PO of arterial blood decreased from levels at the start of the dive at a rate of about 1.0-1.5 mmHg/min. In a second pattern observed in the remaining one-third of the dives, arterial PO actually showed periods of transient increase of at least 4 mmHg at some point during the dive, while about 8% showed a transient PO increase of 10 mmHg or more. This second pattern of arterial blood oxygenation was also quite distinctive in that arterial O saturation was maintained constant at around 85%-95%, even when dives lasted for 20 or more min. Qualitative measurements of pulmonary blood flow during voluntary dives indicate that the transient increases in arterial blood PO are closely correlated with large and equally transient increases in pulmonary perfusion. We suggest that C. longicollis can maintain constant arterial O saturation during long periods of diving by periodically increasing pulmonary blood flow to transfer O stored in lung gas into blood perfusing the lungs. Furthermore, we suggest that this may be a general phenomenon among diving reptiles but that its observation requires animals unstressed by sampling techniques.
10.1086/515861|Sodium is considered the mineral most limiting to growth and reproduction of mammalian herbivores worldwide. Notwithstanding the large database on physiological adaptations to low sodium intake, information on maintenance sodium requirements and sodium dynamics of mammals is depauperate. We measured sodium intake and output in adult, nonreproductive whitetailed deer (
30159969|Mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) nesting in the Sonoran Desert maintain their eggs at viable temperatures ( 40 C) in spite of higher (above 45 C) environmental temperatures. Egg cooling is accomplished by contact with the adult's body, which is held at relatively low core temperatures (
30155967|Recently, we reported that genetic variation at the lactate dehydrogenase-B (LDHB) locus of Fundulus heteroclitus is highly correlated with hatching time. In the present study, we explore several mechanisms which may be responsible for this correlation. Since hypoxia-induced hatching occurs when oxygen diffusion limits the metabolic rate of embryos, we tested the hypothesis that LDH-B genotype specific hatching times are the result of metabolic rate differences. While the hypothesis was correct, each genotype appears to receive the hypoxic hatching cue at the same time because the genotype with the higher metabolic rate (
30155871|The metabolic rate of Gambel's quail (Callipepla gambelii) increases linearly with increasing wind speed at both 10 and 20 C. These results are compared with data from the literature for seven other avian species. The square root of wind speed, though often used as the independent variable, does not provide the best description of metabolic rate in wind for most species and temperatures; however, presentation of all data in a common form does reveal patterns among and within species. The effect of convective heat loss on metabolic rate-that is, the slope of metabolism (in watts, W) on the square root of wind speed (m/s)-increases as mass increases. This slope also increases within a given species as ambient temperature (
30161237|After exposure to cool temperatures, ectotherms may increase (compensation), decrease (inverse acclimation), or show no change in standard metabolic rate (SMR). I tested whether these responses may be adaptations to seasonality in temperature with the following hypotheses: (1) winter-active Sceloporus occidentalis from southern California would show compensation to counteract the depressing effects of cool temperatures, whereas (2) winter-dormant S. occidentalis from Washington would show inverse acclimation to conserve energy, and (3) S. variabilis from tropical Costa Rica would not acclimate. Repeated measurements of SMR at 10, 16, and 35 C of these lizards after exposure to warm and cool conditions supported these predictions. Washington lizards in autumn exhibited inverse acclimation at low test temperatures: SMR decreased by 19% at 10 C and 9% at 16 C when lizards were transferred from simulated summer to simulated autumn conditions. Spring animals showed inverse acclimation only at 35 C. The California population showed compensation at 10 C in autumn-collected animals but no acclimation in spring-collected animals. Sceloporus variabilis did not acclimate. Critical thermal minimum was lowest in Washington and highest in Costa Rican lizards but decreased similarly in all populations after cold exposure. These geographic differences in acclimation indicate adaptation to environmental thermal variability.
30152606|The black Bedouin goat uses panting and sweating for evaporative heat loss. A common Bedouin management practice involves restriction of water for up to 4 days. This study examined the effect of 4 days of water restriction on evaporative heat loss in animals exposed to a solar heat load. Dehydration resulted in suppression of sweating but enhancement of panting; total evaporation was reduced, and heat was stored. Indirect evidence suggested that metabolic rate was reduced. The elevation in body temperature was associated with a greater increment in arterial blood temperature than in hypothalamic temperature. It was concluded that the greater panting response to a solar heat load in dehydrated animals allowed localized cooling of the brain, while a reduction in total evaporation and metabolic rate assisted in the conservation of body water.
30155753|Direct measurements of ventilatory parameters have been employed in a study of ventilatory adjustments and changes in expired gas composition during heat stress in the greater flamingo, Phoenicopterus ruber. At thermoneutrality
30163839|Current knowledge concerning the occurrence, distribution, and mechanism of the insect discontinuous ventilation cycle, or DVC, is evaluated in the light of recent data. The congruence between the emerging body of data and the generally accepted theoretical understanding of the DVC, the modulation of the DVC to accommodate varying metabolic rates, the mass scaling characteristics of the DVC, and general issues concerning the measurement and quantification of the DVC are discussed. In addition, new experimental data on respiratory water loss during the open-spiracle and fluttering-spiracle phases are described.
30158163|The progress of anoxia-inducedphosphorylation of pyruvate kinase (PK) was monitored in four organs of the whelk Busycotypus canaliculatum over the course of 21 h of exposure to N-bubbled seawater. In all cases, PK modification resulted in a decrease in affinity for phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) (the substrate affinity constant, Sos, rose by 3-6-fold) and a strong increase in inhibition by alanine (the inhibitor constant,
10.1086/515420|We have investigated the effects of chronic hypoxia on the acute adrenergic stress response of adult rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). The goal of this study was to determine whether a prior 5d exposure of fish to lowered environmental oxygen levels (60 or 80 Torr) would influence the nature of catecholamine secretion from chromaffin tissue in situ. Using a salineperfused posterior cardinal vein preparation, it was demonstrated that the basal (unstimulated) secretion of noradrenaline and adrenaline was increased at 60Torr hypoxia. In response to cholinergic (carbacholelicited) stimulation, noradrenaline and adrenaline secretion were significantly affected by prior exposure to hypoxia. The construction of dose response curves revealed that noradrenaline secretion was enhanced at the lowest doses of carbachol (1  5 X 1007 mol kg01) and that this was reflected by an approximate 10fold reduction in the ED50 (the dose of carbachol eliciting halfmaximal noradrenaline secretion). The effect of chronic hypoxia on in situ carbacholevoked adrenaline secretion was similar but less pronounced. The results of this study suggest that during chronic moderate hypoxia, increased basal catecholamine secretion and enhanced responsiveness of chromaffin cells to cholinergic stimulation, as well aiding the ongoing stress, may assist the physiological adaptations to subsequent bouts of more severe acute stress.
30152612|The Psittaciformes constitute a distinct and homogeneous order, members of which lay multiple egg clutches of relatively small eggs that have prolonged incubation periods. The chicks are altricial but nevertheless grow comparatively slowly. The contents of parrot eggs contain more solids (19.4%) than is typical for altricial or semialtricial species. The rate of embryonic oxygen consumption increases throughout incubation. The relative rate of increase in
30163749|Energy expenditure of the common shrew (Sorex araneus) was measured by two techniques, indirect calorimetry (IC) and the doubly labeled water (DLW) method. Daily energy expenditure (DEE) did not increase significantly during pregnancy when measured by IC (days 0-7, 56.5 kJ  d; days 8-14, 60.8 kJ  d; days 15-20, 65.0 kJ  d) or when measured by DLW (days 0-7, 70.1 kJ  d; days 8-14, 72.6 kJ  d; days 15-20, 74.9 kJ  d). Food intake also did not increase significantly during pregnancy. We hypothesize that there was a decrease in a component of the energy budget not directly associated with reproduction, termed metabolic compensation. The energetic cost of lactation was far greater than the cost of pregnancy. After the initial increase the maternal DEE, measured by DLW, remained remarkably constant throughout lactation (days 08, 154.3 kJ  d; days 9-16, 158.9 kJ  d; days 17-23, 181.5 kJ  d), although food intake continued to increase. There may be further metabolic compensation during lactation. During both pregnancy and lactation there was a discrepancy between measurements of energy expenditure obtained by the two techniques. In pregnancy the higher DLW expenditures were attributed to a difference in environmental conditions. During lactation we conclude that the high DLW energy expenditures may have in part been due to an exchange of unlabeled CO from the litter to the mother.
30156061|Oxygen uptake (o), ventilation (
30164301|The respiratory and acid-base responses of the supratidal crab Leptograpsus variegatus to immersion in either 100% or 50% seawater were measured over a 3-wk period. Leptograpsus maintained haemolymph Po and Co during immersion, owing partly to elevated cardiac output and without recourse to hyperventilation. Both haemolymph Pco and Cco were reduced following 3 wk of immersion, and L-lactate remained low, but nonetheless Leptograpsus exhibited a marked metabolic acidosis. Specific responses to 50% seawater exposure were observed in Leptograpsus when compared with control crabs immersed in 100% seawater. Improved O delivery concomitant with elevated perfusion and ventilation maintained haemolymph oxygenation. In hyposaline-exposed Leptograpsus, both Pco and Cco were reduced after 24 h, while pH was elevated after 15 min and remained so during the 3-wk immersion. The marked acidosis exhibited in Leptograpsus exposed to 100% seawater was partially reduced in those in 50% seawater, presumably because of net acid excretion associated with elevated Na uptake. Immersion of Leptograpsus reduced Hc-O affinity to a greater extent in hyposaline-immersed individuals, while the cooperativity of O binding by Leptograpsus Hc decreased at low pH in both salinities. When immersed, the respiratory status of Leptograpsus resembles that of waterbreathing crabs. Exposure to 50% seawater causes a twofold increase in energetic cost but does not perturb the immersed condition. The metabolic acidosis induced by chronic immersion is partially compensated at the lower salinity. Leptograpsus thus has the ability to take advantage of habitats ranging from supratidal through brackish to fully marine.
10.1086/515915|Body temperatures of winterresident Korean bats typically range from 10 to 40C between August and September and from 3 to 15C between January and April. To learn how behavior and the motor systems of heterothermic bats respond to this bodytemperature variation, we examined wholeorganism performance and the temperaturedependence of contractile properties of flight muscle in
30159933|Larvae of two species of tenebrionid beetles from the Namib Desert are capable of absorbing water vapor from subsaturated air. Absorption does not take place during ecdysis but begins 2 days following ecdysis. Absorption is dependent on relative humidity and not vapor pressure deficit.
30163730|Ratios are used by many ecological physiologists to adjust (or scale) data that vary allometrically with body size. We use two sets of real data from our laboratory to illustrate in detail how investigators may be misled by statistical analyses performed on such ratios. The first example concerns the use of ratios to increase the precision of data gathered in planned experiments where body size varies within experimental groups but not among them. The second example concerns the use of ratios to remove confounding effects of body size from studies where animals in one group are larger than those in other groups, as a result either of the experimental manipulation itself or of the procedure for assigning animals to treatment groups. In both of these examples, statistical analyses of ratios lead to conclusions that are inconsistent with impressions gained from visual examinations of data displayed in bivariate plots. In comparison, analyses of covariance lead to conclusions that agree with impressions gained from these same plots. We therefore recommend that ecological physiologists discontinue using ratios to scale data and that they use the ANCOVA instead.
30156187|Rates of cutaneous evaporative water loss (EWL) were measured in Anolis carolinensis lizards following their exposure to humid (80%-85% RH) or dry (35%-42% RH) environments. After 8 d of acclimation, lizards exposed to dry air had significantly reduced rates of EWL, whereas those exposed to humid air did not. Acclimation of EWL occurred regardless of whether lizards exposed to dry conditions were allowed to dehydrate (to 80% of initial mass) and regardless of whether lizards molted. Evaporation rates measured from isolated dorsal skin in vitro demonstrated that dry-acclimated lizards had a lower skin permeability than did humid-acclimated lizards. The differences in permeability disappeared when lipids were extracted from the skin. Our findings suggest that acclimation of integumentary permeability may result from the gradual deposition of lipids in response to a local stimulus acting at the integument.
10.1086/515890|Heart rate, swimming speed, and diving behaviour were recorded simultaneously for an adult female southern elephant seal during her postbreeding period at sea with a Wildlife Computers heartrate time depth recorder and a velocity time depth recorder. The errors associated with data storage versus realtime data collection of these data were analysed and indicated that for events of short duration (i.e., less than 10 min or 20 sampling intervals) serious biases occur. A simple model for estimating oxygen consumption based on the estimated oxygen stores of the seal and the assumption that most, if not all, dives were aerobic produced a mean diving metabolic rate of 3.64 mL O
30155680|The extracellular hemoglobin found in the closed circulatory system of lugworms has a high oxygen affinity and extremely great cooperativity in oxygen binding. These properties are not accompanied by low oxygen levels in the microhabitat so long as ventilation continues. The quantitative function of lugworm hemoglobin is greatest at the intermediate and high oxygen levels created in the burrow by maximum ventilation activity. The distinctive oxygenation properties are related to operating conditions in the blood vessels. The large amount of mixing of post- and prebranchial blood in this primitive circulatory system results in low blood PO's and little PO difference between afferent and efferent blood. The Bohr shift is functional, but its role in oxygen transport is small. The primary function of lugworm hemoglobin is oxygen transport at high tide. At both low and high acclimation temperatures, an appreciable fraction of the oxygen consumed (15%-45%) is carried by hemoglobin.
30158555|Temperatures of different body surface regions of unrestrained adult red, arctic, and kit foxes exposed to ambient temperatures (
30158153|Open circulatory systems have been portrayed aspoorly designed systems with poor performance characteristics, lacking in adequate tissue perfusion or fine control mechanisms. Recent studies cast doubt on these assumptions. Open circulatory systems of at least the higher Malacostraca have elaborate capillary beds in many tissues. Cardiac outputs are generally higher than those of the closed systems of poikilothermic vertebrates of equivalent size and activity potential. Although arterial pressures and flows are often lower than those characteristic of poikilothermic vertebrates, the crustacean arterial system is adapted to deliver equivalent flows under these conditions. The control systems of the crustacean neurogenic heart appear capable offine graded control over cardiac output. In addition, although crustaceans lack the arteriolar smooth muscle upon which much of theperipheral circulatory control of vertebrate closed systems depends, cardioarterial valvular mechanisms under neural and neurohormonal control appear to be capable ofselective distribution of this output between the several separate arterial systems. Thus, although open circulatory systems differ greatly in anatomyfrom closed blood systems, they are, nonetheless, functionally equivalent.
30164304|Yellow-rumped warblers (Dendroica coronata) are one of many avian species that change their diet seasonally. Using them, we tested the predictions that uptake of D-glucose and the amino acid L-leucine will increase as dietary levels of carbohydrate and protein, respectively, are increased and that mediated uptake capacity of the entire small intestine will match nutrient loads from daily food intake. Birds were fed three semisynthetic diets, formulated from fruit, insects, or seeds, for 7 d. Mediated D-glucose uptake in vitro was affected by diet, but contrary to our a priori prediction, fruit eaters eating the diet highest in carbohydrates had the lowest uptake rate. Na-dependent L-leucine uptake at a low concentration (0.01 mmol L) was higher in insect and seed eaters, which is consistent with the prediction of adaptation to dietary protein, though dietary fat may also play a role. Mediated D-glucose uptake summed over small intestine length could explain only a small percentage of the estimated whole-animal absorption rate. We thus reject the predictions for carbohydrate but suggest an alternative interpretation of our results that is consistent with economical design.
30158558|When exposed to air, the phylogenetically distant intertidal limpets Patella granularis (Prosobranchia) and Siphonaria oculus (Pulmonata) displayed diferent levels of survival and metabolic adjustment. Siphonaria oculus lost water at a significantly higher rate, a response probably relating to its less domed shell Despite this, lethal exposure time and lethal water loss (
30158664|For rapid cutaneous water uptake upon dehydration, newly metamorphosed and juvenile Scaphiopus couchi toadlets possess a specialized pelvic region (5% of the total surface area) which is not found in adults of this species. The surface specific rate of water uptake across the pelvic region of S. couchi toadlets increases fifteenfold, from 18.4 to 322 mg/cm per hour, in response to dehydration, and the increase in total cutaneous water uptake upon dehydration may be confined to this region. The specialized pelvic area is responsible for 50% of the total water uptake of dehydrated toadlets. The ability of toadlets but not adults to absorb water from a specialized pelvic region is correlated with the activity patterns of the two age groups and may extend the foraging time available to toadlets into the hotter parts of the day.
30163944|An extract of the venom apparatus of the common American house spider, Achaearanea tepidariorum, was toxic to crickets. Using this toxicity as the assay, we examined a number of extracting buffers with 20 mM sodium acetate, pH 5, being judged optimum of those tested. The chemical properties of this extract were examined, and the toxic components were determined to be of high molecular weight because they were retained by membrane cones having a 50,000 molecular weight inclusion limit. Attempts to further purify the toxins from the high molecular weight retentate resulted in the loss of all toxicity. Cockroaches challenged with extract no longer responded to cercal stimulus. With the cercal nerve-giant fiber preparation of the cockroach, the venom apparatus extract was shown to disrupt synaptic transmission between the cercal nerve and the giant fibers. Removal of the venom reversed the effect. Perfusion of an extract of black widow spider, Latrodectus hesperus, venom apparatus onto a cercal nerve-giant fiber preparation previously blocked by perfusion of common house spider venom apparatus extract resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of action potentials, thus indicating that the common house spider and black widow spider venoms have different mechanisms, and that the acetylcholine release mechanism and the acetylcholine receptors were still functional in a preparation blocked by common house spider venom. The common house spider venom extract appeared to have no effect on conduction in the cercal nerve or the giant fiber.
30163838|A number of physiological systems have the potential to participate in extracellular acid-base regulation in insects. Results from several studies suggest that, in locusts, the ventilatory system is the major participant in hemolymph pH regulation when the acid-base challenge is characterized by a rise in hemolymph Pco. While the renal system has been shown to secrete actively both titratable acid and ammonium, no major role of the excretory system in hemolymph pH regulation has yet been demonstrated. We report here that starved locusts (Taeniopoda eques) excrete net acid in the form of titratable acid and ammonium. In contrast, T. eques fed on Romaine lettuce excrete titratable base and have higher rates of bicarbonate excretion, which results in net base excretion. Nitrogen excretion rates (ammonium and total urate) do not differ between fed and unfed groups. This is the first report of flexible titratable acid-base excretion in insects in vivo. The results are consistent with in vitro studies that report that hormonal factors believed to be elevated during feeding increase water and ion reabsorption and decrease titratable acid secretion by the hindgut. The excretory system has a substantially greater capacity to participate in hemolymph pH regulation in fed than in unfed locusts.
30164314|The research examined differences in haemoglobin concentration (g%), number of erythrocytes (mm), length and width of red blood cells (m), and haematocrit value (%) in adult birds of 21 species with body mass ranging from 8 to 170 g, in eight species of altricial birds during the course of their development and in two species throughout the seasons of the year. Erythrocyte total surface area was taken to be the product of the surface area of a single red blood cell and the erythrocyte count, and the ratio of haemoglobin to the total surface area of erythrocytes was then determined. Erythrocyte total surface area scaled with haemoglobin concentration in all three of the above situations, with the result that the ratio of haemoglobin to total surface area of erythrocytes was constant at a mean of 0.53  0.11 pg m. Changes in the total surface area of erythrocytes occur as a consequence of simultaneous changes in the size and number of erythrocytes, with haematocrit values remaining relatively constant. The constant value of the ratio of haemoglobin to total surface area of erythrocytes may be optimal for haemoglobin saturation with oxygen in the lungs of birds.
30163907|Free-living Merriam's kangaroo rats in the Mojave Desert did not drink, even when abundant rainwater was available for short periods in winter and summer, but they still obtained much more water than expected from a diet of dry seeds alone. Yearround measurements of water influx rates and field metabolic rates (via doubly labeled water), diet composition (stomach content analysis), and body mass changes were used to evaluate water and energy balance during each month of the year. From late spring (May) through midwinter (December), kangaroo rats ate primarily the seeds of creosote bush (Larrea tridentata) and were able to maintain water and energy balance on this diet even during the summer drought. Dry seeds collected at the surface apparently were cached in burrows where hygroscopic uptake of water from humid air increased the succulence of seeds before ingestion. In late winter and early spring kangaroo rats obtained abundant water and energy from their diet of green vegetation (90% of diet dry mass) and arthropods (10%). Only in late April and early May did these animals lose body mass, but that was due primarily to reproductive effort (lactation) by females. Thus, at no time of year were kangaroo rats distressed by their comparatively dry, hot, and barren desert habitat. Field metabolic rates were highest in winter, which suggests that these animals did not use torpor or hibernation. On an annual basis, an individual free-living kangaroo rat (mean body mass, 33.9 g) consumed nearly I kg (dry matter) of food, and the population (density, 1 Z5 animals per hectare) consumed over 17 kg ha. This is a small fraction of net primary productivity but can be a large proportion of seed production.
30156224|Torpor bouts of mammalian hibernators are generally shorter at the beginning and end and are consistently longer during the main part of the hibernation season. Because it is not known why the duration of torpor bouts changes at the beginning and end of the hibernation season, we studied this phenomenon in two sciurid rodents: Spermophilus saturatus (200-300g) and Eutamias amoenus (45-60g). We examined the seasonal change in torpor bout duration during hibernation at a constant air temperature (
30157968|In amphibians, salt and water balance is regulated, in part, by the cutaneous uptake of
30155702|Oxygen consumption was measured in 10 species of lunged salamanders (Ambstomatidae, Salamandridae) and compared to values for 12 species of lungless salamanders (Plethodontidae) taken under identical conditions in an earlier study. There was no significant difference between slopes of
30155849|In the rodent Octodon degus the testes are located inside the abdomen even during the breeding season, and their temperature is only 0.9 C lower than body temperature (36.8 C). The cauda epididymides are located in the cremasteric sacs, and their temperature is 4.8 C lower than body temperature even though they are in a nonscrotal position. Compared to the testes, the cauda epididymides are insulated from body core and are more thermally conductive to the environment. Factors reducing thermal conductance from body core to cauda epididymides are the location of the cauda epididymides outside the abdominal cavity in the cremasteric sac, a fat body interposed between the cauda epididymis and the body core, and a reduced blood supply. The higher conductance of the cauda epididymides to the environment is mainly due to their location under a perianal circle, a region devoid of hair with a greater thermal conductance than adjacent regions covered by hair.
30158522|Muscle capillary supply, mitochondrial distribution, and the surface density of mitochondrial cristae have been determined in the pectoralfin adductorprofundis muscles of fish that use a labriform mode of locomotion. Species studied were the hemoglobinless Antarctic icefishes Chaenocephalus aceratus and Champsocephalus gunnari, the red-blooded Antarctic fishes Notothenia gibberifrons and Psilodraco breviceps, and the Northern Hemisphere temperate-water fish Callionymus lyra. The volume density of mitochondria in slow-twitch fibers decreased in the order C. gunnari (0.51) > C. aceratus (0.49) > P. breviceps (0.46) > N. gibberifrons (0.25). Surface densities of mitochondrial cristae were lower in C. gunnari (25.2 m m ) and C. aceratus (28.2 m m ) than in the red-blooded species (32.2-37.0 m m ). This is consistent with the observation that O consumption per unit volume of mitochondria is lower in the hemoglobinless species. The density of mitochondria adjacent to capillaries is not significantly different from that in the central core of fibers in C. aceratus. This suggests that slow muscle fibers are not diffusion limited for O in species lacking hemoglobin and myoglobin. The high and homogenous distribution of mitochondria in Antarctic fish results in low values for the mean free spacing of mitochondria (1.04-2.96 m) relative to temperate species. This may represent an adaptation to overcome the effects of low temperature on the diffusion of metabolites between capillaries and mitochondria and between mitochondria and myofibrils.
30157864|Total water flux, energy utilization, and mass loss were measured in fasting, newly weaned elephant seal pups, Mirounga angustirostris, in their natural habitat over a period of 32-52 days. Animals lost mass exponentially averaging 5.3  0.9 g kg day. At weaning body water comprised 40% of the total mass while the ratio of adipose to lean body tissue was approximately 1. The mean water turnover rate in all animals was very low, 13.0  1.20 mlliter day, and was not affected by entry of the animal into water, supporting the hypothesis that seawater ingestion is not required for water balance. Average metabolic rates calculated from water turnover data were 167.6  19.1
30159965|Simultaneous measurements of anoxic metabolic rate in Mytilus edulis by direct (heat production) and indirect (analysis of anaerobic end products) calorimetry qualitatively confirmed Gnaiger's suggestion of an "excess" anoxic heat production which cannot be accounted for by the stoichiometric equations of glycogen fermentation. However, individual variability was sufficiently large that the average 35% discrepancy up to 12 h of anoxia was not statistically significant, and either method provides a reasonable estimate of anoxic energy demand. During 48 h of anoxia the discrepancy increased to 63% and was statistically significant. Excess heat production during prolonged anoxia may have included enthalpy changes owing to dissolution of calcium carbonate in the shell by the acidic end products of anaerobiosis, tissue autolysis after lysosomal destabilization, and "anoxic endogenous oxidation." Direct calorimetry of mussels exposed to air and to N gas indicated a 28% aerobic contribution to total aerial metabolic rate and agreed with the results of oxygen uptake measurements. Direct calorimetry thus provides a convenient method of assessing total energy demand under environmentally realistic periods of anoxia and intertidal exposure.
30164234|Pregnant female southern elephant seals vary in size by more than a factor of three when they come ashore to give birth and nurse their pups. Pups are fed exclusively from the mother's body reserves, which vary in proportion to her mass at parturition. We measured the use of body materials and energy over the course of lactation using a combination of isotope dilution and mass change during four breeding seasons on South Georgia. On average, mothers lost 35% of their mass at parturition during lactation. This included approximately 52% of the energy, 61% of the fat, and 24% of the protein in the mother's body. The relative amount that mothers expend on their pups is highly variable and shows little consistent trend with the mother's mass. Some large mothers used approximately 30% of their stored energy, (comprising around 40% of stored fat and 20% of body protein) to produce medium-or large-sized pups. Whereas some smaller mothers produced only small pups, others used all of or more than the reserves estimated to be available without incurring deleterious effects (68% of energy, 80% of fat, and 27% of protein). These small animals may be at risk of compromising their future reproduction. The production of small pups by these smaller females may reflect a compromise between the survival of the pup and the future success of the mother. While we expected that the largest females might show a reduced efficiency of mass transfer during lactation (because of high metabolic overheads), their ability to reduce the duration of lactation seems to compensate for this, and no such reduction could be shown.
30158542|Electrophoretic patterns of hemoglobins, hematological parameters, red-blood-cell phosphates, and whole-blood Bohr effect of Prochilodus cf. nigricans were studied during three different periods of the year. The main erythrocytic phosphates were ATP and GTP. The GTP/ATP ratio showed a significant diurnal variation suggesting regulation of NTP levels in response to daily variations of environmental and/or biological conditions. Prochilodus cf. nigricans showed four anodal Hb fractions in all studied individuals. However, differences in the relative Hb concentrations were determined at different times of the year. No significant hematological differences were detected during the study period, except for hematocrit values. Whole-blood Bohr coefficient was high in July and November, a time when water oxygen concentration was quite low.
30159959|Assimilation of Tetra-min prepared food by immature pupfish was constant at three daily rations (1.5%, 3.0%, and 4.5% body weight
30161261|Ventilation, circulation, and acid-base regulation were assessed in Procambarus clarki exposed to acidified water. Scaphognathite rates ($f_{sc}$), branchial water pressures, heart rates ($f_{H}$), hemolymph pH, total CO (CC0), and partial pressures of CO and O (PCO and PO) were measured in crayfish acclimated to deionized water (pH 6.8) in an aerated, flow-through system. The water was acidified to pH 3.8 with HSO and maintained at pH 3.8 for 96 h. The water in the system then was replaced with deionized water (pH 6.8), and animals were allowed to recover for 48-72 h. In acid conditions,$f_{SC}$ increased rapidly and remained elevated for the first 48 h but then decreased significantly by 72 h. Branchial pressures were depressed throughout the entire acid exposure period. Heart rate also increased significantly over the first 24 h of acid exposure and later decreased and remained near normal through recovery. During recovery, $f_{SC}$ continued to decrease, and branchial pressures remained depressed. Hemolymph acid-base variables all decreased initially; after 96 h, pH and PCO had recovered, but CCO remained low. An alkalosis was observed after 72 h of recovery and was associated with an elevated CCO and hypocapnia. There were no significant changes in postbranchial PO during the experiment. These strong ventilatory and circulatory responses seem to be stimulated by factors other than oxygen levels. The hyperventilatory response probably is the cause of a decrease in PCO, but other mechanisms must be responsible for the final recovery of acid-base balance.
30152607|We studied oxygen consumption and lactate accumulation during intense, short-term exercise at 25 C by four species of limbless reptiles: the fossorial lizards Anniella pulchra and Ophisaurus ventralis, the fossorial amphisbaenian Trogonophis wiegmanni, and the snake Thamnophis butleri. The three fossorial reptiles had standard metabolic rates 34%-67% below average for reptiles of their mass, which may be beneficial in their subterranean habitats. During a 2-min burst of activity;, oxygen consumption rose 7-15-fold in Anniella, Trogonophis and Thamnophis, and 33-fold in Ophisaurus. Anniella, Trogonophis, and Thamnophis had active metabolic rates, mass-specific aerobic scopes, anaerobic scopes, and total metabolic scopes similar to those of other reptiles of their body size, whereas Ophisaurus had exceptionally high values. Ophisaurus is thus unusual in having both a very high aerobic scope and a large anaerobic scope. Our data lead us to conclude that limblessness is not associated with a marked divergence from the metabolic patterns of quadrupedal reptiles, and that fossorial and surface-dwelling reptiles cannot be distinguished on the basis of metabolic indices.
30158286|Tritiated water dilution was used to measure changes in the proximate body composition of adult female southern elephant seals at the end of lactation and at the beginning and end of molt. During the 72  0.9 d foraging phase between lactation and molt, seals gained 1.50  0.16 kgd. Of the total mass gain (1065  10.5 kg) 49% was water, 39% was fat, and 11% was protein. This represented an increase in total body gross energy of 2,111  283 MJ throughout the foraging period. The rate of mass lost during molt was 4.70  0.21 kg d comprising 49% water, 33% fat and 16% protein. Although it was impossible to measure accurately the duration of fasting during the molt, the minimum cost of molt was 1,631  146 MJ, which was not significantly different from the energy gained between lactation and molt. Females invested half as much in molt as in the growth of their pups. The metabolic rate during molt was 2.15  17 Wkg1, which was 2.8  0.2 times the predicted resting metabolic rate. Water influx was greater than expected from metabolic water production, and seals had an additional water influx of 1. 75  0.31 Ld. This additional influx was negatively related to metabolic water production. There was some evidence from measurements of water influx that seals fed during molt, but this accounted for only 11.5% of the daily energy expenditure.
30163774|Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were estimated in the gut and arterial blood of tropical marine fishes collected from the vicinity of Lizard Island, Great Barrier Reef Species sampled were predominantly herbivorous, with some related nonherbivorous species. A total of 253 individuals from the following taxa were examined: Acanthuridae, 18 species; Siganidae, eight species; Scaridae, four species; Kyphosidae, one species; and Pomacanthidae, one species. The highest concentration of SCFA in the gut of all species was in the posterior half of the intestine, where the mean acetate concentration per species ranged from 3 to 40 mM. Lower concentrations of propionate, butyrate, and isovalerate were found in the gut of all species. The highest concentrations of SCFAs were found in species that fed on macroalgae, and the lowest concentrations in species that fed on sediments. Substantial concentrations of SCFAs were found in some planktivorous acanthurids. Acetate was present in the blood of species examined at concentrations of 0.45-3.80 mM. In addition, some species of acanthurids and all species of siganids examined had high blood levels of isovalerate. The high concentration of SCFAs in the intestine of some species suggests that gastrointestinal microorganisms contribute to the nutrition of many of the species examined.
30159995|Subcutaneous implants of estradiol in female song sparrows, Melospiza melodia, maintained sexual receptivity throughout the breeding season. Parental behavior apparently was not affected. Estrogenized females continued to incubate and feed young Plasma levels of prolactin were also unaffected by estrogen treatment. Male song sparrows mated to estrogenized females maintained high levels of testosterone throughout much of the breeding season. Only in late June and early July were testosterone levels in experimental males similar to those of controls. By July, however, levels of testosterone were again elevated significantly over those of controls. These data agree with other investigations showing that continual exposure of males to sexually receptive females maintains high levels of testosterone. The rise in prolactin in males was not affected by high circulating concentrations of testosterone, and changes in prolactin levels throughout the breeding season in experimental males were similar to the control cycle. It is concluded that in the song sparrow, elevated levels of prolactin during breeding do not inhibit secretion of sex steroids, nor do experimentally induced high circulating titers of sex steroid hormones alter seasonal changes in prolactin secretion.
30156006|The acute thermal tolerances of six Daphnia species were compared at three acclimation temperatures. Of the species tested, all but one showed an increase in thermal tolerance when acclimated at higher temperature. Comparison of the regression relationships between thermal tolerances and acclimation temperature revealed no significant interspecific differences among species in their improvement of thermal tolerance caused by acclimation. However, significant intraspecific differences in thermal tolerance were noted. Daphnia obtusa had the highest tolerance, while D. pulex had the lowest. Among the other species acclimated at 10 C, thermal tolerance declined in a sequence of D. ambigua, D. magna, D. carinata, and D. nivalis. The differences in thermal tolerance noted among species were correlated with maximum temperatures of the environment from which they originated. While comparison of clones of D. pulex from several geographic localities revealed up to 2 C differences in acute thermal tolerance, there was no evidence of clonal variation in thermal tolerance of D. magna.
30158502|The annual variations in reproductive characteristics of the female frog Rana perezi have been studied. In natural populations of this species, spawning takes place in early spring with the maximum development of the ovary and oviduct. After the female has mated, her ovary and oviduct are regressed, and the remaining mature ovarian follicles become completely resorbed, remaining in the ovary as atretic follicles. The ovarian follicular growth begins at the end of summer and continues throughout the autumn and winter. We have found pronounced seasonal changes in fat body development. The seasonal proflile of fat body weight is inversely related to ovary and oviduct seasonal cycles. Plasma levels of 17-estradiol showed a significant seasonal variation with maximal values occurring from late winter to the breeding time. After the mating the hormonal level drops to a minimum in summer.
30160001|A new model of water vapor exchange in avian egg is proposed, in which water is lost by egg only through the part of the eggshell that is uncovered by the brood patch. Experimental data from king penguin incubation are used for analysis, as in this species the single egg is in close and continuous contact with the brood patch on 25% of its shell area. The inclusion of water lost from the brood patch is necessary for the model to fit with experimental data. This model, called 'fractional model" as nest and egg are divided into two fun ctionally diferent parts, is compared with a classical model in which egg and nest are considered as homogeneous. In each model, a water loss from the brood patch is either considered or not. The fractional model, with the inclusion of brood patch water loss, appears preferable because it more accurately reflects the observed incubation conditions of the king penguin and is in better agreement with experimental data throughout incubation. The major consequences of such a model could be extended to other bird species: an actual shell water vapor conductance under the brooder that is reduced; a heterogeneous nest that provides a temperature for the developing embryo different from that for egg water loss; and a possible influx of water through the upper part of the egg.
10.1086/515879|Physiological acclimation that alters enzyme activity can compensate for the effect of temperature on function and may be achieved by altering enzyme concentration. This study uses phylogenetic analyses to investigate the evolutionary history of and to test several hypotheses about acclimation responses among all the glycolytic enzymes. These hypotheses are that (1) acclimation increases enzyme concentration at lower temperatures to compensate for reduced activity; (2) equilibrium enzymes tend to show acclimation responses; and (3) acclimation responses are more common in species whose populations experience either large temporal or geographical temperature variations. Using maximal activities as indices of enzyme concentration, the presence of acclimation responses in all the glycolytic enzymes in the heart ventricle was determined for five species in the teleost genus
30156229|Osmotic water flow (
30163798|The inter- and intra-annual variation in milk composition in Antarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus gazella) was investigated over three consecutive lactation periods (1990-1992) at Bird Island, South Georgia, which included one period of low food availability. One hundred and ninety-two milk samples were collected from 154 individuals. The mean milk composition was 40.5%  0.5% lipid, 10.4%  0.2% protein, 44.8%  0.6% water, 0.133%  0.0059% carbohydrate, and 0.694%  0.125% ash. Lipids contributed most (> 70%) of the gross energy of the milk. Water content could be used to predict lipid (r = 0.83) and protein (r = 0.13) content, but it could be used to predict gross energy content with the greatest accuracy of all (r = 0.97). Stage of lactation, maternal mass, and year of sampling accounted for 27% of the observed variability in gross energy content. Following the perinatal period, milk lipid and gross energy content increased throughout lactation in all years, whereas water content decreased. Protein content decreased throughout lactation in 1990 but increased in the following 2 yr. Milk lipid and protein content decreased by as much as 14% and 5%, respectively, during each 1-2-d lactation bout. Minor, though significant, variation was found between the composition of milk collected from different mammae within individuals. The changes in composition observed both within and between lactation periods, and the level of inter- and intraindividual variation, emphasize the need for extensive sampling in order to describe adequately milk composition in otariids.
30158516|Five species of fish were chosen to approximate the range of tolerance to low pH seen in freshwater fish. On the basis of published field and laboratory information, which was confirmed by measuring ion losses at low pH (pH 4. 0 and 3.25), the five species ranked in terms of decreasing tolerance to low pH as follows: banded sunfish (Centrarchidae: Enneacanthus obesus), yellow perch (Percidae: Perca flavescens), smallmouth bass (Centrarchidae: Micropterus dolomieu), rainbow trout (Salmonidae: Oncorhynchus mykiss), and common shiner (Cyprinidae: Notropis cornutus). Gills were analyzed for various morphological and morphometric features including lamellar surface area, chloride-cell density and mucous-cell density, sialic acid content, and depth of tight junctions. We conclude from these measurements that acid tolerance is not correlated with either the overt physical dimensions of the gills (surface area, lamellar thickness, diffusion distance) or with the degree of mucification of the surface. It may, however, be correlated with chloride-cell density and branchial ion-transport activity. This relation is interpreted as indicating that sensitivity to low pH is largely a function of the intrinsic ion permeability of the gills. Measurements on trout and perch indicate that one way of reducing ion permeability is via an increase in the depth of tight junctions between adjacent gill-pavement cells.
30155774|The magnitude and effects of intrapopulational variability in the sizes of eggs produced by the salamanders Ambystoma maculatum, A. opacum, and A. tigrinum have been investigated by calorimetric and respirometric procedures. It has been found that some females produce eggs with as many as 29.0 cal while others in the same population at the same time produce eggs with as few as 16.5 cal. Significant differences in the dry weight-specific energy content of ova have been found at the species, population, and individual levels, but the contribution of this variability to the variability in total energy content of ova is relatively low. All embryos regardless of species or temperature use 1.45 cal in order to hatch. Development to the feeding stage is more efficient for embryos that develop from larger ova and at warmer temperatures, offering an explanation for altitudinal and latitudinal variation that is often seen in egg size in amphibians. The effects of a fluctuating temperature environment are shown to be not unusual. Ontogenetic variation in respiratory rates between the hatching and feeding stages has been found. A relationship between respiratory rate and ovum size is used to explain ovum-size-related differences in developmental rate.
30152578|Blood samples were taken from free-ranging marine iguanas to determine the extent to which anaerobic energy production occurs during daily activity. Blood samples taken from basking, foraging, running, swimming, and diving iguanas were analyzed for lactate concentration. Lactate production makes no significant contribution to net metabolic energy production in basking or foraging marine iguanas under normal conditions. Basking iguanas and iguanas returning to shore following subtidal foraging had blood lactate concentrations which were not different than concentrations in resting lizards. Anaerobic energy production does occur during burst running of the type observed by lizards escaping predation on land. It appears that anaerobic energy production is not utilized during normal foraging.
30158660|Two neotropical and two temperate zone salamander species were acclimated at 12 or 22 C and their metabolic rates measured at 5, 15, and 25 C. Acclimation temperature altered standard metabolic rates of temperate zone salamanders but not neotropical salamanders. Also, acclimation temperature had a greater effect on several measures of postactivity oxygen consumption in the temperate zone species than in the neotropical species. However, acclimation temperature had little effect on anaerobic activity metabolism (lactate production) in either group. Fifteen species of temperate zone amphibians showed significant thermal acclimation of metabolism; the two neotropical salamanders were the only species that showed no acclimation. Relative stability of habitats may lead to loss of capacity for thermal acclimation in salamanders. Thermal acclimation in temperate zone salamanders and compensation for temperature in neotropical salamanders tend to moderate energetic costs. These mechanisms may allow normally cool salamanders to withstand energetic stresses often associated with high temperatures. However, lack of acclimation ability may restrict neotropical salamanders to smaller climatic ranges.
10.1086/515848|A single cohort of small individuals (31 mm mean shell length, 112 mg mean dry flesh weight) of the marine bivalve mollusc
30158582|Behavioral and physiological research were combined to determine how California gulls (Larus californicus) are able to survive and breed at Mono Lake, California, a lake that is two and one-half times more concentrated (2,400 mOsm kg) than seawater and contains high concentrations of sulfates and carbonates as well as sodium and chloride. Adults avoided salt loading by (1) taking in very little lake water along with brine shrimp (and brine flies) they obtained from the lake and (2) visiting freshwater sources along the shore. Their stomach contents averaged 466 mOsm kg, slightly more dilute than the salt concentration of brine shrimp (~500 mOsm kg). Stomach contents of chicks and fledglings averaged 636 and 651 mOsm kg, respectively. Hematocrits, serum osmolality, serum sodium and potassium, and body-water content of adults, chicks, and fledglings were similar to those of other birds and indicated neither salt loading nor dehydration. Salt glands of adults and chicks were not hypertrophied. Experiments with captive juveniles showed that (1) gulls dislike the taste of even 10% Mono Lake water and (2) flightless juveniles can survive at least 3 days on brine shrimp in 125% Mono Lake water. Free-living juveniles can evidently survive much longer without access to fresh water. It is likely that gulls that are adapted to hypersaline lakes do not require fresh water so long as they are feeding on prey with dilute body fluids and high body-water content. However, during the transition to independence when chicks must learn to feed for themselves-a period of several days-salt loading and dehydration may pose a problem.
30158511|Fish gill morphology and function are intricately related. Adjustments in gill morphology during adaptation of fish to environmental changes are often instrumental in conserving physiological functions. But optimization of one particular gill function by an environmentally induced morphological modification may be detrimental to other gill functions. Moreover, changes in gill morphology in response to a particular environment may not always be beneficial and indeed may contribute to the death of fish in polluted or acidified waters. In this paper we discuss both adaptive and nonadaptive changes in gill morphology when fish encounter changing environments. Emphasis is placed on recent findings concerning environmental oxygen, ionic composition, and xenobiotics. An assimilation of the results of these studies reveal a common response to widely different environmental disturbances (e.g., hyperoxia, hypercapnia, acidification, low [ NaCl], low [ Ca ], freshwater-to-seawater transfer), namely branchial chloride cell proliferation. We suggest therefore that the chloride cell is multifunctional and plays a role in Ca uptake, acid-base balance, NaCl uptake in freshwater fish, and NaCl excretion in seawater fish.
30155968|The Cape ground squirrel, Xerus inauris, a diurnally active inhabitant of hot arid regions of southern Africa, reduces environmental heat load by using its bushy tail as a portable parasol. During late spring in the southern Kalahari, operative environmental temperature (
30163854|Rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and American eels (Anguilla rostrata) were infused intra-arterially with NaHCO (800 mol/kg/h) to assess their acid-base regulatory mechanisms during metabolic alkalosis. In both species, plasma pH and [HCO ] increased during infusion, although the changes were more pronounced in the eel. In trout, pH and [HCO] were returned to preinfusion values by 12 h after infusion was stopped, while in the eel there was only incomplete clearance of accumulated [HCO] during the 24-h postinfusion period. In each case, approximately 20 mmol/L of HCO was removed from the plasma during postinfusion. The predominant mechanism employed by both trout and eel to regulate blood acid-base status during alkalosis was manipulation of branchial net Cl flux
30158203|Rates of O uptake across the skin and across the gills of young chinook salmon Oncorhynchus tshawytscha weighing between 92 mg (shortly after hatch) and 1.1 g (well into the fry stage) were determined at 12 C with a two-chamber, closedsystem respirometer. Cutaneous uptake accounted for most of the O consumed by newly hatched alevins (up to 84%). However, the branchial contribution increased rapidly during larval development, so that by the time alevins weighed about 281 mg (halfway through the alevin stage), only 50% of the total O, consumed was taken up across the skin. This trend continued; by the time the alevins began exogenous feeding ( 400 mg), cutaneous uptake had fallen to 40% of total O consumption. The relative importance of the skin declined more slowly during the fry stage and appeared to stabilize at about 30% of total uptake. About half of the increase in the proportion of O, taken up across the gills was due to a relative increase in branchial surface area. The other half was due to an increase in the eficiency of branchial uptake as the fish matured. In newly hatched larvae, area-specific O uptake across the gills was only slightly higher than that across the skin (10.1 vs. 7.5 g  h  cm), whereas in a 1-g fry roughly six times as much O per unit area was taken up across the gills as across the skin (60 vs. 9.6 g  h  cm).
30159930|The O uptake (
30152619|To test whether energy metabolism is responsive to changes in the aquatic environment and to better understand the exercise physiology of acid-tolerant fish species and populations, I compared metabolic responses to exercise and recovery in a population of perch from a naturally acidic lake (acid-lake perch, ALP) and a circumneutral lake (neutral-lake perch, NLP). White muscle from the two populations was sampled after 16 h of acclimation in a swim flume to either pH 4.0 or pH 7.8 water, after exhaustion induced by a critical swimming speed protocol, or after 6-12 h of recovery from exhaustive exercise. Extracts were analyzed for nucleotides, phosphagens, and glycolytic intermediates. Acid-lake perch had less severe postexercise metabolite perturbations and poorer exercise performance in neutral water than NLP, which suggests that fish that fully activate anaerobic metabolism during exercise may have been selected against in this population. Populations differed most in lactate and pyruvate levels, with ALP accumulating more pyruvate and less lactate after exercise than NLP. There was some support for my hypothesis that ALP are selected for minimal proton accumulation during recovery from exercise. Acid water altered the postexercise metabolic profile in NLP only. The significantly lower lactate, AMP, and IMP levels in "acid-naive" NLP signaled an inability of these fish to fully use anaerobic sources of ATP in acid water.
30158291|Characterization of metabolic rate is critical to constructing daily and seasonal energy budgets, constructing models of individuals for use in individual based modeling, understanding patterns of resource allocation, and understanding within-and among-population variation in life-history phenotypes. We investigated the efects of mass, ambient temperature, time of day, sex, population of origin, and feeding on O consumption of the canyon lizard, Sceloporus merriami. We observed strong efects of mass and ambient temperature and constructed predictive relationships for O consumption on the basis of these variables for scotophase and photophase. These fundamental relationships coupled with existing field body temperature data suggest that lizards from populations exhibiting different daily body temperature profiles may significantly differ in maintenance requirement. We observed strong diel cycles in O consumption that were correlated with daily activity. No main effects of sex orpopulation of origin were observed. A significant higher-order interaction involving temperature, time of day, sex, and population of origin suggests that ecologically significant variation in metabolic rate may occur between groups defined by sex and population. A plateau in O consumption between 32 and 34C was observed during scotophase. This plateau is not easily explained as a mechanism of homeostasis because scotophase body temperatures may often fall below this range. Feeding significantly increased O consumption in this species; the magnitude of increase was linearly related to meal size. We estimated the total energetic cost of digestion to be between 2.9% and 4.9% of dietary metabolizable energy content.
30156177|Understanding avian daily and annual patterns of energy allocation, acquisition, and utilization is important in determining the influence of biotic and abiotic factors on fitness. On average birds have the highest per gram turnover of energy, have the highest core body temperature, maintain high levels of activity, including flight, as well as many complex behaviors, and tend to be small. These factors combine to reduce the maximum amount of energy that can be effectively stored over a daily and annual cycle and could result in fewer options for energy allocation in comparison to those of other vertebrates. This article reviews a number of recent avian studies that investigated the effects of time and energy allocation on the costs of reproduction, avian distribution patterns, and analysis of parental investment. I discuss the possible use of recently refined, doubly labeled water field metabolism techniques to assess the influence of metabolic demands on natality and mortality rates, intrinsic rate of increase, and population density.
30155863|The independent flux rates of water sorption and transpiration were examined using tritiated water for adult worker ants, Formica exsectoides, when tested under a variety of environmental conditions. Transpiration rates were independent of relative humidity (RH) while sorption rates were proportional to RH. Net water loss was proportional to RH due to lower sorption rates at lower RHs. Significant changes in transpiration rates were observed when ants were changed from a long light phase photoperiod to a short light phase photoperiod. Ants were also more permeable to water loss during the winter hibernating period than during the summer active periods. Net water loss in time was significantly greater for isolated workers than for grouped workers.
30164269|Diet-induced thermogenesis occurs in laboratory rats consuming either a cafeteria or a low-protein diet. Researchers suggest that diet-induced thermogenesis regulates weight by oxidizing excess food intake. Alternatively, diet-induced thermogenesis may enhance nutrient uptake from a diet that is nutritionally unbalanced By increasing food intake and then selectively oxidizing excess nonessential nutrients, a herbivore could enhance uptake of one or more limiting nutrients. In the wild, nitrogen can be in limited supply for many animals, especially herbivores The ability of a small herbivore to use diet-induced thermogenesis to enhance nitrogen uptake, therefore, could be adaptive. Prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) were studied to see if diet-induced thermogenesis occurs when they consume a low-protein diet. Results show that voles fed artificial low-protein diets (2.5% casein) have lower energy efficiencies and higher metabolic rates per unit of metabolizable energy intake than voles fed high-protein diets (15% casein), which is indicative of diet-induced thermogenesis. Herbivorous voles apparently require a lower level of dietary protein to elicit diet-induced thermogenesis than omnivorous laboratory rats. Also, voles are known to have a basal metabolic rate that is higher than predicted based on allometric comparisons to other vertebrates. Therefore, it is suggested that voles do not have to increase metabolism to oxidize excess intake until nitrogen levels are very low because their basal metabolic rates are already elevated and facilitate energy turnover and protein distillation in the body.
30158278|The maintenance nitrogen requirement (MNR) of the rufous rat-kangaroo (Aepyprymnus rufescens) was determined in a series of balance studies, with animals fed cereal/oat-hull diets varying in their content of nitrogen (5.8-17.0 g N per kg dry matter) and plant-cell walls (fiber). Nitrogen balance was not affected by the level of dietary fiber. Consequently, the data were pooled to give a truly digestible MNR of 199 mg per
30158440|Microelectrodes sensitive to Na, K, and Ca have been used to measure the gradients of ion activity existing within the mucous layer on an isolated preparation of the esophagus of Rhombosolea retiaria. These measurements demonstrate that there exists above the mucosal surface a variable unstirred layer. This layer varies in thickness from 50m to 1,200 m, as revealed by the response of the ion-sensitive electrodes upon entering the layer. The layer supports a gradient of Na, K, and Ca activity with either freshwater or seawater as the mucosal solution. This gradient may be as little as 1% or as great as 51% of the overall activity gradient between mucosal and serosal solutions. The gradients for all three cations are normally linear. It is likely that mucus supports this unstirred layer on the mucosal surface; ion movement through the layer is by diffusion only and results in the establishment of stable, linear, diffusion gradients of ions. In the conditions of these experiments these gradients can reach considerable proportions of the overall gradients. An attempt is made to interpret these findings with respect to the in vivo conditions of, and functions of, the mucous layer.
30156163|We measured oxygen consumption and cloacal body temperature of verdins (Auriparus flaviceps) in a wind tunnel metabolism chamber at combinations of air temperature and wind speed ranging from 5 to 35 C and 0.05 to 3.0 m/s, respectively. Metabolic rate correlated positively with wind speed at all air temperatures. The wind speed dependence of metabolism was negatively correlated with chamber air temperature such that wind had a greater influence on metabolic rate at low temperatures. Total thermal resistance of verdins decreased with increasing wind at all air temperatures. Body (tissue plus coat) thermal resistance decreased with wind also, indicating that plumage insulation was disrupted by forced convection. We used a convection-adjusted time budget model to estimate the daily energy requirements of wintering verdins and found that moderate increases in mean daily wind speed caused 20%-30% increases in estimated verdin daily energy expenditure. Our results demonstrate the importance of wind's effects on the energy budgets of small birds.
30164281|Channel catfish were collected on 11 different dates from October 1991 to July 1993 and acclimated in the laboratory to 7C, 15C, or 25C for 6 wk. Hepatosomatic index, mg protein mg DNA, total liver DNA and protein, and the activities of liver glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, and malate dehydrogenase were measured to examine seasonal variation in the acclimation response. Liver and muscle cytochrome oxidase and lactate dehydrogenase activities were measured to compare tissue-specific responses. Hepatosomatic indexes of fall and winter channel catfish were highest at 7C, with values at 15C higher than at 25C, while spring and summer fish had the highest values at 15C, with values at 7C higher than those at 25C. Acclimation patterns for total liver protein and DNA, mg protein mg DNA, and glycogen were generally higher in cold temperatures but varied seasonally in an unpredictable manner. Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, and malate dehydrogenase demonstrated positive acclimation in the fall and winter; fish collected in the spring and summer showed little or inverse acclimation. Liver lactate dehydrogenase activity showed little or no positive compensation at any time of the year. Cytochrome oxidase activity showed positive acclimation in muscle but not liver. All liver enzymes, even those that showed marginal acclimation on a protein basis, showed positive acclimation when activity was expressed on a whole-liver basis.
30158293|The standard metabolic rate (SMR) of viviparous female lizards (Sceloporus jarrovi) was measured at different times during the reproductive cycle at 30C. The pattern of change in rate of O consumption (
30163910|We examined thermal acclimation of cuticular lipids in five full-sibling families of the lesser migratory grasshopper, Melanoplus sanguinipes. The use of exuviae for lipid studies enabled us to follow the course of acclimation for each individual Surface lipid biophysical properties were studied by means of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, which served as an indicator of the functional physiological consequences of changes in lipid composition. Changes in melting temperatures of cuticular lipids (
10.1086/515866|A fluorescentsensitive assay demonstrated the exhaustive detection of proteinase activities in the dorsal skin of the European eel. Two distinct skin extracts were prepared from skin mucus and epidermal cell layers with no mutual contamination, so that the latter extract contained significant susceptibility of all tested substrates. Optimum hydrolysis pH's for susceptible substrates were found in acidic and neutral ranges, and optimum hydrolysis temperatures for the same substrates fell mainly in the 4050C range. In addition, diverse inhibitory influences on these hydrolyses were prompted by several proteinase inhibitors and metal chlorides, and some other reagents specifically affected the individual hydrolysis; among them, the inhibitions of all activities by
30159949|Metabolic heat production (
30166348|Oxygen consumption was measured during incubation in the eggs of the Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis), a reptile that exhibits prolonged embryonic development. Oxygen consumption of eggs (mean mass 175 g) showed a sigmoidal pattern over the course of an incubation period, averaging 235.6 d at 29C. The rate of oxygen consumption during the plateau prior to hatching averaged 151.1 mL/d. The incubation time was 210% greater and the peak oxygen consumption 53.2% less than predicted by existing allometric equations. Analysis of incubation time data indicates that the Komodo dragon is not unique in having prolonged incubation times relative to those of previously studied reptiles that do not undergo diapause. The cost of development in dragons averaged 329.4 kJ (1.88 kJ/g egg mass), which is significantly higher than predicted. These results are consistent with those predicted from models of developmental energetics based on avian species.
30164271|The metabolic physiology of five high-elevation anurans in the Colombian Andes (Atelopus sp. nov., Atelopus muisca, Colostethus subpunctatus, Eleutherodactylus bogotensis, and Hyla labialis) was analyzed for correlates with ife in an extreme and variable environment. I compared populations of these species at 3,500 m and 2,900 m and contrasted the results with those from lowland congenerics from Panama (Atelopus varius, Colostethus talamancae, Colostethus flotator, Eleutherodactylus diastema, Hyla microcephala, and Hyla ebraccata). I collected data on the effects of temperature on locomotor performance, the thermal sensitivity of resting and activity metabolism, and the capacity for metabolic acclimation. All five high-elevation species were able to swim through a broad temperature range, whereas low-elevation species showed little ability to move at low temperatures. None of the species studied exhibited a capacity for metabolic acclimation. However, activity metabolic rates and aerobic metabolic scopes at low temperatures were always higher in the high-elevation frogs. Apparently, similar physiological traits that facilitate activity at the low and variable temperatures that characterize the high-elevation environment evolved independently in the four genera studied.
30161228|The opisthobranch Elysia chlorotica is an extremely euryhaline osmoconformer that does not utilize free amino acids to regulate cell volume. Instead, a quaternary ammonium compound is the major osmotic solute. Following exposure to low salinity, the regulation of tissue hydration is associated with a decline of tissue concentrations of a quaternary ammonium compound that then appears in the blood. The decrease in tissue concentrations of the quaternary ammonium compound is accounted for by a large, transient increase in the excretion rate of this compound. Only a small increase in ammonia excretion rates occurs following exposure of Elysia to a hypoosmotic stress, and, when acclimation is complete, the ammonia excretion rates remain elevated. Thus, the quaternary ammonium compound utilized for cell volume regulation by Elysia is excreted intact by the whole animal rather than being degraded or conserved.
30156150|Modulation of the free-running circadian period of wheel-running activity by prior entrainment was studied in flying squirrels by two different methods. First, animals in standard bin cages were entrained to two consecutive photoentrainment light-dark schedules (12L: 12D) separated by a period of darkness (DD). The mean free-running period for 10 squirrels in constant darkness lengthened from 23.75 h initially to 23.86 h following the first entrainment and 23.90 h after the second entrainment. The mean period reverted during the final 8 wk of constant darkness to 23.86 h. Because of inherent limitations of standard bin cages, a second approach utilized simulated den cages. Assessment of photic information by squirrels for photoentrainment to an LD schedule occurred in den cages chiefly during a few minutes at the time of arousal from the rest period (CT 12). A phase delay in onset of activity occurred, accompanied by a long-lasting lengthening of the apparently free-running pacemaker. Frequency modulation may act as a significant factor in the mechanism of photoentrainment of this rodent.
30158530|Energy expenditure of fasting territorial male Antarctic fur seals at South Georgia was measured by mass loss and analysis of carcass composition using tritium dilution in 1987 and 1988. Mean mass loss was 1.52  0.04 kg  d, mean length of territory tenure was 30.7  2.21 d, mean mass at the start of tenure was 188.0  1.92 kg; there were no differences between the two years (P > 0.1). Mass loss was 53.8% fat (80% of which was from blubber), 36% water, and 10.2% protein. Fat accounted for 91.6% of energy expenditure, the remainder being from protein. Energy expenditure was 42.1  2.34 MJ  d, or 3.16  0.34 W  kg, which is 3.3 times the predicted basal metabolic rate. Large body size in male compared to female fur seals may be related to the energy requirements of territoriality, but only in 1988 was there a significant correlation between starting mass and duration of tenure. This suggests that energy reserves are only one of several factors influencing tenure duration. Male fur seals are composed of 24% fat when they arrive at the breeding grounds, which is lower than for most other pinnipeds that fast through an extended period ashore.
30155769|Euthermic ground squirrels (Citellus lateralis) maintained at an ambient temperature of 22 C and on a 12L/12D photoperiod exhibit a circannual rhythm of sleep with its maxima coinciding with the hibernation season. Percent time asleep increased in the fall, remained high during the winter, decreased in the spring, and reached its lowest levels during the summer. The proportions of sleep time occupied by slow-wave sleep (80%) and rapid-eye-movement sleep (20%) remained constant throughout the year.
30161225|In the Nemertina, cytological and physiological evidence points to an involvement of the cerebral organs and neurosecretory system (cerebral ganglia) in isoosmotic volume regulation. The solutes involved and the compartmentalization of the response between extra- and intracellular spaces have not been previously investigated. Intact and decerebrated (i.e., lacking cerebral organs and cerebral ganglia) Paranemertes peregrina were subjected to hypoosmotic (100% seawater [SW]  70% SW for 72 h) as well as fluctuating salinity conditions (100% SW  70% SW for 3 h  100% SW for 12 h  70% SW for 3 h). Replacement therapy experiments were not performed. In hypoosmotic media, intact individuals of P. peregrina regulate volume via putative neuroendocrine (1) stimulation of nephridial or gut elimination of extracellular water, Na, and Cl; (2) reduction in the permeability of the body wall or gut to inorganic ions; or (3) both mechanisms. The experiments performed do not allow for conclusive separation of these effects. There was also evidence for intracellular regulatory volume decrease (RVD) via organic solutes, but no direct effect of decerebration was observed. Under fluctuating salinity conditions, intact individuals of P. peregrina do not undergo regulatory volume increase (RVI) upon return to full-strength SW. However, RVD accomplished by Na and Cl excretion is potentiated by prior exposure to a diluted medium. Decerebration results in inability of the worms to restore their original water content upon return to full-strength SW as well as in the absence of RVD upon reexposure to hypoosmotic conditions. The excess water and inorganic solutes gained by decerebrated worms during initial exposure to diluted SW contribute substantially to the effects observed in these organisms under fluctuating salinity conditions. The relative contributions of the cerebral organs and the cerebral ganglia to volume regulation are not elucidated by the present study.
30161240|Although the mechanism of discharge of nematocysts is still controversial, most authors agree that bound calcium plays an definite role in stabilizing the resting state of capsules. Therefore, the kinetics of the release of Ca during the discharge is expected to provide useful information about the mechanism of discharge itself. The investigation was performed on microbasic mastigophores extruded in 1 M citrate from the acontia of Aiptasia mutabilis. The release of free Ca during the discharge of a population of nematocysts induced by treatment with hypoosmotic medium was revealed by the light emission of aequorin. The time course of light emission was related to the discharge curve. The recorded light signal had two different components: a short-latency one preceding the discharge and a longer one paralleling the discharge. The effectiveness of the hypoosmotic medium in inducing the discharge was not constant in various samples. Unresponsive nematocysts gave rise to a different light signal. These data suggest that in microbasic mastigophores of Aiptasia some change in the outer layer of the capsule wall is associated with the discharge. In conclusion, in the discharge of the microbasic mastigophores of Aiptasia mutabilis, the unbinding of calcium from protein molecules of the capsule fluid could be involved. However, also in these nematocysts, the osmotically generated energy for discharge is not effective unless the "stopper" is opened.
30157867|Critical thermal maxima (CTMAX) and minima (CTMIN), approximate upper and lower lethal temperatures, and the temperature limits of activity were determined for workers of diurnal and nocturnal species of Myrmecocystus. The CTMIN of diurnal species were between 11.2 and 12.0 C, and that of the nocturnal species was -0.4 C. All species had CTMAX between 43.3 and 48.4 C. Lower lethal temperatures of individuals of all species exposed for 2 h were below -5 C, and upper lethal temperatures were between 40 and 45 C. Diurnal species were active at 13-46 C air temperature (Ta) and 13-60 C soil surface temperature (Ts), and the nocturnal species was active at Ta and Ts of 2-30 C.
30164272|Birds colonizing different climates must alter some aspect of their breeding biology to maintain successful reproduction. Comparative analyses were used to elucidate the changes in parental behavior and in the rate of development of the young associated with successful breeding of charadriiform birds in Antarctica. The species studied, the kelp gull Larus dominicanus, the South Polar skua Catharacta maccormicki, and the greater sheathbill Chionis alba, represent three of the four independent colonizations of Antarctica by charadriiform birds. Antarctic species brooded their young two to five times longer than did their temperate relatives. The Antarctic young had greater tolerance to hypothermia, which suggests that, historically, parental care failed to protect the young from selection by low temperatures. Antarctic hatchlings were neither larger nor metabolically more mature than their relatives. Despite presumed selection on the young by low temperatures and the presence of individual variation in development, the young did not attain homeothermy significantly earlier than did their temperate relatives. Growth rates over the entire nestling period were also similar for Antarctic and temperate species. The Antarctic young did grow faster to a moderate size more favorable for thermoregulation and showed coordinately faster development of resting metabolic rate. South Polar skuas, from the oldest Antarctic lineage, further diverged in having accelerated development of thermogenesis, which substantially reduced their reliance on parental brooding. Evolutionary changes in physiological development of the young have resulted in improved abilities to tolerate hypothermia and in lower costs, relative to peak metabolic rates, to maintain homeothermy.
30158608|In situ, the terrestrial hermit crab Coenobita clypeatus may be exposed to extremes of temperature together with the associated problems of dehydration. In the present in vitro study, the effect of temperature on hemocyanin oxygen affinity was small over the range 25-30 C (H = -14.8 kJ  mol). Outside this range, however, changes in enthalpy were >39 kJ  mol. Changes in calcium and hemocyanin concentration over the range expected in vivo did not appreciably affect oxygen affinity. A dilution of the hemocyanin concentration to 50% of the original value decreased oxygen affinity only slightly. The addition of L-lactate, a known effector of hemocyanin oxygen affinity to nondialyzed and dialyzed hemolymph, did not influence hemocyanin oxygen affinity. The hemolymph of Coenobita contained a large amount of urate (~1 mM) and 1.2 mM L-lactate. The removal of this ion, also an effector of hemocyanin oxygen affinity, resulted in a hemolymph preparation that exhibited the same oxygen-binding properties as whole hemolymph. The hemocyanin-free plasma of Coenobita was, however, capable of increasing the O affinity of crayfish hemocyanin, confirming that Coenobita hemocyanin itself is extremely insensitive to identified effectors of hemocyanin oxygen affinity in other crustaceans.
30155860|Buccal movements at the air-water interface causing surface water and air bubble inhalation ("surface breathing") and the resultant effects on blood O transport have been quantified as a function of inspired water Po in the goldfish, Carassius auratus. At 26 C, surface breathing occurred below a Po of about 70 mmHg and increased to a peak of 180 surface breathing periods/h at Po 20 mmHg. At this severe level of hypoxia, surface breathing resulted in a significant elevation of arterial Po by 1.2 mmHg above that in control goldfish, which were not surface breathing. This very small rise in arterial Po caused a sharp rise in arterial blood O saturation from 16% to 33%, because of the high oxygen affinity (
30156048|Metabolic rate and thermal responses to ambient temperatures between -26.5 C and 34.0 C were studied in the adult black grouse in both summer and winter, and in juvenile (70-80 days old) black grouse in early autumn. At an ambient temperature between 0 C and 20 C, the body temperature of the adult grouse was significantly higher in summer (41.3  .09 C) than in winter (40.2  .14 C). The standard metabolism at thermoneutrality was 6.5 W/kg in summer and 8.2 W/kg in winter, being higher in both seasons than predicted by theoretical equations. The lower critical temperature was 9.5-12.5 C in summer and around 5 C in winter. However, no clear inflection point was seen in the metabolism in winter. The increase in metabolic rate was only 1.7-fold in winter and 2.2-fold in summer when ambient temperature decreased from 30 C to -23 C. At ambient temperatures ranging from 10 C to -23 C the thermal conductance was higher in winter than in summer; in winter, but not in summer, it decreased with decreasing ambient temperature. The assumption is that in winter the black grouse improve their insulation also at ambient temperature far below the lower critical temperature.
10.1086/515887|The extent of variation in reptile field metabolism, and its causal bases, are poorly understood. We studied the energetics of the insectivorous lizard
30159942|Energy expenditures for food processing, maintenance, and activity requirements were determined in the laboratory on the American badger, Taxidea taxus, both with ad lib. food and starved for 7, 20, and 30 days. Body weight decreased at about 76 g per day, resulting in a respiratory quotient (RQ) of 0.83 after 30 days of starvation. Energy requirements were calculated from
30157906|Full-term mallee fowl embryos (3 days before hatch) respond to prolonged chilling by increasing oxygen consumption but are unable to prevent egg temperature from dropping. The increase in oxygen consumption is interpreted as the initiation of autonomic thermoregulatory behavior. The transition from purely ectothermic to endothermic behavior takes 3-5 days, a time similar to other precocial birds. However, in mallee fowl, this process occurs before hatching, while, in the other species, it occurs after hatching.
30158634|Bythograea thermydron, a brachyuran crab endemic to the deep-sea hydrothermal vent habitats, encounters concentrations of hydrogen sulfide of up to 318 M. To determine how B. thermydron avoids the potentially lethal effects of these high concentrations of sulfide, we examined several physiological and biochemical systems to determine, first, this species' sensitivity to sulfide, and, second, how sulfide entering the body is detoxified. The heart rate of B. thermydron was unaffected by ambient sulfide concentrations of up to 1,400 M. The toxic effects of sulfide were not avoided by exclusion of sulfide from the body. Protection from sulfide poisoning appears to be achieved by a sulfide detoxification system located in the hepatopancreas. The initial step in this process was the oxidation of sulfide by a sulfide oxidase enzyme. The hepatopancreas of B. thermydron produced thiosulfate and sulfate as the major products of sulfide oxidation. Thiosulfate accumulated to >1 mM in the blood. The toxicity of sulfide, sulfide-oxidizing activities, and products of sulfide metabolism were compared in three nonvent crabs, Cancer antennarius, Pachygrapsus crassipes, and Portunis xantusii. These species exhibited qualitatively similar adaptations. However, the nonvent species were significantly more sensitive to sulfide poisoning than was the vent crab.
30155673|Osmomineral regulation in four species of anurans from diverse habitats was studied under aquatic conditions. Ascaphus truei is aquatic, Rana pipiens is semiaquatic, Hyla regilla and Bufo boreas are terrestrial. The rate of osmosis is faster in terrestrial forms than aquatic forms. In l cmh mean values were A. truei = 4.0, R. pipiens = 4.8, H. regilla = 5.6, and B. boreas = 16. Higher values reflect higher skin permeability to water and a higher osmolality of body fluids. Plasma Na is closely regulated at about 100 mM, which is over 100 times more concentrated than the pond water these species encounter in nature. Unidirectional fluxes of sodium were measured with
10.1086/515876|Interpopulation variation in the diet of the wood mouse,
30158619|The respiration physiology of active and dormant land snails was examined in relation to the reduced rates of metabolism and water loss that occur during dormancy. In active snails, partial pressures of O (PO) and of CO (PCO) in the lung differed by less than 16 torr from air. Arterial PCO was similar to that in lung gas, but arterial PO was as much as 60 torr lower than that in the lung, indicating strong diffusion limitation of O uptake across the lung epithelium. With increase in temperature, PCO increased and PO decreased in the lung, and hemolymph pH declined. During dormancy, mean PO in the lung was 100 torr lower and mean PCO was 50 torr higher than during activity. PO dropped as low as 2.6 torr and PCO rose as high as 101.0 torr. Low PO and high PCO in the lung and hemolymph were associated with low O consumption and also with low values of the respiratory exchange ratio (
30152609|Permeability of the epiphragm of Otala lactea (Helicidae) to O, CO, and water vapor was determined and used to assess the significance of the epiphragm as a barrier to evaporative water loss and respiratory gas exchange during dormancy. A distinct region of the epiphragm, known as the Kalkfleck, occupies 6% of the area but accounts for 98% of the diffusive conductance of the epiphragm for O and CO. The high gas permeability of the Kalkfleck results from air channels that penetrate a loose aggregate of crystalline CaCO granules. The rest of the epiphragm is relatively impermeable and includes a nonporous layer which is absent from the Kalkfleck. Rates of water loss and respiratory gas exchange of Otala were incorporated with epiphragm permeability measurements in diffusion equations to determine the relative contribution of epiphragms to resistance to diffusion of gases from Otala. These calculations indicate that epiphragms provide up to 20% of the total resistance to evaporative water loss during dormancy and that the Kalkfleck is necessary to permit respiratory gas exchange.
30158279|Adlie penguins (mean body mass 3.81 kg) brooding small chicks had field metabolic rates (FMRs, measured using doubly labeled water) averaging 1.64 mL CO, g h, equivalent to 3,896 kJ d and 3.8 times basal metabolic rate (BMR). Energy utilization while on the nest was 2.0 X BMR, and it was 5.4 X BMR when off the nest, including time spent foraging at sea. These FMRs are higher than in other species of penguins and may reflect an intense foraging effort associated with a relative scarcity of food during our study. The penguins ate only krill (Euphausia superba), primarily juveniles of intermediate size, which contain much water, little lipid, and relatively lowu metabolizable energy content compared to gravid female krill. Low water intake rates indicated that the penguins did not drink much fresh water or seawater and that they did not consume quite enough food to pay their own energy expenses after feeding their chicks. Their utilization of body fat to pay the difference should have amounted to about 33 g d during this phase of the breeding cycle. We estimated that the 25,500 Adlie penguins using the Arthur Harbor area around Palmer Station would consume about 27.5 metric tons of krill each day. Six hundred twelve penguins (total biomass of 2,330 kg) would consume about the same amount of krill per day as does one Antarctic fin whale weighing 48,000 kg.
30163861|Chronically cannulated, fully hydrated Bufo marinus were given a sham saline injection followed by three bolus infusions of arginine vasotocin (A VT). Posterior lymph heart pressure and rate and lymph flow were measured, Arginine vasotocin injection was found to reduce lymph heart rate by as much as 25%, from a control of 55.75  1.56 beats min to 41.75  4.13 beats min with 30-s-2-min decreases after injection. Lymph flow increased in response to the first and third A VT injections. Posterior lymph heart pressure was not affected by A VT injection. In vivo, this regulation of lymph heart contraction may be a water- and/or energy-conserving mechanism. The observed increase in lymph flow is likely the result of an A VT-stimulated increase in cutaneous permeability that would cause large quantities of water to be cutaneously absorbed even in fully hydrated animals.
30164299|Although the metabolic rate of resting insects is relatively insensitive to atmospheric O tensions, metabolic rates during flight increase by 20- to 100-fold above resting levels. In this study we test whether O delivery limits metabolic rate during unladen hovering flight of the honeybee, Apis mellifera. Below 10 kPa Po, wing-stroke frequency decreased, and at 5 kPa, bees could not fly. However, for Po'S ranging from 39 to 10 kPa, metabolic rate and wing-stroke frequency were unaffected by Po. Evaporative water loss rates increased by 40% at the lowest O tensions, which suggests that flying honeybees compensated for decreasing ambient Po by modulating convective ventilatory flow. Under normal sea-level conditions, O delivery does not limit flight metabolic rate in unladen, hovering honeybees and does not limit maximal metabolic rate. At altitudes above 3,000 m, the convective component of O delivery may, however, limit flight metabolic rate and flight capacity in honeybees.
30155710|Reproductive temperature tolerance tests were performed in the laboratory on an inbred stock of Amargosa pupfish, Cyprinodon n. nevadensis. Egg production was optimal at constant temperatures 24 through 32 C and at fluctuating temperatures 32-28 and 36-28 C. The reproductive tolerance range, defined as the range of optimal egg production with at least 50 percent hatchability, was 24 through 30 C, which is one-fifth of the range for normal activity and one-seventh of the critical thermal tolerance range. Temperature also affected the quality of eggs produced; temperature and yolk diameter were inversely related. The tolerance limits for oogenesis were narrower than the limits for successful hatching of healthy eggs exposed to temperature stress after spawning.
30156115|Scales were incubated with 0.1 M
30158527|The
30158200|Previous work indicates that the 02, conductance of the jelly capsule (Go) and 02 consumption (
30163750|The wombats are grazing marsupials from mesic (Vombatus ursinus) and xeric (Lasiorhinus latifrons) regions of Australia. Feed intake and digestive responses of four wombats of each species were compared on two dietary fiber levels with pelleted straw-based diets of 59% and 44% neutral detergent fiber (NDF), and on two feed particle sizes with unpelleted and pelleted alfalfa hay. Dry matter (DM) intakes were similar between fiber levels but digestibilities of DM and NDF were greater on the low-fiber diet, with a trend to longer retention of digesta markers than on the high-fiber diet. Particulate (
30155716|Mole rats (Spalax ehrenbergi) are rodents morphologically adapted to fossorial life. Their subterranean galleries are common in heavy and wet soils where hypoxia and hypercapnia are likely to prevail. Nevertheless, animals have often been observed to be intensively active under these conditions. In chronic experimental exposure to increasing hypoxia and hypercapnia, mole rats kept their initial body mass down to PO = 42 torr and PCO = 100 torr. White rats began losing weight at PO = 96 torr and PCO = 50 torr, the final weight loss being 73% of the initial body mass. Resting M of mole rats in acute exposure to a simultaneous decrease of O and increase of CO remained constant down to PO = 33 torr. The white rats, however, failed to maintain their Mrest at a PO lower than 42 torr. Mole rats, electrically stimulated to activity, maintained their augmented M (at a level three times the resting value) down to PO = 75 torr. The white rats' similarly augmented M started to be PO dependent at PO = 130 torr. The active mole rats consume O at a rate above that of resting level down to 27 torr, which is below their
30159968|Hepatocytes were prepared from livers of Trematomus hansoni and T. bernacchii by cannulation of the hepatic veins and collagenase perfusion at 5 C. Cells in suspension incorporated
30158179|We determined the importance ofphysical contact amongpups, and between pups and their dams and the substrate on which they rest, for the thermal relations of pups and dams in two species of rodents differing substantially in developmental mode: the altricial wood rat Neotoma floridana and theprecocial cotton rat Sigmodon hispidus. We used two different methods to quantify contact. One, which makes use ofacrylic casts, enables quantification ofall areas of contact. The other, using ink blotting, measures only areas of direct contact in which skin surfaces are within close contact but achieves measurements nearly equal to those ofacrylic casting Contact amongpups is small, and heat exchange among thepups is relatively unimportant while thepups are being brooded by the dam. This contrasts withprevious work establishing the importance ofhuddling by juvenile endotherms duringperiods ofparental inattention. Nonetheless, contactper se within the mother-pups unit is important under all conditions. Contact of the pups with the substrate did not differ between species and averaged about 25% of totalpup surface area. Contact ofpups with their dam depends strongly on both age and litter size, but the effects of these two factors differ between species. Heat transfer between the dam and her pups is more strongly affected by contact geometry than by interspecific differences in fur morphology. Litter size can havepotentially important effects on the energetic demand of theparent. Heat loss from the dam increases with litter size, but does not necessarily increase with age of the pups because of changes in the fur insulation of thepups. Development of the fur in the growingpups can significantly inhibit heat flow from the dam. Compression of the fur because of the weight of the dam is the most importantfactor in reducing insulation between the dam and herpups, although changes in thermal conductivity with compression and contact between ventral, rather than dorsal surfaces, are also important. Early development of the fur, althoughpermitting improved thermoregulation duringperiods ofparental inattentiveness, can reduce heat gain from the broodingparent. Thus, the ontogeny of insulation must be tied to the development of thermogenic capabilities.
30159997|Cardiac performance was examined with in situ perfused trout hearts at two acclimation temperatures, 5 C and 15 C. In series I, adrenaline-free perfusion and a cumulative dose response up to 1 gmol adrenaline  L was examined. In series II, tonic adrenergic stimulation (5 nmol  L) and a cumulative dose response up to 50 nmol  L was examined Tonic adrenergic stimulation was important for chronotropic and inotropic stability, especially at5 C. Heart rate and maximum cardiac output were significantly higher at 15 C than at5 C. Maximum stroke volume at 5 C was the same as or greater than the maximum stroke volume at 15 C Adrenergic stimulation produced quantitatively different positive chronotropic and inotropic effects at both temperatures and partially compensated for the direct efect of temperature; the chronic
30163945|The relationship between individual energy budgets and genetic variability was examined in Thais haemastoma acclimated to 7.5, 20, and 35S (parts per thousand salinity) at 21 C. Energy budgets were determined by measuring rates of ingestion, absorption efficiencies, oxygen consumption, and ammonia and primary amine excretion. Genotypes at six polymorphic loci coding for soluble enzymes were determined using starch gel electrophoresis. There was a significant positive relationship between total heterozygosity and snail scope for growth at all three salinities. The relationship was due in part to the greater size of the more heterozygous individuals since scope for growth increases with size. Analysis of covariance also revealed a significant positive effect of total heterozygosity on weight-corrected scope for growth. The increased scope for growth measured in heterozygotes was caused by significantly greater feeding rates. Heterozygous individuals at 20 and 35S had lower routine metabolic "maintenance" costs, expressed as energy lost per unit weight, than more highly homozygous ones. However, greater metabolic efficiency did not account for much of the differences in scope for growth between heterozygotes and homozygotes because variation in metabolic efficiency was small compared with variation in feeding rate. These results provide physiological evidence of the superiority of heterozygotes over homozygotes for growth, survival, and potential reproductive output. The number of heterozygous loci per snail explains 16% of the variance of whole animal energy budgets at 7.5S, 14% at 20S, and 15% at 35S.
30155694|Energy expenditure for black-tailed jackrabbits in the Mojave Desert is highest in winter (172 kcal kg day) when ambient temperatures were consistently below the zone of thermoneutrality. During late spring, summer, and early fall energy expenditure is 142 kcal kg day despite appreciable seasonal and diurnal temperature shifts. The annual energy expenditure for maintenance is estimated to be 55,200 kcal kg yr. This exceeds standard metabolic rate by a factor of 2.3. Jackrabbits were able to metabolize 65% of the energy contained in the spring diet of succulent annual plants. Metabolic efficiency fell to 45% for the summer diet containing green annuals (mostly Salsola) and some shrub browse, and to only 18% in winter when the animals ate shrub browse and dry annuals. Jackrabbits eat most of the plant material they cut, usually wasting no more than 15% of the amount consumed. By increasing body temperature to circa 41 C on hot summer days, jackrabbits save water that would otherwise be spent for evaporative cooling, but this leaves little margin for heat storage during exercise.
30163902|The circulatory system of most spiders consists of the heart, pericardium, arterial vascular system, the open venous system, and lung veins connecting book lungs to the pericardium. Several important aspects of the structure and function of spider circulation have been known only in outline until now. In this study, morphological details of the heart and pericardium, which allow them to function cooperatively as a pressure-and-suction pump, are reported. The arterial vascular system and the venous open system show adaptations to cellular oxygen requirements. At least in the legs, capillarization is absent and gas exchange with the tissues has to take place primarily along the open portion of the circulatory system. Cardiac output increases through higher stroke volumes and/or heart frequencies. Possible mechanisms for changes in the hemolymph flow distribution are discussed. The animal's body pressures, generated byprosomal and opisthosomal muscles, strongly interfere with normal circulation during locomotor activity.
10.1086/515851|This study is the first to examine the effects of endurance training in an elasmobranch fish. Twentyfour leopard sharks (
30151333|1. When Oxytricha were isolated singly and in two's into 1 or 2 drops of hay medium, there was no difference in the rate of reproduction during 24 hours. 2. In similar experiments using animals isolated singly and in two's into 5 and 10 drops of hay medium, a higher reproduction-rate was found in the cultures starting with two animals. 3. Hay cultures, varying in volume from 1 to 40 drops and inoculated with single animals, showed the highest rate of reproduction in the 1- and 2-drop cultures and progressively decreasing rates in the 5-, 10-, 20-, and 40-drop cultures. 4. These results were found to be independent of temperature, as far as tested; of variations in the hydrogen-ion concentration of the medium within the range used; and of the use of paraffin-lined culture dishes. 5. Several of the experiments showed that increases in temperature caused increases in the reproduction-rate of the protozoans, according to usual expectations, but that relations mentioned above were not affected. 6. Suspensions of the bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens in a non-nutritive balanced physiological salt medium were found to be the best type of culture medium tried for Oxytricha. Suspensions of Bacillus subtilis were less helpful, while other pure cultures of bacteria tested did not allow reproduction of Oxytricha. 7. Suspensions of Pseudomonas fluorescens in densities of 80-135 million per cubic centimeter were found to be optimal for maximal reproduction in Oxytricka. There was no difference in the average reproduction-rate of one and two animals for 24 hours in 2 drops of this concentration. 8. When single animals were isolated into 2 drops of medium with bacterial densities of Pseudomonas fluorescens two and four times greater than the optimal density, the rate of reproduction was progressively lower with each increase in density. In these supraoptimal densities, two-animal cultures had a higher reproduction-rate for 24 hours than one-animal cultures. 9. Cultures with both one and four animals, in five times the optimal density of Pseudomonas fluorescens, showed a marked inhibition of reproduction. In some cases the animals died in this density. 10. The rates of reproduction of single animals in 2 and io drops of optimal densities were about the same. The rates of reproduction of single animals in 2 and io drops of medium with bacterial concentrations one-tenth that of optimal concentrations were much less than those in optimal concentration, but the 10-drop cultures have the higher rate of reproduction. 11. These results show that many of the so-called allelocatalytic results obtained by Robertson can be explained on the basis of the ratio existing between the infusorian and the bacterial population.
10.1086/515852|Energy requirements of beavers
30158205|The Asian freshwater clam, Corbicula fluminea, was emersed at 23C under three conditions: humid air, N hypoxia, or air with valves clamped or bound shut. Under all conditions, clams became acidotic during emersion. In air, hemolymph pH declined from 790 to 7.14 in 72 h. Hypoxic clams displayed a similar decline in pH, but clams with valves clamped became acidotic more rapidly. Hemolymph CO content (Cco) and Pco rose with duration of aerial exposure in all treatment groups. However, hemolymph of bound clams had significantly higher Cco and Pco than that of either air- or N-exposed bivalves after 48 h emersion. Although hemolymph Po declined with emersion time in all groups, there was no effect of exposure condition, suggesting that ventilatory behaviors did not affect hemolymph Po or that the effects were masked by rapid utilization of inspired O. Hemolymph calcium and osmolality increased with emersion time and were greatest in clams with clamped valves. Presumably, shell calcium carbonate was mobilized to provide bicarbonate to buffer the acidosis, while valve gaping, mantle edge exposure, and other ventilatory behaviors served to retard the progress of the acidosis by ventilatory loss of CO. However, these behaviors were not suficient to maintain acid-base balance in C. fluminea. The inability of C. fluminea to maintain or restore acid-base balance during short emersion periods may account for this species' low tolerance of aerial exposure and is further evidence of its recent invasion of freshwater habitats.
30158627|Exhaustive activity in starry flounder resulted in an acidosis in the whole-body extracellular fluid (ECF) and intracellular fluid (ICF) compartments. In the ECF, the acidosis consisted of a short-lived respiratory component (increase in CO tension [Pco]) followed by a longer-lived metabolic component (decrease in [
30156200|Monodelphis domestica, the gray short-tailed opossum, is a small South American marsupial. The aim of this study was to examine qualitative and quantitative changes in the carbohydrates in the milk of this marsupial during lactation and to determine whether these are similar to those found in the milk of Australian marsupials. Twenty-one milk samples collected between days 1 and 75 of lactation were analyzed. The carbohydrate (hexose) concentration was 3% (w/v) on day 1 postpartum, gradually increased to 13% by day 50, and decreased to less than 1.5% by the end of lactation. Galactose was the major monosaccharide constituent of acid hydrolysates of the milk carbohydrates, with hexosamines, glucose, and sialic acid being only minor constituents. Thin-layer chromatography showed that the carbo-hydrates consisted of a variety of oligosaccharides, some of which could be identical with oligosaccharides of known structure previously isolated from milk of the tammar wallaby, Macropus eugenii. In general, the changes observed in the milk carbohydrates of M. domestica were similar, but not identical, to those reported for other species of marsupials.
30156095|Eggs of Darwin's rhea may hatch synchronously, even though incubation periods may differ for individual eggs. We attempted to measure the capacity for synchrony and to determine whether differing developmental rates were responsible for unequal hatching times. Our measurements demonstrated no differences in the rates of oxygen consumption, diameters of blastoderms on incubation day 7, eggshell temperatures, or physical parameters of groups of eggs that hatched after longer or shorter incubation periods. Therefore, the rates of development appear to be similar in all eggs, regardless of age at hatching. The most likely explanation for synchronous hatching is that, once eggs reach a certain developmental level, they are susceptible to a hatching stimulus from other eggs. Embryos that reach this level may hatch less developed, with incomplete yolk sac resorption. Eggs that have not yet attained this development at the time that other eggs begin to hatch will never hatch, owing to nest abandonment by the male.
30163855|The respiratory properties of the blood of a newborn marsupial, the common brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula of the family Phalangeridae), have been examined. The O equilibrium curves (OECs) under standard conditions (36 C and partial pressure of CO [Pco] = 42 mmHg) were right shifted, being to the right of the maternal curves. The partial pressure of O (Po) at which blood is 50% saturated with oxygen
30163711|The erythrocytes of the amphibious mudfish, Neochanna burrowsius, contained 6.8 mol ATP/ml red cells and 4.4 mol GTP Trinucleotide concentrations were not significantly changed in fish acclimated for 3 wk in moist air. The oxygen affinity, defined by the half-saturation oxygen tension (
10.1086/515953|Historically, the discipline of comparative physiology and biochemistry has had two major goals: (1) elucidation of mechanisms and their adaptative significance, and (2) understanding of the evolution of mechanisms and adaptations. In general, the first goal has dominated the field. In a mechanistic/adaptational approach, the diversity of organisms is an experimental parameter in the investigation. Lineagespecific characteristics reveal both how physiological systems work and how different kinds of animals are adapted to different kinds of environments. We believe that this approach is far from outdated, in part because many animal groups have been investigated superficially if at all, and in part because the incorporation of fundamentally new technologies into our discipline permits us to address previously intractable questions about even intensively studied animal groups. In evolutionary physiology and biochemistry, the diversity of lineagespecific physiological systems and how they came to be is the subject of investigation. Early attempts to employ the evolutionary approach were not only few in number, they were unsatisfying in outcome because neither phylogenetic nor mechanistic/adaptational knowledge was adequate to serve as a firm foundation. We agree with earlier authors that new and more sophisticated applications of this approach, together with progress in understanding both animal phylogeny and mechanisms/adaptations, all promise to allow us at last to fulfill our second historic goal. In our view, an integration of the two approaches seems to present the most productive trajectory into the next century.
30156052|The energetics of anhingas and double-crested cormorants were measured and their behavior monitored under an array of environmental conditions. Anhingas have lower basal metabolic rates and higher thermal conductances, and doublecrested cormorants have higher basal rates and higher thermal conductances than the expected values as determined from Aschoff and Pohl (metabolic rate) and Aschoff (thermal conductance). Both species have lower basal metabolic rates, body temperatures, and thermal conductances at night, and elevated basal metabolic rates and rates of evaporative water loss under incident radiation, as compared with daytime situations without incident radiation. Both species have elevated metabolic rates and thermal conductances while wet. Double-crested cormorants exhibited spread-winged postures only when wet; anhingas readily displayed them regardless of plumage condition. Thermal conductance in cormorants is unchanged during exposure to incident radiation, but anhingas use spread-winged postures to enhance insolation absorption, thereby reducing their rates of heat loss and metabolic rates at low ambient temperatures and extending the thermoneutral zone. These physiological and behavioral differences between anhingas and double-crested cormorants may be responsible for the difference in their geographic distributions.
30155808|Temperature regulation was measured in the short-tailed shrew (Blarina brevicauda), the red-backed vole (Clethrionomys gapperi), and the white-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus) to explain some of the habitat preferences and distribution patterns. All three species weighed about 20 g. As ambient temperature (
30164198|Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, a technique originally developed by physicists and used for many years by chemists, has more recently become a powerful tool for the noninvasive and nondestructive study of intracellular biochemistry. Comparative physiologists have, to some extent, lagged behind biomedical scientists in their application of this method to questions of comparative interest, but that too is changing as the strengths and weaknesses of NMR become more widely known and access to appropriate instruments becomes available. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra provide information about the identity and amounts of many of the most important chemical components of living systems. Phosphorus-31 is the nucleus most frequently used in biological NMR studies, making possible noninvasive measurement of intracellular pH and providing direct access to phosphorus metabolism via determination of levels of inorganic phosphate and of high-energy phosphate in phosphocreatine and ATP. Other nuclei of importance to physiologists include H (for imaging, lactic acid measurements, cell oxygenation state),
30163763|The in vitro sensitivity of integumental pigment cells (melanophores) to darkening hormones was studied in a winter-active montane lizard (Sceloporus jarrovii) that rapidly changes color. The darkening responses, shown by dose-response curves, of skin samples to melanophore-stimulating hormone (-MSH) were slightly higher at 15 than at 25C, but not significantly so. At 35C, as compared to 25C, the darkening responses were dramatically and unexpectedly reduced, a sevenfold higher concentration of -MSH being needed to elicit equivalent responses. Darkening responses to isoproterenol, a -adrenoceptor agonist, applied to skins in the presence of the a-adrenoceptor blocker Dibenamine, were significantly diminished at both 15 and 35C, as compared to 25C The similarity of the dose-response curves for -MSH at 15 and 29C (no reduction in sensitivity at the lower temperature) and the marked decrease of response to -MSH and isoproterenol at 35C are consistent with the thermoregulatory chromatic behavior of the animal: dark color at low temperatures in order to maximize heat gain, and light color once high, activity body temperature is achieved. These in vitro results suggest a direct, temperature-dependent, cellular response of S. jarrovii chromatophores to hormones. The temperature pattern suggests that the cellular response may be adaptive. Parallel experiments performed with Anolis carolinensis, a species that displays physiological color changes for crypsis rather than thermoregulation, demonstrated that the sensitivities to both a-MSH and isoproterenol were significantly lower at 15 and 35C, compared to 25C Our results suggest that reptile pigment cell sensitivity to hormones at varying temperatures may be regulated at the cellular level.
30155882|The freshwater bivalve Ligumia subrostrata exhibited a two- to threefold increase in the unidirectional influx of sodium when injected with serotonin (5-HT) or dibutyryl cAMP, a response similar to that of an animal depleted of sodium. The serotonin-dependent stimulation of the sodium influx was dose dependent. The Na net flux was directly related to the endogenous cAMP concentration observed in the gill tissue, the principal site of sodium transport in freshwater mussels. The majority of gill adenylate cyclase (AC) activity was located in the pellet of crude gill homogenate (basal activity 21.81 pmol
10.1086/515886|Metabolic consequences of osmotic stress were investigated in the toad
30157936|Development of brain temperature regulation was studied in the altricial hatchling of the pigeon from hatching to 30 d of age during exposure to ambient temperatures of 30 and 35 C. The newly hatched pigeons were completely poikilothermic. However, brain and body temperatures increased in an exponential relation with age, approaching adult levels in 5-6d, and further to complete homeothermy. As a result of the significantly different exponents (P < 0.001), body-to-brain temperature difference significantly increased from about 0.3 C at hatching to 2.3 C at 30 d of age (P < 0.001). The capacity of defending brain and body temperatures during heat exposure significantly improved with age. The slope of the relation between brain and body temperatures (0.84 7) was significantly lower than 1.0 (P < 0.001), indicating an increased brain-cooling capacity at higher body temperatures. The pattern revealed in the present study is completely different from that found previously in the precocial mallard duckling, which is able to control and defend brain and body temperature from the day of hatching and in which brain temperature decreases during posthatching growth.
30158580|The scorpion Centruroides vittatus is periodically exposed to freezing temperatures in its natural habitat. It survives such stress by employing physiological mechanisms characteristic of the freeze-tolerant survival strategy used by some insects. Studies over a 12-mo period revealed that scorpions collected in the field and exposed to freezing temperatures in the laboratory froze at high subzero temperatures. High percentages of these animals recovered after freezing. Neither polyols nor thermal hysteresis proteins, which may serve as antifreezes, were found in sufficiently high levels in the hemolymph to substantially lower body supercooling points. Instead, potent ice-nucleating activity compartmentalized in the gut induced ice formation. Ice-nucleating activity peaks in winter months and appears to be proteinaceous. This is the first reported observation of freeze tolerance and ice-nucleating agents in scorpions.
30161236|Standard metabolic rates (SMR) of Sceloporus occidentalis lizards from southern California and from Washington were compared to assess differences in metabolic adaptation to seasonal temperatures (acclimatization) in moderately and strongly seasonal climates. SMR of lizards from the field in different months of the year were measured at 10, 16, and 35 C test temperatures. Lizards from Washington, which are dormant in winter, showed depressed SMR in winter and an annual peak during spring reproduction. Those from California, which are active in winter on warm days, showed intermediate SMR in winter, an annual peak in spring, and the lowest SMR in summer during the hottest time of the year. For all seasons except winter, the Washington population had higher mass-specific SMR than the California population. These acclimatization results indicate differences in adjustment to seasonal activity and thermal variability at northern and southern temperate-zone latitudes.
30156030|Daily rhythms in both serum osmolality and heat tolerance (critical thermal maximum) occurred in killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus) maintained in seawater (33 ppt salinity) at constant temperature (27 C) under a 14L: 10D photoperiod. The two rhythms appear to be in phase, with each having a single peak at midphotophase. A model is proposed that links the two rhythms functionally. Serum osmolality measured following heat stress in seawater-acclimated fish was found to be elevated significantly, by approximately the same increment, at all times of day.
30157885|Seasonal changes in body condition and water and electrolyte metabolism in two populations of tammar wallabies (Macropus eugenii) are described in this paper. One population lives in a beach environment and has no access to freshwater, whereas the second population lives in the vicinity of a continuously flowing freshwater bore. During normal (mild) summers, the availability of free water has no influence on the condition of the tammars or on their water and electrolyte metabolism. Only during periods of extended summer drought is free water marginally advantageous to the bore population, as indicated by lower circulating antidiuretic hormone levels (ADH), a higher condition index, and lower total body water content. Both populations showed low plasma sodium concentrations after a prolonged drought, indicating that tammars are exceptionally resistant to the effects of hyponatraemia. After the onset of the winter rains, plasma sodium concentrations increase and the water turnover rises dramatically. The high water content of the vegetation at this time appears to prevent the tammars from ingesting enough food to satisfy their nutritional requirements, and their condition continues to decline, reaching its annual minimum in midwinter. It is evident that the breeding season of the tammars on Garden Island, which falls in early summer, is attuned to changes in condition and represents the only period of the year when the animals are neither water deprived nor suffering from nutritional deficiencies.
30152608|Lepidobatrachus llanensis, a ceratophryd frog from the Argentine Chaco, develops a cocoon composed of multiple layers of epidermis when kept out of water. Active toads, in water, have a mean shedding cycle (intermolt period) of 1.6 days. During cocoon formation the toads produce one new layer of one-cell-thick stratum corneum per day. Cocoon formation represents a behavioral mechanism that suppresses the motor responses that normally cause the shedding of the old stratum corneum. Concomitant with cocoon formation, evaporative water loss decreases dramatically (EWL 10 mg g h to < 1 mg g h). Resistance to water flux in cocooned Lepidobatrachus is comparable to other cocooned and "waterproofed" frogs (50-500 s cm). Each layer of the cocoon contributes 3 s cm- to the cutaneous resistance. During cocoon formation, oxygen consumption decreases rapidly (
30159951|Two models of the mechanism that measures daylength in the photoperiodic testicular response in Passer domesticus have been proposed. Both explain adequately the "ultra-short-day" response of this species, which appears to be unique among avian photoperiodic species. However, the models differ in their predictions of the response to very long days and to continuous light. Because of this we have examined experimentally the responses of this species thereto and have compared them with those of Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii, which does not respond to "ultra-short days." We measured testicular growth rates and plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), both of which increased with increasing daylength up to about 18L 6D and were maximal for all photoregimes from 20L 4D through LL. The results are consistent with the predictions of the simplest form of external-coincidence model, but not with those of the internal-coincidence model of Dolnik or the class of simple models that involve coincidence in phase of dawn- and dusk-entrained oscillators. The latter predict a less than maximal response to very long days which is inconsistent with the results of our investigation.
30158444|Total body water volumes and water fluxes were estimated in five chukar partridges (Alectoris chukar), using tritiated water. The birds were captured from a Negev desert population and were individually caged in an environment controlled room (
30166345|The effects of anoxia exposure (2 or 12 h at 5C) on the tissue-specific responses by enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism were analyzed in the mantle, gill, hepatopancreas, and adductor muscle of the intertidal bivalve Geukensia demissus demissus. Reversible enzyme phosphorylation has been identified in other species of marine molluscs as a mechanism for coordinating the suppression of metabolic rate and the redirection of carbon into fermentative pathways under anoxic conditions. The present study shows patterns of response to anoxia by five enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism, including glycogen synthetase (GS) and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), whose responses to anoxia have not before been analyzed in marine molluscs. Anoxia-induced changes in properties, consistent with reversible phosphorylation modification of the enzymes, were found for pyruvate kinase (PK) and PDH in all tissues and in selected tissues for glycogen phosphorylase (GP) and GS. However, phosphofructokinase did not appear to be modified in any tissue during anoxia. Within 2 h ofanoxia exposure, PK showed a sharp drop in the activity ratio (at subsaturating vs. saturating PEP concentrations) that indicated a stable modification of enzyme
30158186|Incubation characteristics such as incubation period, embryo metabolism, and eggshell gas conductance appear to be matched to the incubation environment so that physiological parameters such as diffusive water loss and prepipping respiratory gas tensions are held within relatively narrow limits. To test this hypothesis we measured rate of O consumption, air-cell gas tensions, initial mass, water vapor conductance, and several natural incubation parameters of mute swan eggs and compared these with the same characteristics of laysan and black-footed albatross eggs, which have similar initial masses but have incubation periods that are twice as long. When compared with the albatross eggs, mute swan eggs were found to have prepipping rates of O consumption and water vapor conductances that were twice as large, whereas total O consumed and fractional mass loss were similar in all three species. Mute swan eggs are incubated in relatively moist nests, have water vapor conductances that are somewhat greater than that predicted for eggs of the same mass, and, as a result, had prepipping gas tensions that were not as extreme as those in the albatross eggs. Our observations are consistent with the hypothesis that incubation period, embryo metabolism, and eggshell conductance are matched to achieve optimal water loss and prepipping respiratory gas tensions.
30155880|The basal metabolic rate of adult ostrich (0.113 ml O
30152618|This study investigated the effects of chronic thyroxine (T4) release via implanted pellets on standard and total daily metabolic rates in captive and field-active lizards Sceloporus undulatus. Plasma T4 was elevated to 42.2  19.96 ng mL (
30161216|Maximal enzyme activities in tissues from 5 C- and 25 C-acclimated chain pickerel (Esox niger) were compared with those from winter- and summer-acclimatized fish to determine whether laboratory studies of thermal acclimation can be extrapolated to the natural environment. Activities of enzymes from pathways of aerobic metabolism measured at 15 C were higher in most tissues of cold-acclimated and winter-acclimatized pickerel than those in tissues of warm-acclimated and summeracclimatized fish, respectively, indicating that general patterns of metabolic response are similar in acclimated and acclimatized groups. Activities of enzymes in all tissues of summe- and winter-acclimatized fish were lower than activities in 25 C- and 5 C-acclimated fish. Activity of carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT), an indicator of the capacity for fatty-acid utilization, was higher in brain and red muscle tissue of cold-acclimated compared with warm-acclimated fish but was lower in winter-acclimatized compared with summer-acclimatized fish, indicating possible differences in metabolic fuel preferences between groups. Activity of creatine phosphokinase (CPK), indicating capacity for rapid ATP production, increased in red muscle tissue of winter-acclimatized compared with summer-acclimatized fish but did not change between acclimated groups. White muscle CPK activity increased in 5 C-acclimated compared with 25 C-acclimated fish but did not change between acclimatized groups. The results of CPK activity suggest that swimming-behavior differences between laboratory and natural environments may influence energy metabolism of the swimming musculature. Although general metabolic responses to temperature change may be extrapolated to the natural environment, environmental factors other than temperature-such as photoperiod and diet-may contribute to modification of these responses in certain tissues of naturally acclimatized fishes.
30164185|Sensitivity of carotid blood flow to increased gravitational force acting in the head-to-tail direction
30158505|The average resting heart rate of eight Bufo marinus recorded for 24 h every second week during a 5-moperiod was found to be 13.5  0. 08 b/min. These heart rates are considerably lower than those previously published. Reproducible resting heart rates could be attained only after aperiod of 6 h following preparation of the animalsfor recording of ECG. Sustained and significant differences not related to photoperiod, sex, or body weight were found between individuals. Feeding produced a large increase in heart rate for up to 3 d after a meal. Minor disturbances were produced by visual stimuli and substratum vibrations. It is concluded that a true resting value of heart rate in anurans can be obtained only if the animal has not had recent environmental disturbance, not undergone recent surgical procedures, and not been recently fed.
30156033|Water-perfused thermodes were employed to examine the thermosensitivity of the preoptic/anterior hypothalamus (POAH) in hibernating eastern chipmunks, Tamias striatus. The metabolic rate of mammals in hibernation has been shown to increase linearly as POAH temperatures are manipulated below a threshold temperature (
30152642|The Florida red-bellied turtle, Pseudemys nelsoni, on a diet of the aquatic plant Hydrilla verticillata, has high digestive efficiencies for dry matter, organic matter, energy, and cell walls, and moderate digestive efficiency for nitrogen. High cell wall digestibilities are a result of microbial fermentation in both the small and large intestines. Digestibilities are higher than most values reported for herbivorous reptiles on foliage diets. Mass-specific intake falls within the range measured in freefeeding herbivorous reptiles. Fermentation in the small intestine has not been reported previously in reptiles. Endproducts of fermentation-volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and gases-and concentration and rate of production of VFAs are similar to those in other herbivores. Fermentation in the small intestine has important nutritional consequences, such as a competition between endogenous enzymes and gut microflora for the highly nutritious, soluble substrate in the digesta of the small intestine. Energy from VFAs produced by the microbial fermentation approximates the total daily energy gain to P. nelsoni on a hydrilla diet. One might havepredicted, based on the large ratio ofsmall intestine length to large intestine length, that P. nelsoni would not have relied on fermentation. The shift of fermentation into the small intestine demonstrates that, at least in P. nelsoni, digestive strategy is not constrained by gut morphology.
30163901|Several control mechanisms collaborate to regulate cardiovascular functions in the teleost fish. The systems involved include nerves, humoral (circulating) agents, and local (paracrine) effects such as release of cardio- or vasoactive substances from endothelial cells. This brief review focuses on the Atlantic cod, Gadus morhua. In this species, as in most teleosts, blood pressure is elevated because of an adrenergic tonus affecting both the heart and the vascular resistance. Histochemical studies using the Falck-Hillarp technique demonstrate catecholamine-containing chromaffin cells in the walls of the posterior cardinal veins of many teleosts, including the cod, and the adrenaline and noradrenaline released from these sites may affect the heart and vascular beds. There is physiological evidence to suggest that circulating catecholamines play a major role in the control of the arteriorarterial branchial vascular resistance in the cod. Histochemical studies of the cod cardiovascular system reveal adrenergic nerves in the heart and blood vessels. Pharmacological studies using the adrenergic neuron-blocking agent bretylium suggest that the adrenergic vasomotor innervation is a major nervous regulator of blood pressure in this species during rest, exercise, and hypoxia.
30158610|Coordinated calorimetric and respirometric measurements revealed differences in heat dissipation during exposure to air (
30163827|Studies of digesta transit in the desert tortoise (Xerobates agassizii, formerly Gopherus agassizii) voluntarily eating a succulent diet (green, growing Erodium cicutarium, red-stemmed filaree) or a dry diet (dead Schismus barbatus, split grass), indicated that digesta flow was determined primarily by a gut-fill effect. Total food consumed between the times of marker ingestion and marker excretion remained constant for a given diet, regardless of feeding rate, and was related allometrically to body mass (exponent = 0.707). Higher feeding rates and their correspondingly shorter transit times occasioned lower digestibilities of dry matter, gross energy, and cell-wall components. The gastrointestinal tracts of tortoises eating green E. cicutarium contained nearly three times as much dry matter as when the tortoises were eating dry S. barbatus. This difference in gut fill may be related to the different physical (structural) properties of green and dry plantparts. Gravid females had a reduced gut fill, presumably because eggs in the oviduct reduce the potential gut volume. Unfortunately, insufficient data were obtained for gravid females (n = 3) to allow formulation of a predictive equation for food intake and transit time in females carrying eggs.
30163869|The effect of dehydration on the aerobic metabolism and endurance of sustained, terrestrial locomotion was determined for the ghost crab, Ocypode quadrata. The rate of evaporative water loss, measured as the percentage of decrease in body mass per hour, was influenced by ambient temperature
30155979|This anatomical and experimental study has revealed that the banded knife fish Gymnotus carapo is capable of air breathing by means of the highly specialized, enlarged, and vascularized posterior chamber of the gas bladder. Air ventilation is accomplished by the action of a uniquely specialized esophageal force pump. Cineradiography has shown that air ventilation proceeds in a consistent sequence, with an inhalation followed by two or more exhalations. It is postulated that prior inhalation raises the pressure within the gas bladder temporarily as a preliminary step to passive exhalation of air by hydrostatic pressure via a relatively narrow and long pneumatic duct. At temperatures of 29-31 C Gymnotus extracts 1.63, 1.12, and 0.76 mmol O h kg from air (
30155832|The file shell, Lima hians, responded to stimulation with extracts of starfish or whelks by a series of 60-68 valve snaps during 5-7 min. The time of "active" swimming was assumed to be 3 min. Swimming was powered by the single adductor muscle, which showed high activities of octopine dehydrogenase but very low activities of lactate dehydrogenase. It is concluded that active swimming depends on anaerobic breakdown of glycogen to octopine. Concentrations of the adenine nucleotides (ATP, ADP, AMP), arginine phosphate, arginine, octopine, and various other metabolites related to anaerobic metabolism were determined in the adductor muscle at rest and after swimming to exhaustion. Swimming resulted in a small decrease in the energy charge. There was almost complete depletion of the arginine phosphate pool and the formation of a high concentration of octopine, but no production of lactate. About 60% of the total energy required for swimming activity was contributed by the breakdown of arginine phosphate as observed previously for other active bivalve mollusks. The results obtained with L. hians were compared with another member of the file shells, Limaria fragilis, which displays a slower, more sustained style of swimming based on aerobic mechanisms for ATP production.
30155779|Standard operative temperature,
30163690|Skin reflectance at different body temperatures was measured in three species of Kenyan chameleons (Chamaeleo dilepis, Chamaeleo jacksonii, and Chamaeleo ellioti). Total reflectance, calculated by averaging reflectances measured at 290 through 2,600 nm, was significantly greater at 35C than at 20C in C. dilepis (31% at 20C to 46% at 35C) and in C. jacksonii (7% at 20C to 11% at 35C). Reflectance changes with temperature were not the same at all wavelengths. Significant change was largely confined to visible and near-infrared spectral regions (600-1,000 nm). Chamaeleo ellioti did not show a significant change in total reflectance with temperature. Energy balance equations and climatic data representing long-term averages for each month of the year were used to assess the potential for alteration of equilibrium body temperature and rate of radiant heat gain by temperature-dependent color change in C. dilepis and C. jacksonii. The observed changes in reflectance produced changes in estimated equilibrium body temperature of 0.7C in C. dilepis and 0.2C in C. jacksonii, as averaged over the entire year. Dark chameleons are predicted to heat more rapidly than light chameleons. The dark coloration observed frequently during morning basking in chameleons may serve to reduce the basking period and, hence, reduce time spent at suboptimal performance temperatures.
30156181|Nocturnal geckos are active with body temperatures
30157902|Mallards typically dabble for their food in shallow water. However, in the northern climate, shallow ponds freeze in winter, and mallards may be forced to dive for food in deep water. We have mimicked these feeding behaviors by confining mallards to shallow (0.3 m deep) and deep (1.0 m) artificial ponds. Heart rate was monitored from the ducks during these behaviors telemetrically. Dabbles lasted an average of 3.0  1.0 s (SD), with a maximum of 9 s, and heart rate changed little during head immersion. Dives had a mean duration of 6.2  2.1 s with a maximum of 11.6 s. Heart rate after 2-s submergence was nearly the same, at 250 beats  min, regardless of predive heart rate. In other words, if predive heart rate was low (<200 beats  min), there was a diving tachycardia; whereas, when predive heart rate was high (>300 beats  min), there was a noticeable diving bradycardia. This cardiac response to voluntary diving was nearly eliminated by bilateral section of the vagal baroreceptor nerves. In true diving ducks (Aythya sp.), heart rate after 2-s submergence is positively correlated with heart rate in the immediate predive period, and this relation is unaffected by baroreceptor denervation. Obviously, mallards differ markedly from true diving ducks not only in cardiac adjustments to diving but also in their control.
30156000|Rectal temperatures of the young bandicoot and the mother, and pouch temperatures of the mother, were monitored during the latter part of pouch life to ascertain whether temperature plays a role in determining when the young leave the pouch. There was no significant difference between the rectal temperatures (mean  SEM) of adult males (36.80  0.13 C), lactating females (36.76  0.20 C), and young bandicoots in the pouch (36.30  0.57 C from days 42-49, and 36.53  0.28 C from days 50-61 of lactation). The pouch temperature of the lactating females was 36.67  0.19 C and was not significantly different from the rectal temperature. The rectal temperature of young removed from the pouch decreased to 32.00  0.69 C in young 42-49 days old and to 34.49  0.41 C in young 50-61 days old. Young bandicoots leave the pouch permanently and are weaned on approximately day 58 of lactation. Near weaning, the young appear to prefer the safety of the pouch but are prevented from reentry by the mother. The results of this study suggest that temperature does not play a primary role in determining when the young bandicoot leaves the pouch.
30152598|The intense solar radiation on sunny, austral summer days often imposes a heat load on antarctic penguin chicks. Young penguins frequently are observed to pant for prolonged periods as a result of these thermal loads. This study is a quantitative examination of the blood gases and acid-base balance of Adlie penguin chicks (Pygoscelis adeliae) at rest and during heat stress. The in vitro buffering capacity of two other penguin chicks, chinstrap (P. antarctica) and gentoo (P. papua), were also determined. During heat stress, body temperature increased from 38.7 C to 40.4 C and respiratory rate increased three to four times. This panting resulted in a decrease in
30156032|Respiration of fed Aequorea victoria showed the usual dependence of oxygen consumption on ash-free dry weight (
30158638|Thermoregulation of the mesic-habitat Cape mole rat, Georychus capensis (mean mass 193 g), was investigated, and the data was used to test the hypothesis that exceptionally low mass-specific rates of metabolism are common to the arid-habitat subterranean rodents only. The mean body temperature was 36.4 C, resting metabolic rate was 68% of that expected for rodents, and conductance was 62% of the predicted value. This mole rat maintained a constant body temperature independent of ambient temperatures between -0.5 and 28 C. The data refuted the above hypothesis. A possible explanation for the low rate of metabolism of G. capensis is given.
30163794|Immunological methods were used to successfully detect and quantify free ubiquitin and ubiquitin conjugates from the brain, gills, skeletal muscle, and erythrocytes of confinement-stressed blue mao mao (Scorpis violaceus). Ubiquitin conjugates in the red blood cells showed a significant increase after 30 min, rising to 1.2 nmol  mg protein. There were no significant changes in ubiquitin conjugates in gill, brain, or muscle over the duration of the experiment, but quantification revealed levels of free ubiquitin in the tissues of blue mao mao to be very high, which suggests that ubiquitin has a major physiological role in teleost fish. Confinement also resulted in a sustained elevation of the steroid hormone cortisol, with plasma levels reaching 150 ng mL after 1 h. This was accompanied by transient disturbances in plasma electrolytes (Na, Cl) and plasma osmolarity.
30164265|Haemolymph flow was assessed simultaneously in the five arterial systems leaving the heart of the crab Cancer magister, allowing calculation of stroke volume and cardiac output via heart rate. Scaphognathite beat frequency was determined via pressure measurements from within the branchial cavity. During acute exposure (6 h) to 50% dilution of normal seawater, heart rate increased, but a concurrent decrease in mean stroke volume resulted in an overall decrease in cardiac output. Initial heart rates were regained after several hours, on return to 100% seawater. Haemolymph flow rates through the anterior, anterolateral, and sternal arteries decreased during low-salinity exposure. Flow rates through the hepatic arteries remained stable, whilst flow in the posterior aorta increased. Haemolymph flow rates in all but the anterolateral arteries returned to pretreatment levels when the salinity was raised. Changes in the scaphognathite beat frequency were similar in direction to those of heart rate. In a second series of experiments, animals were acclimated to 50% seawater for 4 d and then returned to 100% seawater. After 4 d in 50% seawater, heart rates were still strongly elevated. Stroke volume was depressed but to a lower extent than observed following 6 h of exposure. On return to 100% seawater, heart rate decreased but stroke volume increased, with the result that no significant change in cardiac output occurred. It is apparent from these results that change in heart rate cannot be used to predict changes in stroke volume in decapod crustaceans. Arterial flow levels were not significantly depressed following 4 d of exposure to 50% seawater and, with the exception of a transient increase of flow in the posterior aorta, did not change significantly on return to 100% seawater. As with acute exposure, changes in scaphognathite rate again paralleled changes in heart rate. The relevance of these circulatory changes is discussed in terms of maintenance of the crabs' internal environment and behavioural or physiological adaptation.
30159932|A mathematical model consisting of semiempirical equations was used to calculate boundary-layer conductances for transport of water vapor from bird eggs in free convection regimes. The model accurately predicts the boundary-layer conductance of model "eggs" fabricated from 2% agar. Predictions based on the mathematical model show that bird eggs smaller than about 10 kg have boundary-layer conductances greater than 10 times the total (boundary-layer, cuticle, shell, and membrane) conductance of the eggs. Thus, it can be inferred that boundary layers probably never constitute a significant barrier to loss of water from eggs of birds.
30156206|Recent applications of chemical reactor theory to animal guts can be extended to include the wide array ofdigestive systems seen in mammalian herbivores. Optimal digestive strategies of foregut fermenters and hindgut fermenters are considered in relation to body size and thus energy and nutrient requirements. Considerable emphasis isplaced on the foregut fermentation systems of the kangaroos and wallabies (family Macropodidae) and the rat-kangaroos (family Potoroidae) because of the interrelationships that have been found among body size, gut morphology, digestive strategies, and foraging strategies within this group of herbivorous marsupials. Optimal digestive strategies and optimal foraging strategies are closely linked, and both should be considered together in any analysis of the interactions between animals and their food resources.
30157972|Comparisons of the metabolic rates of species, populations, and treatment groups of animals are common. However, the data used in these comparisons may not be truly equivalent. We report the effects of varying (1) total time from which minimum metabolism is selected and (2) time over which metabolic rate is calculated (calculation interval) on estimates of oxygen consumption for Microtus agrestis and Apodemus sylvaticus. Oxygen consumption was measured at 10, 20, and 30 C, using open-circuit respirometry. The lowest 15 min of metabolism were 13% and 65% higher for Microtus and Apodemus, respectively, when selected from a total monitoring period of 30 min than when selected from a period of 6 h. This demonstrates the importance of standardizing the duration of time from which minimal estimates of metabolism are selected (i. e., the amount of time for which metabolism is measured). For Microtus, minimum oxygen consumption was 12% higher when calculated over 60 min than when calculated over 15 min. We suggest that analyses relying on minimal (e.g., basal) metabolic rates include calculation interval as a potential covariate.
30155814|Field and laboratory studies were undertaken on thermoregulatory capabilities during the first 24 h after hatching in chicks of the western gull (Larus occidentalis wymani). Body temperatures (
30163710|Mallee fowl (Leipoa ocellata) chicks emerge from incubation mounds over summer when ambient temperature can range from 3 to 45 C and there is no free water available. The chicks, which weigh 110-120 g on hatching, are completely independent of their parents. Most chicks regulated body temperature at adult levels over the range of temperatures tested (3-46 C) by elevating metabolic rate up to three times above standard when exposed to cold stress and becoming hyperthermic during heat stress. The thermoneutral zone extended from 32 C to 39 C, and the standard metabolic rate was 0.813 ml O.gh, which is 56% of the predicted rate. The evaporative water loss was 85 % of the predicted value at ambient temperatures less than 36 C, and the coefficient of heat strain was only 46% of the expected value. The large body size, ability to increase metabolism in response to cold stress, and excellent insulating properties of the plumage enable neonate mallee fowl to survive the cold temperatures encountered in their habitat without parental brooding. It is suggested that the lower than expected standard metabolic rates of precocial chicks is related to their lower than adult body temperature and that this could be advantageous at times of food shortage.
30155772|Scaphiopus couchi and S. multiplicatus larvae develop in ephemeral ponds, which may dry before the larvae complete development. Measurement of nitrogen excretion rates throughout larval development shows that urea becomes the predominant nitrogen waste before metamorphosis in both species. Scaphiopus multiplicatus becomes ureotelic at an earlier development stage than S. couchi, but due to the slower development of S. multiplicatus (21-30 days to metamorphosis, 10 days for S. couchi), both species may start to excrete predominantly urea at the same time when developing in the same pond. Larvae of S. multiplicatus accumulated urea in the body fluids when noncutaneous water uptake was restricted, and survived for 48 h out of water in the field. Ureotelism apparently enables Scaphiopus larvae to survive for short periods out of water, allowing either metamorphosis or additional time for refilling of the pond by the erratic summer rains.
30159944|The euthermia-to-hibernation
30155723|The aquatic species Desmognathus quadramaculatus did not respond to either arginine vasopressin (AVP) or a salt load, and its rate of hydration following dehydration was lower than that of any of four terrestrial species of plethodontid salamanders also studied. Plethodon hoffmani and P. punctatus took up water most rapidly after dehydration, AVP, or a salt load and therefore appear to be better adapted physiologically to a dry environment than are P. cinereus and P. glutinosus. These physiological adaptations may partially account for the distributional relationships of these two pairs of contiguously allopatric terrestrial species. Urine production was least in D. quadramaculatus and greatest in P. hofmani and P. punctatus. Arginine vasopressin significantly reduced the amount of urine that accumulates in the bladder in P. punctatus, P. hoffmani, and P. glutinosus. Emptying the bladder of P. glutinosus every 30 min did not diminish the AVP response, suggesting that in this species the kidney rather than the bladder is a target organ for AVP. We conclude that there is a considerable range in the water-balance responses in the five species of plethodontid salamanders studied here and that the different responses can be correlated with the moisture conditions of the habitat. In contrast to terrestrial anurans, whose high rates of water uptake are due to high skin permeability, the rapid uptake of water reported here and elsewhere for urodeles appears to be a consequence of their relatively larger surface area.
30161259|During serial diving periods in Weddell seals, whole-blood lactate and glucose levels do not indicate a metabolic demand for extended recovery time at the surface. In fact, in some rare cases, the seals continue to dive even if blood lactate is elevated from a previous long dive. In addition, hematocrit (Hct) levels increase significantly and remain elevated until the dive bout has ended. These combined responses indicate that the seal will maximize its foraging time underwater by establishing a diving routine that does not significantly alter its blood chemistry. Instead, by minimizing blood glucose and lactate variations, occasionally continuing to dive in spite of excess blood lactate levels, and enhancing its blood oxygen carrying capacity, the seal can minimize time at the surface. These behavioral and metabolic correlates are unique observations on how seals can dive repetitively for hours or even days.
30164200|The brine shrimp Artemia franciscana is widely used in aquaculture and basic research in areas ranging from molecular biology to evolution and ecology. A key feature of its life history involves the production of encysted embryos whose development is halted (enters diapause) at the gastrula stage. These shelled embryos are released into the aqueous environment where diapause continues until terminated by suitable conditions that produce an "activated embryo, "which then can resume development when conditions permit. Very little is known about the metabolism of diapause embryos, in contrast to activated embryos, which have been studied extensively. We have examined selected features of metabolism in diapause embryos produced in laboratory cultures and collected from the field. Although in a state of developmental arrest, newly released diapause embryos are shown to carry on a vigorous metabolism. However, as diapause continues metabolism slows until its detection becomes an experimental problem; it is possible that metabolism comes to a reversible standstill. We also present results from studies on diapause termination and the resumption of metabolism. Finally, we will show that a major protein (p26), previously implicated as a potential molecular chaperone in activated embryos undergoing anoxia and thermal shock, behaves similarly in diapause embryos. Although direct evidence is lacking, that result suggests a role for p26 that may be common to the mechanisms involved with the control of diapause as well as the stress response in this system.
30163733|White-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) were exposed to long day (16L:8D) and warm (23 C) or cold (5 C) or short day (9L: 15D) and warm or cold. Each of these groups was subdivided into (1) controls: sham castrated + sham implanted; (2) castrated: castrated + sham implanted; and (3) high testosterone: castrated + implanted with testosterone. Mice were tested for nonshivering thermogenesis (NST) at 4, 8, and 12 wk and examined for reproductive and pelt condition after 12 wk. Cold increased NST in all groups by 4 wk. In controls, short day decreased weight of testes and serum testosterone, caused molt to winter pelt, but did not increase NST. Castration resulted in no detectable serum testosterone, facilitated molt to winter pelt, but reduced coldenhanced NST. High serum testosterone from implants prevented short day-induced molt to winter pelt and reduced NST in long day warm mice. The results suggest (1) a linkage between gonadal regression and molt to winter pelage in the fall but (2) no connection between gonadal regression and enhancement of NST, which is stimulated by cold via a separate pathway, and (3) some chemical/neurochemical factor altered by castration, other than low testosterone, may be necessary for maximal cold enhancement of NST.
30156027|Daily energy expenditures (
30155745|The respiration physiology of Piabucina festae, an air-breathing characin fish in the family Lebiasinidae, has been compared with that of P. panamensis, a closely related non-air-breathing species. The gas bladder of P. festae is highly modified for rapid O absorption through the presence of a specialized region in the posterior chamber. In P. panamensis this organ has no respiratory specializations, but low rates of O absorption do occur. Piabucina festae has a higher metabolic rate than P. panamensis and can maintain its routine
30159931|Weight-specific rates of oxygen consumption (
30158225|We have examined the role of stress proteins in adaptation through an interspecific study of the stress protein response in two species of Collisella limpets that occupy different intertidal habitats characterized by unique microclimates. Collisella scabra inhabits the high intertidal region, an unpredictable environment of temperature extremes. Collisella pelta lives in the more sheltered upper midtidal region. We conducted laboratory experiments to compare the temperature tolerance of each species and confirmed that C. scabra had a greater tolerance to acute heat shock. The stress protein response was also examined for both species using metabolic labeling and electrophoretic techniques. We found in C. scabra, but not in C. pelta, a highly complex group of low-molecular-weight (LMW) stress proteins (also called heat-shock proteins [hsp]) and multiple isoforms of hsp60. Other aspects of the response that also differed included (1) the temperature range at which the response was elicited, (2) the number of isoforms of hsp70 synthesized, and (3) the presence of stressproteins in the 35-40-kDa range in C. scabra. Further, the increase of radiolabel incorporation into hsp70 and the LMW stress proteins at higher temperatures relative to control temperatures was greater for C. scabra. These aspects of the stress protein response may play a role in allowing C. scabra to tolerate the temperature extremes of the high intertidal region that provides it with access to food sources not available to closely related but more temperature-sensitive species.
30155962|Consumption of O (
30156147|Female mass loss and metabolic rate were measured along with changes in pup mass during the perinatal period in Antarctic and Galpagos fur seals. Antarctic fur seal females lost 3.15%, or 1.231 kg per day, of their initial body mass of roughly 39 kg. Heavier females gave birth to heavier young (r = .644, P < .05; n = 12) and lost significantly more mass per day than did smaller females (r = .796, P < .01; n = 12). In contrast, Galpagos fur seal females (37.4 kg) lost half as much mass per day (1.68% day 0.639 kg day). Metabolic rates, determined by the doubly labeled water method, were considerably higher in Antarctic fur seals (4.56 W kg) than Galpagos fur seals ( 1.48 W kg). We suggest that the lower metabolic rate of Galpagos fur seal females is an adaptation to reduce thermal stress on land in the warm equatorial habitat. Measurements of metabolic rate from water influx overestimated metabolism measured with the doubly labeled water method by only 3.2% in Antarctic fur seals, while seawater drinking precluded its use in Galpagos fur seals. Metabolic rates of nonlactating Antarctic fur seals were not different from those of lactating individuals. This is consistent with other studies, which indicates that the cost of lactation is primarily associated with the energy content of milk, with little or no measurable increase in metabolism owing to the cost of milk synthesis. Total body water determinations (57.2% Galpagos; 59.7% Antarctic) were used to estimate a total fat content of 26% and 22% at parturition, respectively. Because this is only about half that reported for phocid females, we suggest that the greater fat stores of phocid seals are a major factor enabling them to fast throughout lactation.
30156039|The mean temperature selected by bullfrog tadpoles, Rana catesbeiana, in a continuous thermal gradient increased as a function of development; from 24 C at TaylorKollros stages X-XII, to 29 C at stages XIX-XX, to 32 C at stages XXIV-XXV. The variance of the selected body temperature decreased and the frequency at the modal temperature increased as development proceeded. Responses of a total of 29 cold-and three warm-sensitive neurons were characterized. As development progressed, the temperature at which static impulse frequency occurred in individual cutaneous coldsensitive neurons increased from a low of 16 C at stage XIII to as high as 32 C at stage XXV. The average static maximum temperature of these cold-sensitive units was less than the mean selected body temperature at each developmental stage studied (17 C at XIII-XIV, 25 C at XIX-XX, and 27 C at XXIV-XXV) but paralleled the developmental changes in thermal preference. We hypothesize that the ontogeny of the final thermal preferendum of bullfrogs is dependent on the developmental changes in the thermal characteristics of peripheral cold-sensitive neurons as well as possible changes in peripheral warm-sensitive neurons and neurons within the central nervous system.
30158220|There is evidence for incipient thermogenesis in the embryos of precocial species of birds during the later stages of incubation. In ovo, nascent thermoregulation is limited by (1) the high thermal conductance of the egg and embryonic tissues, (2) the rate at which oxygen can diffuse into the egg through the shell and the chorioallantoic membrane ("oxygen-conductance limited"), and (3) the degree of development of the thyroid gland and the metabolic capacity of the embryo ("power limited"). In birds with a semiprecocial mode of development, hatching appears to be a climactic event in the development of the thermoregulation. In contrast, altricial species are at the mercy of the ambient temperature ("Arrhenius limited") even after hatching, and they never experience an oxygen-conductance limitation. Thus, there is a great disparity in the thermoregulatory competence of hatchlings varying from the altricial poikilotherm to the precocial homeotherm. Consequently, the development of thermoregulation in altricial species is an entirely posthatching event, whereas in precocial species there is an embryonic component in the development of thermoregulation and the process is subject to several extraneous limitations, notably the functional pore structure of the eggshell, and the chorioallantoic membrane.
30155805|Coordination of reproductive condition in male pocket mice (Perognathus formosus) by environmental factors limits the season of reproduction to a time associated with the springtime peak in availability of dietary resources that are critical to reproduction. This optimal time for reproduction follows winter hibernation and precedes summer drought. Responsiveness of reproductive function to environmental influences was studied in male P. formosus of the Mojave Desert region by bringing freshly captured animals into the laboratory at different seasons and exposing them to a variety of experimental manipulations. Long days (16 h light/day) stimulated or maintained seasonal testicular function, whereas short days (8 h light/day) were nonstimulatory or inhibitory. However, because natural reproductive development begins while the mice hibernate underground in total darkness, it is not yet clear how day length might influence this pattern of reproductive development in nature. Reproductive development was greater at 13 C than at 23 C, which was in turn greater than at 33 C. This inverse relationship between temperature and reproductive maturation is a reversal of the response typical of other rodent species, and the way in which temperature affects reproductive maturation of P. formosus in nature is also not clear. If photoperiod plays a role in the winter development of the testes, it may operate prior to the onset of hibernation, whereas temperature may influence reproductive maturation during hibernation. Although P. formosus gains body mass on a diet of dry seeds without water or succulent food, its testicular development is strongly inhibited on this diet. Fresh lettuce, provided to the animals in most of the experiments, serves as an important source of water and perhaps other nutritional elements.
30156231|This study investigates the effects of tonic thyroxine (T4) release via implanted pellets on standard metabolic rate (SMR), heart and liver masses, and selected intermediary metabolic enzymes in field-active lizards, Sceloporus undulatus. Plasma T4 was elevated within physiologically realistic levels to 22.7  3.03 ng/mL (mean  SE) versus 12.9  2.44 in the same animals prior to implantation and 7.7  1.45 ng/mL in untreated lizards captured concurrently. However, plasma T3 was not changed significantly (2.3  0.39[ untreated] vs. 1.8  0.22 ng/mL [experimental]; P = 0.231). Standard metabolic rate at 35 C was 55% higher (P = 0.040) in T4-implanted lizards, and plasma T4 was significantly correlated with SMR in this group (r = 0.595; P = 0.003). Liver mass was 16% lower (P < 0.001) and heart mass was 9% higher (P = 0.045) in T4-implanted than in untreated lizards. Hepatic citrate synthase activity was increased significantly by T4 (13  0 4 us. 15  0.4 U/ g at 35 C[ P < 0.001]). Total citrate synthase activity (i.e., mass-specific activity X organ mass) was unchanged in liver (P = 0.552) and was significantly increased by T4 in heart (P = 0.050). Pyruvate kinase activity was increased by T4 in liver (20  1.5 vs. 275  1.0 U/g at 35 C[P < 0.001]), heart (378  15.9 vs. 422  10.3 [ P = 0.008]), and mixed-fiber skeletal muscle (1,062  44.9 vs. 1,223  39.0 [P = 0.039]). Hepatic cytosolic -glycerophosphate dehydrogenase activity (cyt. -GPDH) was reduced by T4 (82  2.5 vs. 65  2. 6 U/g at 35 C[ P = 0.001]). Total pyruvate kinase and total cyt. -GPDH responded in parallel with their respective mass-specific activities. The present data suggest that T4 itself may have unexpectedly high physiological activity in lizards. The observed physiological responses to exogenous T4 suggest a T4-induced increment in exercise capacities infield-active S. undulatus and indicate that field experimentation is a feasible component of further efforts to clarify physiological responses to thyroid hormones in lizards. The importance of these invasive field experiments is underscored by comparisons of present data with other studies, a comparison that indicates suppression of physiological responsiveness to T4 in captive lizards.
30163915|Amphibian embryos develop within the perivitelline space, which is bounded by the vitelline membrane and jelly envelopes, collectively called the egg capsule. Diffusion of oxygen through the capsule is described by the Fick equation,
30162285|Postponed senescence in Drosophila melanogaster is associated with increased adult resistance to starvation, desiccation, and ethanol vapor. Flies from postponed-senescence populations were compared to flies from control populations with respect to age-specific respiration rate, activity level, and total lipid content. Females from control (short-lived) populations exhibited greater respiration rates and activity levels than did flies from postponed-senescence populations when young. At older ages, there were no differences in respiration rates, and females from postponed-senescence populations were more active than control-population females. The age-specific trends and patterns of differences in respiration rate and activity do not appear to explain the previously observed differences and trends in starvation, desiccation, and ethanol-vapor resistance. Females from postponed-senescence populations had greater proportional lipid content than did females from control populations over the range of ages examined. Lipid content increased with age for both types of populations. Age-specific trends and differences in lipid content appear to explain satisfactorily the increase in starvation resistance with age for females of all populations as well as the greater starvation resistance of females from the postponed-senescence populations.
30158512|The transfer of oxygen, carbon dioxide, and ammonia across fish gills is waterflow-dependent, oxygen being the most flow sensitive and ammonia the least, in the reverse order of their solubilities. Examination of gill-exhalant water pH has demonstrated that carbon dioxide excretion across the gills acidifies the water as CO is hydrated to form HCO and H, the reaction catalyzed by carbonic anhydrase on the gill epithelium and in the water/mucus boundary layer. On the other hand, ammonia excretion raises water pH, an effect usually masked by the much larger CO excretion. The extent of acidification of the gill water depends on the ratio of water flow to carbon dioxide excretion, the pH and buffering capacity of the water, and the ratio of CO to NH excretion. Under most conditions the water next to the gills is more acid than that midstream between lamellae because the actual pH gradient, as well as other chemical gradients, is flow sensitive. Analysis of experiments on the isolated trout head preparation indicated that the formation of an acid water boundary layer will trap NH as NH and enhance NH transfer across the gills.
30159989|Resting metabolic rate and body temperature of California sea lion pups (Zalophus californianus: Otariidae) were measured for 39 animals (12,000 g, mean body mass) captured from breeding areas on San Nicolas Island, California. These 3-5-wk-old pups had a mean specific resting metabolic rate of 0.780  .010 ml O g h, which is 2.380 times the value predicted by Kleiber for adult mammals with similar body mass; mean body temperature was 37.8  .08 C. This level of metabolism is similar to those reported for young seals (Phocidae). The heat-transfer coefficient (h) was 24.6 times that predicted from body mass, and it appeared that some individuals were on the verge of hypothermia at ambient air temperatures below 19 C. Although high metabolic rates are typically associated with high growth rates in terrestrial mammals, high heat loss associated with relatively poor insulation in sea lion pups may require allocation of relatively large amounts of energy to thermoregulation (=maintenance), thus limiting the amount of energy available for growth.
30156090|Colonies with 10-42 workers were subjected to ambient temperatures (
30164291|During their autumn migratory phase, thrush nightingales (Luscinia luscinia) previously starved for 2 d were allowed to refuel under three different ambient temperature conditions (-7, 7, and 22C). During the refueling period, as well as during the preceding control and starvation periods, food intake, body mass, and feces production were monitored. In addition, daily energy expenditure was measured during the refueling period. The compilation of the energy balance during the refueling period revealed an energy density of the deposited tissue of 33.6 kJ g. Assuming that the deposited tissue consists of fat and protein exclusively, with energy densities of 39.6 and 5.5 kJ g wet mass, respectively, we estimated the deposited tissue to consist of 82% fat and 18% wet protein (6% dry protein and 12% water). Nitrogen balances during control, starvation, and refueling phases and during a period of prolonged and complete starvation indicated that 5% of the nutrient stores consisted of dry protein. Our results support recent findings that nutrient stores for migration often contain protein in addition to fat and consequently are 15%-25% less energy rich than pure fat stores. These proteins might be stored as muscle or other functional tissue and may be required to support the extra mass of the stores and/or reflect an incapacity of the metabolic machinery to catabolize fat exclusively. Fuel deposition rate was positively related with ambient temperature, whereas food intake rate was unaffected by temperature. These results indicate that the rate of fuel deposition is limited by a ceiling in food intake rate; when this ceiling is reached, fuel deposition rate is negatively affected by daily energy expenditure rate. To a certain extent, the ceiling in food intake rate varies depending on feeding conditions over the previous days. These variations in food intake capacity probably reflect the building and breakdown of gut tissues and/or gut enzyme systems and might be insensible and not evolutionary adaptive. Significant energetic costs, however, are probably associated with the maintenance of gut tissues. It is therefore feasible that changes in digestive capacity are regulated and are directed at energy economization.
30156129|Thoracic temperatures (
30156060|Two phasianid birds, the sand partridge (Ammoperdix heyi) and the chukar (Alectoris chukar), are sympatric in much of the Negev desert, but the sand partridge also occurs in extremely arid areas where chukars are absent. We compared their water intakes, existence energies, and responses to water deprivation under laboratory conditions. Four chukars (body mass [
30163888|Oxygen consumption (
30152605|The black Bedouin goat uses both panting and sweating as modes of evaporative heat loss. The control of panting and sweating was studied by examining the body temperature distribution under heat loads which produced equivalent levels of evaporative heat loss, namely, solar radiation and high air temperature conditions. Heat exposure induced by high air temperature resulted in a proportionally greater respiratory water loss than did outdoor exposure to solar radiation; the greater respiratory cooling was related to higher hypothalamic and arterial temperatures but lower skin temperatures. However, solar radiation resulted in a higher temperature of the skin under the irradiated fur, and this was associated with a greater cutaneous moisture loss. Thus, the mode of evaporation was concluded to be appropriate to the thermal stimulus: higher nasal temperature resulted in a predominant panting response, and high skin temperature invoked greater sweating. The gradient between arterial and hypothalamic temperature was not necessarily correlated with panting, providing evidence that blood flow through the countercurrent heat exchanger, the carotid rete mirabile, was utilized only when hypothalamic temperature rose above a critical level.
30161250|Acute exposure to stressful stimuli causes pronounced loss of pain sensation in rodents. In this study, the analgesic effect of 3 min swimming in 20 C or 32 C water was tested in wild field (Apodemus agrarius), wild house (Mus musculus), and laboratory Swiss mice. Swim-induced analgesia was more than twofold higher in wild than in Swiss mice. Swim analgesia in both species of wild animals was equal to or higher than in mice bred for 10 generations toward high analgesia to swim stress.
30163762|The effects of salinity and temperature on the oxygen-transporting properties of the hemolymph of Macrobrachium rosenbergii have been examined. Values for PO of the pre-and postbranchial hemolymph (Pao and Pvo) were quite low (12.7 and 8.4 Torr, respectively) in quiescent prawns maintained in freshwater. Values for Pao increased significantly, however, in prawns maintained at salinities of 17.5 and 28. Small but significant differences were recorded in the oxygen afinity (
30166507|We examined the blood of four dasyurid marsupials, all small, active insectivores and/or carnivores, to establish if there were any specializations in oxygen transport. All four species had hemoglobins with a low affinity for oxygen. This was demonstrated by high
10.1086/515971|Northern elephant seals,
30163739|Musk turtles (Sternotherus odoratus) from Alabama were placed in simulated hibernation by submerging them at 3 C in normoxic and anoxic water. Animals were removed periodically from each condition without being allowed to breathe, and cardiac blood samples were taken for the determination of blood gases and acid-base parameters. Separate groups of turtles (n = 10 per group) were similarly maintained to determine their submergence viability. Anoxic turtles died in 21-31 days, while nine of 10 of those in normoxia were still alive after 150 days. Five of these survivors were removed and warmed at 22 C; three died, and two recovered completely. The acid-base status of turtles in anoxia deteriorated rapidly, while that of normoxic animals was essentially unaffected. Plasma [lactate] rose from 0.8 to 86 mM and [
30163875|The renal response to hypo-, iso-, and hyperosmotic blood volume expansion were investigated in two amphibian species, a more aquatic Rana catesbeiana and a more terrestrial Bufo marinus. Both species demonstrated a diuresis, an increase in urine sodium concentration, and a natriuresis in response to hypoosmotic and isosmotic blood volume expansion. The diuresis and natriuresis in response to these treatments were osmotically sensitive in B. marinus but not in R. catesbeiana. The urine sodium concentration was dependent on urine flow rate. This contradicts conventional wisdom that amphibian kidneys are capable of producing large volumes of dilute urine. There was no diuresis with hyperosmotic volume expansion in either species. The interplay of volume and osmotic stimuli in the control of renal function appears to be synergistic rather than additive in B. marinus. The more terrestrial B. marinus had higher control urine flow than did R. catesbeiana. Renal involvement in the short-term control of blood volume appears less important in amphibians than in mammals.
10.1086/515883|The peak of the elevated oxygen consumption following feeding may be preabsorptive in some reptiles, possibly because of the upregulation of gut function. The question of whether upregulation has a substantial net cost and accounts for a large part of the cost of the specific dynamic action can be resolved by comparing the response to single and repeated meals. Oxygen consumption of the omnivorous tortoise
30155875|To examine how air breathing affects susceptibility to predation in anuran larvae, predatory encounters were staged between tadpoles of the frog Rana berlandieri and turtles (Chrysemys picta) in a laboratory setting. Swimming and air-breathing movements of tadpoles increased the distance at which turtles recognized and attacked tadpoles. Turtles attacked only one nonmoving tadpole more than 30 cm distant but attacked moving tadpoles up to 175 cm distant. However, only 5% of tadpoles attacked while moving were actually swimming to breathe air. Locomotor stamina (and hence its enhancement by air breathing) had little bearing on the outcome of predatory encounters. Encounters (no. = 171) averaged 11.4 s (SD = 7.0 s), and fewer than 10% exceeded 20 s. Tadpoles' escapes from turtles involved burst speed or maneuverability rather than stamina. Escaped and captured tadpoles differed in speed and number of abrupt turns, but not in distance swum and swimming time. Lactate concentrations of tadpoles did not change during simulated predatory encounters. Tadpoles increased movement after a predator's attack. The data suggest that air breathing increases tadpole recognition by visually oriented predators and does little to aid a tadpole's escape in a predatory encounter. Thus, the real benefit of air breathing to most tadpoles in nature remains an open question.
30158243|The energy allocation hypothesis predicts that increased maintenance costs and use of thermogenic tissues accompanying the development of endothermy in altricial birds reduce the proportion of energy allocated to growth. If it is true, the rates of tissue production in these birds will be highest early in the postnatal period, when maintenance and thermoregulatory costs are relatively low. To test this, I determined the ontogenetic changes in the body size, resting metabolic rate (RMR), and thermoregulatory capability of nestling red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) throughout the postnatal period. Postnatal growth rates of blackbirds were among the highest reported for birds. Both the instantaneous growth rates and relative growth efficiencies (proportion of energy allocated to the production of new tissue) are highest during the first 4 d of the postnatal period. This striking growth occurs before the greatest improvements in the thermoregulatory capabilities of individual red-winged blackbird nestlings (age 6-8 d) and before the age when the RMR reaches the level predicted for an adult passerine of equivalent size (age 6- 7 d). The observation that the highest growth efficiencies precede both the development of endothermy and the establishment of maintenance costs typical of adult birds supports the predictions of the energy allocation hypothesis.
30156119|The cost of feeding for two subadult male Amazonian manatees (Trichechus inunguis) was 4.64  0.49 liters O (
30155719|A heat-energy-budget equation was developed to describe the heat-energy exchange between a fresh-water fish and its aquatic environment. Experimentally derived heat-transfer coefficients varied directly with water velocity. This relationship was clarified by the use of dimensionless variables. Heat-transfer coefficients were approximately two orders of magnitude greater than similar coefficients determined for terrestrial organisms. Rapid heat transfer occurs between a fish and the surrounding water because of a reduced boundary-layer thickness in water and the high heat capacity of this fluid. It appears that in still or moving water the major avenue of heat exchange for fresh-water fish is via the direct transfer of heat from/to the body surface to/from the water. The physical interactions between fish and water preclude the development of thermoregulatory adaptations such as changes in the thickness of insulation and circulatory modifications in all but the largest fish.
30155823|An assessment of the role of mucus on the water impermeability of fish epidermis has been made for the marine elasmobranch, Raja clavata. Surface mucus is interpreted as an unstirred layer. The experimental work measured variation of the diffusional coefficient of mucus for water with changing mucus concentration and estimates the in vivo concentration of mucus on the skin. Mucus does restrict the diffusion of water, but the contribution of this resistance to the impermeability of fish epidermis to water diffusion is unlikely to exceed 10% of the overall value. Other ways by which mucus might influence water movements are discussed.
30156199|Heat-loaded pigeons were trained in a modified Skinner box to defend a constant body temperature (
30157971|Late-incubation unpipped eggs, pipped eggs, and hatchlings of the wedge-tailed shearwater (Puffinus pacificus) were exposed to constant ambient temperatures (
30152638|Incubation time in amphibians can be mathematically partitioned into two other parameters as follows: Incubation time = rate of embryonic development X protraction of development. The latter parameter is important because it reflects the degree of development of the embryo at hatching. Protraction of development is defined as the ratio of incubation time to time taken to reach a neurula stage common to all amphibians, and it is directly correlated with Gosner stage at hatching in anurans (n = 30 species). This analysis assesses the influence of two covariates, ovum size and temperature, on the three parameters above for two orders of amphibians, anurans and caudates. The ANCOVA of 55 species in 17 families shows that incubation time scales to ovum
30158174|The oxygen consumption of the crab Carcinus fed a single meal of Mytilus tissue equivalent to 2.6% of the crabs' fresh weight increased 2.3-fold at 3 h after the meal and returned to its previous value within 24 h. The whole-body protein synthesis rates of animals fed meals of similar size paralleled the oxygen consumption changes; protein synthesis rates increased twofold by 3 h after the meal and remained elevated for 16h. Estimates of the minimal costs of protein synthesis indicated that they accounted for between 20% and 37% of the measured oxygen consumption. There was a linear correlation between protein synthesis rates and oxygen consumption rates. The protein synthesis rates of the midgut gland, gill, heart, proventriculus, leg extensor muscle, and claw muscle all increased by 3 h after a meal, but only in the claw muscle was this stimulation in protein synthesis prolonged. These initial increases in protein synthesis were not accompanied by any significant change in RNA:protein ratios in any of the tissues; only at 9 h after the meal had the RNA concentration approached the values found in continuously fed animals. We concluded that a single meal initiated a surge of protein synthesis in the tissues of Carcinus that was closely correlated with total oxygen consumption and that occurred initially through an increase in RNA activity.
30152535|Body temperatures (
30158258|At laying, eggs of Crocodylus johnstoni contain approximately 440 kJ of energy. During constant-temperature incubation this energy is depleted from the egg at 1.47 times the rate of accumulation in embryonic tissue. Thus, energetic efficiency during development is 68%. Additional losses in membranes and other residues at hatching (16 kJ) reduce whole-incubation efficiency to about 65%. Energy losses are similar at 29 and 31C, despite a 19-d (24%) extension of the incubation period at the lower temperature. Total production efficiency in C. johnstoni is similar to other reptiles but higher than in birds. We suggest that energy costs of development of reptilian embryos are relatively insensitive to duration of incubation because maintenance costs are small compared with other energy demands.
30158238|Respiratory pumping (RP) behavior was monitored in intact, unrestrained Aplysia californica. Respiratory pumping rates in ambient normoxic seawater (4.3-4.8 mL O/L) were compared with those during (1) long-term (24 h) exposure to rapidly developed extreme hypoxic seawater ( 1.8 mL O/L), (2) short-term (3-4 h) exposure to three different rapidly induced hypoxic levels (i.e., "mild" hypoxia of 3.0-3.8 mL O/L, "medium" hypoxia of 1. 8-2. 7 mL O/L, and "extreme" hypoxia of 0.5-1.0 mL O/L), and (3) exposure to slowly developed (approximately 5 h) "extreme" hypoxia. Long-term exposure to hypoxic seawater depressed all forms of RP activity. However, during the time of developing hypoxia, RP activity increased and was inversely related to the level of hypoxia developed; the most effective hypoxic level was  1.8 mL O/L. Attenuation of this developing-hypoxia-induced rise in RP occurred by slowing down the rate of developing hypoxia. Aquarium reoxygenation to normoxia reestablished normoxic RP rates although the occurrence of a patterned series of RP responses, termed an RP seizure, was more frequent during reoxygenation than during exposure to normoxic or hypoxic seawater. These results suggest that A. californica at first attempts to maintain its O uptake through increased RP when ambient dissolved O declines, but when such hypoxia persists, RP and associated aerobic metabolism may be limited by O availability.
30158498|Hematocrit (Hct), hemoglobin concentration (Hb), and oxygen dissociation curves (ODCs) of whole blood were measured in rosy finches (Leucosticte arctoa) native to altitudes above 3,500 m and housefinches (Carpodacus mexicanus) native to low altitudes. I measured Hct and Hb on the day of capture and after transfer of birds between altitudes of 150 m and 3,800 m. The ODCs were measured at low altitude over a range of
30155976|Respiratory and circulatory responses to 4 h emersion were studied in large (subtidal) and small (intertidal) red rock crabs, Cancer productus. Pre- and postbranchial hemolymph O tensions (Po) decreased rapidly during emersion, suggesting that O uptake at the gill is diffusion limited under these conditions. Oxygen uptake (Mo) could not be maintained during emersion in either group of crabs, and hemolymph lactate levels rose substantially. Fick estimates of cardiac output indicated that tissue oxygen supply is perfusion limited-more in small than in large crabs. Collapse of the gill lamellae in air may limit both gas exchange and hemolymph flow at the gill. In large crabs, scaphognathite pumping frequency (
30157958|This is the first description of the ventilatory response of the Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) to hypoxia. Using a pharmacological approach, we tested the hypotheses that during hypoxia (1) elevation of circulating catecholamines, arising from chromaffin tissue or peripheral adrenergic neurones, contributes to hyperventilation and that (2) the hyperventilatory response can be modulated by the hypoxia-induced hypertension. The ventilatory response to hypoxia (final water PO = 46 mmHg, reached in 25 min) was not significantly altered by pretreatment offish with either -or -adrenoceptor antagonists (phentolamine or sotalol, respectively) or with an inhibitor of catecholamine release from peripheral neurones (bretylium), despite a significant increase in plasma catecholamine levels in all treatment groups. Since the utilized regime did not induce metabolic acidosis (a potential ventilatory stimulant), we conclude that the hyperventilation was caused solely by a depression of the oxygen status. Although changes in the internal as well as the external oxygen status may have potentially contributed to the hyperventilation, we suggest, on the basis of the rapid ventilatory response after only small depressions of water PO, that the initial stimulus is external. During hypoxia, a doubling of mean ventral aortic blood pressure was observed. This elevation of blood pressure was due to an increased adrenergic nervous and humoral activity. The lack of modification in the ventilatory response to hypoxia after transient or persistent abolishment of the hypertension by pharmacological agents (bretylium or phentolamine, respectively) indicated that during hypoxia there was no relationship between blood pressure and ventilation in this species.
30163935|Heart rate (
30158547|Compositional alterations in liver and heart in channel catfish during seasonal acclimatization were compared with patterns observed during temperature acclimation. Hepatosomatic index (HSI) was minimal in the summer (>25 C), highest in the spring and fall (12-18 C), and intermediate in winter (4-9 C). Alterations in heart (ventricle) mass were in the order winter > fall > summer and correlated with the pattern observed during acclimation. Liver protein content was relatively constant except in summer, when total liver protein was approximately half that of other seasons. Dietary insuficiency was indicated in summer animals by elevated tissue water content. Liver DNA, like HSI, showed maxima in fall and spring and minima in summer and winter. Liver RNA levels were lowest in the summer and highest in the spring. Protein/DNA and RNA/ DNA ratios increased from fall through winter to a maximum in the spring as a prelude to spawning but declined precipitously in the summer. Liver glycogen content, which was highest in the fall, was reduced during summer to values 13-fold lower than in the fall. Total lipid was highest in the spring and lowest in summer, primarily reflecting alterations in neutral lipid. Phospholipid showed little seasonal variation except in summer, when it was half that at other seasons, and this may reflect significant alterations in either subcellular organelles or hepatocyte numbers. Although temperature plays a major role in the observed alterations in tissue composition and often reflects a pattern similar to that observed for laboratory acclimation, other factors, particularly dietary deficiencies at seasonal temperature extremes, likely modify compositional patterns.
30163761|Riftia pachyptila, the giant hydrothermal vent tube worm, lives in a thermally and chemically complex environment It apparently derives the bulk of its nutrition from its chemoautotrophic symbionts, which are found at very high densities in a large internal organ, the trophosome. Although somewhat buffered from the environmental variation, the internal symbionts likely are exposed to significantly different temperatures in different host individuals, in different positions in the same host individual, and at different times in the same host individual Temperature optima for autotrophic carbon fixation varied from 25 to 35C in trophosome preparations from eight individuals. Because of a variety of factors, both the mode of supply of inorganic carbon to the symbionts in the trophosome and the adequacy of that supply (with respect to saturation of demand) are not understood. On the basis of experiments varying the concentrations of bicarbonate and dissolved carbon dioxide, an apparent K, for dissolved carbon dioxide of between 0.021 and 0.035 mM is demonstrated, and dissolved carbon dioxide is determined to be the form of inorganic carbon taken up and used by the symbionts.
30155795|Freshly captured white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) from summer and winter populations were returned to the laboratory and metabolism experiments performed immediately. Oxygen consumption (
30156108|Specific O consumption (O) and body temperature (
30155725|The effects of a normoxic low pressure environment on gestation and postnatal development in Mesocricetus auratus were examined to test the widely held assumption that the deleterious effects of exposure to high altitude during pregnancy are due to hypoxia alone. Animals exposed to low pressure alone during days 8-12 of gestation gained significantly less weight than control animals, but most of the weight difference was eliminated by the second day after treatment. No differences were found in litter size, sex ratio, postnatal weights, eye opening, vagina opening, or regularity of estrous cycle of the prenatally treated pups as compared to controls, suggesting that postimplantation fetuses may be protected from a low pressure maternal environment. It was concluded that weight losses observed at high altitude in previous studies were probably due to the combined effects of hypoxia and low pressure exposure, but that the low pressure component alone does have physiological significance.
30158568|We measured whole-body lactic acid concentrations of two species of iguanid lizards and two species of teiids in the field during routine and experimentally manipulated activities. Lactate concentrations were lowest when lizards first emerged in the morning. Routine foraging behavior produced small increases in lactate concentrations for all species. The teiids (Cnemidophorus exsanguis and C. sonorae) had significantly higher lactate concentrations at emergence and during routine activity than did the iguanids (Sceloporus virgatus and S. jarrovi). For S. virgatus lactate concentration during routine activity was positively correlated with the distance a lizard moved (0-16 m) during the half-hour period of observation before capture. Subduing and swallowing grasshoppers increased lactate concentrations of S. virgatus by an average of .121 mg/g, which was an increase of 40% over the average for routine activity. The magnitude of the increase was positively correlated with the size of the prey (.09-.48 g) but not with the time required (<1-35 min). Territorial defense by S. jarrovi doubled the average lactate concentration from .309 mg/g during routine activity to .653 mg/g after combat. Intensity of combat (measured as bites per minute by the resident lizard) was positively correlated with lactate concentration, but the duration of an agonistic encounter (1-15 min) was not. These data suggest that anaerobic metabolism can be an important pathway of energy input for lizards under natural conditions and support the hypothesis that physiological constraints can limit the behaviors available to a species of lizard.
30164194|Embryos of oviparous and viviparous lepidosaurians, chelonians, and archosaurians must maintain calcium homeostasis while mobilizing large quantities of calcium from the yolk, eggshell, or maternal circulation. The same calcium-regulating hormones that control the calcium status of adults are assumed to control the calcium status of embryos as well, but the target organs for calcium regulation may be different in embryos and adults. The yolk sac, which mediates the uptake of calcium from the yolk (and the deposition of calcium into yolk in archosaurians), the chorioallantois, which mediates the release of calcium from the eggshell and the transport of shell calcium to the vasculature in oviparous species, and the chorioallantoic placenta, which mediates the maternal-fetal transfer of calcium in viviparous species, are potential targets for calcium-regulating hormones (calcitonin, parathyroid hormone, calcitriol) during embryogenesis. However, the role of these hormones in mediating the calcium status of embryos has been examined only in avian species, and the most detailed information available in this regard is for calcitriol (the vitamin D hormone). The presence of receptors for calcitriol in the yolk sac and chorioallantoic membranes of avian species and the extreme calcium deficiency of vitamin-D-deficient embryos indicate that calcitriol plays an important role in regulating calcium metabolism during avian embryogenesis. A source of parathyroid hormone also is required for normal development, but the target organ(s)for this hormone have not been identified. The role of calcitonin in calcium regulation by embryonic birds is poorly understood, and the potential for hormonal control of calcium homeostasis in embryonic reptiles has not been examined.
30155839|Most mammals possess much higher metabolic rates than reptiles, but three species of insectivores have been found to possess lower reptile-like rates. It has been proposed that the earliest mammals possessed similar low metabolic rates that were retained by these insectivores during the course of mammalian evolution. The purpose of this study was to investigate the energetics of additional insectivores and some other mammals that might also have been expected to retain low reptile-like energetics. We have measured the metabolism of running rather than resting animals to avoid much of the variability inherent in resting measurements. We have found that four species of "primitive" mammals, including armadillos, musk shrews, elephant shrews, and short-tailed opossums, all possess energetics that resemble typical mammals rather than reptiles. We conclude that the low metabolic rate observed in the three species of insectivores was probably a specialization for conserving energy and was not retained by these animals during the course of evolution. It is important, however, to note that the fact that these animals can maintain a constant body temperature in a niche similar to that occupied by the first mammals means that it would have been possible for the first mammals to do this as well.
30163931|Freshwater turtles (Chrysemys picta bellii) are well known for their remarkable ability to tolerate prolonged anoxia. One of the responses to this stress is a large increase in plasma divalent ions. Our measurements of shell mineral composition before and after long-term anoxic submergence support the assumption that calcium and magnesium are mobilized from skeletal sources. While the loss of calcium from the shell is not likely to substantially affect the calcium content of the whole animal, a significant portion of the whole-animal magnesium may be lost during normal overwintering. We also evaluated the renal response to anoxia and found a dramatic decrease in glomerular filtration rate, which may enhance the rise in body luid divalent cations.
30155866|An air-flow system (transpiration monitor) for measuring small and sporadic losses of water from intact arthropods and across isolated integument or artificial membranes is described and tested on the desert centipede Scolopendra polymorpha. Mean water loss rates (WLR) at 40 C (2.03 mg cm h) were approximately three times those at 30 C (0.64 mg cm h). The first hour's water loss at both temperatures featured numerous small bursts of moisture associated with oral discharges; peaks corresponding to these bursts decreased in amplitude and frequency during the second hour. Water loss increased in normal (unsealed), alive (mouth and anus sealed), and dead (mouth and anus sealed) centipedes as temperatures were gradually raised from 30 to 42 C; the lowest WLR over the entire temperature range was observed in alive-sealed centipedes. The permeability of a piece of untreated cuticle between 25 and 42 C was greater than its permeability after coating the same piece with 10 g cm of the hydrocarbon, n-eicosane (
30164254|The aim of this study was to determine whether seasonal variability in diet quality or cold stress is accompanied by compensatory changes in nutrient selection, energy intake, and digestive capacity of seasonally acclimatized muskrats. We hypothesized that in summer, muskrats meet their energy and nutrient requirements by selectively consuming high-protein, low-fiber aquatic plants. We also predicted that muskrats use fiber as an important energy source during those periods of the year when the nutritional value and diversity of forage species are lowest. At such times, muskrats should be most dependent on microbial fermentation and should exhibit maximal gut size and digestive efficiency. As predicted, muskrats offered naturalforage increased the fraction of protein while reducing the proportion of fiber in their diet during summer, but not during spring or winter digestibility trials. From July to December, muskrats exhibited increases in dry matter intake, gut mass, and forage digestibility. The increase in hindgut mass was accompanied by an 18.5% rise in neutral detergent fiber digestibility, while the proportion of digestible energy derived from the fermentation of fiber increased from 38.4% in July to 53.2% in December. During winter, muskrats were able to reduce their dietary nitrogen requirements by 26.0%. Our results suggest that changes in the absorptive surface area and volume of the gut are important adaptations for promoting nutrient assimilation during periods when muskrats are challenged by both high maintenance costs and a limited choice of diets.
30151334|1. Relationship values of other authors have been confirmed. 2. Additional relationship values were obtained which substantiate relationships secured by comparative anatomy. 3. Reciprocal relationships have verified the results of the majority of tests, with the exception of tests involving carnivores. 4. A possible cause of this anomaly of Carnivora serum has been suggested. 5. Another method of verification of results was offered. 6. A 1:2 dilution of antisera does not alter relationship values. 7. A 1: 2 dilution of antiserum often makes readings more precise and increases the number of tests that can be made. 8. Higher dilution affects relationship values, but even a 1: 10 dilution does not produce extra-group specificity or at times extraspecies specificity. 9. Age of 3 years decreases the potency of an antiserum, and such antiserum should not be used for medico-legal purposes. 10. Specific absorption of antiserum results in an antiserum which is most reliable in distinguishing even very closely related animals. 11. A "key" has been made involving relationship values and specifically absorbed antisera which defines a shorter procedure for identification of unknown bloods.
30163737|For workers at 28C, standard
30158659|Although platypus spend short periods feeding in captivity, they do spend up to several hours at a time foraging for food in the wild. The
30152542|The properties of acoustic interneurons in fiddler (Uca pugilator and U. minax) and ghost (Ocypode quadrata) crabs are described, as revealed by tests with pure tones. Three types of interneurons were present in all species: tonic, which fired for the duration of the stimulus; phasic, which fired briefly at the onset of stimulation; and inhibited, in which ongoing spontaneous activity was suppressed during stimulation. Spectral sensitivities of the cells differed among the species and were "matched" to the energy composition of the sounds. The combined properties of the cells were suited to resolve the most likely temporal differences between the sounds of each species: pulse repetition rate, sound duration, and interval between successive sounds. None of the cells coded tone frequency. The responses of all cells were suppressed during locomotion (walking) by the preparations. Finally, all interneurons were "nonhabituating" and in this respect resembled their functional analogues in cricket and grasshopper nervous systems.
30163881|The physiology of torpor in hummingbirds is well known from laboratory studies, but we still do not know when or how often this means of energy conservation is used in nature, whether regularly (the "routine" hypothesis) or only in response to inadequate food intake (the "emergency-only" hypothesis). I used body masses of broad-tailed hummingbirds (Selasphorus platycercus) to evaluate these hypotheses. Wild birds were weighed on electronic balances (1) on capture in mist-nets or traps and (2) when perched at feeders containing sucrose solutions. Masses followed predictable patterns within a season (breeding or wintering). Estimated energy equivalents of daily cycles of storage and depletion did not support the routine hypothesis. Converted to energy equivalent after adjusting for water content of dusk feeding, the estimated energy equivalent of overnight mass decrease (adjusted for water content of dusk feeding) averaged 15 times the demand for torpor during the breeding season, normally equalling or exceeding the demand for high nocturnal body temperature. In the annual cycle of the broadtail, the times when torpor might become necessary are (1) on arrival at breeding or wintering sites before flowers are abundant and (2) in midseasons (when nectar production fails), when daytime feeding is interrupted by storms, or when birds are otherwise prevented from storing adequate reserves by dusk.
30155970|The ability to digest plant fiber was examined in the emu, a large ratite bird which is widely distributed in Australia. Emus digested between 35% and 45 % of the neutral detergent fiber (NDF) in their diets (NDF content 26%-36%). Hemicellulose was more digestible than either cellulose or lignin. The digestion and metabolism of
30158663|An in vitro perfused dogfish (Mustelus canis) heart preparation was developed which mimics in situ levels of heart rate, cardiac output, and pressure development. Insulin was found to be necessary for the maintenance of the concentration of highenergy phosphates in hearts perfused with buffer containing glucose and also appeared to improve the mechanical performance of the perfused heart. Hypoxia leading to contractile deterioration and decreased levels of high-energy phosphates resulted in only a modest depletion of glycogen in the isolated heart. High levels of lactate were found to be detrimental to cardiac function.
30158231|The function of hemoglobin-containing red blood cells in O transport and storage was examined in a tube-dwelling marine animal, Phoronis architecta. The maximal rate at which O could be transported by the circulation in one animal ( 0.014 g) was 0.0018 p mol O  h in physical solution and 0.054 mol O  h by hemoglobin (both computed at Po = 150 mmHg). Oxygen consumption rates of an average animal ranged from 0.005 to 0.049mol O  h at external O pressuresfrom 2 to 150 mmHg, respectively. These data indicate that augmented transport of O by hemoglobin is necessary under all conditions for the animal to utilize its aerobic metabolic capacity. Although the animal is surrounded by anoxic sediment and some O loss is inevitable, the geometric arrangement of the O source (red blood cells) relative to the O, sink (consuming tissue plus anoxic sediment) and the O-unloading properties of the hemoglobin allow the animal to utilize a substantial quantity of the O transported by the hemoglobin. The hemoglobin also functions as an O, store lasting approximately 15 min. Hydrogen sulfide, which is present in the surrounding sediment, appears to have no effect on reversible O binding by hemoglobin and does not significantly affect O consumption by the animals.
30164263|Seasonal patterns of osmoregulation and water balance were compared in two populations of the desert tortoise (Gopherus [= Xerobates] agassizii) inhabiting portions of the Mojave Desert with different seasonal rainfall patterns. During an extreme drought year, tortoises lost as much as 40% of their initial body mass, and mean total body water volume decreased to below 60% of body mass. They stored wastes in, and apparently resorbed water from, their large urinary bladders. Osmolality of initially dilute bladder urine increased until it was isosmotic to blood plasma, after which osmolality of both fluids increased, eventually to some of the highest levels known for terrestrial reptiles. The increase in plasma osmolality comprised increases in plasma sodium, chloride, and especially urea concentrations. Bladder urine osmolality increased (owing primarily to soluble potassium) most rapidly during periods when tortoises ate annual plants; thus, their normal diet apparently was osmotically stressful. When rainfall events occurred, tortoises at both sites drank copiously, voided concentrated bladder urine, and stored dilute urine; body mass, total body water, and plasma and urine concentrations returned to hydrated levels. Drinking rainwater was as important for tortoises in the western Mojave, where summer rain is rare, as in the eastern Mojave, where it is predictable. Tortoises osmoregulate opportunistically, a tactic made possible by their capacity to tolerate temporary "anhomeostasis" and by extremely low rates of water loss (measured with isotopically labeled water). This opportunism resulted in wide, behaviorally based variation among individuals in all variables measured, as well as large differences (due to timing of rainfall) between populations and in temporal patterns between years within populations.
30164222|In some insects copulation may represent a significant fraction of reproductive effort, yet its energetics are unexamined. The hawkmoth Manduca sexta, recognized for its endothermy and high metabolic scope (> 100), was largely quiescent during copulation, which averaged about 3 h (n = 31). However, we occasionally observed long bouts of abdominal pumping by both sexes, suggesting elevated respiratory rates. The CO production of 1-d-old copulating pairs was recorded in an open-flow respirometry system and averaged 0.508 cc g h (n = 6). Comparison of these rates with the resting metabolic rates of the same males and females on the days before (0.545 cc g h) and after (0.495 cc g h) copulation shows that metabolic rates during copulation are not different from resting rates. Thoracic temperatures of mating moths averaged 0.31C above ambient temperatures (n = 11), also indicating resting metabolism. Body mass measurements before and after copulation suggest that males transfer a maximum of about 0.16g, or 7% of body mass. We conclude that copulation in Manduca, while representing a substantial time investment, is metabolically inexpensive.
30156178|Energy intake, daily energy expenditure (DEE), and energy available for production were determined for yellow-bellied marmots (Marmota flaviventris) at three study sites in the Elk Mountains of southwestern Colorado. Energy intake, estimated from tritiated-water turnover rates and the water and energy content of food plants, ranged from 3,283 kJ d for two lactating females in July to 666 kJ d for a yearling female in September. Maintenance, activity, and thermoregulatory components of DEE were estimated from time-budget data, estimated or measured activity costs, and heat-transfer theory. Not including energy allocated to production, DEE ranged from 1,017 kJ d for a lactating female in July to 539 kJ d for a female yearling in June. Time spent in the burrow accounted for 41%-60% of DEE; foraging, for 11% -51%; sitting on rocks by the burrow, for 1%-28%; and thermoregulation, for 1%-6%. Assimilated energy exceeded DEE for all but one animal studied; mass gains calculated assuming that assimilated energy in excess of DEE was available for production closely matched average measured mass gains of field animals.
30158626|O uptake and hemolymph acid-base status, together with branchial water volume, CO content, and titratable alkalinity, were measured in three species of intertidal crabs. In Pachygrapsus crassipes, a grapsid crab that actively moves between air and water, O uptake increased on emersion. In Eurytium albidigitum, a mud-burrowing xanthid crab that is air exposed by tidal action, O uptake declines dramatically on emersion. There is no significant lactate production by either crab following emersion. An emersion-induced respiratory acidosis was fully compensated in P. crassipes and another grapsid, Hemigrapsus nudus, but uncompensated in E. albidigitum. Branchial water volume 10 min after emersion was 0.013 ml/g crab weight in P. crassipes and 0.072 ml/g in E. albidigitum. The CO content of branchial water in P. crassipes increased rapidly during air exposure and was accompanied by an increase in titratable alkalinity (TA). The CO content of branchial water in E. albidigitum remained constant for at least 4 h and increased slightly after 8 h. TA remained unchanged for up to 8 h. We suggest that the ability of the crabs to compensate for the respiratory acidosis and to increase branchial water TA is correlated with osmoregulation in P. crassipes and H. nudus. On the other hand, E. albidigitum is an osmoconformer and neither compensates for the respiratory acidosis nor changes its TA during air exposure. Possible adaptive advantages of the two different strategies may be related to the relatively short duration of emersion and active habits of P. crassipes and the longer periods of air exposure and inactivity of E. albidigitum.
30158665|Prejuvenile Sebastes diploproa migrate from temperate surface waters of the California current region to cold, relatively deep waters inhabited by juveniles and adults. Based on results from laboratory-acclimated prejuveniles, metabolic rates were proportional to test temperature, acclimation temperature, and weight and inversely proportional to photoperiod. A multiple regression model was constructed using the factors above to predict respiratory rates in field-acclimatized prejuveniles collected in monthly samples. During the migratory season (May-September), respiratory rates measured at 10 C were much higher than values predicted by the model. The
30164313|Acorn tannins may affect food preferences and foraging strategies of squirrels through effects on acorn palatability and digestibility and squirrel physiology. Captive eastern gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) were fed 100% red oak (Quercus rubra) or white oak (Quercus alba) acorn diets to determine effects on intake, digestion, and detoxification activity. Red oak acorns had higher phenol and tannin levels, which may explain the lower dry matter intakes and apparent protein digestibilities and the higher glucuronidation activities observed in squirrels. Although the white oak acorn diet had lower apparent protein digestibilities than the reference diet, it did not suppress dry matter intake for a prolonged period or stimulate glucuronidation. Negative physiological effects of a 100% red oak acorn diet suggest gray squirrels may require other foods to dilute tannin intake and provide additional nutrients. To distinguish the roles of different tannin types in the observed effects of acorn diets on squirrels, squirrels were fed rat chow containing no tannins, 4% or 8% tannic acid (hydrolyzable tannin), or 3% or 6% quebracho (condensed tannin). Apparent protein digestibilities were reduced by tannic acid and quebracho diets. Only the 8% tannic acid diet tended to increase glucuronidation. Specific effects of tannins may largely depend on tannin type, composition, and source and on other nutritional and physiological factors.
30159984|In the tails of resting Cephaloscyllium, left and right radial muscles below the spine contract synchronously in a caudal-rostral sequence. This pulls the skin above the origin of the muscles inward and compresses the underlying caudal sinus. This series of connected valved chambers is part of the secondary venous system; it communicates, near the base of the tail, with the caudal vein. Evidence from surface mechanograms and electromyograms of the muscles and of records of blood pressure in the cutaneous veins, caudal sinus, and caudal vein of intact fish and of isolated perfused tails is presented. It indicates that blood is aspirated into the caudal sinus past inlet valves in veins from the trunk and tail and is expelled into the caudal vein. It is concluded that the caudal heart of Cephaloscyllium, powered by unmodified, metamerically repeated radial muscles is of a less specialized grade of construction than that of hagfish and teleosts.
30156180|Pregnant female golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus saturatus) were captured in the field and maintained in the laboratory at 22 C on a diet of Purina Rodent Chow.  Three to five young were born (mode 4) in each litter. Growth of young was linear (2.13 g  d) for the first 30-35 d, by the end of which the young reached thermal and nutritional independence. From the time of this transition until adult body mass was reached at day 60, the linear growth rate increased more than 2.5-fold (5.67 g  d). Pup body mass at birth was independent of litter size (mean 5.97g), but the average mass of young in the smallest litters was significantly greater than that in the largest litters by day 35. Over the course of lactation mothers showed an average 2.1-fold increase in food consumption, with an increase of about 10% in body mass and about 20% in rate of both whole-animal and mass-specific oxygen consumption. Estimated milk production per pup was 115 kJ  d milk energy for litters of three versus 104 kJ  d for litters of five. For the largest litters, milk production approached an apparent limit to maximal daily rate of energy intake. However, we also found, by raising litters of four under cold conditions (5 C); that energy intake could be increased an additional 25% above the rate of mothers raising four young at 22 C and 10% above that of mothers raising five young at 22 C. Rate of energy intake was not enhanced by providing a meat diet, which was more highly digestible (96.5%) than Rodent Chow (80. 0%). Body mass of young raised at 5 C or with mothers on the meat diet did not differ from that of young with control mothers. The intensity of energy demand during peak lactation suggests that production of the maximal litter size of five pushes the mother near physiological limits. However, the mechanistic basis of this limit and its implications for the trade-off between fecundity and survival require further investigation.
30163768|The hypercapnic ventilatory response of golden-mantled ground squirrels was characterized on consecutive days throughout single bouts of hibernation and on the third day of hibernation bouts during the early, middle, and late portions of the hibernation season, to determine whether ventilatory responses during hibernation are a function of body temperature or hibernation depth. Our measurements confirm that the hypercapnic ventilatory response of this species during hibernation consists almost exclusively of increases in respiratory frequency (
30155998|Specimens of the large pogonophoran tube worm Riftia pachyptila were collected at the hydrothermal vents at 21N on the East Pacific Rise (2050 N, 10906 W). Incubations of live animals in the presence of radiolabeled CO showed an incorporation of radioactivity in the obturacular plume into malate and succinate. It is proposed that these substances are then transported in the circulatory system of the animals to the bacteria in the trophosome, where malate is decarboxylated and the CO released is incorporated in the bacteria. A CO fixation rate of up to 16 mol/h/g fresh wt could be observed in the obturacular plume. Several carboxylating enzymes were tested; pyruvate carboxylase and malic enzyme (NADP) had an activity of 0.04 U/g fresh wt, and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (GDP) 0.01 U/g fresh wt; acetyl CoA carboxylase, malic enzyme (NAD), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (ADP), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase could not be detected. The quantitative importance of CO fixation by symbiotic bacteria for the worms' metabolic needs is discussed.
30160003|The water, sodium, and energy turnovers of little penguins were examined by comparing estimates determined from tritium (HTO), sodium-22 (
30158269|The respiratory responses of Callinectes sapidus to enforced strenuous exercise were examined in crabs acclimated to seawater at 13 C, 20 C, and 28 C. Standard and maximal O uptake rates (
30156089|The thermoregulatory and metabolic responses to ambient temperature of Saccopteryx bilineata and the microclimate in three daytime roosts were studied in lowland tropical forest in Costa Rica. Between 20 and 30 C the animals usually remained normothermic (body temperature = 35.5  1.2 C), and their oxygen consumption (
30155942|Chloride transport in unionid bivalves is cation independent and is apparently an anion exchange system. The influx of Cl is highly correlated with the appearance of titratable base in the bathing medium. There is a substantial exchange diffusion component of Cl fluxes in these mussels. The influx of Cl displays saturation kinetics with a maximum velocity of 1 Eq (g dry tissueh) and an affinity of 0.1 mM Cl/liter. Salt depletion doubles the rate of Cl influx by increasing the active transport component, with no change in the affinity. Chloride uptake is inhibited about 80% by 2 mM/liter thiocyanate but is not affected by acetazolamide or furosemide.
30158578|Earlier studies of gelatinous egg masses laid by many amphibians suggested that the egg mass center was extremely hypoxic and that embryos located there suffered delayed growth and high mortality. The present study has reassessed conditions for respiration within the spherical egg masses of the pickerel frog, Rana palustris. Partial pressures of O and CO, and the pH of egg jelly, as well as lactate concentration of embryonic tissue, were measured at 1-cm depth increments from surface to center of the egg mass. Oxygen uptake of intact egg masses and eggs separated from the mass was determined as a function of temperature and ambient O levels. Although significant gradients for O, CO, and pH existed from surface to center, the magnitude of these gradients was too small to directly affect O uptake of the egg mass or individual eggs under a variety of experimental conditions likely to occur in nature. Exchange of gases between the egg mass surface and center occurs primarily by diffusion through the egg jelly, which has a Krogh's O diffusion constant 75% that of distilled water. However, intense convection of fluid within each egg, generated by the embryo's ciliated epithelium, functionally reduces by 17% the diffusion distance between egg mass surface and center by generating a convective "ventilation." These data collectively refute earlier findings by demonstrating that the center of ranid egg masses is not severely hypoxic and not limiting to aerobic metabolism.
30158623|The idea that liquid water may flow from the incubation substrate into reptilian eggs and then between eggs was tested using a fluorescent dye (fluorescein sodium) and tritiated water. A continuous liquid water connection between the substrate and egg contents through the shell as well as gaseous water exchange between the egg and atmosphere was shown. No liquid connections were detected between eggs.
30158514|In freshwater fish, linked ion and acid-base fluxes across the gills are dynamically manipulated to regulate internal acid-base status in the face of environmental challenges. Relevant theory, methodology, and a synthesis of current ideas are presented, based on experiments with hypercapnia, low pH, acid and base infusion, temperature change, enforced exercise, toxicants, and other challenges. Hyperoxia may be the most useful of these treatments, for it is devoid of confounding factors caused by other probes-high water [H], catecholamine mobilization, and metabolic rate changes. In rainbow trout, hyperoxia (inspired
30158272|Physiological studies of surface-relatedphenomena alternatively express results on the basis of external surface area (
30158277|Experimental evidence suggests that unsaturated dietary fatty acids enhance daily torpor and hibernation in rodents. We were interested in whether such dietary effects on torpor patterns are restricted to rodents or are a more general feature of mammalian torpor. We investigated the effect of an "unsaturated" diet (containing 10% sunflower seed oil) and a "saturated" diet (containing 10% sheep fat) on torpor of the feathertail glider, Acrobates pygmaeus (Marsupialia). Torpid gliders on the unsaturated diet showed lower minimum body temperatures (
30158198|The effects of anoxia on brain amino acid and monoamine levels were measured in the brown anole lizard (Anolis sagrei) and loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta) and compared to previous measurements on a freshwater turtle (Pseudemys scripta elegans), the crucian carp (Carassius carassius), and mammals. With regard to amino acids, anoxia-tolerant species (loggerhead turtle, freshwater turtle, and crucian carp) display similar changes in response to anoxia. Thus, in these species, anoxia causes increased levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glycine, while the levels of glutamate and glutamine decrease. In both turtle species, the level of taurine also increases. In contrast, in the anoxiaintolerant species (anole lizard and dog), GABA is the only inhibitory amino acid that shows an increase, while glutamate and glutamine remain unchanged or even increase. It is hypothesized that the increased levels of the inhibitory amino acids GABA, glycine, and taurine, in combination with the decreased concentration of the excitatory amino acid glutamate (and its precursor glutamine), mediate or facilitate the lowering of brain activity and energy consumption during anoxia, a key strategy for anoxic survival With the possible exception of GABA, these mechanisms seem not to function in the anoxia-intolerant species. With regard to monoamines, for which synthesis demands molecular O, a 40% fall is observed in the brain level of serotonin in anole lizards exposed to 40 min of anoxia, while turtles and crucian carp maintain their monoamine levels for several hours of anoxia.
30152552|Body temperatures (
30158290|We performed an experiment on the water relations of eggs and embryos of common snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) to evaluate several sources for the random variation that is inherent in laboratory investigations using environmental chambers to provide a uniform environment or to apply specific treatments. Eggs were incubated on wet and dry substrata in an experiment that was replicated within and between environmental chambers set at the same apparent temperature (26C). Clutch of origin was the identifiable factor accounting for most of the random variation in data for length of incubation and for mass and carapace length of hatchlings, while effects of box and environmental chamber were minor. Only in the case of data for net change in mass of eggs over the course of incubation did box and environmental chamber contribute importantly to random variation. Nonetheless, treatment effects overwhelmed the several sources for random variation, with eggs incubating on wet media (-150 kPa) absorbing more water than eggs on dry media (-950 kPa) and with embryos developing longer and attaining larger size before hatching in wet environments than in dry ones. Experiments focusing on length of incubation and on attributes of hatchlings will benefit more from considering clutch of origin than from replicating by box or environmental chamber. However, studies considering patterns of net water exchange may need to replicate fully by clutch, box, and environmental chamber to achieve the necessary sensitivity in statistical tests and to avoid critical biases resulting from pseudoreplication, especially in those instances in which treatment effects are relatively small.
30155732|Responses to dehydration were measured in three native fat-tailed Awassi sheep, a breed well adapted to arid and semiarid regions, and in three imported German Mutton Merino (GMM) sheep, a breed that evolved in a temperate climate. Measurements were taken outdoors during the summer in a semiarid area. The sheep were offered water ad libitum, 4.5, 3.0, 2.5, 2.0, and 1.0 liter of watereach water level for 9-12 days. They were also offered 1.8 kg of a balanced concentrated diet and 0.2 kg straw. During this period in which the water allotted was gradually reduced, the Awassi lost 21.0% body weight, 25.8% tritiated water (TOH) space, 15.6% sodium thiocyanate space, and 15.7% T-1824 space while the GMM lost 27.5%, 35.4%, 20.3%, and 25.4% for these same measurements. Except for the sodium thiocyanate space, all losses were significantly higher in the GMM. TOH space reduction amounted to 88.0% of the body weight loss in the Awassi and 90.6% in the GMM. Both breeds reduced their fecal water content from 65% when offered water ad libitum to 45% when offered 1.0 liters of water. The Awassi were able to concentrate their urine to 3,230 mOsm/liter HO and the GMM to 2,896 mOsm/liter HO (P < .01). Both breeds had an elevated body temperature when dehydrated and remained thermostable. Also both breeds decreased their panting rate with a reduction in water intake. Following the dehydration period, in one drinking the Awassi were able to consume water amounting to 97% of their TOH space loss, whereas the GMM consumed water amounting to 64% of their TOH space loss. It was concluded that the GMM can cope with water shortage almost as well as the Awassi and that both breeds are suitable to semiarid areas. However, the Awassi can maintain its body weight and body fluids to a greater degree during dehydration and is able to replace its loss of body fluids more quickly.
30163804|We measured the kinetics of pyruvate oxidation by mitochondria of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) red muscle and the kinetics of pyruvate decarboxylation by partially purified pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) from the same tissue. The measurements were done at three temperatures (8, 15, and 22C) and at two pH conditions, a stable pH and an adjusted pH, that is, a pH that mimics the cellular pH adjustments with body temperature (pH/T= -0.03C). At constant pH, a change in temperature from 15 to 8C decreased the apparent
30163718|Groups of the low-altitude form Mabuya striata striata and the high-altitude form M. s. punctatissima were acclimated to cold and warm nighttime temperatures and allowed to thermoregulate behaviorally during the day. Resting metabolic rates of cold- and warm-acclimated groups of M. s. striata did not differ significantly at any temperature tested except 35 C. With M. s. punctatissima, resting metabolic rates of the warm-acclimated group were higher than those of the cold-acclimated group at all temperatures tested between 5 and 35 C. It is possible that the metabolic rate differences between the two acclimation groups of M. s. punctatissima serve to elevate metabolic rate during the warmer periods of the year, whereas the difference in the acclimatory responses of the two subspecies can probably be regarded as specific adaptations to the different environmental conditions under which the lizards live.
30161249|We collected green anoles, Anolis carolinensis, from a northern population of this species at four times during the year and then measured their oxygen consumption and lactate concentration at rest and during induced exercise at 20 C. The data were then compared with data previously collected from specimens acclimated to cold and warm conditions in the laboratory. The seasonal changes in resting and exercise oxygen consumption and in resting and postactivity lactate concentration were not parallel. Acclimatization of animals to natural climatic alterations over the course of the year did not always result in the same changes seen in specimens acclimated in the laboratory to cold and warm conditions. Aerobic support for exercise in this nonhibernating species does not vary from season to season. However, the capacity of these lizards to power locomotion by glycolysis is strongly depressed after several months of winter. This seasonal change in the anaerobic capacity of these lizards may be associated with their reluctance to venture far from their crevices in winter even on warm, sunny days when their aerobic capacity would be high.
30163885|We investigated the extent to which the changes in basal metabolic rate (BMR), gut morphology, and food intake (FI) that typically occur during cold acclimation in small mammals can be explained by the concept of alimentary-mediated limits to sustainable metabolic energy expenditure. Adult short-tailed field voles (Microtus agrestis) were cold stressed by continuous exposure to 5 C. Exposure for 10, 20, 50, and 100 d (n = 6 in all cases) produced significant changes in oxygen consumption (
30158570|Cardiorespiratory responses of the conscious pigeon to (1) spinal cord heating to 43.7 C in a cold environment (
30155989|Plasma ionic composition was measured during submergence in anoxic water (
30156028|Blood obtained from Pacific blue marlin captured by hook and line displayed a pronounced acidosis by teleost standards (pH 7.22  0.07 at 25 C), a high PACO (17.3  3.0 torr) and a low PAO (9.7  3.0 torr). Notwithstanding, these properties reflect a major anaerobic component contributing to the acid-base status of blood originating from muscle glycogenolysis during the capture period. This view is consistent with the finding that blood lactate concentration was linearly related to fight time. Marlin is exceptional in its ability to tolerate protons. The buffering capacities () of white and red skeletal muscles are 103.8  5.2 slykes and 50.8  3.9 slykes, respectively. The difference between the buffering capacities of the two muscle types likely is related to different rates of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production and to the different fate of metabolic protons generated in each tissue. The in vitro nonbicarbonate buffering value of whole blood (HC0/ApH) also is high when compared with that of other teleosts ( = 21.3 slykes) and represents an important adaptation for extending muscle performance in this species. The relationship between  and hemoglobin concentration is given by the equation  = 1.82[Hb] + 3.1. The Bohr coefficient, determined on whole blood following capture, is one of the largest ( = -1.0 over the pH range 6.957.60) reported for a vertebrate. We propose that having a large Bohr effect is an important strategy for overcoming the high buffering capacity of whole blood, thereby enhancing oxygen delivery to working muscle during high-speed aerobic swimming. It is concluded that the capability of the marlin for high-speed swimming is a result of specialized adaptations to both the O transport and metabolic systems. Enhanced intracellular buffering in both these compartments (blood and skeletal muscle) enables marlin to achieve high work rates during both short-term burst activity and longerterm high-speed swimming required to capture prey.
30157951|Mantid egg cases must be capable of preventing desiccation of the developing eggs for 5-6 mo while allowing adequate respiratory gas exchange for timely hatching. This investigation examined water vapor, oxygen, and thermal exchange of Chinese mantis (Tenodera aridifolia sinensis) egg cases. Water vapor conductance was 0.277 mgd mmHg. Results of experiments with altered vapor pressure gradients, moving air, and hypobaria were consistent with water vapor loss by simple gaseous diffusion. Experiments at 100% relative humidity showed a linear increase in the internal egg case temperature with development, peaking more than 0.3 C above ambient temperature before hatching. Egg case O consumption increased with increasing hatchling mass. Oxygen consumption at 25 C increased linearly with incubation time and for a case producing 1 g of hatchlings peaked at 537.5 L  h. The
30163834|The larvae of Ephydra hians in saline Mono Lake drink the hyperosmotic medium to gain water lost by osmosis. The larvae take most of the sulfate ions ingested into the hemolymph at the midgut. The Malpighian tubules and rectum do not contribute significantly to sulfate transport in this insect. The colon, particularly the anterior half shows sulfate transport capacities exceeding those required to remove the sulfate from the hemolymph. The process of sulfate excretion in the colon is considered to be active because (1) a large concentration gradient for sulfate is established across the epithelium of the colon (i.e., the sulfate concentration is higher in the lumen), (2) the transepithelial electrical potential opposes sulfate excretion, with the lumen approximately -6 mV relative to the bath, and (3) there is a high dependency for oxygen in the transporting tissue. The results of anoxic and cyanide experiments suggest that the colon epithelium does not have a high passive permeability to sulfate ions. It is clear, therefore, that the very impressive capacities of these larvae to osmoregulate in water containing more than 150 mM sulfate reside in their ability to move sulfate from the midgut into hemolymph and then to rapidly remove this sulfate from the hemolymph. The removal of sulfate involves an active and highly concentrative sulfate-pumping mechanism located in the anterior half of the colon.
30155826|To determine whether marine mammals possess exceptionally high levels of anaerobically poised enzymes in their tissues, the activities (units per gram wet weight of tissue at 37 C, pH 6.8) of two glycolytic enzymes, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH; assayed in the directions of lactate oxidation and pyruvate reduction) and pyruvate kinase (PK), were assayed in a variety of terrestrial and marine mammals. All major organs and several skeletal muscles were sampled from a range of species including seals, sea lions, porpoises, whales, sea otters, mice, rabbits, dogs, pigs, and beef. Contrary to the hypothesis that the diving abilities of marine mammals are based, in part, on high capacities for anaerobic glycolysis, muscle LDH and PK activities exhibited no relationship to diving ability. Brain enzyme activities were constant across all species examined, except in the gray whale. The enzyme profile of marine mammal lung and diaphragm could not be distinguished from terrestrial samples. Heart enzyme activities showed no consistent patterns, but LDH values were highest in the Weddell seal, an excellent diver. These high values in Weddell heart could reflect an adaptation for recovery from a diving period through the enhanced utilization of circulating lactate loads. Liver and kidney enzymes showed a small elevation in marine mammals but did not correlate with diving ability. Elevated marine mammal liver and kidney LDH could play an important role in postdive gluconeogenesis and in restoring circulating levels of glucose. We conclude that tissues of marine mammals do not possess unusually high capacities for anaerobic glycolysis, a conclusion consistent with recent evidence showing that marine mammals power most of their natural dives using aerobic metabolic pathways. The abilities of some marine mammals, notably Weddell seals, to remain submerged for extensive periods of time during which metabolism is largely anaerobic thus appear to be due to adaptations other than high activities of anaerobically poised enzymes.
30155840|Shipboard experiments demonstrate that the warm-bodied albacore tuna, Thunnus alalunga, uses physiological mechanisms to control heat loss and gain and is able to defend its body temperature (
30158438|Milk samples were obtained from stomachs of 26 harp seal pups, Phoca groenlandica, at various stages during lactation. In addition, morphometric data were obtained for these pups and for 20 of their respective mothers. Fat, and hence energy content, of milk increased during lactation; water content declined, whereas protein and ash remained constant. Fat, water, and energy content were significantly correlated with pup age, a measure of the stage of lactation of the female, and with female condition which also declined during the nursing period. Trends observed in milk composition in the present study were similar to those reported for several other phocid seals but differed significantly from an earlier examination of harp seal milk. The high fat content of harp seal milk transfers large amounts of energy to the pup during a short lactation period, facilitating rapid neonatal growth. In addition, the replacement of water with fat in milk as lactation proceeds conserves water, and this may be important in lactating seals with limited sources of fresh water.
10.1086/515865|Flight muscles of the cricket
30158618|The respiratory function of hemocyanin was assessed in active and dormant individuals and in active individuals at different body temperatures. Hemocyanin oxygen affinity and oxygen-carrying capacity were low (
30152557|The hypothesis was tested that the reproductive function would exhibit compensation to temperature if the organism was bred and reared at temperatures which ordinarily produced less than optimal reproductive performance. Desert pupfish, Cyprinodon n. nevadensis, were bred and the eggs reared at the optimum temperature for reproduction, 28 C, and at two marginal temperatures, 24 and 32 C. Each brood was divided into three groups and reproductive performance was tested at the rearing temperature and at two alternate temperatures to which they had never before been exposed. The eggs laid per spawning and eggs laid per gram body weight per day showed no compensation to rearing temperature. Reproductive performance was optimal at 28 C and was poor at both marginal temperatures, regardless of the previous thermal history of the fish. Lower egg viability at 32 C was associated with a thin egg coat, small yolk diameter, and low gonosomatic index as compared with the same measurements at the lower temperatures.
30156131|I measured the oxygen consumption and total body lactate concentration of normally hydrated and dehydrated frogs (Rana pipiens) and toads (Bufo americanus) at rest, during 4 min of induced exercise, and during recovery from exercise at 25 C. Dehydration produced no change in resting oxygen consumption but significantly diminished the rate of oxygen uptake during exercise, more sharply in frogs than in toads. As a consequence, equal levels of desiccation produced a larger decline in aerobic scope in frogs than in toads. Water loss elicited no change in resting lactate level or in the amount of lactate generated during activity. Oxygen consumption returned to resting levels within 15 min after exercise ceased, whereas lactate values did not reach a plateau until 2 h after the end of activity. Dehydration produced no change in the rate of return of oxygen consumption or lactate concentration toward resting levels after exercise ceased. The major energetic consequences of water loss were a decline in the ability to synthesize ATP by aerobic means and a rise in the relative importance of glycolysis during locomotion.
30161241|Tree-kangaroos and red pandas, when exposed to low temperatures, greatly reduce rate of metabolism without decreasing core body temperature, apparently by reducing peripheral circulation, skin temperature, limb temperature, and heat loss to the environment. Along with body size and insulation, peripheral circulation is a major factor influencing rate of heat loss at low ambient temperatures. The reduction in rate of heat production continues down to ambient temperatures near 0 C, below which rate of metabolism increases. Such reductions in rate of metabolism are limited in duration, from several hours at moderate ambient temperatures to a few minutes at cold temperatures, at least in the tree-kangaroo. This behavior is not shown in the laboratory when the animal is confined to small chambers. The reduction in rate of metabolism at low temperatures is found principally in tropical, arboreal mammals that have a mass between 2 and 15 kg, have sedentary habits, and feed principally on leaves and/or fruit. It reflects an existence dominated by low energy expenditures in a mild climate. This behavior demonstrates that the energetics of large endotherms is not simply the energetics of small endotherms scaled to a large mass: a large mass permits patterns that cannot be anticipated by studying small species alone.
30156017|The effects of exhausting exercise on acid-base balance of skipjack tuna blood were investigated. Following exercise, tuna displayed a mixed respiratory/metabolic acidosis with blood pH being reduced by 0.4 units. The respiratory component (51% of the initial acidosis) was compensated following 20 min of recovery, while the blood metabolic acid load (Hm; 8 mM) was cleared after only 50 min. At that time, there was a great discrepancy between blood lactate load and Hm load because blood lactate levels were still increasing. The significance of these results is discussed with reference to the tuna's habitat, behavior, and physiology.
30158550|The assumption of correlation between basal metabolic rate (BMR) and maximum metabolic rate (MMR) was tested in 29 species and in 42 groups of individuals from allopatric populations and individuals during different seasons using the same method. That is, I only used original data and information derived from the literature where both MMR and BMR were studied in the same individuals, and maximum resting metabolic rate of thermoregulation was only measured by the He-O method. Both total MMR and BMR (mL O/h) increased allometrically with body mass (
30155690|Populations of Reithrodontomys megalotis from mesic and xeric environments in eastern and western Kansas, respectively, were maintained in the laboratory on ad lib and restricted water regimens at 20 and 33 C and at 12% and 95% relative humidity (RH). The western animals survived a mean of 179.3 h and the eastern animals 82.9 h in a tolerance experiment at 35 C < 15% RH, 0.25 ml water. The western animals tolerated more weight loss before death. Body temperature, water consumption, food consumption, urine volume, fecal water content, fecal water loss, and urine concentrations of K, Na, urea, and hematocrit were significantly affected by the temperature-humidity and water regimens. Evaporative water loss was significantly affected by temperature and differed significantly between populations. The population from the xeric environment was adapted to a small water flux, low metabolism and body temperature, low evaporative cooling per gram body weight, and tolerance of desiccation. The population from the mesic environment was adapted to a large water flux, high metabolism and body temperature, tolerance of a heat load when water was abundant, and high evaporative cooling relative to metabolic rate.
30161219|The body temperature (<tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math>) of garter snakes (Thamnophis elegans) can vary considerably in the course of a day (e.g., 4-33 C), and information on how <tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math> affects physiological and behavioral processes is required to evaluate the significance of that variation. We measured crawling speed, swimming speed, tongue-flicking rate, digestive rate, and oxygen consumption at <tex-math>$T_{b}'s$</tex-math> of 5-35 C in snakes collected in eastern Washington and acclimated to September field photoperiod and temperature cycles. All functions were strongly dependent on <tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math>. The maximum speed of crawling (<tex-math>$\bar{X} = 0.74 m s^{-1}$</tex-math>) occurred at <tex-math>$T_{b} = 34.5 C$</tex-math>; that of swimming (<tex-math>$\bar{X} = 0.69 m s^{-1}$</tex-math>) occurred at <tex-math>$T_{b} = 28.5$</tex-math>. At <tex-math>$T_{b} < 30 C$</tex-math>, the snakes crawled more slowly than they swam, but the reverse was true at higher <tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math>. At <tex-math>$T_{b} = 30 C$</tex-math>, the snakes moved their tongues up and down at a maximum rate of 22 Hz. Digestion rate increased sharply above 20 C, to a maximum of 0.45 mice/day within the <tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math> range of 25-35 C. All snakes regurgitated their meal at 10 C. The <tex-math>$Q_{10}$</tex-math> values for mass-specific oxygen consumption over the 5-15, 15-25, and 25-35 C <tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math> ranges were 2.4, 1.3, and 5.0, respectively. Among the performances studied, swimming speed was the least sensitive, and digestion rate the most sensitive, to <tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math>. Field <tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math> data indicate that all functions would be near maximum levels during the day but would be significantly reduced at night. We conclude that no single <tex-math>$T_{b}$</tex-math> is best for the ecological tasks of prey capture, predator avoidance, and energy conservation.
30156207|The effects of external hypercapnia (0.8% CO in air) on blood acid-base variables were examined in the eel (Anguilla rostrata) and in the trout (Salmo gairdneri). Both species were able topartially regulate whole-bloodpH during hypercapnia owing to similar elevations ofplasma [HCO-]. In the trout, the ability to regulate whole-bloodpH was attributedprimarily to a reduction in the activity of branchial Cl_/HCO-exchange, whereas, in the eel, pH regulation was due entirely to stimulation of branchial Na/H exchange. Acclimation of eels to increased external [NaCl] (2 mM) caused a significant blood alkalosis; branchial Na uptake was markedly stimulated (from 34 to 921 mol kg h), while Cl uptake remained at exceptionally low levels (5-6mol kg h). However, the ability to regulate hypercapnic acidosis in eels acclimated to high [NaCl] water was unchanged. Eels also were acclimated to low external [Na] (Na = 0.0090  0.0003 mM; Cl = 0.162  0.017 mM), which resulted in a significant decrease in whole-blood pH. Branchial
30159982|In the laboratory, we measured the pulmocutaneous and ocular evaporative water loss (EWL) in dry air from side-blotched lizards, Uta stansburiana, at wind speeds of 0.44 and 0.96 m s and body temperatures of 30 and 38 C. At 38 C, Uta's rate of pulmocutaneous EWL was 34% higher than it was at 30 C. Wind speed, however, had no effect on pulmocutaneous EWL. Wind speed affected the rate of EWL only when lizards had their eyes open. When the lizards opened their eyes at 30 C, the average rate of total EWL increased by 11% at 0.44 m s and by 37% at 0.96 m s. Similarly, when lizards opened their eyes at 38 C, the average rate of total EWL increased by 19% at 0.44 m s and by 41% at 0.96 m s. We developed a model of ocular EWL based on heat- and mass-transfer equations. In these equations, we assumed that water freely evaporated from the eyes. Because the rate of ocular EWL we calculated was statistically indistinguishable from the values we measured, we conclude that the increased rate of EWL from lizards that had their eyes open was primarily attributable to ocular water loss. We used our model of ocular EWL to predict the rates of ocular EWL for Uta exposed to ecologically realistic values of wind speed and relative humidity. On the basis of these simulations, we predict that in Uta, at a mean selected body temperature of 36 C, ocular EWL will rarely exceed 18% of their pulmocutaneous EWL.
30155854|The surface swimming of muskrats (Ondatra zibethicus) was studied by forcing individual animals to swim against a constant velocity water current, ranging from 0.2 to 0.75 m/s, in a recirculating water channel. The swimming muskrat was enclosed in a metabolic chamber to monitor oxygen consumption as a measure of the aerobic power input. The metabolic rate (
10.1086/515870|The feeding energetics of the Antarctic spiny plunderfish (
30158534|Effects of temperature on the (Na + K)-ATPase were studied in isolated hepatocytes of two species of freshwater fish acclimated to different temperatures. Binding of H-ouabain to hepatocytes was used to determine the density of (Na + K)-ATPase, and oxygen consumption was measured to estimate the cost of cation pumping. Intracellular sodium concentration was manipulated by incubating hepatocytes at 20C or 0-4C before the measurement of oxygen consumption. In hepatocytes of Rutilus rutilus, the maximal number of ouabain binding sites per 10 cells (
30158564|Resting metabolic rate (MR), spontaneous swimming activity, and food intake were measured in order to learn the relationship between these responses and low acclimation temperatures. The fish were collected in the fall and placed in one of eight acclimation tanks ranging from 3 to 17 C at 2 C intervals for 3 wk. Food intake was measured during and after the acclimation period, and MR and activity were measured following the acclimation period. MR, measured in a closed system, was exponentially related to temperature with a
30156057|The mean core temperatures (
30155815|Samples of eggs laid by nine painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) were half buried in substrates differing in water potential and incubated at 29 C. Other eggs from these clutches were incubated on wire platforms above the same substrates. Eggs on the wire platforms declined in mass between the outset of study and hatching owing to a net outward diffusion of water vapor, with eggs held above relatively dry substrates losing more vapor than eggs held above relatively wet substrates. Eggs half buried in the substrates increased in mass during the first half of incubation by amounts that were directly related to substrate water potential, but decreased in mass during the second half of incubation as the net flux of water shifted from inward to dutward. The conductance of painted turtle eggs to water vapor was 70 times higher than expected for avian eggs of comparable mass, yet transpirational loss of water from incubating turtle eggs nonetheless was small owing to the very small gradient in vapor pressure between eggs and air trapped inside the containers. Eggs exposed to wet substrates had longer incubation periods and higher hatching success than eggs exposed to drier substrates. Moreover, turtles hatching from eggs exposed to relatively wet conditions were larger than hatchlings emerging from eggs incubated in slightly drier settings.
30158151|The ventricular wall of the systemic heart of Octopus vulgaris consists of longitudinal and circular layers of myocardial cells arranged in an alternate pattern. The use of the corrosion-cast method and scanning electron microscopy has shown that the ventricular wall is supplied through a very rich capillary network, from which a classic venular and venous system originates to ensure drainage. Evidence exists of direct communications between the capillary network and the ventricular lumen. The flow through the coronary system is driven by the ventricularpressure generated during systole. The oxygen extracted from the coronary output accounts for 80%-100% of the total consumption of the heart. In vitro, the coronary output is functionally related to the cardiac output and is highly dependent on the oxygen content of theperfusate, being lower at the highest oxygen levels. The in vitro coronary flow is affected by many humoral factors.
30156241|To obtain reference data for the estimation of energy metabolism from body mass (BM) loss in long-term fasting Procellariiformes, we determined the loss of water, lipid, and protein by analysis of body composition in great-winged petrels, Pterodroma macroptera, during the incubation fast. We also examined the validity of the use of total body water (TBW) loss alone to calculate protein and lipid loss. Body composition analysis showed that, during the major part of the 17-d fast, water, lipid, and protein contribute a constant 35.7%, 50.8%, and 13.5%, respectively, of BM loss. The energy content of lipid (adipose triglycerides) was found to be 39. 4 kJ/g. The energy equivalent of BM loss was 22.3 kJ/g; 90% and 10% of energy originated from lipid and protein utilization, respectively. The 376% contribution of water loss to BM loss, estimated from measurement of TBW by using tritiated water, was similar to that obtained by direct analysis of body composition. The loss of protein and lipid was estimated from TBW loss as determined by using tritiated water, with the assumption that water and protein are lost in direct proportion to their content in lipid-free nonbony tissues (LFM). Calculations were based on the finding from analysis of body composition that the percent water content of LFM from which protein is catabolized remains steady during the fast (72.9%). Furthermore, the dry LFM lost is 295% protein. This yieldedprotein and lipid losses, and an energy equivalent of BM loss, identical to those obtained by direct analysis of body composition. A good estimate of BM loss composition in long-term fasting petrels may, therefore, be obtained from determination of TBW loss using labeled water. This could be extrapolated to other birds.
30156054|The hypothesis that parent birds regulate nest humidity and consequently egg dehydration by varying ventilation of the nest was tested in the house finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) and the phainopepla (Phainopepla nitens). Injection into the nest cup of dry air or air saturated with water vapor varied nest humidity two- to threefold. This treatment substantially modified egg dehydration, but the frequency at which the adult ventilated the nest was unchanged. These data indicate that these species do not regulate nest humidity.
30156091|Colonies founded by wild-caught queens were reared at either 15 C with or without an insulated nest or at 25 C for the duration of the colony cycle. Brood-maintenance and brood-incubation behaviors, brood (
30156020|Seasonal changes in water metabolism for two species of tenebrionid beetles, Eleodes armata and Cryptoglossa verrucosa, were investigated using laboratory and field studies. Dietary analyses indicated that E. armata consumed mostly vegetation (>95%), while C. verrucosa was predominantly insectivorous (>60%). Laboratory water budgets showed that food was always the major component of water intake for E. armata fed spring and summer diets but that food accounted for only 18% of total water intake for C. verrucosa eating dried crickets. Neither animal maintained body weight on dry food. Fecal water content was correlated with dietary water content, while transpiration was the major route of water loss for both species. Field water influx, efflux, and metabolic water gain were measured with doubly labeled water (
30161251|Drag forces acting on the body (parasite drag) of a Humboldt penguin (Spheniscus humboldti) were determined by towing a cast of a wingless carcass. On the surface $D_{p-sur} = 2.27 U_{o}^{2.55}$ ($D_{p-sur}$ = parasite drag on the surface, N; $U_{o}$ = towing speed, m s) and submerged $D_{pm-sub} = 1.48 U_{o}^{2.0}$ ($D_{pm-sub}$ = parasite drag for submerged model). The minimum drag coefficient, 1.1 x 10, approximates that of a live macaroni penguin (Eudyptes chrysolophus) but is higher than that of a streamlined form with the same diameter:length ratio. The wingbeat was analyzed using high-speed film of submerged swimming Humboldt penguins. Wing data and parasite-drag data were used to compute the lift, thrust, and drag forces of a swimming penguin. Wingbeat thrust was computed using both blade element analysis (which required wind tunnel tests on penguin wing models) and lifting surface theory. Blade element analysis gave remarkably more reasonable results, which were used for subsequent computations. Total thrust ($T_{T}$) from the wings is equivalent to total drag ($D_{T}$) of a Humboldt swimming submerged and has the estimated relationship to swimming speed ($U_{b}$) Of $D_{T}$ = $T_{T} = 2.68 U_{b}^{2.0}$
30157865|Evaporative water loss in Phyllomedusa sauvagei is very low at ambient temperatures up to 30 C but increases precipitously between 35 and 40 C. Standard metabolic rate shows a constant
30161266|To understand the basis of the thermally sensitive physiological processes that govern the duration of individual bouts of torpor, we determined torpor bout duration in relation to air temperature ($T_{a}$), body temperature ($T_{b}$), and oxygen consumption ($\dot{V}O_{2}$) in hibernating golden-mantled ground squirrels, Spermophilus saturatus, during the midst of the hibernation season when bout length was stable. Over the range of $T_{a}$ from 8 down to 2 C, length of torpor bouts increased as $T_{b}$ and $\dot{V}O_{2}$ decreased, and the difference between $T_{b}$ and $T_{a}$ (T) remained about 1.5 C. However, when $T_{a}$ was lowered from 2 C to-2 C, the trend reversed and torpor duration and $T_{b}$ decreased, whereas $\dot{V}O_{2}$ and T increased. This response is due to an increase in heat production that keeps $T_{b}$ from declining below about 1 C. We examined our data in terms of the hypothesis that arousal is determined by accumulation of metabolites during torpor; if this is true, then the arousal frequency should be directly proportional to energy metabolism ($\dot{V}O_{2}$). Using linear and multiple regression, we found that $T_{b}$ and $T_{a}$ are better predictors of torpor duration than $\dot{V}O_{2}$. The best relationship was, however, achieved by regression of $T_{b}$ and $\dot{V}O_{2}$. We conclude that $T_{b}$ per se also contributes, along with metabolism, to determining the length of torpor bouts.
30164296|We used a standard handling protocol to examine the stress response of captive young western screech-owls during their active (nighttime) and inactive (daytime) periods and to compare the stress responses of captive and free-living owls. Circulating corticosterone levels were significantly higher during the inactive period than in the active period in this nocturnal species. This suggests that the daily pattern of corticosterone secretion is reversed in nocturnal birds and is correlated with activity period rather than with the light/dark cycle. Young (ca. 4-5 mo old) screech-owls of both sexes showed increases in plasma corticosterone up to 30 min after capture, followed by significant decreases at 60 min. This pattern is similar to those of other species of birds examined previously, except that decreases in corticosterone at 60 min rarely have been observed. Such decreases may be the result of physiological differences between adult and young birds, habituation to handling in captive birds, or the effects of body condition. Corticosterone levels and the response to capture and handling were comparable in captive and free-living owls, which suggests that the captive owls were not subjected to chronically high levels of stress.
30155876|At acclimation temperatures between 10 and 20 C (typical of native summer temperatures), American eels feed regularly and display the compensatory adjustments in oxygen consumption rates which are characteristic of many ectothermic species (i.e.,
30156097|Responses to the ingestion of saline drinking water in the sand partridge (Ammoperdix heyi), a phasianid of arid and very arid areas, and the chukar (Alectoris chukar sinaica), a phasianid inhabiting deserts only at the margins of its wide mesic range, were compared. Both species lost body mass (
30156049|Geometrid moths in our sample differ from noctuid moths in that they have larger wings relative to their body and are smaller in body mass. As a consequence of their smaller mass, thoracic conductance of geometrids is greater than that of noctuids. Wing stroke frequencies increased with body mass and wing loading in both families. Therefore, it is likely that heat production during flight increases with body mass for these moths. Geometrids exhibited similar thoracic temperature excesses (
30158625|Bolitoglossa subpalmata, a plethodontid salamander from Costa Rica, was found to resemble many other tropical amphibians in undergoing no significant thermal acclimation of the standard rate of oxygen consumption (standard
30163776|Naked mole rats (Heterocephalus glaber) are poikilothermic, eusocial mammals in which the single dominant female breeds continuously throughout the year, producing approximately every 76 d litters of up to 27 young, with a mean litter size of 9  1. We investigated the changes in metabolic rate (n = 8) and body temperature (n = 8) in breeding naked mole rat females throughout the 10-wk gestation period and during the first week of lactation. Metabolic rate from week 2 of pregnancy to parturition (1.9  0.1 mL O2  g  h) was 1.4-fold higher than that of nonreproductive animals. Oxygen consumption increased in a biphasic manner, with the nadir at week 8, similar to the O consumption observed in nonpregnant and very early pregnant females and statistically no different than the high rates associated with pregnancy. Oxygen consumption was maximal during lactation (3.0  0.3 mL O  g  h) and was 160.3% of that during the initial week of pregnancy. Body temperature in early pregnancy was similar to that of nonpregnant animals. Thereafter, body temperature of pregnant animals followed a similar incremental biphasic pattern to that noted with O consumption. Except at week 8, body temperatures of pregnant females were significantly greater (>2 C) than those of their mates, reaching a maximum difference (2.5  0.6 C) the week prior to parturition. This temperature differential occurred irrespective of whether animals could bask under heat lamps or had to employ endothermy. Rectal temperature during lactation was lower than that during the final week of pregnancy (P < 0. 05). Reproduction in naked mole rats is energetically costly, with the greatest metabolic costs incurred during lactation. High energy requirements that are independent of litter size and the advantages of behaviorally raising body temperature may favor eusociality in these unusual mammals. The strict division of labor in a colony enables the breeding female to employ ectothermic mechanisms to elevate body temperature and to direct available energy primarily to reproduction.
30157925|Protein synthesis, heat loss, and the deposition of protein and nonprotein substrates within tissue and shell were measured directly and shown to co-vary in significant positive relations with experimentally controlled rates of energy intake in mussels supplied a diet of the same proximate composition. The total costs of growth were independent of ration and represented losses as heat of 23% of metabolizable energy surplus to the requirements for maintenance at energy equilibrium. Correction for the known costs of nonprotein deposition indicated a constant total cost of 1.43JJ protein deposited. Such constancy was reflected by rates of protein turnover that remained unchanged irrespective of ration and thus did not contribute to the costs of growth. Instead, heat losses of 17.65 J accompanied each milligram of protein turnover during maintenance alone, when requirements for turnover synthesis represented at least 20% of energy expenditure. This contribution, as well as a linear relation indicating an increase of 11.4J total heat loss mg protein synthesis, is shown to be remarkably consistent with previous data for mammals. We discuss evidence that associated costs of integrated processes may be the basis of these relations and suggest that whole-body turnover synthesis represents a general index of the energy requirements for maintenance.
30157939|Isoproterenol ( adrenoceptor agonist), propranolol ( adrenoceptor antagonist), or saline (sham) was administered to seawater-adapted rainbow trout immediately after exhaustive exercise in order to assess the role of -adrenoceptor stimulation in the correction of postexercise blood acid-base disturbances. Exhaustive exercise induced a severe blood acidosis of respiratory and metabolic origin. Recovery from the acidosis was inhibited by  -blockade and facilitated by -agonist addition. blockade caused a reduction in branchial H equivalent excretion to the environmental water and a comparatively large and enduring respiratory acidosis. These likely arose as a result of an inhibition of branchial ion exchanges or through decreases in branchial ventilation, gill blood perfusion, and/or gill membrane permeability. Relative to the control fish, addition of a -agonist caused no additional change in branchial acid excretion. However, the recovery of blood pH was very rapid, and this eventually led to an over compensation due to a mixed respiratory and metabolic alkalosis. In the absence of any effect on branchial H  equivalent flux, the metabolic alkalosis induced by the -agonist could be attributed to a stimulation of H equivalent exchange between extra- and intracellular compartments. We conclude that -adrenergic responses play an important role in the regulation of postexercise blood acid-base status in seawater-adapted trout.
30163759|The ability of Phascolosoma arcuatum to use free amino acids (FAAs) to regulate cell volume was studied After a downward transfer from 50% to 30% seawater (SW), there waspossibly a release of FAAs from the body tissues of P. arcuatum into the coelomic plasma, as indicated by the increase in the total FAA concentration in the latter compartment. When being confronted with an upward transfer from 50% to 100% SW P. arcuatum exhibited a small uptake of FAAs from the coelomic plasma by the body tissues during the initial phase of the transfer The significant increase in the total FAA content in the tissues of the worms exposed to 100% SW was mainly due to an increase in protein catabolism as reflected by a significantly smaller water-soluble protein content in the tissues of these worms compared to that of the worms exposed to 30% SW. Some of the FAAs released through increased proteolysis in P. arcuatum exposed to 100% SW might undergo partial catabolism and be converted into alanine and glycine, leading to a lower level of
30155879|While foraging from the dense inflorescences of spiraea (Spiraea latifolia) and goldenrods (Solidago sp.), both workers and drones often allowed thoracic temperature (
30156086|Tests to examine the copper status of herbivores were evaluated in lactating cattle (Bos taurus). Serum copper, erythrocyte-copper superoxide dismutase, and serum ceruloplasmin were measured prior to and following an injection of a physiological dose of copper. The change in ceruloplasmin activity 24 h posttreatment was found to be the preferred test and response time. This ceruloplasmin stimulation test was then used to examine the physiological copper status of seven free-living koalas. One koala had a ceruloplasmin stimulation of 125%, while three further koalas had ceruloplasmin stimulations of 18%, 56%, and 63%. In the remaining koalas the ceruloplasmin stimulations at 24 h were all <10%. From these stimulation effects, a reference range for koala serum copper levels was established. Serum copper levels less than 1.5 mol liter are considered deficient, 1.5-4.5 mol liter marginal, and greater than 4.5 jtmol liter adequate. Twenty-three healthy koalas from other sites had serum copper levels of 6.1  0.5 (range 2.7-12.3) mol liter and ceruloplasmin activity of 8.5  1.4 (range 1.9-24.7) mUml. Five healthy koalas were found to have fecal copper concentrations of 0.17  0.07 mmolkg dry matter (DM). It is possible that the finding of one koala with deficient and two with marginally deficient copper status was due to the overbrowsed state of their dietary Eucalyptus spp. It is concluded that some koalas may experience marginal nutritional status in certain conditions.
10.1086/515927|Since a decline in temperature decreases aerobic capacity and slows the kinetics of exercisetorest transitions in ectotherms, we manipulated body temperature to better understand the performance limits of intermittent locomotion. Distance capacity (i.e., the total distance traveled before fatigue) of the ghost crab,
10.1086/515900|Terrestrial amphibians take up water by abducting the hind limbs and pressing a specialized portion of the ventral skin to a moist surface, using a characteristic behavior called the water absorption response. An assay of the water absorption response was used to quantify physiological factors associated with thirst and water uptake. Dramatic changes in the water absorption response resulted from subtle changes in hydration state and from altering the reserve water supply in the urinary bladder. The water absorption response could be induced by intraperitoneal and intracerebroventricular injection of angiotensin II, demonstrating that components of the reninangiotensin system on both sides of the bloodbrain barrier have a dipsogenic function in amphibians. These experiments also demonstrated that the water absorption response could be influenced by changes in barometric pressure. Toads avoided the water absorption response on hyperosmotic substrates, and behavioral experiments showed that the amphibian skin served a sensory function similar to that of the lingual epithelium of mammals. The water absorption response assay has enormous potential as a tool for the investigation of physiological processes and sensory capabilities of amphibians.
30158270|We tested the hypothesis that at low ambient temperatures (
30163745|The tilapia of Lake Magadi (pH 10), Oreochromis alcalicus grahami, excrete all nitrogen wastes as urea and possess the ornithine urea cycle (OUC), unlike the majority of teleost fish. It was proposed that liver OUC enzymes could be induced in the freshwater ammoniotelic tilapia Oreochromis niloticus in response to environmental or dietary manipulations that stimulate urea excretion in other animals. Elevated water ammonia (1 mM NHCl) inhibited ammonia excretion over the first 12 h and increased urea excretion rates three- to fivefold over 7 d. The OUC was not functional in control fish, as carbamoyl phosphate synthetase III activity was not detectable and ornithine carbamoyltransferase activity was relatively low. No changes in OUC enzyme activities were detected in NHCl-exposed fish, but the activity of the uricolytic enzyme allantoicase was twofold higher. Exposure to pH 10 water had only a transient effect on nitrogen excretion, and OUC enzymes and allantoicase activities were unchanged. The rate of urea and ammonia excretion increased with an increase in the dietary protein content, but OUC or uricolytic enzymes were not induced. These results demonstrate that O. niloticus, unlike Lake Magadi tilapia, do not recruit the hepatic OUC, even under environmental or dietary conditions that enhance urea excretion. Rather, uricolysis and argininolysis appear to be the major routes for ureagenesis.
30155752|Alligators on land are strongly influenced by radiation. There are quantitative and qualitative differences in heat transfer between the environment and large and small alligators. Conduction and convection are more important to small alligators. Body size is an important factor in determining behavioral and physiological thermoregulatory strategies of alligators. Metabolic heat production is unimportant in the overall heat energy budget of alligators. Evaporative cooling is not of importance in overall heat balance of alligators. The heat energy budget model proved to be a good predictor of steady state body temperature of alligators.
30156185|We examined the responses of olfactory receptor cells from the lobster Homarus americanus to stimuli presented within chemical mixtures or against mixture backgrounds. Responses of receptor cells narrowly tuned to hydroxyproline (Hyp) were reduced at all effective test concentrations (3  10 -3  10 M) when Hyp was presented within a 15-compound equimolar mixture (SS) against artificial seawater background: "mixture suppression. "In the same experimental conditions responses of receptor cells narrowly tuned to taurine (Tau) were reduced only at the highest effective test concentrations (3 X 10 -3 X 10 M). Only one component of the mixture, arginine, was a consistent suppressant of Hyp responses in Hyp cells (binary mixture experiments, 3  10 M test concentration). In similar experiments no SS component consistently suppressed Tau responses. In fact, Hyp was a strong and nearly consistent enhancer of individual cell responses to Tau in Tau cells. The other mixture components were extremely diverse as response modifiers of single-cell responses to Hyp and Tau. Partial cross-adaptation occurred in Hyp and Tau cells in response to mixtures lacking Hyp or Tau, respectively. Cross-adaptation and mixture suppression were similar in Hyp cells, but Tau cell responses were reduced more against mixture backgrounds than in mixture suppression. Responses to environmentally important stimuli may thus be modulated, both suppressed and enhanced, by response modifiers present in stimulus mixtures and by cross-adapting chemicals present in background chemical noise.
30163766|The objective of this study was to determine whether individual variation in the swimming performance of northern squawfish was correlated with variation in cardiac performance. Critical velocity tests were conducted on fish either during the summer at 16C or during the winter at 5C. Fish were individually marked and, within 2 wk after the first swimming challenge, underwent surgery in which an ultrasonic flow probe was fitted around the ventral aorta. The day after surgery a second critical velocity test was conducted, during which heart rate, stroke volume (SV), and cardiac output (Q) were measured. The mean maximum prolonged swimming speed (
30156003|Average daily metabolic rates (ADMRs) were monitored under several dietary conditions. Gerbillus pusillus demonstrated a 14-h cycle of metabolic activity in phase with the photoperiod. When food and water were provided ad lib., ADMR was 96.5% of the predicted value for a granivorous rodent. When deprived of water with an ad lib. supply of food, ADMR increased significantly. Unfavorable changes in these dietary regimes result in periodic bouts of hypothermia. Gerbils on a restricted food intake maintained their weight after an initial loss of 7.93%. This negligible weight loss implies that G. pusillus uses hypothermia to regulate its metabolic rate to the energy available. During periods of torpidity, metabolic rate was directly related to both ambient and body temperature. The gerbils were unable to arouse below
30155949|To determine their capacity for thermoregulation, yellowfin tuna, Thunnus albacares, were subjected to a series of 12-h periods at
30156169|Organismal performance lies at the base of ecological and evolutionary processes, and the consequences of individual variation in performance have become a focus of physiological ecology. The study of the relations of performance to Darwinian fitness integrates the traditionally reductionist approach of physiological ecology with the perspectives of genetics and evolution. Four levels of biological organization have been included in this effort: the description of genetic variation, the analysis of biochemical and physiological consequences of that variation, the description of variation in the capacity of individuals to perform various activities, and the analysis of the effect of that variation in performance capacity on individual variation in Darwinian fitness. Mechanisms within each of those levels have been elaborated, and cause-and-effect links have been established among the levels. Two approaches to defining causal links are prominent. The gene-to-performance school begins with the observation of genetic variation (e.g., the presence in a species of allelic isozymes with different responses to temperature) and seeks to trace the performance of different genotypes upward through successive levels of biological organization, ultimately to variation in behavior and the relation of that variation to natural selection. A few studies have been successful in this endeavor, largely because they were based on detailed information about the ecology of the species investigated. These studies have revealed stabilizing selection maintaining genetic polymorphisms. Physiological ecologists have approached the same questions as those addressed by geneticists, but the physiologists have started with the description of individual variation in performance that is almost certainly under the control of multiple genetic loci. From this point they have moved outward in two directions. One line of investigation involves a reductionist analysis of the mechanistic basis of variation in performance, whereas the other seeks associations between performance and fitness. Substantial progress has been made in the reductionist direction, although more information is needed about the heritabilities of particular characteristics. The upward direction has been less traveled, and the chances of success will be maximized by employing the same detailed ecological perspective that has been successful for gene-to-performance studies. The activities to be studied should be selected on the basis of their demonstrable importance to the fitness of individuals under natural conditions, and the behavioral ecology literature contains many examples of activities of that sort.
30156034|Small (S; shell length, 4 mm) and large (L; shell length, 10 mm) Mytilus edulis spat were grown singly in plastic racks in a tidal salt marsh for 72 days, then starved in the laboratory for 2 mo. Dry weight gain in the racks, dry weight loss during starvation, and net dry weight gain were estimated for individuals of both groups; rate of oxygen consumption (
30158503|This article examines the neuromodulatory mechanisms associated with predator recognition and responses in a mainland and an island population of deer mice, Peromyscus maniculatus. In a weasel-sympatric mainland population of deer mice, P. m. artemisiae, a 30-s exposure to the presence (scent) of the short-tailed weasel (Mustela erminea) elicited immediate and relatively short-lasting increases in the latency of response to aversive stimuli. These enhanced nociceptive thresholds (analgesic responses) were mediated by benzodiazepine-sensitive mechanisms that have been associated with the mediation of fear and fright behaviors and antipredator defensive mechanisms. A 5-min exposure of the mainland animals to the weasel elicited an analgesic response that was both benzodiazepine (BDZ) and opioid sensitive, while 15-min exposures induced only the relatively prolonged opioid-mediated analgesic responses. Opioid activation and opioid-mediated behavioral responses are generally associated with exposure to stressful stimuli. In contrast to the predominately BDZ-sensitive responses of the mainland animals, both brief and longer exposures of an island (predator-free) population of deer mice, P. m. artemisiae, to a weasel elicited only the delayed and more prolonged opioid-mediated analgesic response. Exposure for either 5 or 15 min to a nonpredator, the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus), induced only opioid-mediated analgesic responses in both of the populations of mice. These results demonstrate the existence of population differences in the responses of deer mice to a predator. These findings also suggest that the population differences in responses may be related to a differential activation and/or expression of BDZ and opioid-sensitive mechanisms.
30158515|This study employed three freshwater fish species (rainbow trout, yellow perch, and smallmouth bass) to examine the interrelationships among gas and ion exchange and acid-base regulation by the gills. Interspecific differences in critical swimming speed (
30156016|Evidence from the literature suggests that fish are more responsive to CO than H when these two stimuli appear together. Here Arctic char were presented with plumes of H and CO and their preference/avoidance responses compared with those obtained with acidified, moderately hard water. Hydrochloric acid presented in pH 7.0 decarbonated water was attractive when plume pH exceeded 5.5 but avoided at higher concentrations down to pH 3.3. The avoidance of plumes less than pH 5.5 was not diminished by lowering ambient pH to 5.5. Carbon dioxide plumes were avoided at plume/ambient gradients greater than 50 mol/liter but was attractive at lower concentrations. The response to acidified natural water closely followed the concentration-response curve for CO but not H. The results, therefore, demonstrate that fish behaviorally discriminate between H and CO, relying principally on the latter for orientation within H/CO gradients. However, fish can use H alone to avoid lethal levels of pH.
30164181|During metamorphic climax, anuran amphibians undergo dramatic changes as they pass from aquatic to terrestrial life. In particular, the digestive tract is completely modified. The pharyngeal filtering apparatus disappears. Striking transformations take place in the gastric region. The tadpole's glandular sheath regresses and ceases protruding from the gut wall. At the same time, a large permanent stomach is formed to replace the sheath, gastric glands develop, and the muscle layer thickens. The intestine also changes greatly. An overall shortening and rearrangement of its coils occurs. The histological changes that affect the intestine are largely confined to the epithelium. Degeneration occurs in the larval epithelium, while intense proliferation of stem cells results in the development of a new epithelium that is folded. During metamorphosis, the endocrine cells of the digestive tract are also redistributed. Such changes are associated with modifications in feeding behavior. Most tadpoles are microphagous and feed on particles suspended in the water, which they retain on the surface of the gill filters and other buccopharyngeal structures. Anuran tadpoles usually stop feeding at climax because the filtering apparatus degenerates. Moreover, at climax the larval intestinal epithelium is too altered to absorb anything, and the new intestinal epithelium has not yet developed. Juveniles and adults are predators (carnivores or insect eaters). The acquisition of binocular vision permits efficient perception of prey in a terrestrial environment. The new feeding behavior is also associated with the appearance of new enzymes. The secretion of proteolytic enzymes at the pancreas (trypsin) and stomach (pepsin) levels prepares the animals to digest meat. Chitinases are secreted by the stomach as soon as it differentiates and allow the digestion of chitinous insects. Moreover, the new intestinal mucosa is well equipped for the absorption of protein hydrolysis residues. Control of the digestive secretions and feeding behavior in developing anurans is also discussed in the present article.
30161232|Radiotelemetry studies of free-living Eptesicus fuscus demonstrated that the occurrence of daily torpor was influenced by ambient temperature and varied with the reproductive state of the bat. Lactating females were torpid significantly less often than pregnant and nonpregnant bats. Although the bats had the potential for behavioral thermoregulation, there was evidence that they actively controlled entry into and arousal from torpor. For pregnant females, prolonged periods of torpor coincided with prolonged gestation.
30164202|We examined the accuracy of hydrogen isotope dilution (tritium and deuterium) as a means of determining total body water (TBW), and hence body composition, by comparison with whole-carcass chemical analysis in five adult female and four pup Antarctic fur seals. On average, tritium isotope (HTO) dilution overestimated TBW by 1.92%  1.00% (n = 9). Deuterium isotope (DO) dilution also overestimated TBW (1.71%  1.74%, n = 5), but this trend was not significant. The following equations were developed for predicting TBW from hydrogen isotope dilution estimates: TBW (kg) = 0.11 + 0.97  HTO space (kg) (r = 0.999, n = 9, P < 0.0001) and TBW (kg) = 2.10 + 0.89  DO space (kg) (r = 0.980, n = 5, P < 0.001). Whole-carcass chemical analysis showed adult females were composed of 14.5%  1.0% total body lipid (TBL), whereas pups were composed of only 9.4%  1.0% lipid. Adult females had lower TBW contents (60.1%  0.7%) than pups (67.6%  1.2%) and, consequently, higher energy contents (adults, 10.59  0.30 MJ  kg; pups, 8.24  0.41 MJ  kg). Pups had higher ratios of TBW to lean body mass (LBM) (0.747  0.009) than adults (0.707  0.004), which indicates they had not yet reached chemical maturity. The following best-fit predictive equations based on TBW and body mass (BM) were developed for TBL, total body protein (TBP), total body ash (TBA), and total body gross energy (TBGE): TBL (kg) = 0.875  BM (kg) - 1.187  TBW (kg) - 0.633 (adults); TBL (%) = 66562 - 0.845  TBW (%) (pups); TBP (kg) = 0.058  BM (kg) + 0.209  TBW (kg) + 0.996 (adults); TBP (kg) = 0.267  BM (kg) - 0.130  STBW (kg) + 0.087 (pups); TBA (kg) = 0.071  TBW (kg) - 0.088 (adults and pups); TBGE (MJ  kg) = 34.1 - 0.391  TBW (%) (adults); TBGE (MJ  kg) = 31. 7 - 0.347  TBW (%) (pups). With the use of these predictive equations, hydrogen isotope dilution is an accurate means of determining body composition in live Antarctic fur seals. Differences in these relationships between adults and pups, and in comparison to those in phocids, emphasize the need for the use of equations derived from appropriate data sets when predicting body composition in pinnipeds.
10.1086/515905|The adaptive modulation hypothesis posits that the expression of digestive proteins should be modulated in response to intake of their respective substrates. A corollary of this hypothesis suggests that dietary flexibility and digestive plasticity should be correlated. We examined these two hypotheses in two granivorous Chilean birds (
30157878|(1) Two sets of feeding trials were carried out on temporarily caged wild howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata) to determine digestive efficiencies with respect to cell-wall constituents and protein in natural items of diet. One trial diet consisted primarily (81%) of ripe fruit; the other consisted primarily (87%) of young leaves. (2) Samples of all foods used in the trials, as well as urine and feces, were collected and preserved. These were analyzed for total cell-wall content, cell-wall components (cellulose, hemicelluloses, lignin, cutin), and crude protein. In vitro digestibility of crude protein in trial foods was examined, using pepsin in a solution of HCl. (3) Adult howler monkeys averaged a digestive efficiency of 24% with respect to total cell-wall material on the fruit diet and 42% on the leaf diet. All animals were more efficient at degrading cellulose than hemicelluloses. In both trials fecal nitrogen content was high, and apparent digestibility of protein was low. True digestibility estimates, however, indicated that an average of 77% of dietary protein was removed in transit on the fruit diet and 89% on the leaf diet. The results of the in vitro digestibility trials indicated that tannins or their precursors are present in many natural foods of howlers. (4) It is concluded that considerable fermentation of plant structural carbohydrates takes place in the digestive tract of howler monkeys. Fermentation end products may be of particular importance to howlers at times of the year when foods rich in ready energy are in short supply.
30163807|This study examined the effects of photoperiod (long photoperiod [LD, 20L:4D] and short photoperiod [SD, 8L:16D]), temperature (cold [C, 5 C] and warm [W, 18 C]), and diet quality (high-quality diet [HQ, 18% fiber] and low-quality diet [LQ, 49% fiber]) on growth, energy allocation, food intake, digestive efciency, and gut size in male collared lemmings (Dicrostonyx groenlandicus). Lemmings exposed to SD at weaning showed an increase in adult body mass relative to animals from the LD regimens and allocated twofold more energy to growth. Exposure to C increased adult body mass under LD but not SD. Adult body mass was reduced in lemmings fed the LQ diet relative to lemmings consuming the HQ diet. Lemmings exposed to SD tended to consume less food and showed a reduction in digestive efciency relative to lemmings exposed to LD even though gut size was relatively and absolutely larger under SD conditions. Lemmings acclimated to 5 C showed an increase in food intake and digestive efficiency relative to lemmings acclimated to 18 C The ability to increase digestive efficiency while increasing food intake at 5 C may have been due to the observed increases in the size of the small intestine, cecum, and large intestine. Similarly, the size of the gastrointestinal tract was larger in lemmings fed the LQ diet than in lemmings consuming the HQ diet. Use of fiber accounted for 32% of metabolizable energy (ME) in animals fed the LQ, but only 4% of the ME in those fed the HQ.
30163719|Thermoregulatory abilities of Xantus' murrelet chicks (Synthliboramphus hypoleucus) from hatching to 2 wk of age were investigated in the laboratory. Newly hatched Xantus' murrelet chicks adopt a pelagic existence, and chicks less than a week old are constantly exposed to ambient temperatures below their lower critical temperature. The basal metabolic rate (BMR) of hatchlings (mean body mass, 24.8 g) was 8.65 cal(gh), similar to the value predicted for adult nonpasserine birds of comparable size. Hatchlings increased their metabolism to 3.5 times BMR at cooler temperatures. BMR increased by a factor of 2.7 during the next 2 wk. The body temperature (
30156121|Aspects of the control of glycolysis during contractile activity were investigated in the phasic adductor muscle of the bay scallop, Argopecten irradians concentricus. Glycogen phosphorylase and phosphofructokinase displayed relatively low maximum catalytic activities in this tissue. Comparison of mass action ratios to apparent equilibrium constants showed that both enzymes were displaced from equilibrium under resting conditions. During contractile activity, both enzymes moved toward equilibrium, indicating a large increase in catalytic activity. However, this increase in activity was accompanied by only a slight increase in substrate levels where there was a substantial increase in product levels. Both of the activities of phosphorylase and phosphofructokinase appeared to be enhanced by factors other than substrates/products and therefore can be viewed as being important control sites. The elevated glycolytic rate was manifested by a substantial accumulation of octopine during contractile activity. Kinetic analysis of adductor muscle octopine dehydrogenase indicated that octopine production is due to the synergistic effects of elevations in the concentrations of pyruvate, arginine, and H, and a decline in the NAD/NADH ratio. Among these factors, pyruvate appeared to play the most decisive role in enhancing octopine dehydrogenase activity.
30161269|The eggs of the Australian frog (Pseudophryne bibroni) are laid in wet conditions on land and subsequently experience a variety of hydrous conditions during incubation. In the laboratory, P. bibroni eggs were reared at water potentials ranging from 0 to -800 kPa. Within the embryonic tolerance range (approximately 0 to-200 kPa), the rate of embryonic growth (dry body mass/time) was greater in relatively wet conditions than in relatively dry conditions. The growth rate was approximately 65% greater at 0 kPa than at -100 and -200 kPa. This pattern has been shown previously for a number of reptiles but not amphibians. Development of P. bibroni through designated embryonic stages also proceeded faster in relatively wet conditions. The thickness and surface area of the egg capsule wall were substantially greater in relatively wet conditions than in relatively dry conditions. Because thickness and surface area have opposite effects on the oxygen conductance of the gelatinous egg capsule (GO), the effect of water potential on GO was small in comparison to the effect on egg morphology, and GO remained adequate for O exchange at all water potentials.
30161217|In the field, tiger beetles basked and maintained body temperature ($T_{b}$) between 33 and 38 C while searching for prey and mates. Time spent searching and searching speed were positively correlated with $T_{b}$ and, to a lesser extent, with surface temperature. In the laboratory, running speed was positively correlated with $T_{b}$. The minimum $T_{b}$ for flight ranged from 22 to 26 C. At high ambient temperatures $T_{b}$ was modulated by stilting and short flights which promoted convective cooling. High body temperature increases the distance that a tiger beetle can search and may enhance encounter rates with prey and mates.
30156238|The renin-angiotensin system regulates drinking in many vertebrates but has not been thought to serve this function in amphibians because injections of angiotensin II (AII) have failed to stimulate either oral or cutaneous drinking. We tested the effects of intraperitoneal injections of AII on the duration of water absorption behavior and water weight gain of the red-spotted toad, Bufo punctatus. We found that doses of 1, 5, and 200 g AII/100 g body weight significantly increased both the duration of water absorption behavior and water weight gain. The effect was eliminated by prior injection of saralasin (a specific competitive inhibitor of AII). This suggests that the mechanism that regulates hydration in amphibians is homologous to thirst mechanisms in other vertebrates and may represent an important step in the evolution of thirst in terrestrial vertebrates.
30152617|We examined correlates (sex, size, age) of variation in maximal burst speed (racetrack) and in stamina (time until exhaustion at 0.5 km  h) in two populations of the iguanid lizard Sceloporus merriami in Big Bend National Park, Texas. Because these populations were known demographically and were studied in several years, we were able to examine the effects of adult age on performance, the between-year repeatability of individual performance, and environmental correlates of yearly variation in performance. Variation in locomotor capacities was striking. Males were faster than females, and lizards from the Grapevine Hills were faster than those from Boquillas (lower elevation). However, sex and population did not affect stamina. Young adults (1-yr-olds) were slightly faster but had slightly less stamina than did older adults (2-3-yr-olds). Adult size (mass, snout-vent length, hind limb length) had little effect on performance. Average performance varied significantly among years, but stamina varied more than did speed. Stamina was highest in a summer preceded by relatively wet fall and winter. Despite the between-year variation in average performance, individual speed and stamina are both significantly repeatable over at least 1 yr. Neither tail loss nor toe loss affected sprint speed, but body temperature had a marked effect on speed.
30164243|Nonreproducing Peromyscus maniculatus acclimated to 23 C and a standard mouse food can maintain a positive energy balance at-10 C. Their maximum cold-induced rate of energy assimilation is about 90 kJ/d, which is twice the energy expenditure at 23C and five times their basal metabolic rate. Cold-acclimated individuals have an enlarged alimentary tract and at-18 C achieve a maximum cold-induced rate of energy assimilation of 113 kJ/d. The pattern of energy budget limitations depends on sex: males adopt a more frugal strategy of energy use. In females acclimated to afiber-diluted diet, the size of the alimentary tract and the maximum cold-induced rate of energy assimilation are increased. In males the effect is opposite. There is a strong correlation between an individual's maximum cold-induced rate of energy assimilation and the size of the alimentary tract, liver, and kidney; the correlation is strongest for the mass of the small intestine. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that energy budgets are limited by the process of food digestion and/or absorption in the small intestine. The intraspecific correlation between basal metabolic rate and maximum rate of energy assimilation and between basal metabolic rate and the size of the alimentary tract was not high.
30163778|In the American lobster, the sternal artery and the dorsal abdominal artery arise from the bulbus arteriosus, which is located immediately behind the heart. A nonmuscular flap valve is located at the entrance to the bulbus, and a muscular bicuspid flap valve is located at the origin of the sternal artery. The sternal valve muscles receive inhibitory innervation. Stimulation of these nerves causes the muscles to relax and, in actively pumping hearts, to increase outflow to the sternal artery. The neurohormone proctolin causes contracture of these muscles, and outflow is reduced. Stimulation of the valve nerve overrides the effects of proctolin.
30158553|Both ventilation frequency (f) and the rate of oxygen consumption (
30152553|Biochemical properties of the pyruvate kinases (PK) isolated from body-wall tissue of Tubifex tubifex (Oligochaeta) and from larvae of the tenebrionid beetle Tenebrio molitor (Coleoptera) have been investigated. Tubifex PK was characterized by sigmoidal kinetics with phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) in the presence of Mg and by allosteric regulation under the influence of energy charge and fructose-1,6-diphosphate (FDP). No significant effects of alanine were found. In the presence of Mn, hyperbolic substrate saturation curves were obtained. Tenebrio PK showed hyperbolic kinetics with PEP which were not modified by divalent cations and FDP. Tubifex and Tenebrio PKs display
30166352|We used quantitative genetic analyses to test the hypothesis of a trade-of between locomotor speed and endurance in a population of the European lizard Lacerta vivipara, which is the subject of long-term demographic studies. We estimated the heritability of maximal sprint speed, treadmill endurance, and tail length, a morphometric trait that may afect locomotor performance, as well asphenotypic, genetic, and environmental correlations between these traits. Gravid females were captured in the field and held in the laboratory under standardized conditions until giving birth; traits were then measured on their ofspring. Prior to genetic analyses, we used multiple regressions to remove the efects of such covariates as body size (mass and snout-vent length), dam age, and length of time dams were held in captivity prior toparturition. When we examined the residual characters, heritability was low and statistically nonsignficant for speed but relatively high for both endurance (0.46) and tail length (0.51). None of the phenotypic, genetic, or environmental correlations between traits was statistically significant. Thus, we found no evidence for a trade-off between speed and endurance; these results are consistent with those reported in two previous studies of squamate reptiles (the garter snake Thamnophis sirtalis and the fence lizard Sceloporus occidentalis). The lack of a negative genetic correlation between speed and endurance suggests that these aspects of locomotor abilities are relatively free to evolve independently, such that natural selection could increase both speed and endurance. However, the species studied to date have low to moderate capacities for speed and endurance, as compared with other squamates. Physiologically based trade-offs-for example, those caused by the composition ofmuscle fiber types-should be more likely to exist in species that have high capacities for speed and/or endurance.
30156172|This article describes how local environmental conditions could cause flip-flops in population dynamics depending on the dynamics of the driving variables. Those dynamics need only be fairly subtle to change the direction of response. The conclusions arise from a combination of new animal models and laboratory and field experiments. More appropriate models for animal metabolic heat production and internal temperature profiles illustrate shortcomings of older (and simpler) resistance and capacitance models. A new two-dimensional limb model with countercurrent heat exchange requires minimal input data and is general enough for any rete configuration. Components of the heat- and mass-balance equations for whole animals now include recent physiological and behavioral data relating to food ingestion and digestion and water loss. Recent data demonstrate that water loss rates show year-to-year variability in a lizard population and are affected by wind speed, air temperature, and radiant fluxes. Sensitivity analyses indicate the effects of air, radiant temperature, and wind speed on growth and reproductive potential for Sceloporus undulatus. Estimations of metabolism and water loss outdoors made on the basis of climate measurements (for microclimate-lizard calculations) compare favorably with measurements of doubly labeled water (DLW). Calculated growth and reproductive potential in lizards owing to changes in altitude and climate illustrate how subtle changes in behavior or climate can give either increasing or decreasing growth or reproductive rates with increasing elevation. Growth or reproductive potential calculations based on only laboratory data can yield opposite predictions from those based on combinations of laboratory data and heat- and mass-transfer models for altitude effects on growth or reproductive potential.
30158633|The initial rates of H ejection, Ca uptake, and O consumption were measured at temperatures between 4 and 37 C in liver mitochondria from Richardson's ground squirrels, Spermophilus richardsonii, in order to evaluate adaptations in bioenergetics associated with hibernation. Arrhenius plots of H ejection, Ca uptake, and O consumption were linear in hibernating animals (body temperature
30155975|Osmotic and ionic concentrations were measured in plasma, ureteral urine, and rectal luminal and voided fluids of sand partridges (Ammoperdix heyi) and chukars (Alectoris chukar sinaica) to determine the possible contributions of the kidneys and the lower intestines to the water economy of these desert-dwelling phasianids. During the summer, after 2-3.5 days (mean = 2.7 days) of water deprivation of captive birds held in outdoor aviaries in the Negev Desert, plasma, urine, rectal luminal, and voided fluid osmolalities increased, as did Na and Cl concentrations; K remained unchanged, while body masses decreased. Free-living birds had most fluid compositions intermediate between those of watered and water-deprived captive birds. Notable exceptions were Na and Cl concentrations of urine and voided fluid, which were usually much higher in free-living than in captive birds. The above measurements indicated that neither species was especially short of water and that its members' diet was high in NaCl in the wild. In free-living birds, osmotic concentrations of plasma and urine were higher in sand partridges than in chukars. Plasma and urine concentrations in free-living sand partridges were similar to waterdeprived captive ones, whereas, in free-living chukars, these concentrations were similar to captive watered ones. Maximum ratios of mean urine/plasma osmolalities (1.8-1.9) were found in water-deprived sand partridges and were within the documented range for birds. Comparison of urine, rectal luminal and voided fluid compositions indicated that the lower intestine modifies renal output only slightly before excretion when the birds are somewhat concentrating their urine and have a diet containing more than adequate salt, as was the case with free-living birds. However, there was modification by the lower intestine of urine in captive watered birds; osmotic, Na, and Cl concentrations were lower in voided fluid than in urine in both species.
30158537|Many small mammals save energy by huddling. Huddling reduces the collective surface area exposed to the local environment and may heat the local environment. Consequently, huddling groups save energy, but the relative importance of reducing exposed surface area and local heating is largely undocumented. Oxygen consumption was measured in groups of Microtus agrestis Linnaeus consisting of five individuals, over a range of temperatures below thermoneutrality. Behavior was recorded simultaneously. Each group was measured when allowed to huddle and when prevented from huddling by partitions in the metabolism chamber. Local heating of the environment was correlated with temperature outside the metabolism chamber (outside temperature)for both huddling and separated groups, but local heating by huddling groups was significantly greater. At 0 C, local heating was 11.8 C and 5.8 C for huddling and separated groups, respectively. At the same outside temperature, O consumption of huddling groups was lower than for separated groups (23% lower at 0 C). At 0 C, local heating accounted for about 55% of the total energy savings of the huddling group. Thus, local heating is a major component of the energy savings associated with huddling
30163876|Extended egg retention is an important component of the cold climate model for the evolution of viviparity in squamate reptiles. The presumptive selective benefits of extended egg retention are that (1) eggs retained in utero are subject to a warmer thermal environment than those laid in nests, and (2) embryonic development in utero is faster than embryonic development in nests as a result of these temperature differences. We tested these assumptions with observations on the montane lizard, Sceloporus virgatus. We measured the diel temperature cycles of gravid females and of nest sites in the field and contrasted the embryonic development of eggs laid at the normal time and eggs retained for an additional 13 d, 20 d, and 30 d in laboratory experiments. The mean temperatures of gravid females and of nest sites were very similar at 25.4 and 25.2C, respectively. Thus, egg retention did not alter the thermal environment of developing embryos of S. virgatus. Moreover, embryonic development was retarded by egg retention; embryos from retained eggs were smaller and less differentiated than control eggs. Egg retention also lengthened the incubation period from 57 d for eggs laid at the normal time to 65 d, 66 d, and 71 d for eggs retained 13 d, 20 d, and 30 d, respectively. Thus, egg retention reduces the time available for hatchlings to grow prior to winter and delays sexual maturation.
10.1086/515872|We explore how the thermal sensitivity of organismic performance emerges from the thermal sensitivity of the underlying component processes involved, using growth and feeding of
30164204|This is the first study to report absolute measurements of cardiac output (
30163840|The respiratory patterns exhibited by diapausing adults of Chrysopa carnea (Insecta, Neuroptera) and diapausing adults of Ixodes ricinus (Acari, Parasitiformes) have been recorded by means of the scanning microrespirographic method. Both these terrestrial arthropods released the respiratory CO in the form of discontinuous pulses with a periodicity of several minutes. In Chrysopa, the periodicity was 2.1 min, each cycle lasted 9.5 s, and the amount of CO produced in one cylcle averaged 42.26 nL. In Ixodes, the periodicity was 1.3 min, the CO pulses lasted only 7 s, and the amount of CO produced in one cycle averaged 26.13 nL. The described cycles in CO production, which are called the Prague cycles, are regulated by the autonomic nervous system (the coelopulse) with the centers located in the thoracic ganglia. Some neurohormonal centers that could be associated with functions of the coelopulse system are also outlined. The possibility that these structures (perisympathetic neurohemal organs, H-organ) are involved in regulation of the respiratory acidemia is discussed.
30158643|Changes in plasma levels of testosterone (T), progesterone (P), and luteinizing hormone (LH) were studied over the reproductive cycle in two double-brooded populations of European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). In one population, nest sites (nest boxes) averaged 6 m apart (dense site), and in the other, nest boxes average 60 m apart (dispersed site). In both populations, plasma levels of T were high during the two egglaying stages when males were mate guarding and defending nest holes. A higher circulating level of T was observed during the first nesting attempt, when all pairs in possession of a box initiated clutches. Furthermore, plasma levels of T were higher in males nesting at the dense site compared with those in males at the dispersed site. Only about 30% of these pairs initiated second clutches after successfully rearing the first brood. Although plasma levels of T rose in males during the second clutch initiation, they were significantly lower than T levels measured during production of the first clutch. Circulating levels of LH became maximal during each egg-laying stage in a manner similar to those of T but did not vary as a function of nest-site density. Changes in circulating T were also examined in relation to a T-dependent secondary sexual characteristic, male bill color. We found that the seasonal change in bill color is sensitive to circulating levels of T only slightly above basal and much lower than those observed during times of male-male aggression. Circulating levels of P were constant from January to July, with no significant changes during the prebreeding and breeding periods. This is consistent with results of studies with captive males.
30164316|Coadaptation predicts a match between the thermal physiology and thermoregulatory behavior of reptiles. We tested this prediction by studying the digestive biology of rubber boas (Charina bottae). We measured the thermal dependence of gastric digestive rate and passage rate in rubber boas from 10C to 35C. We examined the effect of digestion on their thermal preference by measuring the temperatures of C. bottae in a thermal gradient before and after feeding. While the passage rates calculated from the body temperatures of digesting snakes were higher than the passage rates calculated from the body temperatures of nondigesting snakes, there was no difference in calculated digestive rates. These results indicate that the thermoregulatory behavior of C. bottae may be more tightly correlated with factors affecting passage rate than with digestive rate alone. Results of simulating the constraints of the thermal environment on the digestive biology of C. bottae showed that digestion would take more than twice as long in the spring as in the summer. In addition, during the summer, snakes thermoregulating as digesting snakes would pass food 12% faster than those thermoregulating as nondigesting snakes. These results demonstrate how interpretation of laboratory studies can be improved when combined with measurements of appropriate environmental conditions.
30155838|Time budgets and food intake of captive hummingbirds (Eugenes fulgens and Lampornis clemenciae) were monitored for several days to estimate net energy exchange and to assess responses to depletion of energy reserves produced by food deprivation. Meal sizes averaged close to values predicted to maximize short-term rates of net energy gain if hummingbirds behaved optimally. Maximization of rate of net energy gain is analogous to an on-off model of control. However, longer-term, daily rates of energy storage were not maximized but generally were proportional to energy reserve depletion. High daily energy storage rates were associated with (1) high frequency feeding (one species, Eugenes), or (2) meal size (one species, Lampornis), and (3) low rates of energy expenditure between meals (both species). Proportional control may represent a compromise between characteristics of on-off controls, with high sensitivity to changes near set points, and integral controls, with low sensitivity to changes near set points.
30155973|The size and composition (lean-dry, water, and fat contents) of the flight muscles of the catbird were investigated as a function of the large seasonal changes in body mass which occur in this species. The mass of the pectoralis muscle is highly positively correlated with body mass, leading to an elevation in muscle mass of 35% during fall premigratory fattening. The changes in muscle mass are brought about by coordinated variations in all major components of the muscles which were measured. High-oxidative, fast-twitch fibers represent 88% of the total fibers in the pectoralis muscle. The cross-sectional area of the muscle fibers increases proportional to muscle mass, suggesting that fiber hypertrophy may underlie the changes in muscle mass. Calculations of the power available from the muscles compared with the aerodynamic power required by catbirds in flight indicates that augmentation of pectoralis muscle mass could make a significant contribution to flight performance.
30156075|Oxygen consumption by male spring peepers (Hyla crucifer) increased linearly with calling rate, reaching peak values of 1.5-1.7 ml O/(g  h) at the highest calling rates. The intercept of the regression line describing the relationship between metabolism and calling rate does not differ significantly from daytime resting metabolism (0.11 ml O/[g  h]). Metabolic rate during vigorous locomotor exercise at the same temperature (19 C) was only 1.1 ml O/(gh). We measured activities of mitochondrial enzymes in the trunk muscles (internal and external obliques) involved in sound production and in mixed hind limb muscles of male and female frogs. Male trunk muscles were very large, accounting for 15% of total body mass, whereas female trunk muscle constituted only 3% of total body mass. Citrate synthase (CS) activity in male trunk muscle, indicative of oxidative capacity, was six times the CS activity in leg muscle (86 vs. 14 mol/[min  g fresh muscle at 20 C]) and 17 times the CS activity in female trunk muscle (5 mol/[ming fresh muscle]). The capacity to oxidize fat, as indicated by -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity, was five times higher in male trunk muscle than in leg muscle (30 vs. 6 mol/[ming fresh muscle]), suggesting that fatty acid oxidation plays an important role in the energetics of vocalization in this species. Phosphofructokinase activity, a key glycolytic marker, was not significantly different in trunk and leg muscle. The capacity of male spring peeper trunk muscles for aerobic metabolism exceeds considerably the highest values yet reported for ectothermic vertebrate muscle tissue and is comparable to highly oxidative muscles of endotherms.
30158526|The hormonal mechanisms underlying parental care behavior in fish are poorly understood. This study investigates the effects of bromocriptine, a specific dopamine receptor agonist that inhibits secretion of prolactin from the pituitary, on parental care behaviors of nesting male bluegills. Parental male bluegills (Lepomis macrochirus) exhibit a complex set of reproductive behaviors including the construction of nests in colonies and courtship of females. After spawning, these males then alone remain to fan and guard the eggs and larvae from predators. Compared with control males, males implanted with bromocriptine showed significantly less defense of their broods and spent significantly more time rim circling their nests, a behavior typical of prespawning males. Because there were no significant differences among male groups in the levels of 11-ketotestosterone (11KT) or testosterone (T), the observed behavioral alterations cannot be ascribed to androgenic effects of bromocriptine. Instead, we suggest that prolactin, mediated through the action of dopamine, is involved in the expression of parental care behavior in this species.
30155677|Three species of hedgehog (Insectivora) were chosen to represent temperate (Erinaceus europaeus), semi-arid (Hemiechinus auritus), and desert regions (Paraechinus aethiopicus). Metabolic rates, temperature regulation, and evaporation of water were studied under laboratory conditions. All three species maintained their body temperature close to 34 C (about 3-4 C lower than other mammals). All three species are competent temperature regulators which at low air temperature maintain body temperature by increasing oxygen consumption, and at high air temperature by increasing the evaporation of water. The rate of oxygen consumption is lowest in the desert species (Paraechinus) and highest in the temperate species (Erinaceus). However, thermoregulatory abilities are similar in all three species and not readily correlated with their geographical distribution.
30156031|Physiological correlates of the ontogenetic transition from generally nonflying hive bees to foragers were described. Peak foraging activity of workers occurred between 15 and 32 days of age in six honeybee colonies, depending on season. Whole wet body mass decreased ~40% in correlation with the transition to foraging behavior. The entire loss of mass occurred in the abdomens, with 85% of the total decrease occurring in the digestive tract exclusive of the honey crop. Maximal thorax-specific rates of oxygen consumption (
30156075|Oxygen consumption by male spring peepers (Hyla crucifer) increased linearly with calling rate, reaching peak values of 1.5-1.7 ml O/(g  h) at the highest calling rates. The intercept of the regression line describing the relationship between metabolism and calling rate does not differ significantly from daytime resting metabolism (0.11 ml O/[g  h]). Metabolic rate during vigorous locomotor exercise at the same temperature (19 C) was only 1.1 ml O/(gh). We measured activities of mitochondrial enzymes in the trunk muscles (internal and external obliques) involved in sound production and in mixed hind limb muscles of male and female frogs. Male trunk muscles were very large, accounting for 15% of total body mass, whereas female trunk muscle constituted only 3% of total body mass. Citrate synthase (CS) activity in male trunk muscle, indicative of oxidative capacity, was six times the CS activity in leg muscle (86 vs. 14 mol/[min  g fresh muscle at 20 C]) and 17 times the CS activity in female trunk muscle (5 mol/[ming fresh muscle]). The capacity to oxidize fat, as indicated by -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity, was five times higher in male trunk muscle than in leg muscle (30 vs. 6 mol/[ming fresh muscle]), suggesting that fatty acid oxidation plays an important role in the energetics of vocalization in this species. Phosphofructokinase activity, a key glycolytic marker, was not significantly different in trunk and leg muscle. The capacity of male spring peeper trunk muscles for aerobic metabolism exceeds considerably the highest values yet reported for ectothermic vertebrate muscle tissue and is comparable to highly oxidative muscles of endotherms.
30158526|The hormonal mechanisms underlying parental care behavior in fish are poorly understood. This study investigates the effects of bromocriptine, a specific dopamine receptor agonist that inhibits secretion of prolactin from the pituitary, on parental care behaviors of nesting male bluegills. Parental male bluegills (Lepomis macrochirus) exhibit a complex set of reproductive behaviors including the construction of nests in colonies and courtship of females. After spawning, these males then alone remain to fan and guard the eggs and larvae from predators. Compared with control males, males implanted with bromocriptine showed significantly less defense of their broods and spent significantly more time rim circling their nests, a behavior typical of prespawning males. Because there were no significant differences among male groups in the levels of 11-ketotestosterone (11KT) or testosterone (T), the observed behavioral alterations cannot be ascribed to androgenic effects of bromocriptine. Instead, we suggest that prolactin, mediated through the action of dopamine, is involved in the expression of parental care behavior in this species.
30155677|Three species of hedgehog (Insectivora) were chosen to represent temperate (Erinaceus europaeus), semi-arid (Hemiechinus auritus), and desert regions (Paraechinus aethiopicus). Metabolic rates, temperature regulation, and evaporation of water were studied under laboratory conditions. All three species maintained their body temperature close to 34 C (about 3-4 C lower than other mammals). All three species are competent temperature regulators which at low air temperature maintain body temperature by increasing oxygen consumption, and at high air temperature by increasing the evaporation of water. The rate of oxygen consumption is lowest in the desert species (Paraechinus) and highest in the temperate species (Erinaceus). However, thermoregulatory abilities are similar in all three species and not readily correlated with their geographical distribution.
30156031|Physiological correlates of the ontogenetic transition from generally nonflying hive bees to foragers were described. Peak foraging activity of workers occurred between 15 and 32 days of age in six honeybee colonies, depending on season. Whole wet body mass decreased ~40% in correlation with the transition to foraging behavior. The entire loss of mass occurred in the abdomens, with 85% of the total decrease occurring in the digestive tract exclusive of the honey crop. Maximal thorax-specific rates of oxygen consumption (
30160002|Arboreal frogs of the genera Chiromantis and Phyllomedusa generally have low evaporative water loss (EWL) but can regulate water loss to maintain body temperature (
30155828|The influence of selected dietary factors on the prevention of starvation-induced supernumerary larval molt was studied. The incidence of supernumerary molting was greatly reduced when larvae were provided with sucrose during the starvation period. Neither casein nor a diet deficient only in sugar had such an effect. Among the various sugars tested, sucrose and fructose were the most effective in suppressing the supernumerary molt. Mannose and sorbose reduced supernumerary molting to a lesser extent. The percentage of larvae undergoing a supernumerary molt was inversely related to the concentration of sucrose, with 100% of those fed on 1% sucrose and 10% of those fed on 7% sucrose molting into sixth instars. The incidence of supernumerary molting was inversely correlated with hemolymph trehalose concentration but was not correlated with protein concentration. A hypothesis relating low hemolymph trehalose titers with activation of the brain-corpora allata system is proposed to explain the JH titer changes after starvation and during molting cycles.
30163723|Eared grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) and American coots (Fulica americana) lay eggs in nests that float on water. Eggs of most grebes come into contact with liquid water during incubation, whereas those of coots do not. The rate of change in the mass of grebe eggs incubated in natural nests was not significantly different from that of coot eggs, even though the water-vapor conductance of grebe eggs is much greater. When eggs of coots and of grey Leghorn chickens (Gallus gallus) were incubated in contact with liquid water in the laboratory, they increased in mass, whereas grebe eggs, incubated under the same conditions, decreased in mass. When eggs of grebes and chickens were placed in contact with a solution of methylene blue, the contents of the chicken eggs were stained blue, whereas the contents of the grebe eggs were not stained. When chicken eggs were incubated in nests of eared grebes, they increased in mass and rotted; eared grebe eggs in the same nests declined in mass and did not rot. These data suggest that eared grebe eggshells possess a barrier to the diffusion of liquid water that nevertheless permits a rapid exchange of water vapor.
30164232|The functional properties of the haemolymph and haemocyanin (Hc) of Hemigrapsus nudus were investigated with respect to the amphibious behaviour of this crab. The O affinity of the Hc was decreased at higher temperature (H = -30 to -40 kJ mol). Haemocyanin-O affinity was sensitive to pH (Bohr factor = -0.843 at 15 C) but essentially insensitive to L-lactate
30156029|Thoracic, abdominal, and head temperatures were measured in individual fieldcollected Xylocopa virginica virginica performing a variety of behaviors over a wide range of ambient conditions. The bees were highly endothermic during activity, with thoracic temperatures (
30158601|The growth of the gill, ventricle, red muscle, and white muscle in terms of wet weight and total protein content was measured in trout (Salmo gairdneri; wt 20-370 g) at 12 C. In vivo protein synthesis rates were measured following a single high dose of H-phenylalanine, which stabilized specific radioactivity in the free pools. Protein degradation rates were calculated from the difference between synthesis and net protein accretion. During growth fractional synthesis and degradation rates fell in all the tissues. Comparisons between the four tissue types showed that fractional degradation rates were directly correlated with fractional synthesis rates. Throughout growth the tissue types showed the same ranking in fractional synthesis and degradation rates, i.e., gills > ventricle > red muscle > white muscle. Calculation of the total amounts of protein synthesized per day revealed that the tissue types were ranked in the following way: white muscle = gills > red muscle > ventricle. Seventy-six percent of this protein synthesized in the white muscle appeared as growth, whereas in the gill only 4% appeared as growth. Despite wide differences in fractional synthesis and degradation rates, all the tissue types showed isometric growth, except the white muscle, which showed slight positive allometry.
30157895|Water flux rates and feeding rates of Urosaurus graciosus and Urosaurus ornatus were studied during June and July in Arizona. The mean water flux rate of U. graciosus (36.6 ml HO kg day) was significantly higher than that of U. ornatus (25.8 ml HO kg day). Urosaurus graciosus is less able to escape high afternoon temperatures than U. ornatus, which frequently seeks refuge under bark and in crevices of trees. The habitat occupied by U. graciosus also is subject to higher temperatures than that occupied by U. ornatus. The higher water flux rate of U. graciosus is associated with differences in behavior, habitat, and greater food intake.
30163937|Flight energetics of free-ranging red-footed boobies (Sula sula) on Johnston Atoll in the central Pacific Ocean were quantified using doubly labeled water to measure field metabolic rate (FMR), an open-flow system to measure O consumption rate, and activity recorders to monitor foraging behavior at sea. Brooding birds spent an average of 496%  6% of the time at the nest, 6%  2% of the time sitting on the water, and 41%  7% of the time in flight. Mean FMR was 14.2  1.2 W (n = 9; mean mass = 1,070  40.3 g). Mean resting metabolic rate was 9. 7  0.7 W (n = 8: mean mass = 1,039  25.8 g) . The power required for flight averaged 19.0  3.4 W (n = 6; mean mass = 1, 014  42 g). This was less than one-third of the predicted value (62.1 W) obtained from equations based on aerodynamic theory. Aerodynamic theory predicts that birds in this study would require a mean of
30155771|Black goats are the most abundant domestic animal in the Negev and Sinai deserts. These goats possess a number of complex physiological adaptations for dealing with a hot desert environment. It seemed possible that their black coat might also be an adaptation for this environment, reducing heat gain and the use of water for evaporative cooling. To test this possibility, we compared the rates at which black goats, white goats, and ibex (a wild goat native to the desert) gained heat and evaporated water in a hot desert at midday. Two methods were used simultaneously to calculate the net rate of heat gain by radiation and convection
10.1086/515877|Highelevation populations of many grasshopper species produce small adults in response to shortened growing seasons and cooler ambient temperatures. Massspecific metabolic rate tends to increase with elevation, and several authors have argued that this is an adaptation to accelerate development. In the present study, the relationship of thermoregulation and metabolism was investigated in adults of the acridid grasshopper
30161218|The oxygenation characteristics of the blood of Glyphocrangon vicaria, a benthic shrimp captured at a depth of 1,800 m, are examined to elucidate the little-studied blood properties of an animal living in an isothermal, stable, deep-sea environment. Whole blood of G. vicaria shows a reduced effect of temperature on O affinity and a marked, normal Bohr effect from pH 7 to pH 9 that increases with temperature, while cooperativity of O binding is moderate and decreases with an increase in temperature. The blood of G. vicaria shows no specific effect of CO on O affinity and no effect of L-lactate on O affinity. These blood oxygenation characteristics are compared with those of animals living in environments with similar and contrasting thermal characteristics.
30158567|The heat tolerance of Fundulus heteroclitus collected at different times of year were evaluated by the critical thermal maximum (CTMax) technique, following a period of laboratory acclimation to standardize thermal history within collections during which contemporaneous field conditions of temperature and photoperiod were simulated. Mean midday CTMax values showed a strong seasonal effect, ranging from 32.20 C to 44.11 C over nine acclimation temperatures from 7 to 36 C. These values are among the highest recorded for fishes. A daily rhythm in CTMax occurred throughout the range of seasonal conditions employed, but its amplitude varied seasonally, with a maximum under spring/autumn conditions. Fish collected in autumn were transferred to summer conditions in the laboratory, and the effects of the transfer on the daily rhythm and midday CTMax were evaluated 6 and 12 wk later. A surprising result was that the fish did not recover summer thermal tolerance within 12 wk, and also that during this time the daily pattern of heat tolerance was severely disrupted. One of the implications of this is that routine acclimation protocols involving temperature and photoperiod shifts can alter or mask daily rhythms for months.
30163758|The osmoregulatory abilities of the larvae of two species of mosquito, Aedes nigromaculis and Aedes melanimon, were examined. Both species are closely related to known saline-tolerant species. We examined the saline tolerance of these two species by performing survival tests in water ranging from 10% to 100% seawater. Aedes nigromaculis showed increased mortality above 30% seawater, while A. melanimon showed high rates of survival in all salinities tested. Fluorescence and electron microscopic studies reveal the presence of a single rectal segment in A. nigromaculis larvae, as is characteristic of obligate freshwater species, and two distinct rectal segments in A. melanimon, as is characteristic of euryhaline osmoconforming larvae. Information on the physiological capacities of these two species, along with a similar knowledge of other key species, allowed us to map physiological information on a previously established phylogeny. Our results demonstrate the usefulness of physiological and morphological information in elucidating the evolutionary history of this group.
30158248|Preferred body temperatures, water-loss rates (WLR), and standard metabolic rates (SMR) were measured for adult tiger beetles (Cicindela longilabris) from disjunct populations in Arizona, Colorado, Maine, and Wisconsin. The mean body temperatures of foraging C. longilabris did not vary significantly among the four populations. The mean body temperatures of basking (29.7 C), foraging (34.1 C), and stilting (36.2 C) C. longilabris were lower than those recorded for most Cicindela species. Mean WLR of live beetles in dry air at 30 C (21.2-25.2 g cm h mmHg) was not significantly different among populations and was similar to WLR of other upland cicindelids. The SMR measured at 15, 25, and 30 C for freshly captured beetles varied among populations but converged after all beetles were acclimated at 25 C. Differences in SMR among populations after acclimation could not be discerned; however, the pooled SMR for C. longilabris were higher than SMR for other Cicindela species over the same temperature range. The results indicate that C. longilabris is adapted to cooler climates than are experienced by most cicindelids and are consistent with the hypothesis that C. longilabris occupies climatic refugia at lower latitudes.
10.1086/515965|We used nestling house sparrows (
30158236|Many fish possess a gas-filled swim bladder, and the gas molecules enter the bladder by diffusion from its capillaries and epithelium. The high gas partial pressures necessary to drive diffusion are produced in two steps. First, in the blood perfusing the swim bladder capillaries the physical solubility of gases is reduced via the salting-out effect, and gases are released from a chemical binding site via blood acidification (e.g., Root effect for O; conversion of HCO to CO). These effects result in an increase in the gas partial pressure in blood. In a second step, this initial increase in partial pressure (the "single concentrating effect") is multiplied by back diffusion of gas molecules in the countercurrent system of the rete mirabile. For inert gases, the salting-out effect, induced by the release of lactic acid from the gas gland cells in the swim bladder tissue, results in a probably small reduction of solubility, while the acid-induced decrease in hemoglobin O-carrying capacity (Root effect) and the release of CO from HCO , combined with the release of anaerobically produced CO from gas gland cells, result in a significant single concentrating effect for O and CO. The relatively high permeability of the rete capillaries for gases allows for back diffusion, and thus for countercurrent concentration, of gases. The rete mirabile is, however, permeable not only for gases but also for metabolites and salt molecules, and the countercurrent concentration of solutes enhances the countercurrent concentration of gas molecules. This is particularly important for inert gases because their single concentrating effect is small. Back diffusion of CO in the rete mirabile not only results in a countercurrent concentration of CO but also enhances the partial pressure increase of O by decreasing the hemoglobin O-carrying capacity within the arterial capillaries of the rete. This interdependence of O and CO may apply to countercurrent systems in other tissues as well, for example, to the skeletal muscle. Hence, the swim bladder rete mirabile may serve as a model tissue for studies of gas exchange and countercurrent blood flow in other organs. Furthermore, the regulation of countercurrent eficiency and gas secretion promises to be an interesting area of research, including also the regulation of metabolic activity and acid production in the gas gland cells.
30156136|Fertilization success and sperm motility were tested in fresh water, 15, and 30 ppt salt water (<5, 500, and 1,000 mOsm/kg, respectively) for a population of Fundulus heteroclitus maintained at ambient salinity (30 ppt) and later acclimated to fresh water in the laboratory to determine the effect of the adult's acclimation salinity on reproductive success in different salinities. The same parameters were measured for individuals from a natural freshwater population. Individuals maintained in 30 ppt were unable to fertilize eggs in fresh water (0%), while fertilization success in 500 and 1,000 mOsm/kg was approximately 80%. Acclimation to fresh water enhanced fertilization success in fresh water (mean 41%). Females acclimated to fresh water had a significantly lower (P < .05) ovarian osmolarity, which may be related to the observed increase in fertilization success. A natural freshwater population had a fertilization rate in fresh water of 72%, which suggested that the period of laboratory acclimation (5 wk) was not sufficient for complete acclimation of the gametes. While enhanced fertilization success in fresh water was observed in the laboratory for adults acclimated to fresh water, these same individuals had diminished success in 1,000 mOsm/kg. Both the natural freshwater population and the laboratory population acclimated to fresh water had 80% success in 500 mOsm/kg; however, they were unable to fertilize eggs in 1,000 mOsm/kg, apparently because of sperm immotility. Thus for F. heteroclitus there is a restricted salinity range over which gametes are viable. Irrespective of acclimation salinity, optimum success occurs in 500 mOsm/kg, which is closest to the internal osmolarity of the fish.
30157940|Profiles of glycolytic and tricarboxylic-cycle metabolites were determined at 4 and 20 C in juvenile roach, Rutilus rutilus (L.), during rest (preexercise), at exhaustion, and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 8 h of recovery. The time that elapsed between catching and freeze-clamping the whole fish was about 2 s. Starting from a preexercise concentration of about 0.4 mol. g fresh wt, lactate concentration increased only 15fold at 4 but 33-fold at 20 C. The smaller factor of increase at 4 C is interpreted as being due to the blockage of muscle activity at this low temperature. Other glycolytic and citrate-cycle metabolites reached their concentration maxima either during or immediately after the fish's burst of activity. During recovery the concentrations of metabolites follow exponential functions in their return to preexercise levels. This allows calculation of rate constants and
30157905|Mallee fowl eggs were successfully incubated over the temperature range 32-38 C. Greatest hatchability occurred at 34 C (80%); 22% hatched at 32 C, 44% at 36 C; and 38% at 38 C. Field data indicate that eggs can tolerate temperatures as low as 28 C for at least 4 days and that egg temperature can vary from 28 to 38 C during incubation. Birds did not regulate mound temperature as precisely as previously reported, 3-5 C variations in temperature were common. Energetic cost of development was found to be temperature dependent. Embryos developing at 32 C required 74% more energy than embryos developing at 38 C.
30155862|Determinations have been made of the permeability of the cuticle at 0.75 and 0.95 ambient water vapor activity and compared at ambient air temperatures from 15 to 47 C. When the natural log of the transpiration-rate constants or the diffusion gradient corrected rate constants are plotted against temperature, no sudden increase in permeability is observed. Rather, transpiration-rate constants increase exponentially with temperature. The relationship between transpiration-rate constants and temperature is also well described by an Arrhenius function. The results indicate a continuous increase in cuticular permeability as air temperature rises. Likewise, natural log plots of decrease in specific activity or diffusion gradient corrected specific activity yield straight lines. Plots using the Arrhenius function are not linear over the entire temperature range. An abrupt deviation occurs at what appears to be nonequilibrium or dehydrating conditions.
30159945|During heat exposure, the respiratory system of a panting bird must fulfill the potentially conflicting requirements of dissipating heat and maintaining arterial carbon dioxide tension (
30158637|Chronic hypoxia tolerance of Thais haemastoma was inversely related to acclimation temperature but not to salinity. Oxyregulatory ability varied inversely with temperature and did not exhibit acclimation after 28 days' exposure to 53 mm Hg O. The oxygen consumption rate was lower after 28 days' exposure to hypoxia than under normoxia at 20 and 30 C but was low at all PO'S at 10 C. Pyruvate oxidoreductase enzymes were not induced in foot tissue after 28 days' exposure to 10%-67% of normoxia. Activity ratios of alanopine dehydrogenase:lactate dehydrogenase:strombine dehydrogenase:octopine dehydrogenase were 3.8:1.2:1.0:0. Alanopine dehydrogenase activity increased on exposure to anoxia but had returned to control activity by day 2; no change occurred in the other pyruvate oxidoreductase activities over 6 days' exposure. Adenylate energy charge (AEC) was reduced at low PO'S. Arginine phosphate concentrations were lower in snails exposed to 10%-33% saturation than in those at 67%100%. AEC declined from 0.79 to 0.58 after 1 day of anoxia, and arginine phosphate concentration declined by 95%; no further decrease occurred in either variable. AEC cycled at the expense of arginine phosphate with cyclic exposure of snails to anoxia.
30159973|The relative importance of aerobic and anaerobic metabolism in active spiders was investigated in four species, Filistata hibernalis, Lycosa lenta, Phidippus audax, and Neoscona domiciliorium. Peak
30155988|The responses to prolonged diving in a representative of each of the four families of North American freshwater turtles (Chelydridae, Emydidae, Kinosternidae, Trionychidae) were investigated. For turtles submerged at 10 C in anoxic (N-equilibrated) and normoxic (aerated) water, we found: (1) Survival times in anoxia (days) were 2.6 (Trionyx), 5.2 (Sternotherus), 8.5 (Chelydra), and 17.0 (Chrysemys); the corresponding survival times in normoxia were >100, >100, 14.2, and 29.3. The differences between survival in anoxic and normoxic water were significant in all species except Chelydra. (2) The acid-base responses of Trionyx and Sternotherus were similar, apparently as a result of the efficient use of extrapulmonary gas exchange in these species. The lack of such efficient aquatic respiration was evident in both Chelydra and Chrysemys, whose acid-base responses were similar to each other but very different from those of the other species. (3) Buffer capacities ([HCO]/pH) of the blood were -8.81 (Chelydra), -12.6 (Chrysemys), -14.0 (Trionyx), and -17.0 (Sternotherus). These values are well below those of diving mammals and birds. (4) Hematocrit increased in all noncatheterized turtles. After 100 days of normoxic submergence, the increase in Trionyx was from 26.0% to 34.9%; (5) Turtles of all four species died when the blood pH fell by about 1.0 pH unit, regardless of whether the acidosis was metabolic or combined respiratory and metabolic. Ecological considerations of these findings are discussed, particularly with regard to the assumed long-term submergence associated with hibernation in the northern portions of the ranges of these species. We suggest that the superior anaerobic capabilities of freshwater turtles may be the result of selection for long-term wintertime submergence rather than for warm-weather diving.
30163782|During its passage through the oviduct the egg of the tropical lizard Anolis pulchellus increased in total wet mass by 66%; 30% due to solid accumulation and 70% to water intake. Water content in the preovulatory follicles was 41% of their wet mass, while in the fully developed eggs it was 52%. Quantitative analysis of total soluble protein revealed no significant protein accumulation in the postovulatory egg since total protein content in the preovulatory follicle was similar to the amount present in the fully developed egg. Furthermore, analysis of follicle and egg proteins by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis did not indicate major qualitative differences in their protein pattern. Both of these findings strongly indicate lack of proteins of oviductal origin in the egg of A. pulchellus. Thus, the observed increase in egg mass during retention in the oviduct is mainly due to water uptake, with a minor portion due to eggshell deposition and the incorporation of inorganic nutrients for embryo development.
30156245|Following the release of house finches from southern California (CA) on Long Island, New York, in 1940, the species has become established in eastern North America, including Michigan (MI) and Ohio (OH), despite cold winters. Standard metabolic rates (SMRs) of MI-OH birds, like those of house finches from Colorado (CO) and CA, do not differ significantly between winter and late spring Geographical comparisons are more complex. Standard metabolic rate does not vary significantly among the three populations during late spring Additionally, the winter value for the MI-OH house finches resembles that for CO birds. However, SMR for individuals in these two populations significantly exceeds that for the CA birds, suggesting some linkage between severity of winter climate and metabolic level Analysis of thermal conductance (c) for MI-OH house finches indicates a significantly higher insulation value in winter than in late spring, a circumstance we ascribe to more worn plumage in the latter season. Winter values of c for MI-OH house finches and CA birds are similar. This finding and some previous findings on winter acclimatization in house finches from several localities suggest that geographic variation in their cold response results primarily from metabolic rather than insulative adjustments.
30155865|Antelope ground squirrels (Ammospermophilus leucurus, 80-100 g) consumed vegetation, seeds, arthropods, and vertebrate flesh throughout the year in the Mojave Desert near Barstow, California. Apparent energy assimilation efficiency (100 x
30158222|Epinephrine had no effect on the blood O afinity of Fundulus heteroclitus in the presence of low CO (1.5 mmHg Pco). However, it did increase O afinity proportionately with increasing Pco. Erythrocytes in NaHCO-buffered Bull saline gave results that were virtually identical to those obtained with blood. This was not the case for erythrocytes in synthetically buffered Bull salines. Their O afinity was markedly lower than that of blood, regardless of the CO concentration, presence of epinephrine or bovine serum albumin, or type of synthetic buffer (Hepes, Tris, Bis-Tris) employed. Thus, conclusions drawn from studies utilizing synthetically buffered salines may be misleading Epinephrine stimulated proton effux, resulting in an increase of the intracellular pH from erythrocytes in Hepes-buffered Bull saline. This appears to be an artifact resulting from the use of Hepes, as it was not observed in blood. The intracellular pH of both blood and erythrocytes in NaHCO-buffered Bull saline was insensitive to beta-adrenergic stimulation. This finding is contrary to those reported for trout and striped bass and may reflect adaptive responses of F. heteroclitus to its often poorly oxygenated estuarine habitat.
30158173|Quantitative analysis of the composition of eggs and their sibling neonates in the viviparous natricine snake Thamnophis ordinoides revealed that yolk provided the principal source of organic nutrition but that embryos received a substantial allotment of inorganic nutrients from the placentas. The placental provision of water and sodium equaled or exceeded yolk supplies, and placental transport accounted for 23% of neonatal calcium composition. There was no difference between egg and newborn quantities of total phosphorus or total potassium, whereas neonates contained less total magnesium than eggs. The mode of embryonic nutrition in this species is characterized as predominantly lecithotrophic, yet placental nutrient provision contributes significantly to embryonic nourishment. Placental transport of sodium and embryonic uptake of water was greater in recently ovulated eggs that contained relatively low levels of sodium and water respectively. Thus, placental sources compensated for low yolk provision. Placental transport of calcium was independent of yolk calcium content and correlated positively with neonatal calcium content. This pattern of provision, in which placental sources determine neonatal content independent of egg content, has been described as facultative placentotrophy. A similar embryonic nutritional pattern was recognized previously in another predominantly lecithotrophic natricine snake.
30163819|We infused polyethylene glycol (PEG) into laboratory-housed song sparrows (Melospiza melodia) via intraperitoneally implanted osmotic minipumps. The plasma concentration of PEG was significantly higher at the end of the dark phase of the photoperiod than at the end of light, indicating a nighttime reduction in the rate of glomerular filtration (GFR, the route of PEG elimination). The rate of cloacal voiding of PEG also varied through the day. The rate was similar to the rate of PEG infusion from the minipump during most of the daylight hours. However, PEG excretion was signifcantly reduced during the dark phase and elevated during the first hours of light, a pattern that resulted from sequestering urine in the lower intestine during the night. To examine patterns of osmoregulation in the field, we also implanted minipumps into free-living sparrows. One to fiue days later we recaptured the birds and measured concentrations of PEG in plasma and urine. As in the laboratory, the GFR (and urine flow rate) tended to be lowest in the early morning and higher later in the day. This nocturnal reduction in GFR and cloacal voiding should contribute to minimizing water losses during the night.
30158617|Blinded, pinealectomized, or blinded and pinealectomized female channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) were placed with normal (unoperated on) control fish in outdoor tanks at constant temperature (21  2 C) or earthen ponds (ambient conditions) in February or August, when they were 21 or 27 mo old. Fish were sampled through the following reproductive season. The gonadosomatic index (GSI) and plasma estrogen concentration changed seasonally in 3-yr-old fish, but the changes were less marked or lacking in 2-yr-olds. The GSI levels of sexually mature (3 years old) fish peaked about a month earlier in the tanks than in the ponds; the estrogen peak for fish in the tanks was lower than that for pond fish. All experimental fish (both ages) in ponds delayed ovarian resorption for about 1 mo, compared with normal control fish. Exposure to constant 21 C water allowed earlier gonadal recrudescence. All groups of sexually mature fish that were surgically altered in August spawned during the following spring. Fish with eyes spawned earlier and had higher spawning percentages (control 68%, pinealectomized 75%) than did fish without eyes (blinded 50%, blinded and pinealectomized 56%). Neither the eyes nor the pineal is essential for spring gonadal maturation or for spawning in channel catfish, but one or both may have a role in timing these events. An annual internal oscillator that may be modified by environmental temperature is suggested as the primary control of reproductive cycling in the species. Light information obtained through the pineal, eyes, or both appears to affect the time of gonadal resorption.
30157896|Sand partridges and chukars (five each) were loaded orally with 4.5 ml 1.0 M NaCl/100 g body mass. During 2.25 h after loading, no individuals produced visible nasal salt secretion or tears; all five sand partridges produced anal excretion (mean fluid composition: 604 mOsm, 259 mmol Na, 260 mmol Cl/kg water), as did three of the chukars (678 mOsm, 368 mmol Na, 323 mmol Cl/kg water). Composition of anal fluid excreta suggests that the saline load caused a large increase in extracellular fluid osmolality, which should have elicited secretion if functional salt glands were present. Dissection of heads failed to show salt glands. Kidney masses were 22%-23% less than expected relative to body mass, which is also consistent with an absence of functional salt glands. It is concluded that sand partridges and chukars lack salt glands, and that other phasianid species are unlikely to possess them. This refutes a brief but widely quoted report of salt-gland secretion in sand partridges.
30158244|We investigated the reproductive energetics of two reed frogs, Hyperolius viridiflavus ommatostictus and Hyperolius marmoratus taeniatus. Rates of CO release of calling male H. viridiflavus ommatostictus reached values of 0.28-1.05 mL/g  h equivalent to an O consumption of 038-1.44 mL O/g  h. Mean estimated O consumption was 1.40 mL/g  h at an average call rate of 5,400 calls/h. The estimated net cost of calling was 33J/h for a 1.5g male. Lactate levels were higher after calling than after resting, but this was due to higher lactate concentrations in the limbs than in the rest of the body containing the trunk muscles used for calling. Thus, anaerobic metabolism does not contribute significantly to calling energetics. Assimilation efficiencies of juvenile H. marmoratus taeniatus and adult males and females of both species were 81.4% -87. 7%. The energy content of an average clutch was 3.73 kJ and 2.84 kJ for H. viridiflavus ommatostictus and H. marmoratus taeniatus, respectively. Net conversion efficiencies of females of both species measured directly as the actual proportion of energy invested in eggs were about 29% and are the first measurements of this kind in amphibians. Whole-body lipid content decreased significantly over the course of a simulated breeding season in male but not in female H. marmoratus taeniatus, suggesting that males may have difficulties replenishing fat stores while engaging in reproductive activity even under ad lib. feeding conditions.
30156055|Thoracic temperatures (
30159941|Oxygen consumption (
30163769|I conducted a field experiment to examine the use of body fat as an energy reserve by juvenile female Belding's ground squirrels, Spermophilus beldingi, prior to hibernation. Squirrels were divided into two groups: the squirrels in one group had their foraging times restricted by being placed in a cage for part of each day for four consecutive days (deprived group), and the squirrels in the other group foraged ad lib. (ad lib. group). The deprived group foraged in its normal habitat morning and evening but had access only to water and lettuce while captive. Total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC), an in vivo method of estimating fat-free mass, was used to follow changes in body composition. The deprived group lost mass, while the ad lib. group gained mass. Total body electrical conductivity measurements indicated that the deprived group lost fat-free mass and not fat, whereas mass gained by the ad lib. group was mostly fat. This is consistent with an emphasis on fat anabolism prior to hibernation. I also show that the TOBEC method is affected by variation in stomach contents, and I evaluate conditions under which an intraspecific calibration equation is needed
30158517|The effects of an acute reduction in temperature (from 17 to 8 C) on respiration and the uptake of benzo[a]pyrene, 2,2,5,5-tetrachlorobiphenyl, and naphthalene by the gills of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri Richardson) were investigated with a fish metabolic chamber. As the temperature was lowered, decreased respiratory functions coupled with decreased O and toxicant uptake efficiencies resulted in reduced O consumption and toxicant uptake. Changes in trout respiration had no consistent effect on either O or toxicant uptake efficiencies. Linear correlations were observed between O and toxicant uptake eficiencies and between O consumption and toxicant uptake. The reductions in O and toxicant uptake are attributed to the combined effects of temperature change on gill membrane permeability and on trout O demand. A framework for predicting changes in toxicant uptake on the basis of changes in O consumption is proposed based on quantitative relationships observed between O and toxicant uptake.
30156143|Egg temperatures, embryonic metabolism, and water loss from the eggs of two large surface-nesting and three small burrow-nesting Procellariiformes from high latitude were measured for comparison with tropical species of the order. Egg temperatures, measured using blown eggs of the respective species containing transmitters, averaged 32.0 C, slightly lower than that reported for most tropical Procellariiformes. However, the difference appears to be related to different methods used to measure egg temperature rather than to differences related to geographical distribution. Mean daily rates of water loss ranged from 1,062 mg day for the large wandering albatross to 117 mg day for the very much smaller Salvin's prion and were comparable to water loss rates from similarly sized eggs of tropical species. Embryonic oxygen consumption increased throughout incubation and prepipping levels ranged from 1,698 ml O day for wandering albatross to 221 ml O day for Salvin's prions, similar to that of tropical species with similarly sized eggs. However, total oxygen consumed by embryos over the entire incubation period was higher in high-latitude Procellariiformes than in their tropical counterparts as a result of elevated pip-to-hatch and hatchling oxygen consumptions. Elevated hatchling oxygen consumptions may be related to higher thermoregulatory demands of chicks of Procellariiformes reared at high latitudes.
30158524|Specific dynamic action (SDA) is defined as the increase in O consumption following the ingestion of a meal. This phenomenon has been observed for many years but is still not well understood. It has been suggested, however, that the metabolic cost associated with growth is the prime causative agent of SDA. The purpose of this study was to determine whether SDA could be artificially induced in the channel catfish by infusing an amino acid mixture directly into the bloodstream. The infusion of an essential amino acid (EAA) mixture equivalent to that in the protein of a standard ration (40 g kg) resulted in significant increases in O consumption and ammonia excretion. Plasma amino acid concentrations increased in accordance with O consumption and ammonia excretion rates. The infusion of a D-essential amino acid mixture did not cause a significant increase in O consumption or ammonia excretion. The increase in metabolism following EAA infusion was therefore not due to osmotic or physiological stress. The administration of the protein synthesis inhibitor cyclobeximide before the infusion of EAAs inhibited the increased O consumption rate characteristic of SDA. This offers further evidence of the relationship between SDA and protein synthesis.
30158245|The O consumption and CO production of embryonic snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) were measured during incubation on substrates differing in water potential. Embryos incubated on a substrate with a water potential of-150 kPa (relatively wet) consumed more O and produced more CO than embryos incubated on a substrate with a water potential of-850 kPa (relatively dry). However, the greater metabolic rate of embryos incubated on the wet substrate was entirely due to their larger size and does not represent an intensification of their metabolism. Nor did embryos incubated on the wet substrate convert yolk more efficiently compared with those incubated on the dry substrate. Incubation on the wet substrate did, however, enable embryos to follow the same growth trajectory longer than did embryos incubated on the dry substrate.
30161215|Under anaerobic conditions, the free-living nematode Panagrellus redivivus produces a range of acidic and neutral end products. The main acidic end product was lactate with lesser amounts of alanine, acetate, and propionate; the major neutral end product was ethanol with smaller amounts of glycerol and traces of acetoin. Apart from carbon dioxide, no other end products could be detected. During recovery from anaerobiosis, P. redivivus was found to be able to remetabolize the accumulated end products. The coproduction of ethanol and glycerol may provide a mechanism for reoxidizing mitochondrial NADH during anaerobiosis.
10.1086/515875|We studied tolerance for cold in hatchling painted turtles
30155801|Blood capillary and muscle fiber densities were measured in histological sections of heart and skeletal muscles of the fossorial mole rat (Spalax ehrenbergi) and compared with those of the white rat. Average capillary densities in the masseter, gastrocnemius, rectus abdominis, and heart of the mole rat are 860, 750, 300, and 2,340 per mm as compared with 490, 190, 190, and 1,420, respectively, in the white rat. The corresponding fiber densities are 680, 650, 540, and 3,430; and 510, 230, 280, and 2,280 per mm, respectively. The differences still exist when corrected for difference in body mass. Individual fiber area of the mole rat's muscles is one-half that of the rat. Erythrocyte diameter is 6.3 m for the mole rat and 7.0 m for the rat in accordance with the capillary diameter. The calculated tissue diffusion distance in the mole rat, 70% that of the rat, is regarded as an adaptation to fossoriality.
30155872|To determine the effects of abiotic thermal stresses on the eggs of white-crowned sparrows in two localities, we developed a general model of heat exchange by eggs in open-form ("cup") nests. Major routes of heat exchange are convective cooling and solar radiant heating. Metabolic heat production by the embryo and evaporation of water from the egg shell are not thermally important in outdoor environments. Equilibrium egg temperatures (an equivalent environmental temperature including the effects of convection and solar radiation when the parent is not on the nest) ranged from 10 to 45 C and were often at levels that would impede development. At a subalpine locality, the equilibrium egg temperature was always so low as to prevent development. At a montane locality at lower latitude, equilibrium egg temperatures were usually moderate but sometimes so high as to be lethal. Actual egg temperatures were rarely at equilibrium because the incubating female behaviorally compensated for low temperatures. Two types of compensation occurred. The female exploited transients in the thermal environment by scheduling her trips off the nest for times of relatively moderate temperature, and she exploited transients resulting from biophysical properties of the eggs by adjusting the length of her trips so as to prevent the eggs from cooling to very low temperatures. Trip length was significantly correlated with equilibrium egg temperature, as was the time of the trip during the day.
30164182|Studies on reptilian thermoregulation have been dominated by research on small diurnal lizards living in the temperate zone, in environments where thermoregulatory challenges are severe and the animals (i) consequently devote considerable time and effort to the maintenance of high stable body temperatures and (ii) are constrained in their times and places of activity by thermal factors. However, most reptiles live in the Tropics, in more thermally benign regions where the animal's ecology and behavior may be affected only trivially by thermoregulatory concerns. We present data on environmental temperatures and body temperatures of 26 radio-tracked water pythons (Liasis fuscus) in tropical Australia, to investigate the extent to which thermal considerations influence the day-to-day life of this species. Some effects are evident-for example, activity is reduced on cool nights, and gravid female pythons often bask in the few weeks prior to oviposition. Nonetheless, most pythons are able to maintain high and stable temperatures (approx. 30C) throughout the year without overt thermoregulatory activities, because (i) ambient temperatures are generally high, (ii) microhabitats with distinctive thermal characteristics are easily accessible, and (iii) the large body sizes of adult pythons confer a high degree of thermal inertia. Overall, there are few features of the ecology of this species that appear to be substantially influenced by thermoregulation. Before we can place thermoregulatory biology in its proper perspective, we will need considerably more data on the thermal biology of tropical reptiles.
30158577|Males of the amphipod crustacean Jassa falcata become physiologically sexually mature earlier than they become behaviorally mature. Although younger males (those without "thumbs" on their second pair of chelae) are fully fertile, they tend to remain in their own residential tubes. On the occasions when they are outside their tubes, they tend to evict receptive females from the latters' tubes and lose agonistic contests with "thumbed" males. In contrast, when males molt into their terminal stage (and acquire their "thumbs"), they tend to abandon their tubes to travel to receptive females and attend them closely until they copulate. They do not evict females. In addition, receptive females are less tolerant of the presence of a thumbless than a thumbed male. The data suggest, but do not establish, that the thumb functions as a label that permits females to distinguish males that intend to reproduce from other individuals. Thus, in the field, the majority of matings must be effected by thumbed males. Since thumbless males will continue to grow but thumbed males will not, it is hypothesized that the differences in their behavior are adaptations which maximize the formers' growth and the latters' reproductive success given a particularly harsh environment (a swift current that can dislodge animals outside their tubes). Maximizing growth is important, because larger thumbed males tend to win contests with smaller thumbed males for access to receptive females.
30155806|Ten soft-shelled turtles were heated and cooled in air and water (15, 35, 15 C). In water, all animals heated faster than they cooled. In still air, seven of nine animals tested cooled faster than they heated. Heart rates during warming exceeded heart rates during cooling at the same body temperature in air and water. Thermal time constants () were calculated in minutes, and regression formulas (with mass in kg) in water were
30163889|Is long-term sustained metabolic rate (SusMR) subject to a ceiling value? If so, what physiological or evolutionary factors impose that ceiling, and is the ceiling value independent of the type of energy stress? We determined food intake and daily digestible energy intake (DEI) as measures of SusMR, and resting metabolic rate (RMR), in mice that were energy stressed by being maintained at cold ambient temperatures. We compared these values with those from previous studies of mice that were energy stressed by peak lactation. We also measured intestinal brush-border nutrient uptakes, body lean and fat masses, and masses of the small intestine, heart, kidneys, and liver. Even with ad lib. quantities of a high-fat diet available, mice could not survive at temperatures below -15 C. Body mass declined at low temperatures because of depletion of body fat reserves. Food intake increased 2.5-fold, RMR 1.5-fold, and masses of the small intestine, heart, and kidneys by 30%-70% with a decrease in temperature from 23 C to -15 C. Intestinal hypertrophy served to restore the reserve capacity of intestinal nutrient transporters that would otherwise have been swamped by the increased food intake. The values reached by sustained metabolic scope (SusMR/RMR), food intake, and intestinal mass were still considerably below those of lactating mice, even though mice at temperatures below -15 C died in the presence of excess food. Thus, intestinal capacity was not the ultimate reason for an inability to survive at lower temperatures. Analysis of individual variation showed that those mice with unusually high food intake, DEI, or RMR tended to have unusually large hearts, kidneys, and intestines. Those organs are essentialfor high energy budgets (reflected in high DEIs), but they also incur large maintenance costs themselves (reflected in high RMRs).
30155847|Eleutherodactylus antillensis is a climbing frog that is widely distributed in grassy lowland habitats that often become dry between rainstorms. The closely related species E. coqui has an altitudinal range that extends from the same lowland sites occupied by E. antillensis to mountaintops that are almost continually wet. The frogs lose a substantial quantity of water by evaporation during activity on dry nights and can regain that water by absorption from the substrate of their daytime retreats. Lowland frogs of both species rehydrate more rapidly from aqueous solutions than highland E. coqui. When water uptake is expressed per cm of surface area, E. antillensis rehydrates more rapidly than E. coqui. This relationship probably represents differences in hormonal responses to dehydration. These responses are complex because the rate of water uptake is not related to solution water potential by a simple physical relationship. The small body sizes of E. antillensis and lowland E. coqui probably facilitate rehydration in natural habitats in which suitably moist substrates are limited in occurrence and area.
30155778|The effect of temperature acclimation on the concentration or activity of several proteins from whole epaxial muscle and from subsamples of oxidative and glycolytic fibers from goldfish, Carassius auratus, was measured. Activity of cytochrome oxidase was significantly higher and lactate dehydrogenase lower in muscle tissue of goldfish acclimated to 5 C compared with animals acclimated to 25 C. Markers of aerobic function, succinic dehydrogenase, and myoglobin increased with cold acclimation in both oxidative and glycolytic fibers but were greater in oxidative fibers. Myofibrillar ATPase activity increased significantly with cold acclimation in both classes of muscle fiber but more dramatically in glycolytic fibers. Based on concentrations of biochemical constituents, the proportion of oxidative fibers in epaxial muscle is greater in cold-acclimated goldfish than in those acclimated to warmer temperatures. Increases in both oxidative fiber proportion and myofibrillar ATPase activity of oxidative fibers may explain acclimatory compensation of locomotory performance at low to moderate swimming speeds. Compensation of myofibrillar ATPase activity of white fibers may underlie the homeokinetic nature of burst-speed performance.
30158525|The purpose of the study was to investigate the relationship between specific dynamic action (SDA) and the rate of protein synthesis following a simulated meal consisting of an essential amino acid infusion. After such an infusion, the O consumption rates of catfish approximately doubled, and the rate of protein synthesis in white muscle rose from 1.3 to 2.86 mg g d. After pretreatment with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, there was no significant SDA (defined as the increase in oxygen consumption) and the rate of protein synthesis fell to 0.34 mg g d. There was good agreement between the magnitude of the SDA observed, the magnitude of the increase in protein synthesis, and theoretical calculations of the expected metabolic costs of protein synthesis based on oxygen equivalents for ATP production and ATP requirements for protein formation. The results support the idea that SDA may be directly attributable to the cost of protein synthesis, and therefore to the metabolic cost of growth.
30156084|Chicks of fork-tailed storm-petrels (Oceanodroma furcata) are left unattended for several days following hatching. They achieve thermoregulatory ability at about 5 days of age and generally maintain body temperatures (
30164261|The locomotory and ventilatory activities and the intermediary and energy metabolism modifications of the hypogean amphipod Niphargus virei and the epigean isopod Asellus aquaticus were compared during severe hypoxia (<0.03 kPa) and subsequent recovery. The aims of this study were (1) to determine why the subterranean species displayed a greater tolerance of hypoxia than A. aquaticus and numerous other epigean crustaceans, (2) to confirm previous results obtained with the hypogean amphipod Niphargus rhenorhodanensis and the epigean amphipod Gammarus fossarum, (3) to provide an interspecific comparison of epigean species in order to see if responses showed by epigean amphipods during hypoxia and recovery can be extended to epigean isopods, and (4) to better understand the ecological problems of the hypogean organism's survival and perennation in subterranean habitats. Both organisms responded to long-term experimental severe hypoxia with classical anaerobic metabolism, characterized by a decrease in ATP and phosphagen, the use of glycogen and glutamate, and the accumulation of lactate (with some alanine). In addition, some accumulation of succinate was found in N. virei. Lactate (and succinate for N. virei) was also largely excreted by both amphipods, which is unusual for the crustacea in general Compared with A. aquaticus and most other epigean crustaceans, N. virei showed large amounts of stored glycogen and arginine phosphate. These differences in glycogen and phosphagen stores, and the ability to reduce glycolytic flux and energetic expenditures linked to locomotion and ventilation, extended the survival of hypogean crustaceans under experimental anaerobiosis (
30155971|Mean CO accumulation and O depletion in muskrat lodges in Manitoba increased five- to 10-fold between fall and winter, attaining maximum levels in February-March. Of 23 lodges examined in late winter, five had CO levels equal to or exceeding 3% (maximum 10%). Lodge CO level correlated with thermal gradient between nest chamber and external air but not with lodge wall thickness. Respiratory minute volume (
30155937|The volatilization of gaseous ammonia, NH, by terrestrial gastropods was examined in 11 shelled and four shell-less pulmonate species, and in one shelled prosobranch. All shelled species evolved gaseous NH at rates up to 29 moles NH/g live wt/day; and most rates were between 1.0 and 0.01 mole NH/g live wt/day. No slugs volatilized NH, but they did absorb up to 17.9 moles NH/g live wt/h from the atmosphere. The epidermal mucus of slugs appears to be responsible for absorption of NH. The role of NH in shell formation postulated by Campbell and Boyan in 1974 is supported by this study. I suggest that the NH-absorbing ability of slugs may function as a salvage mechanism for endogenous nitrogen.
10.1086/515919|This study examined daily and seasonal activity and thermoregulatory behaviour of the sleepy lizard,
30163783|The objective of the present study was to investigate putative interactions of reduced short chain fatty acid (SCFA) availability, induced by restricting food intake, with the absorption of electrolytes and water from the colons of two rodent species, the herbivorous Levant vole (Microtus guenteri) and an omnivorous laboratory mouse (Mus musculus). Following food restriction, cecal and colonic concentrations of acetate, propionate, and butyrate in the voles and mice were significantly reduced. Food restriction also reduced rates of water, SCFA, and sodium absorption from the perfused colon of the voles but had no effect on the mice. However, the exclusion of SCFAs from the perfusion solutions in the animals that were fed ad lib. decreased absorption rates of water and solutes in both voles and mice. Following food restriction, the exclusion of SCFAs had no effect on the absorption rates of water or of sodium in the voles, whereas in the laboratory mice, absorption rates of water and sodium decreased significantly. Ouabainsensitive ATPase activity in colon extracts of the food-restricted voles was 47% lower than that of the voles fed ad lib. In the mice, however, the change of the level of nutrition had no effect on the ouabain-sensitive ATPase activity. It is suggested that the capacity to adjust the rate of water absorption to the amount of fermentable substance in the intestine is of great advantage to a grazing herbivore that depends largely on the energy utilized by fermentation of cell-wall carbohydrates.
30158152|The molluscs are a diverse phylum with regard to the form and function of their cardiovascular systems. Recent work on the most advanced class, the Cephalopoda, has shown that regulation of ventricular stroke volume is of paramount importance in the delivery of oxygen to the tissues during exercise. Reviewing the literature indicates that, within the Mollusca, this might be a general strategy in the control of cardiac output. Studies on the isolated heart of the gastropod Busycon show how both intrinsic and extrinsic factors might achieve in vivo output regulation by controlling primarily the end diastolic volume. Again, the details of other studies that support this hypothesis are presented. Last in this paper, the effects of regulatory factors on the electrical activity of the isolated and working Busycon heart are considered in the context of what is known about the ionic bases of muscle excitability.
30156118|Neonatal lizards of the viviparous species Sceloporus jarrovi possess at birth a urinary bladder that contains a large amount (14% of body mass at birth) of very dilute (36 mosm/kg) urine. After birth, no additional urine is added to the bladder, and the fluid it contains declines in volume and increases in osmotic concentration as the bladder degenerates to the vestigial organ found in adults. Neonatal lizards can reabsorb the fluid in the bladder, and, under desiccating conditions, the reabsorbed fluid serves to maintain a constant plasma osmotic pressure (mean = 289 mosm/kg). However, after the bladder is empty, plasma osmolality increases to as high as 400 mosm/kg during dehydration. Lizards evaporatively lose water at a rate of 36 lday, but the reabsorption rate of water from the bladder is only 21 lday. Thus throughout the course of dehydration, the water content of the body (exclusive of the bladder) diminishes-but to a lesser extent when the bladder contains fluid than when it is empty. In neonatal lizards, the urinary bladder appears to be useful, as it is in amphibians, as an extrarenal osmoregulatory organ that can buffer body water compartments against osmotic perturbation.
30164191|Exchanges of calcium and other ions of biological significance in crustaceans take place between the hemolymph and environment across epithelial cell layers of the integument, gills, gut, and antennal glands (kidneys). During most of the life cycle these exchanges are modest and are largely osmoregulatory, but during periodic molting large movements of ions, particularly calcium, occur between the organism and its environment; these movements must be closely regulated in order for the animal to grow and strengthen its new exoskeleton. This article describes, for the first time, the brush border and basolateral epithelial calcium transport processes located in the hepatopancreas of the American lobster, Homarus americanus, and discusses their potential roles in calcium balance during the molt cycle. Three independent brush border membrane transport proteins control the uptake of calcium from the gastrointestinal lumen: (1) an amiloride-sensitive, electrogenic cation antiporter exchanging 1 Ca (or 2 Na) for a single intracellular monovalent cation (H or Na), (2) an amiloride-insensitive, probably electroneutral, cation antiporter exchanging 1 Ca for 2 Na (or 2 H), and (3) a verapamil- and amiloride-inhibited Ca channel. Likewise, the epithelial basolateral membrane of this digestive organ possesses three calcium transfer processes for cation exchange between cytoplasm and blood: (1) a Ca/Na antiporter of unknown stoichiometry but of relatively low apparent Ca binding affinity, (2) a high-afinity Ca-ATPase for cellular efflux, and (3) a verapamil-inhibited Ca channel for possible calcium uptake from the blood during premolt. The kinetic properties of these six hepatopancreatic transporters and their potential general distribution to other ion regulatory epithelia in crustaceans are discussed in this article.
30163877|We examine seasonal and interpopulational variation in field levels of corticosterone (B) in the lizard Uta stansburiana. Corticosterone is the primary reptilian glucocorticosteroid, and elevated levels of this hormone have been correlated with physiological stress under both field and laboratory conditions. Patterns of seasonal variation in plasma B were generally similar in males and females, with peaks coinciding with periods of peak reproductive activity (males) or peak reproductive condition (females). Levels of circulating B usually declined as the activity season progressed and were lowest in late summer, especially among males at desert sites-including our southernmost site, where lizards exhibited poor body condition as a result of drought. Variation in B levels among populations was probably attributable to variation in the timing of seasonal samples (e.g., in relation to peaks in reproductive activity). Apparently, these populations did not experience serious (i.e., debilitating) physiological stress, as the highest recorded levels were lower than those of captive-stressed U. stansburiana. This suggests that corticosterone levels simply parallel annual patterns of activity, especially reproduction. These findings agree with other studies that have indicated a positive, rather than a negative, association between glucocorticosteroid secretion and reproductive activity. These results also suggest that basal (baseline) levels of B in free-living animals may not be indicative of the degree of "stress."
30163832|Membrane potential (
30158628|In addition to an extracellular acidosis in which blood metabolic acid load greatly exceeded lactate load, exhaustive activity in starry flounder resulted in an intracellular acidosis of largely metabolic origin in the white muscle, with intracellular pH dropping from 7.56 to 7.27, as measured by DMO distribution. An accumulation of lactate and depletion of glycogen in addition to a shift of fluid from the extracellular to intracellular space were associated with the postexercise acidosis. Pyruvate levels increased in blood and later in muscle; the relative rise in pyruvate was greater than that in lactate so the lactate:pyruvate ratio declined. The muscle intracellular acidosis was corrected sooner than the extracellular acidosis (4-8 h vs. 8-12 h). The restoration of muscle pHi was associated with an increase in pyruvate, a restoration of glycogen stores, and clearance of the lactate load. It is suggested that both lactate and acidic equivalents (H) were cleared from the muscle via in situ oxidation and/or glyconeogenesis and that the rapid correction of the intracellular acidosis through efflux of part of the H load facilitated metabolic recovery. The liver showed a progressive alkalinization after exercise. This alkalinization was of metabolic origin and not associated with lactate accumulation. Except for a short-lived depression 0.5 h after exercise, red cell intracellular pH remained virtually constant.
30157888|The respiratory responses of the sea anemone Bunodosoma cavernata to declining oxygen tensions were measured polarographically. In general, the pattern of
30164246|The pattern of nitrogen excretion during different stages of anuran development has been well documented, but, unlike for teleost fish, very little is known about how water quality influences nitrogen metabolism and excretion. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of elevated environmental ammonia concentrations on ammonia and urea excretion and metabolism in premetamorphic and adult bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana). Tadpoles were exposed to 1 mmol/L NHCl for 48 h or 7 d, whereas adult bullfrogs were exposed to 1 and 5 mmol/L NHCI (at waterpH 8. 1 or 9.2) for 48 h. In both tadpoles and adult frogs, there was an initial period, lasting 24-48 h, in which the ammonia diffusion gradient was reversed (from water to animal) and ammonia was taken up by the animal. Ammonia excretion rates were eventually reestablished (days 2-3), despite continued exposure to elevated external ammonia levels. Subsequent to the inhibition of ammonia excretion, urea excretion rates increased in both tadpoles (100%-250%) and adult bullfrogs (65%-70%). The activity of the key regulatory enzyme in the ornithine-urea cycle, carbamoylphosphate synthetase I, was relatively low in tadpole liver tissue and was not induced precociously by ammonia exposure. Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I activity was comparatively high in adult bullfrogs but was not altered by external ammonia. Likewise, hepatic uricase, allantoinase, allantoicase, and glutamine synthetase activities were not affected by ammonia exposure in both tadpoles and adult bullfrogs. These findings indicate that both ammonotelic tadpoles and ureotelic adult bullfrogs respond to environmental ammonia by increasing the rate of urea excretion without increasing the activities of ureagenic enzymes.
30156040|Mitochondria were isolated from the liver of the desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis. The kinetics (
30152584|The mass of the wedge-tailed shearwater (PuJfinus pacificus chlororhychus) egg is approximately the same as that of the chicken (60 g), but the incubation period is more than twice as long (52 days vs. 21 days) and the water vapor conductance,
30158501|We measured field metabolic rates (FMR) of female Savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) during the incubation period for a resident population living in Baja California, Mexico. We used a single-sample variant of the doubly labeled water (DLW) method that did not require extended capture time for equilibration of isotopes and hence reduced stress. Simultaneously with the DL Wmeasurements, measurements of operative temperatures were made by means of taxidermic mounts. After calculating standard operative temperatures for each female that we injected, we partitioned FMR into maintenance metabolism (basal plus thermoregulatory costs) and the energy available for other activities such as foraging and providing heat to eggs. Carbon dioxide production averaged 128.9 12.2 mL CO/h, or 76.1 kJ/d, for incubating female sparrows (N = 16). Female mass averaged 18.71.0 g; all females lost mass during FMR measurement, with an average change of -2.6%. Values for maintenance metabolism ranged from 42.0% to 68.5% of FMR, averaging 55.1%. Though incubating females had FMRs similar to those of females feeding nestlings, their available foraging time was reduced by more than 50%. Because of this reduction in foraging time and added energy expenditure to warm eggs, we suggest that, during incubation, considerations of energy balance may be important to the female, whose mate provides little or no assistance.
30157879|Meadow jumping mice held under LD 12:12 are more prone to prepare for and enter hibernation than animals held under LD 15.33:8.67, regardless of the temperature. Also, rhythms in body weight and hibernating-nonhibernating activity were demonstrated under LD 12:12 but not under LD 15.33:8.67. Seven of 11 animals responded to clock-shifted, naturally decreasing daylengths by preparing for and entering hibernation during a simulated time span corresponding to animals in nature. Therefore, it appears that Zapus hudsonius uses a photoperiod cue for preparation and initiation of hibernating, in contrast to Z. princeps, which uses seed availability.
30163805|The cost of feather production,
30155950|In controlled laboratory conditions, oxygen uptake, rectal temperature, total and respiratory evaporative water loss, and respiratory frequencies in the slender mongoose (Herpestes sanguineus) were measured at ambient temperatures of 5, 10, 20, 26, 31, and 43 C. Except at 43 C the experimental runs were for more than 3 h. In other experiments, oxygen uptake, level of motor activity and intra-abdominal temperatures were recorded over 24-h duration. Within the thermal neutral zone (
30157900|Oxygen consumption of freshly captured little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus) was monitored throughout the day- and night-roosting periods. The laboratory protocol simulated average roost conditions. The bats were allowed to cluster together inside a metabolic chamber made from a wooden beam; ambient temperatures were changed every 90 min and mimicked normal circadian changes measured inside an actual roost. Based on measured rates of oxygen consumption and data from the literature, daily energy expenditure of M. lucifugus in mid to late pregnancy was 32.58 kJ bat day; energy costs during peak lactation were 49.11 kJ bat day, or 50.7% greater than the cost of late pregnancy. There was no indication of daily torpor in pregnant, lactating, or postlactating bats; body temperature was apparently between 34 and 39 C throughout the roosting periods.
10.1086/515896|The goal of this experiment was to determine whether the type of tight supplyanddemand relationship between cardiac output and metabolic demand for O
30163791|The ability of Gecarcoidea natalis to assimilate salts, nitrogen, energy, and fiber components from fallen leaves of Ficus macrophylla and Erythrina variegata was examined. Dry matter and energy assimilation coefficients were very similar (41% for dry matter and 46% for energy). Assimilation of N was 39%  12.15% and 49.2%  16.03% on diets of Ficus and Erythrina, respectively, and respective N retentions were approximately 1.5 and 4.2 mmol  kg  d. Neutral detergent-soluble materials were the main components of dry matter assimilation in both diets (assimilation coefcients of 42.7%  12.6% and 58.3%  9.3%, respectively). Hemicellulose in the leaves of Ficus was well assimilated (49.2%  10.2%) and was a major component of assimilated dry matter but was poorly assimilated from Erythrina leaves (14%  14.2%). A substantial ability to digest cellulose in both leaf types was evident (assimilation coefficients of 42.6%  9.7% and 37.7%  15.6%, respectively). Lignin assimilation was very low on leaves of Erythrina (8.7%  12.2%), and the high assimilation of lignin from leaves of Ficus (39.1%  11.9%) may have represented tannins. Assimilation of salts from the leaves was low for K (14% and 17% for Ficus and Erythrina, respectively), higher for Na (33.6% and 47.4%) and Ca (40.1% and 34.1%), and maximal for Mg (52.6% and 65.9%). The retention time measured on a diet of Erythrina was quite short (mean retention time of 11.6  5.42 h), indicating a fairly rapid passage of digesta.
30163905|Chicken eggs subjected to a sinusoidally varying input of heat from a brood patch experience sinusoidally varying egg temperatures. As the embryo matures, steady and transient egg temperatures become more uniform, declining about 0.8 C at the brood patch and increasing from 0. 4 to 0. 8 C in the more peripheral regions of the egg. The increasing homogeneity of egg temperature is reversed by killing the embryo. Steady resistance of the egg declines from 41.9 C W at the start of incubation to an average of 33.8 C W by the end and is independent of the period of variation of brood patch heat output. Capacitative reactance of the egg declines about 10% through incubation in concert with an average 10% mass loss by the egg. Capacitative reactance is strongly dependent on the period of the heat input, increasing from 27.8 C W at a period of 120 min to 151 C W at a period of 20 min. Thermal impedance declines roughly 12% throughout the incubation period, which is attributable in similar parts to increasing circulation within the egg and to the declining mass of the egg. The time constant for the warming of a contact-incubated egg declines from 13.1 min at the start of incubation to 11.4 min at the end. There is no evidence of hysteresis in the heating and cooling rates of the egg. The time constant for temperature change of a contact-incubated chicken egg is considerably shorter than that of an egg cooling in air. The importance of these results for understanding the energetics of intermittent incubation is discussed.
30158588|Effects of various combinations of photoperiod and temperature on testicular recrudescence and secretory activity of seminal vesicles was examined during the postspawning and preparatory periods of the reproductive cycle. Studies revealed that the catfish is a seasonal breeder and that the rate of testicular recrudescence shows a positive correlation with an increase in ambient photoperiod and temperature. Irrespective of the photoperiodic regime, testicular recrudescence in catfish, Heteropneustes fossilis, maintained at ambient temperature was not initiated until the water temperature reached ~20 C. A combination of long photoperiod (14L:10D) at 25 C produced significant testicular recrudescence and secretory activity of seminal vesicles. The response under 14L:10D at 30 C was not significantly higher than that in 14L:10D at 25 C. The optimum temperature for the initiation of spermatogenesis and secretory activity of the seminal vesicles appears to be ~25 C. Even under constant photothermal conditions (12L:12D, continuous light and continuous darkness), gonadal response occurred as a function of warm temperature; however, it is also presumed that the testicular cycle is also regulated in part by an endogenous circannual rhythm.
30158562|Cardiovascular facilitative movements (CFM) consist of lateral undulations which move rapidly along the body length independently of locomotion and characteristically in an anterior direction. The movements are observed in terrestrial and arboreal species of snakes during experimental hypotension in the laboratory or during climbing and assuming vertical postures in the wild. CFMs are not observed in aquatic snakes, which normally do not experience gravitational disturbance of the circulation. The CFM increases venous return to the heart and augments the ventricular output. Thus, CFMs are shown to increase both venous and arterial pressures and systemic arterial blood flow. Such hemodynamic "improvements" may persist for several minutes and are maintained by repeated bouts of the movements at strategic intervals. Respiratory and locomotory movements may also increase arterial pressures, but stereotyped CFMs are relatively more effective and presumably evolved specifically to assist the blood circulation.
30158171|Experimental and supporting data from the literature are presented which show that during incubation in many birds' eggs (1) some degree of shell thinning occurs, which in some species causes an increase in the water vapor conductance of the eggshell, and (2) egg temperature, and therefore the water vapor pressure inside the egg, increases. Either one of these factors will result in an increase in the rate of water loss. Thus, an increase in the rate of water loss during incubation is probably a common phenomenon in birds' eggs. Two distinct patterns of water loss are evident. The first is typical of nonpasserine precocial species, in which the rate of mass loss increases steadily, especially late in incubation. The second is found in small passerine eggs where the rate of mass loss increases over the first half of incubation and then remains relatively constant.
30161226|The mass and heat transfer coefficients were determined for the parchment-shelled eggs of 11 reptile species. The eggs experience high rates of water loss in atmospheres that are less than saturated with water vapor. The concomitant transfer of heat that occurs as water evaporates is sufficient to lower the temperature of the egg well below ambient temperature. The mass transfer coefficients vary from 71,102 mgdaymkpa for the smallest eggs (<1 g) to 55,789 mgdaymkpa for the largest eggs (>10 g). The water vapor conductance of the parchment-shelled eggs ranged from 483 mgday  kpa for the .32-g eggs of the lizard Eremias to 5,155 mgdaykpa for the 23-g eggs of the snake Spalerosophis. The egg conductances are two orders of magnitude greater than reported for bird eggs of similar mass and are composed of an eggshell conductance and an external film (boundary layer) conductance. The eggshell conductance and the external film conductance appear to be of similar magnitude; thus, for parchment-shelled eggs, the external film of gas surrounding the egg presents a quantitatively important resistance to water vapor exchange. Buried or partially buried eggs will have a water vapor conductance for the fraction of the shell that is buried which will not include the film conductance. The water vapor conductance of the fraction of the egg which is buried will thus be substantially greater than that of the unburied fraction. The convective heat transfer coefficients which we measured averaged 21.4 (SD 4.6) WmC. This value is appropriate for spherically shaped objects experiencing free convection. Heat loss caused by metabolic energy conversion inside the egg will have an important effect on the exchange of water vapor and heat by the egg.
30164230|The morphometrics of the respiratory system, voluntary emersion behaviour, and gas exchange during immersion and emersion were examined in the amphibious, intertidal crab Hemigrapsus nudus. The area of the gills
30162288|Male salmon (Salmo salar), 4 years old and weighing 500 g, were injected with 17--estradiol, 10 mg/kg body weight, once a week for 3 wk. Overall protein synthesis in liver and vitellogenin content in blood serum were determined and correlated with myosin synthesis in epaxial muscle. Translation activity in liver per mg of ribosomal RNA increased from 394.5  24.8 to 743.5  47.8 pmol leucine incorporated into protein. Immunoblotting of the incubated liver homogenates showed a protein containing vitellogenin antigen sites in the induced but not the control liver. The immunologically active band coincided with radioactivity seen on the autoradiograph. The vitellogenin content rose from 5 g/ml or less to 11.5  2.0 mg/ml of serum indicating a high vitellogenin synthesis in liver. In contrast, myosin associated with actively translating ribosomes of the epaxial muscle decreased from 0.223 to 0.054 mg/mg of DNA. The polyribosome distribution showed a similar trend of metabolic changes in both liver and epaxial muscle. The results indicate an efficient synthesis of vitellogenin in the liver during induction with 17--estradiol, while synthesis of the major contractile protein myosin heavy chain in epaxial muscle was decreased.
30158624|Eggs of bull snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus) were incubated at temperatures of 22.0, 27.0, and 32.0 C on substrates with water potentials of -150, -300, and -1,100 kPa using a 3 X 3 factorial design. The thermal and hydric environments affect fluxes in water between eggs and their surroundings during the course of incubation. Eggs incubated at low temperature (22.0 C) and on wet substrate (-150 kPa) gain the greatest amount of mass during incubation, while eggs incubated at high temperature (32.0 C) on dry substrate (-1100 kPa) lose the greatest amount of mass. The proportion of eggs that hatch is lower at the low temperature, while incubation at the high temperature results in a greater proportion of hatchlings with abnormalities. In general, eggs incubated at the intermediate temperature produce larger hatchlings than do eggs held at either low or high temperatures. While the hydric environment does not affect hatching success, eggs exposed to wet or moist hydric conditions give rise to larger hatchlings than do eggs exposed to dry conditions. Both temperature and water availability affect the composition of hatchlings.
30163779|Behavioral thermoregulation is well documented in insects; however, the physiological consequences of this behavior are poorly understood. In this study, we investigate thermal effects on feeding, digestion, and net energy intake for Melanoplus bivittatus, the two-striped grasshopper. In the field, M. bivittatus maintained body temperatures (
10.1086/515419|Numerous studies have demonstrated how the performance physiology of fish may change when they are acclimated to designated laboratory temperatures, but few researchers have examined naturally occurring seasonal effects on several physiological parameters associated with swimming performance. Using fieldacclimatized smallmouth buffalo (Ictiobus bubalus) collected each season, we report significant seasonal effects in the following variables: critical swimming speed (modified), metabolic rate (standard, active, and scope for activity), and swimming efficiency (total and net cost of transport). Underlying seasonal changes in performance was the reproductive cycle of buffalo, particularly the period of fall gonadal recrudescence. Compared with spring, fall buffalo had a significantly lower mean critical swimming speed (72%) and lower active metabolic rate (53%), even when tested at similar temperatures. During spring, buffalo had a high mean critical swimstandard ming speed and low net cost of transport in comparison with seaother seasons. Buffalo are known to participate in a spring migration and spawning that may require the increased performance and efficiency observed during that season. In addition, significant sex effects were detected in winter measurements of standard metabolic rate and net cost of transport, with females the more efficient swimmers,
30155846|Evaporative water loss rates are reported for the soft-shelled turtle Trionyx spiniferus at 15 C, 25 C, and 35 C. Area specific water loss rates per unit vapor pressure saturation deficit show no animal size dependence. Skin resistance to water loss also shows no animal size dependence. A method of calculation of skin resistance from water loss rate and temperature measurements is presented.
30152581|The mean body temperatures of the three species of Cnemidophorus were high both in the field and in the laboratory thermal gradient. Individual variation about the mean temperature was small, indicating precise thermoregulation, and the mean body temperatures (MBTs) were not significantly different for the three species. Mean body temperatures measured in the laboratory thermal gradient were slightly higher than temperatures recorded in the field. All three species displayed a similar posture when heating rapidly. The animals thermoregulated by shuttling between warm and cool areas, and this behavior resulted in sinelike fluctuations of body temperature (BT) with time. Sampling temperatures at 30-s intervals allowed analysis of short-term trends in BT and comparison of the characteristics of the sinelike curves for the three species. The average amplitude and period of the sinelike curves were compared for each species and were significantly different. The small amplitudes (less than 1.33 C) and short average periods (less than 4 min) are indicative of considerable thermoregulatory precision. The average heating and cooling rates were also computed and were found to be not significantly different, although the species were significantly different in size (both snout-vent length and weight). The parthenogenetic triploid C. uniparens was the most thermophilic, the most precise thermoregulator, and lived in the coldest habitat of the three species.
30158284|Urechis caupo inhabit U-shaped burrows in mudflats where they are exposed to toxic hydrogen sulfide. During tidal exposure sulfide levels average 27M and oxygen levels average 77 mmHg. The oxygen consumption rate (
30158598|Mink fitted with subcutaneous telemetry transmitters showed a rapid bradycardia on voluntary or involuntary submersion; heart rate fell abruptly by 86% in the latter case. Water flow through the trachea and nares during lung deflation produced a rapid, but less profound, bradycardia in mink treated with urethane and gallamine. Neither of these stimuli presented alone was as effective in reducing cardiac frequency; water flow produced a smaller transient bradycardia, while lung deflation produced a slowly developing bradycardia. These findings suggest that in the mink, as in the cat, lung deflation serves to "gate" the impingement of potential cardiac depressor stimuli such as those from upper airway receptors on cardiac vagal motor neurones, while itself biasing the heart toward bradycardia. The influence of the peripheral chemoreceptors on bradycardia in mink was ambiguous: hyperoxic, urethane-anesthetized mink showed no alleviation of diving bradycardia compared to normoxic controls, but hyperoxia partially alleviated the slowly developing bradycardia associated with lung deflation after treatment with gallamine-suggesting an influence from the peripheral chemoreceptors. In mink fitted with arterial-venous (A-V) loops, PaO was higher at the end of those 30-s asphyxic periods in which the onset of bradycardia was rapid. The adaptive significance of the rapid onset of bradycardia during voluntary head submersion may be that the prompt cardiovascular adjustments serve to maintain PaO during short periods of asphyxia in this unspecialized diver.
30163747|Harp seal (Phoca groenlandica) pups were studied during a 32-d postweaning fast. Body weight was reduced to 69%  0.8% (standard error of the mean [SEM]) of initial value during this period. The plasma level of glucose remained stable at 10.2  0.3 (SEM) mM, while blood -hydroxybutyrate and plasma free fatty acids (FFAs) increased by factors of 27 and 2.1 from initial levels of 0.06  0.01 (SEM) mM and 1.44  0.17 (SEM) mM, respectively. Repeated bolus injections of
30155990|The metabolic responses to graded levels of exercise were determined for three species of anuran amphibians (Bufo americanus, Hyla crucifer, and Rana sylvatica). Both oxygen consumption (
30156101|Thermoregulation during swimming and resting in water was investigated for the North American mink (Mustela vision, Schreber) in summer and winter pelage by measuring total heat production, heat storage, and minimum thermal conductance. Swimming activity over the range of 0.13-0.60 ms resulted in heat losses that exceeded metabolic heat production within 5 min of immersion. This imbalance, manifested as a decline in core body temperature (core
30159988|Photosensitive ovariectomized starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were transferred from short days (8L:16D) to long days (13L:11D) or to very long days (18L:6D). In birds transferred to 18L:6D, plasma LH levels decreased from maximal to minimal levels by 6 wk as photorefractoriness developed. In birds transferred to 13L:11D, the onset of photorefractoriness was slower, and LH reached minimal levels by 12 wk. Both groups of birds molted; those on 18L:6D began 7 wk after transfer from 8L: 16D, and those on 13L:11D began after 12 wk. Once molt had begun, it progressed at the same rate in both groups. After 24 wk, the birds on 18L:6D were subdivided into three groups; one was transferred to 8L:16D, another to 13L:11D, and the third was kept on 18L:6D. The birds on 13L:11D were also subdivided after 24 wk; one group was transferred to 18L:6D, another 8L:16D, and the third was kept on 13L:11D. In those birds transferred to 8L:16D, whether from 18L:6D or 13L:11D, plasma LH increased from minimal to maximal levels between 4 and 6 wk later, as photorefractoriness was terminated. In all other groups, plasma LH remained at minimal levels for the next 18 wk, indicating that 13L:11D is not perceived as a short day after exposure to 18L:6D. In those birds transferred from 13L:11D to 18L:6D, a second molt began 4 wk after transfer. These results provide further evidence that, in birds which become absolutely refractory, the overriding effect of long days is to switch the reproductive system off, while short days switch it on, and they also demonstrate that critical daylength does not change during exposure to long days. This is discussed in relation to birds whose breeding season is not terminated by absolute photorefractoriness.
30164249|The tilapia Oreochromis alcalicus grahami is a unique ureotelic teleost, the only fish that lives in the alkaline hotsprings of Lake Magadi, Kenya. Physical conditions and fish behavior were monitored in the Fish Springs Lagoon area, a site where the tilapia were particularly abundant. Water Po and temperature fluctuated more or less in parallel in a diurnal cycle from less than 20 Torr and less than 25 C at night to greater than 40 Torr and 38 C during the day, whereas pH remained constant at approximately 9.8. Field laboratory tests demonstrated that routine
30163799|Resting metabolic rates (RMR) and respiratory quotients (RQ) were measured in seven gray seals, Halichoerus grypus (three adults and four juveniles), at different times of day. Resting metabolic rates did not change significantly throughout the day. The lack of detectable diel changes in RMR may be attributed to the large body mass of the animals or to limitations of the experimental design. Respiratory quotient values differed significantly with time of day, being higher in the morning compared with other time periods. Further analysis indicated that apparent changes in RQ could be attributed to the confounding effect related to duration of food deprivation. Once corrected for this effect, RQ did not change in relation to time of day. The latter result suggests that gray seals may enter a starvation state after 24 h of food deprivation.
30156175|Proximate constraints on the energetics of desert lizards and turtles fall into four major categories: (1) absolute resource availability; (2) harvest rate limitations; (3) process rate limitations; and (4) limitation on harvest or processing resources imposed by risk of predation. Patterns of basking behavior and allocation of resources to reproduction and growth of turtles at high latitudes suggest that ambient air and marsh temperatures combine to regulate the timing and rates of energy processing and allocation. Because reptile eggs contain all of the chemical energy available to developing embryos, interactions between the level of parental investment in each offspring and egg size must, by definition, occur. That portion of the egg material that is invested in the egg but functions as parental care of the hatchling after it leaves the egg functions primarily to affect hatchling quality rather than hatchling size. Therefore, with regard to many reptiles, optimal egg-size models would be more aptly considered to be optimal offspring-quality models.
30156047|Thermoregulatory capacities of newly hatched and developing capercaillie chicks (Tetrao urogallus) were studied. Metabolic rate and body temperature measurements were conducted at ambient temperatures (
30163943|The circadian pacemakers controlling rhythms of wheel-running activity of male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) from two breeding colonies responded differently to single and repeated light pulses as well as to various constant light intensities. These differences were examined further (1) to test the principal features of Pittendrigh and Daan's entrainment model and (2) to test whether the differences were of genetic origin or determined by preexperimental conditions. In accordance with the "discrete entrainment" model, the circadian rhythms were entrained by light-dark cycles consisting of repetitive short light pulses when each pulse fell at that phase of the rhythm which is characterized by a response that equals the difference between the period of the rhythm () and that of the entraining light cycle (Zeitgeber). According to this implication, the different amplitudes of the phase response curves (PRC), derived from effects of single pulses, in the two stocks of hamsters were correlated with different ranges of entrainment of the activity rhythms by repeated light pulses of the same intensity and duration. The differences observed in hamsters of the two stocks were not genetically determined but could be interpreted as being based on different physiological states of the circadian pacemaker system associated with different phase relations between two coupled oscillators.
30164270|Insects overwinter in subfreezing environments by seeking thermal refugia and using physiological strategies of freeze tolerance or freeze resistance. We describe hibernacula locations, thermal conditions, and freeze resistance by supercooling for yellowjacket queens, Vespula vulgaris, and adult green stinkbugs, Elasmostethus interstinctus, overwintering in interior Alaska. Insects were located in leaf litter in open forest understory during mid-September. Yellowjackets were found hanging by their mandibles underneath leaves, while stinkbugs were found scattered in the duff Both V. vulgaris and E. interstinctus were freeze intolerant, killed by slow cooling to an exotherm, when tested after acclimation to O C or after natural winter acclimatization. Hibernating insects collected in early fall supercooled to between -9 and- 10 C; crystallization temperatures (supercooling points) decreased to -16. 4  1.7 C for V. vulgaris and - 16.9  0.7 C for E. interstinctus collected from the litter in spring. Two weeks of treatment at O C in fall was suficient to lower crystallization temperatures in V. vulgaris to spring levels. When cooled while in contact with snow, insect supercooling capacity was substantially compromised, which suggests that dry conditions, posture, and position of queens are important for winter survival Insect hibernacula were insulated from winter air temperatures (averaging- 19.4 C, with extremes of -40C) by the overlaying duff and 60 cm of snow. Thermal conditions measured next to overwintering V. vulgaris averaged -6.5 + 1.8 C and cooled no further than -13.3 C, which suggests that winter mortality due to freezing of supercooled insects is rare.
30156174|Physiological and biophysical processes interact with a suite of environmental factors to produce important patterns in the population ecology of terrestrial vertebrate ectotherms. We develop a mechanistic approach to understanding the relative contributions of these interactions. Our approach requires a distinction between a life history and a life-history phenotype and allows the incorporation of system-specific trade-offs and constraints in a manner that facilitates the generation of testable predictions for specific populations or sets of populations. We define operant sources of selection and the effects of these averaged over the lifetime of individuals exposed to different environmental factors (available foraging microhabitats, mate availability, preferred egg sites), and synthesize a probabilitistic definition of a life history. We apply this approach to understanding geographic variation in several life-history characters in the saxicolous, iguanid lizard Sceloporus merriami.
30163795|Absorption of
30158447|Pulmonary shunts in seals and sea lions were determined before and during dives to simulated depths up to 100 m. Five young harbor seals weighing 36-50 kg and two young sea lions weighing 21-40 kg were dived in a compression chamber. Before and during the dives, blood samples were obtained from the aorta and usually the pulmonary artery. Arterial O, and CO tensions, hemoglobin concentration, and venous O contents were determined. From these data the physiological pulmonary shunt of the lung could be calculated. These shunts ranged from 8.4% at the surface to a pulmonary shunt due to compression of over 70% during a dive to 100 m. As discussed, structure of the terminal airways might be expected to affect the rate that alveoli would compress and develop shunts. However, we conclude that at pressures of less than 8 atm (equivalent to 70-m depth) there is not a marked difference in the degree of compression shunt between sea lions and harbor seals even though there are striking differences in terminal airway anatomy.
30166351|Muscle fibers were isolated from myotomes of the Atlantic cod atpoints 0.35 and 0.90 of the distance from the snout to the caudalpeduncle (
30158556|Emperor penguins (Aptenodytes forster), elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris), and sperm whales (Physeter catodon) have been shown to dive to considerable depths (265 m, 1,500 m, and 1, 140 m, respectively). These animals must cope with extreme changes in hydrostatic pressure as they dive. The effects of hydrostatic pressure on the Michaelis-Menten constant,
30156145|Gopherus polyphemus is a terrestrial and fossorial tortoise that spends extended periods in burrows where the CO concentrations may reach 6%-7% and O may fall to 12%. Terrapene carolina is a terrestrial turtle that is sympatric with the gopher tortoise but is not fossorial. The standard metabolic rates (SMR) of the two species are similar when the data are adjusted for differences in body size. The critical oxygen tension (
30155991|Individual Calyptogena magnifica are able to regulate their oxygen consumption rates down to low partial pressures of oxygen. Their rates of oxygen consumption are comparable to those of active shallow-living bivalves at comparable temperatures. Rates of carbon dioxide production relative to oxygen consumption in the absence of sulfide indicate a predominately heterotrophic metabolism. Calyptogena magnifica individuals do not show significant uptake of methane so this is unlikely to be an important external metabolite for these clams. Sulfide levels in the blood and gills of freshly recovered clams were high (up to 1.9 mM) and were generally in excess of estimated environmental sulfide levels (<0.2 mM). Sulfur-metabolizing ability (measured as ATP sulfurylase activity) of the gill tissue including endosymbiotic bacteria was substantial and variable, suggesting microhabitat variation. Blood serum separated from erythrocytic Hb showed marked sulfide accumulation and may function for sulfide transport as well as to protect the sulfide-sensitive hemoglobin by binding free sulfide. The hypothesis that C. magnifica may take up sulfide through the foot (which is extended into the vent water in the rock fissures) and transport it to the bacteria in the gills via the sulfide-binding component in the blood serum while simultaneously taking up oxygen and carbon dioxide through the siphon (which is extended upward into the ambient bottom water) is explored.
30155811|Gas samples were taken from the nest chambers of bank swallows (Riparia riparia) and analyzed for CO and O content. The mean CO content was 2.62% with a maximum value of 5.58%, and the mean O content was 17.83% with a minimum value of 14.61%. There was a positive and significant correlation of increasing CO content with both increasing nestling age and increasing total metabolizing mass (adults plus young). With increasing metabolizing mass there is a linear increase in CO content, which suggests no active regulation of gas concentrations. Burrow depth also affected CO, particularly in burrows with older nestlings. The effect of depth is most likely due to the relative importance of convective exchange rather than to diffusion. The increase in CO was proportional to the decrease in O with a ratio of CO:O equal to 0.86.
30156096|This study evaluated the relations between eggshell conductance to water vapor (
30152543|In Trichopsis vittatus, two independent bilateral muscles inserting on separate suprabranchial organs displace these organs and set the air-filled suprabranchial cavities surrounding each organ into vibration to produce the characteristic croaking sound. Histological examination shows the fibers of the sonic muscles to be about one-third the diameter of dorsal body wall muscle fibers. Severing one of the bilateral muscles results in the elimination of alternate tone bursts in sounds recorded afterward. Similarly, puncturing one of the suprabranchial cavities results in sounds in which alternate tone bursts have a drastically reduced intensity. These results indicate that the pulses of sound in each tone burst are produced by a series of contractions of one bilateral muscle and that this series of contractions alternates with a series of contractions produced by the bilateral muscle on the other side. The swim bladder, in turn, amplifies the sounds produced by both suprabranchial cavities. Filling the swim bladder with water results in sounds in which all tone bursts have a reduced intensity. The posterior air-filled body cavity, on the other hand, does not play a significant role in sound production.
30156222|Many physiologically important adjustments of metabolic activities are achieved by modifying the assembly states of proteins. These assembly-state changes involve the reversible aggregation of the subunits of multi-subunit proteins and the reversible binding of enzymes to other enzymes or to structural components of cells (compartmentation). Adaptive shifts in protein assembly states are key elements in both rapid metabolic adjustments, such as those occurring in transitions from slow to rapid muscular activity, and longer-term metabolic changes, such as those associated with different types of dormancy. Changes in subunit assembly state allow sharp "on-off" regulation of enzymes, as manifested in the regulation of phosphofructokinase (PFK) and trehalase activities by transitions in pH. Changes in the aggregation states of multiprotein complexes alter the proximity of the several enzymes composing apathway, thereby altering the eiciency of metabolite transfer among enzymes of the sequence. Aggregation also may facilitate interaction between enzymes that generate a metabolite, for example, ATP, with other enzymes using this metabolite. The binding of glycolytic enzymes to the myofibrillar apparatus is a case in point. The enhancement of metabolic regulatory mechanisms made possible by these reversible changes in protein assembly is likely the selective advantage fostering the evolution of multiple protein-binding domains in many eukaryotic enzymes. A deeper understanding of multiprotein complexes, then, will not only advance knowledge of metabolic regulation, but in addition will help explain the evolutionary development oflarge, complex, and often highly conserved protein structures From an experimental standpoint, the differences in catalytic performance observed between a purified enzyme studied in a simple reaction mixture versus the same enzyme analyzed in a milieu that includes the otherproteins with which it interacts, and the modulators that regulate these protein-protein interactions, can be dramatic. This observation highlights the need for conducting enzymatic studies under conditions that simulate as closely aspossible the intracellular state.
30157874|Metabolism, body temperature (
30156171|Studies of the biophysical and molecular adaptations of turtles, fish, and salamanders in stressed habitats have allowed us to determine various aspects of their fundamental physiological niches. Mathematical modeling of the climate requirements of Trachemys scripta and field studies at the Savannah River Plant indicate that thermal conditions and diet quality affect the behavior and bioenergetics of this turtle, and ultimately its life-history pattern. Mathematical modeling and laboratory and field studies indicate that the thermoregulatory behavior of largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides, interacts with competition and predation to affect the population dynamics of this fish. Experiments on whole-animal thermal tolerance and heat-shock proteins of two salamander species indicate that differences in the microhabitat selection and geographic ranges of Eurycea bislineata and Desmognathus ochrophaeus are related to differences in their thermal biology.
30163824|A widely cited yet unproven function for anuran vocal sacs is that of cavity resonance and call tuning during vocalization. Because resonant frequency is influenced by the speed of sound within the cavity, we replaced a substantial proportion of the air in the anuran vocal tract with heliox (80% He/20% O), a medium in which the speed of sound is approximately 75% faster than in a normal atmosphere. Such a manipulation will increase energy in higher call frequencies, provided that cavity resonance is present. In a heliox atmosphere, no consistent or predictable change in the frequency distribution of sound energy was observed in the advertisement calls of two hylids and one leptodactylid or in the release call of a bufonid. Therefore, the call characteristics of the anurans in this study do not arise from cavity resonance in the vocal sac or other supralaryngeal structures. The anuran vocal sac may have a variety of acoustic and nonacoustic functions, but that of cavity resonator can now be excluded in the species examined here and is unlikely to be found in other anurans.
30156228|Metabolic rates of gravid females of the viviparous lizard Sceloporus jarrovi are higher than those of nonreproductive lizards: the allometric relationship between oxygen consumption and body mass in gravid females (
30158247|Seasonal changes in water turnover rates were determined in free-living Brandt's voles of arid steppes by using the isotopically labeled water method. The water flux of laboratory-maintained Brandt's voles was also measured. Voles remained in water balance (influx = efflux) in all seasons. Water influx of free-living voles was lowest during April (180 mL  kg  d) and highest during June and August (270 mL  kg  d and 250 mL  kg  d, respectively). The pattern of seasonal changes of water turnover rates of free-living Brandt's voles was similar to that of other herbivores. Water influx during October (217 mL  kg  d) was higher than that during April Food-foraging and burrow-digging activity are suggested as reasons for this increase. Also, the months of March and April may be the water-stressed period.
30163734|We studied locomotion of field-caught golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus saturatus) on a motorized treadmill that was incorporated into a respirometry system. The animals shifted gaits, from walking to trotting, at about 0.8 m/s and from trotting to galloping at 1.2 m/s; they ran as fast as 3 m/s (10.8 km/h) on our treadmill. Because we were able to determine oxygen consumption instantaneously, we observed rates of energy expenditure that accompany brief bouts of locomotion at speeds higher than those of previous studies. The slope of equations describing oxygen consumption (
30157938|Jump performance in the frog Limnodynastes tasmaniensis was measured over body temperature range (
30164278|Oxygen stores available for aerobic diving were studied in the freshwater turtle (Mauremys caspica leprosa) at three constant body temperatures (15, 25, and 35C) and during the thermal transient (30- 15C) induced by immersion in cold water. The term "aerobic dive limit" has been defined as the maximal duration of the dive before lactate increases. This increase occurs when a critical PO value is reached, and it is well characterized at lung level by a sharp increase in the lung apnoeic respiratory quotient. Kinetic analysis of lung gas composition during forced dives at fixed body temperature shows that critical PO values rise with temperature and that the postventilatory PO at the beginning of a dive decreases, so that the two temperature-dependent factors lead to a significant decrease with temperature in the lung O stores available for aerobic diving. During dives with transient body cooling, a natural condition in M. caspica leprosa, temperature equilibration occurs fast enough to expand aerobic scope by bearing the critical PO to the same value obtained at a fixed temperature of 15C. These dives are characterized by reversed CO transport (from lung to tissues) and therefore by negative values of the lung respiratory quotient; a decrease in temperature increases CO capacitance of tissues, resulting in a fall in PCO2 at constant CO content. Because this does not occur in the gas phase, PCO2 difference can lead to diffusion in the direction opposite from normal. This pattern may favour lung-to-tissue O transfer, through the Bohr effect. Therefore, the aerobic dive limit is reduced at high temperature not only through a metabolic rate effect but also through a marked decrease in the available O stores; fast body cooling (30- 15C) associated with immersion in cold water extends the O stores available for aerobic diving to a level similar to that of immersions at constant body temperatures that are in equilibrium with water temperature.
30164290|Whole-organism oxygen uptake rate and its temperature sensitivity (determined using regression analyses and estimates of
30152549|Aquatic newts (Notophthalmus viridescens) are able to adapt to terrestrial environments in nature. In this study aquatic newts were made to adapt to a simulated terrestrial environment of moist paper towels. Along with the typical morphological changes of tail fin loss and change of the skin from smooth and mucous to rough and dry, a variety of physiological adaptations were observed. When dehydrated in a stream of dry air, aquatic newts lost motor control (the ability to right themselves) after a water loss of only 22% of body weight. Aquatic newts adapted to a simulated terrestrial environment ("terrestrial" newts) maintained motor control until a water loss of 30% of body weight occurred. During rehydration, dehydrated terrestrial newts regained water five times as fast as dehydrated aquatic newts. Terrestrial newts showed a slightly greater dehydration rate than did the aquatic newts. Both aquatic and terrestrial newts could maintain themselves in sodium and chloride balance in a 1 mM NaCl solution, however, the terrestrial newts doubled their unidirectional sodium uptake and loss rates to maintain their sodium balance. In water, aquatic newts excreted 26% of their nitrogenous wastes as NH and 74% as urea, whereas terrestrial newts acutely returned to water excreted 90% of their nitrogen as urea. Associated with increased blood-urea levels, terrestrial newts showed a 30 X increase in liver arginase activity.
30155678|Standard levels of oxygen consumption and oxygen consumption and lactate production during and after burst activity were measured in the iguanid lizard Sceloporus occidentalis. The activity capacity of this animal is restricted; it sustains vigorous movement for only 1-2 min. The contribution of aerobic metabolism to that activity is strongly thermally dependent. Maximal levels of oxygen consumption are achieved during activity at 30-40 C. At lower temperatures, significant lags occur in oxygen uptake, which appear to result from restricted ventilation. The maximum aerobic increase above resting levels occurs at 35 C, preferred body temperature of this species. Repayment of the initial stages of oxygen debt is also most rapid at 35 C. Lactic acid concentration reaches high levels during activity, and its formation is greatest at 30 C. Anaerobic metabolism represents 62%-82% of the energy utilized during burst activity, accounting for nearly all of the carbohydrate catabolized. The combination of energy utilization in both aerobic and anaerobic modes gives Sceloporus its highest activity capacity at 30-35 C, the range of body temperatures normally experienced diurnally by this species throughout the year.
30158255|Total mass-specific cutaneous surface area was determined for three species of freshwater turtles: Trionyx spiniferus, Sternotherus odoratus, and Kinosternon subrubrum. Similarly sized individuals of the three species exhibited high, intermediate, and low values of cutaneous surface area, respectively. Respiratory gas exchange in both air and water was measured in unrestrained individuals of each species. Because the T. spiniferus used in these experiments were on the average over an order of magnitude heavier than the S. odoratus, these two species had similar mass-specific cutaneous surface areas, whereas both had considerably higher values than K. subrubrum. All species were bimodal breathers, exchanging gases with both air and water. The percent aquatic
10.1086/515955|Adult penguins and their chicks differ considerably in their apparent body insulation. The chicks are covered in down, whereas the adults have the short, hard body feathers characteristic of the family, so mechanisms of heat loss may vary considerably between the two groups. We examined radiative heat loss by measuring body surface temperatures of gentoo penguins
30158549|Golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus lateralis) are herbivores that hibernate during winter. A physiological limitation on hibernation may be the melting point of stored fat, since lipids must be fluid to be metabolizable and the body temperatures maintained during torpor are often 25 C below the melting point of mammalian fats. Previous analyses of depot fats from hibernating squirrel species revealed that they contained large amounts of polyunsaturated fatty acids, which greatly reduced the melting points of these lipids. Because polyunsaturated fatty acids cannot be synthesized by mammals but are commonly produced by plants, it was predicted that high dietary levels of polyunsaturates were required for proper hibernation. This hypothesis was tested in laboratory feeding and hibernation experiments involving captive S. lateralis maintained on diets of different polyunsaturate contents. Squirrels fed a high polyunsaturate diet (1) were more likely to hibernate, (2) had lower mortality during hibernation, and (3) defended lower body temperatures during torpor than those squirrels fed diets with lower concentrations of polyunsaturates. These results demonstrate that the ability of ground squirrels to hibernate depends on dietary polyunsaturate content.
30158557|In reptiles, large body size has been considered a great-if not essential-asset for herbivory. However, in a herbivorous freshwater turtle, Pseudemys nelsoni, 12-g hatchlings had significantly better digestive performance than did 3,000-g adults. On a diet of duckweed (Spirodela polyrhiza), hatchlings processed nearly four times as much food on a mass-specific basis than did adults while maintaining equivalent digestibilities as adults. Hatchlings gained more than four times the amount of energy and nitrogen daily on a mass-specific basis that adults gained. On a diet of hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata), hatchlings fed selectively, ingesting a diet significantly higher in energy and nitrogen and significantly lower in lignin than the diet of adults. Small bite size of small herbivorous reptiles is a mechanism that enables them to meet higher mass-specific nutrient requirements by improving both the physical structure and-through selective feeding-the nutrient quality of the diet.
30158261|We compared digestive tract structure and function in house wrens (Troglodytes aedon) feeding on crickets at two intake levels (5. 18 g/d and 2.42 g/d). We increased the birds' intake through a combination of lowered air temperature and forced exercise. Apparent metabolizable energy coefcient (1-(energy excreted/energy ingested)) was. 771 in high-intake birds adapted to-9C and 4 h exercise/d and. 716 in low-intake unexercised birds at 24C (P = 0.016). Smallintestine length was 21% greater in the high-intake birds than in low-intake birds (11.4 cm us. 9.4 cm, P < 0. 001). Stomach size, mouth-to-cloaca digesta retention time of aqueous digesta, and intestinal absorption of .-proline/cm did not vary between groups. A simple digestion model from chemical reactor theory is used to analyze these results and to deduce that an additional important adjustment was an increase in digesta retention time in the absorptive region of the gut, the small intestine. This would explain the observed increased digestive efciency in the high-intake birds. The near-maximal rate of intake and digestion that we measured was among the highest ever recorded for a passerine. It exceeded by about 50% the field metabolic rate of parents during the reproductive season. Therefore, we reject the hypothesis that rate of digestion limits reproductive effort in house wrens.
30163928|Chitobiase (N-acetyl--D-glucosaminidase) activity has been measured and partially characterized in Daphnia magna. The pH optimum is approximately 5.5, and the temperature optimum is approximately 45dg-5 dgC, as determined from crude extract. The enzyme remains stable even after a 2-h incubation at 20 or 40C. The
30156156|Naturally incubated emu eggs lost only 10% of their initial mass over their 54.5-day incubation period. This low rate of water loss was largely due to emu eggs having a conductance to water vapor that was 65% of that predicted for eggs of identical mass and incubation period. Temperatures of naturally incubated artificial eggs rose steadily from 32 to 34 C over the first 10 days of incubation, remained at 34 C for the next 15 days, then rose gradually to 36 C by day 35 and remained at that temperature until hatching time. The thermal sensitivity of embryonic oxygen consumption was inversely related to both embryo age and egg temperature. Because eggs laid after the start of incubation experience warmer initial incubation temperatures, late additions should grow more rapidly than other embryos in the clutch. We have estimated that eggs added 3, 6, and 9 days after the initiation of incubation will require 1, 2, and 3 days less, respectively, to reach the plateau of the ratite growth curve. Consequently, the pattern of rising incubation temperatures should facilitate hatching synchronization for all members of the clutch.
30158183|Taxonomic and allometric differences in blood parameters were studied in 206 species of mammals. Interspecific tests using the standard cross-species method and recently developed comparative methods that control for phylogenetic effects due to nonindependence of species emphasized the need for correct analytical methods. Contrary to previous studies, this study found that body mass was a signifcant predictor of blood parameters among mammals; body mass was positively and significantly correlated with red-cell volume and cell hemoglobin content and negatively correlated with red-cell count, platelet count, and percentage reticulocytes. Red-cell count and cell size were inversely correlated, such that hemoglobin levels tended to be relatively constant across species. Furthermore, this work suggests that, within species, high hemoglobin levels are maintained through high cell count rather than through large cell volume. The hypothesis is suggested that small cell size in mammals evolved as a means of facilitating rapid increase in blood hemoglobin through facultative increase in total erythrocyte number, possibly via splenic contraction, without the risk of reaching critical levels of viscosity.
10.1086/515871|This study examines the milk consumption and growth energetics of the smallest arboreal folivore in Australia,
30156113|In this method designed to quantify the amount of bacteria retained by sponges, young Ephydatia fluviatilis raised in vitro were provided with E. coli grown in the presence of H-labeled thymidine. The maximal retention capacity was reached after 15-24 h and was followed by a loss of radioactivity at a steady rate. The nonspecific adhesion of bacteria to the substratum remained close to 10% for 15 h and increased to as much as 43% by 24-48 h. Sponges provided repeatedly with bacteria showed a higher retention capacity, suggesting the efficiency of the bacterial nutrition. Transmission electron microscopy and scanning electron microscopy showed that, after a preliminary adhesion to the choanocytes and exopinacocytes, bacteria were engulfed in individual phagosomes, which later fused together. The quantitative method established in this paper should prove useful for further studies of the retention of any particulate matter by sponges.
30158500|The metabolic rate of Crocodylus johnstoni eggs was measured through incubation at 29 and 31 C, and in C. porosus eggs at 30 C. The pattern of metabolic rate in both species ispeaked, similar to patterns recorded in other embryonic reptiles that develop in hard:shelled (cleidoic) eggs. Maximum
30156140|Flexible-shelled eggs of common snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) were halfburied in wet (water potential = -150 kPa) or dry vermiculite (water potential = -950 kPa), and then were incubated in covered containers at 29.0 C. Half the eggs on each substrate were transferred to the other substrate at the end of the first trimester of development, and half the eggs were transferred between wet and dry substrates at the end of the second trimester. Thus, the experiment conformed with a 2 factorial design in which eight treatment groups were recognized on the basis of the hydric conditions encountered by eggs during each of the three trimesters of incubation (wetwet-wet, wet-wet-dry, etc.). Hydric conditions encountered at any time during incubation affected the pattern of net water exchange between eggs and their surroundings and also influenced the size of hatchlings and the amount of residual yolk available to sustain emergent young. Size of hatchlings was positively correlated with net water exchange by eggs, but mass of the residual yolk was negatively correlated with net water exchange. Thus, water exchanges occurring at any time in incubation seemingly influence the size of the pool of water available inside eggs, and the size of this pool of water, in turn, affects physiological processes that influence body size and nutrient reserves in hatchlings.
30158227|The resistance of mitochondrial respiration and enzymatic activity to elevated temperatures differs among species in parallel with differences in their maximal body temperatures. To examine the causes of thermal disruption of mitochondrial respiration, we have measured rates of succinate-supported respiration and activities of the mitochondrial enzymes cytochrome c oxidase, succinic dehydrogenase, and malate dehydrogenase in mitochondria from the hydrothermal vent tube worm Riftia pachyptila and the coastal bivalve Solemya reidi. Intact mitochondria and mitochondrial membrane preparations were incubated for 10 min at temperatures between 0 and 70 C, and function was examined at 20 C (R. pachyptila) or 15 C (S. reidi). Incubation at similar elevated temperatures caused inactivation of respiration and caused the activities of several mitochondrial enzymes to either increase or decrease sharply. Fluorescence polarization measurements using the hydrophobic probe 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene showed that no sharp changes in membrane fluidity occurred at the temperatures at which respiration and membrane-associated enzymes altered activity. Reducing bulk membrane fluidity by enrichment with saturated phospholipids had no effect on the thermal inactivation of membrane-associated enzymes. However, disruption of membrane hydrophobic interactions with detergents, 1-5 mM deoxycholate or 5-25 mM octyl glucoside, significantly reduced the temperatures at which loss of enzyme activity occurred. We conclude that disruption of hydrophobic interactions between membrane proteins and their closely associated lipids, or between membrane proteins themselves, is at least partially responsible for high temperature-induced loss of mitochondrial function.
30152564|The body temperature (
30156246|Cardiac output was determined by the thermodilution technique in three California sea lions while resting and while swimming. Metabolic rates increased sevento ninefold above resting rates during maximal exercise. While the sea lions were at rest, stroke volume was also determined by simultaneously counting heart rate during cardiac output determinations. At rest, cardiac output (2.5-3.0 mL kgs) and stroke volume (2 mL kg) were similar to those of harbor seals and terrestrial mammals of similar mass. During exercise, mean cardiac output increased linearly with work load and surface/submerged intervals were short and frequent. The exercise capacity of swimming sea lions appears similar to that of harbor seals, but the exercise response resembles that of terrestrial mammals more than that of harbor seals.
30155813|The thermal environment and tolerance of eggs and embryos of western gulls (Larus occidentalis wymani) on San Nicolas Island, California, were determined. Incubated egg temperature measured by telemetry ranged between 30 and 36 C and averaged 33.4 and 34.2 C for two different nests; the former underwent pronounced cycles of heating during the day and cooling at night. Exposed eggs underwent a daily thermal excursion between 6 and 50 C. Embryos could maintain heartbeat between 11 and 46 C. Eggs which are exposed to solar radiation heat slowly (about 5 C/h). Diurnal exposure during parental absence does not, therefore, result in embryonic mortality unless exposure persists for several hours. Embryos recover completely after overnight exposure to relatively cool temperatures. Short-term exposure does not, therefore, constitute an immediate threat to embryonic survival. Adult gulls in this colony do not closely defend their nests and will leave them exposed in the presence of an intruder. The behavior of the parent gull and physiological tolerance of the embryos in reference to the thermal environment form an adaptive suite of characters contrasting with those of other gulls nesting under hot and arid conditions.
30164235|During the breeding season, wild quail (Coturnix coturnix coturnix) rise from an altitude of 200 m to 1,200 m to feed, covering a distance of approximately 225 km in 2 mo. Blood O transport properties were studied in adult male specimens captured at 200 m, 800 m, and 1,200 m. Both hematocrit (Hct) and blood hemoglobin concentration ([Hb]) increased with the increase in altitude. A positive correlation of the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) versus mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) (P < 0. 001) was observed, but red blood cell (RBC) number, percentage of reticulocytes, and total plasma proteins did not show significant differences among the groups. This suggests that, during the migration, larger RBCs appeared in the circulation, which increased blood O capacity. Wild quail exhibited higher blood O affinity (measured at 41 C, PCO of 40 Torr, or 5.3 kPa, pH 7.5) and a lower Bohr coefficient (measured between pH 7.4 and 7.8) than domestic Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica), but during the migration of the wild quail, a significant decrease in blood O affinity (
10.1086/515981|Interspecific differences in the adaptive capacity of the gut may contribute to interspecific differences in rate of energy use and lifehistory traits. We tested the hypothesis that changes in gut capacity when energy demands are elevated are similar in species with low average rates of energy use compared with a species with higher average rates of energy use. We measured changes in gut capacity in
30158576|Frogs in the genus Pseudophryne lay eggs on land in areas that are subsequently flooded. Embryos develop to Gosner stages 26-28 and then delay hatching until flooding occurs. We investigated the idea that embryos suspend development and conserve energy during this period. Oxygen consumption (
30163709|Tidal volumes (
30163816|Body mass, body temperature (
30157877|Blood oxygen stores were determined in the file snake, Acrochordus granulatus, and three other species of marine snakes (Cerberus rhynchops, Emydocephalus annulatus, Laticauda colubrina). Relative blood volume (% of body mass), plasma volume, and blood cell volume increased in proportion to body size in A. granulatus. Relative blood volume (
30156179|The cost of burrowing (oxygen consumption) was compared between two social mole rats, Cryptomys damarensis and Heterocephalus glaber, in damp and dry sand. Cryptomys damarensis had a digging metabolic rate (DMR) of 2.86  0.31 cm  g  h in damp sand and of 2.58  0.32 cm  g  h in dry sand. The DMR was 4.53-5.03 times the resting metabolic rate (RMR). Its burrowing speed was 3.53  0.75m  h in damp sand and 0.92  0.33m  h in dry sand. Body temperature
30155943|Physiological capacities of xerophilic Brewer's sparrows (Spizella breweri) and the more mesophilic chipping sparrows (Spizella passerina) for dealing with water restriction were examined. On a diet of millet seeds, hydropenic sparrows of both groups lost body mass over the initial 3-4 days. A few individuals of each species continued to lose mass, but many stabilized at about 75%-85% of their initial value and tolerated 3 wk without drinking. The loss principally involved reductions in absolute amounts of body water and protein. Plasma osmotic pressure, daily food intake, and relative protein and water contents (as percent of lean body mass) did not differ significantly between hydrated and hydropenic Brewer's sparrows. Relative water content of water-restricted chipping sparrows was significantly lower than control values. Brewer's sparrows significantly reduced evaporative and cloacal water loss when prevented from drinking. Construction of water budgets indicates that these reductions are sufficient to bring daily water output of nondrinking individuals to below the gains of this fluid from food and oxidative metabolism. Individual chipping sparrows also can survive without drinking for many days at moderate temperature, achieving water balance principally by curtailing cloacal water loss. This species appears to adjust less readily to water restriction than the more xerophilic Brewer's sparrows.
30155941|The basis for differences in whole-body lactic acid concentrations after activity in three species of anurans was investigated. Rana pipiens and Xenopus laevis were exercised to fatigue, and Bufo boreas were kept in continuous activity for 15 min. Differences exist among the species in the ratio of muscle to body mass in the order X. laevis > R. pipiens > B. boreas. Whole-animal and hind-limb-muscle lactic acid concentrations after activity varied among species in the following order: X. laevis > R. pipiens > B. boreas. Lactic acid concentrations were similar in the sartorius muscles of the three species, but B. boreas differed from the other two species in the concentrations of lactic acid in its gastrocnemius muscles. Blood lactic acid was high in all three species, 140-200 mg/100 ml, led to a decrease in blood pH to around 7.0, and was a poor indicator of whole-body lactic acid. A total lactic acid budget for each species based on muscle, blood, and liver compartments was constructed and accounted for 75% of the whole-animal lactic acid after activity. The remainder is presumably due to diffusion of lactic acid into other body compartments. It is suggested that differences in whole-animal lactic acid in active anurans can be explained by differences in the involvement of muscle groups during activity, by the fraction of the body mass composed of muscle, and by differences in the accumulation of lactic acid in specific muscles in different species.
30159963|Doubly labeled water (
30156122|We addressed the questions concerning what relation exists between enzyme heterozygosity and standard or active oxygen consumption (
30163770|Retention times of a particulate marker (
30161253|The gaseous exchange, carbon, and nitrogen balances of a 10-kg and a 4.25-kg crocodile (fed on days 27, 50, and 66) were measured for 84 days. Net energy losses for days 27-84 were 3,142 kJ (10-kg crocodile) and 1,382 kJ (4.25-kg crocodile), 80%-90% of total energy losses being lost as heat, 10% in feces, and 3% as urine. Heat outputs between meals reached nearly constant minimum values of 79 kJ day (10-kg crocodile) and 45 kJ day (4.25-kg crocodile) by day 50. Heat increments due to feeding were proportional to the amount of meat ingested. Digestibility of ox heart energy was 82%, metabolizability, 76.7%, and efficiency of utilization of metabolizable energy, 67%. Both crocodiles lost weight during the experiments; the 10-kg crocodile lost 1.12 g C day, while the 4.25-kg crocodile lost 0.48 g C day from days 27 to 84. By contrast with this negative carbon balance, both crocodiles were in positive nitrogen balance, retaining 37%-51% of the nitrogen in their food. During initial starvation (days 1-26) only ammonia was produced, whereas, from days 27 to 84, 38%-42% of nitrogen intake was excreted as uric acid and 2%-3% as ammonia. The mean RQ for each of the periods following a meal increased steadily from 0.82 to 0.84-0.88 as the energy balances became more negative.
30155729|Most previous authors who studied the effects of nutritional factors on oogenesis in flies used methods which emphasized full development, while our methods also revealed the effect on ongoing stages of development. We studied two species, Phormia regina, which on sugar alone produced no yolk deposition, and Sarcophaga bullata, where sugar meals led to beginning yolk deposition (incipient autogeny). Full or incipient autogeny occurs widely in flies and has been generally overlooked. It varies considerably with species, strain, larval rearing, and adult condition. In S. bullata, diminishing size leads to a smaller number of ovarioles with normal-sized eggs. The response to certain protein preparations, in addition to sugar, seems surprisingly variable among preparations, species, and strain. In P. regina, feeding a purified protein alone leads only to initial yolk deposition, suggesting an effect of the nature of a trigger. The addition of a potassium salt to the purified protein leads to full development. In S. bullata, where sugar leads to initial yolk deposition, purified protein has no further effect. Full development requires protein plus a vitamin and salt mixture. Potassium ion alone does not suffice. Our findings suggest that the nutritional control of oogenesis in flies occurs in two distinct steps, the first leading to initial yolk deposition and the second to maturity.
30161227|Great frigate birds are large black tropical seabirds. Those breeding on Midway Atoll absorb more than 90% of the incoming solar radiation and yet can remain on their nest exposed to intense solar radiation for up to 16 days. Despite experiencing air temperatures as high as 33.3 C and environmental temperatures ($T_{e}'s$, an index of total heat load) up to 51.7 C, the birds maintained body temperature within relatively narrow limits, averaging 39.3  0.5 C. They reduce overheating by using gular fluttering and by assuming three distinct postures, which were used sequentially as $T_{e}$ increased. The most common posture was erected feathers, followed by open wing and droop wing. Despite sexual dimorphism in size and plumage, there were no sexual differences in posturing, dorsal absorptivity to solar radiation, or response to $T_{e}$. The postures evidently contribute to water conservation in the hot breeding habitat of frigate birds, as the birds appear to have low rates of water loss.
30158252|The urea cycle occurs widely in vertebrates, serving different functions in different lineages. In elasmobranchs, where it contributes to osmolar balance, the product urea itself is functionally useful. In other vertebrates the synthesis of urea serves functions other than provision of urea. In air-breathing fish, amphibians, and mammals ureagenesis generates protons that contribute to pH homeostasis by titration of metabolically produced bicarbonate, and in ruminants this function is supplemented by large-scale transport of bicarbonate in the form of urea from tissues to the rumen. Disposal of ammonium in ureotelic species generally and delivery of ammonium to the rumen in ruminants appear to be consequences of pH-modulated ureagenesis rather than primary functions. Because only regulatory changes are required for its development from the arginine synthetic pathway and because it consumes no metabolites and relatively little ATP, the urea cycle is a uniquely suitable source of the protons that are needed for maintenance of pH homeostasis.
30156105|Eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) were incubated in wet and dry environments. Half of the eggs in each treatment were transferred to the other treatment at the end of the first trimester, and a similar shift was performed at the end of the second trimester. Thus, eight experimental groups were recognized on the basis of hydric condition to which eggs were exposed in each trimester. The influence of the hydric environment on hatching success, on duration of incubation, and on size ofhatchlings is confined to the last two-thirds of incubation. The lack of effects associated with hydric conditions encountered by eggs during the first one-third of incubation can be explained by "compensatory water exchanges" that occur during the middle trimester. During the middle one-third of incubation, water uptake is greater and more rapid in a moist environment if an egg previously was in dry conditions than if an egg was in wet conditions. Likewise, water loss is more pronounced on a dry substrate during the middle trimester if an egg previously was in wet conditions than if an egg was in dry conditions. No compensatory water exchange occurs during the final trimester, but proximate hydric conditions during this period affect development. Because conditions in natural nests tend to fluctuate during the course of incubation, findings presented here tend to raise doubts regarding the significance of nest-searching behavior reported for females of many oviparous reptiles.
30156149|Collared lizards maintained in individual outdoor runways behaviorally selected a body temperature of 37-38 C. Removal of the parapineal component (parietalectomy) of the pineal complex elevated the temperature selected by lizards, although this increase was not statistically significant. On the other hand, pinealectomy or a combination of pinealectomy and parietalectomy significantly lowered lizard body temperatures. The available evidence indicates that the parietal eye and pineal organ mediate these responses through brain centers, such as the hypothalamus, by both neural and hormonal mechanisms. The role of the pineal complex as part of a homeostatic mechanism transducing thermal as well as photic environmental signals is discussed.
30155799|Two species of Australian honeyeater, Acanthorhynchus superciliosis and Lichmera indistincta, have body masses that decrease uniformly for most of the night but increase at varying rates throughout the day. The greatest rates of increase occur during the first hour of foraging and seem to be caused primarily by enhanced nectar intake and increased retention of nectar water. Birds appear to repay at least 50% of their overnight water deficits during this period. Subsequently, the remainder of the deficit is repaid at a much slower rate, with the water that is accumulated combining with lipid storage to produce a gradual increase in body mass. The rate of body mass increase for both species of honeyeater frequently rises during the last b h before dusk. It is suggested that this occurs because of a further reduction in cloacal fluid output. Birds maintain similar patterns of body mass and water balance variation when provided with artificial nectar of different concentrations. Although they recover less water from the alimentary canal when switched from a 0.4-M to a 1.2-M sucrose solution, they compensate for this by lowering their rates of pulmocutaneous water loss.
30156215|The effects of maintenance temperature on static allometry and shape trajectories were examined in neonatal garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis). Different experimental groups were given access to a heat source for thermoregulation for 4, 12, or 24 h/d. Eye diameter, head width, head length, body size, and mass were measured shortly after birth, at 7 and 12 wk of age. Groups with less access to heat grew more slowly. Static allometric slopes and shape trajectories generally were unaffected by maintenance temperature.
30155804|The flow characteristics of both expiration and inspiration were determined in a trained, 285-kg bottle-nosed porpoise. The largest tidal volume measured was 26.4 liters. For purposes of scaling we assumed this to be vital capacity (VC). The maximum peak expiratory flow rate measured was 6.1 VCsec. The maximum peak inspiratory flow rate was 2.1 VCsec. The time required for a complete expiration was about 0.3 sec. The flow rates of both expiration and inspiration remain near their maximum for nearly all of the VC. We conclude that these properties of the ventilation maneuver are important in achieving adequate turnover of lung gases during the short period that the blowhole is above water as the porpoise passes through the air/water interface when it is up to cruising speed.
30163941|Development of brain temperature regulation in mallard ducklings was studied from hatching to 20 days of age to see whether newly hatched ducklings, like adults, maintain brain temperature lower than body temperature. The ducklings were homeothermic at hatching, sustaining a stable body temperature throughout growth at ambient temperatures of 23 and 35 C. The mallard duckling regulated its brain temperature at thermoneutrality as well as during heat exposure immediately after hatching. A significant decrease of brain temperature with increasing body mass (approximately 0.007 C/g) at both ambient temperatures resulted in a significant increase of bodyto-brain temperature difference, indicating that the effectiveness of brain cooling increased with growth. It is suggested that the increased effectiveness of brain cooling with age and body mass is related to the development of the rete ophthalmicum-the avian extracranial vascular heat exchanger responsible for brain cooling in adult birds.
30163808|Fatty acid synthase (FAS) activity was measured in black-tailedprairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), nonhibernators or facultative hibernators, to compare their enzyme activity associated with fattening to that reported earlier (Turner et al. 1989) in Richardson's ground squirrels (Spermophilus richardsonii), obligate hibernators. In both species nearly all FAS activity was in white adipose tissue (WAT). Maximum FAS actiuity/mg of protein in WAT occurred after reproduction in both species and was about three times as great in ground squirrels as in prairie dogs. When rate of fat deposition was at its peak (June-August in ground squirrels, fall in prairie dogs), total FAS in WAT in ground squirrels was tuwice that in prairie dogs. Richardson's ground squirrels deposited approximately 9 g of lipid/wk during peak fattening (Turzner et al. 1989) versus approximately 5 g of lipid/wk in prairie dogs. These observations support the hypothesis that obligate hibernators fatten more rapidly than nonhibernators. During 3 wk of cold in the uwinter of 1990-1991 (air temperature less than -20 C), prairie dogs lost 30% of body weight, nearly, all of uwhich wuas lean body mass. Lipid mass was depleted during the reproductizve season, from March through June. As a result of this observation, the following year lipolytic actiuity, in liver, WAT, and brown adipose tissue (BAT) as well as body and tissue masses was measured monthly in freeroaming prairie dogs. Liver and WAT were the principal sites of lipolytic activity. Although 1991-1992 uwas not as severe as the previous winter, use of lipid stores was similar. Fat deposits remained inztact through fall and early winter, and lipolytic actizvity was louw inl all tissues. Reproductive activity began in February and March in males and females, respectively. Betuween January and March lipolytic activity in liver tripled inz both sexes. During the same period lipolytic activity in WAT doubled in females and quadrupled in males. During the reproductive season males lost 85% and females lost 91% of lipid stores. Black-tailedprairie dogs foraged throughout the year but during severe cold remained underground and catabolized primarily lean body mass. Lipolytic activity and amount of lipid present supported the hypothesis that lipid reserves are conserved through winter and supply energy for reproduction.
30163699|Digestive performances of two freshwater turtles-a herbivore and an omnivore-were compared on two diets of aquatic plants to test the prediction that the digestive efficiency (nutrient or energy gain per unit time) of herbivores is greater than that of omnivores on plant diets. On a diet of hydrilla, Hydrilla verticillata, the herbivore gained significantly more nutrition from the diet on a daily basis, as a result of higher intake and more rapid digestive processing. When fed duckweed, Spirodela polyrhiza, the two turtle species had equivalent digestive performances. Thus, the herbivore did not consistently outperform the omnivore. The herbivore had greater digestive efficiency on a diet that was extensively fermented (hydrilla), but, on a diet that underwent limited microbial degradation (duckweed), the herbivore had no nutritional advantage over the omnivore.
30164186|Bears in the genus Ursus, in particular polar bears, are thought to be highly efficient at avoiding a net loss of body protein during their prolonged seasonal fasts. Most data supporting this idea, however, originate from studies in which captive bears apparently maintained a constant lean body mass (LBM) while fasting Using deuterium oxide dilution, we quantified changes in the body composition of free-ranging polar bears during an annual period of fasting. For a sample of 10 adult and subadult male polar bears, body condition at the start of the study ranged from 0.12 to 0.58 kg of fat/kg of LBM. Subsequently, over an interval of 79 d, losses of LBM and fat varied considerably among individuals. In contrast to previous studies on fasting bears, catabolism of protein appeared to meet a significant proportion of maintenance energy demands in some individuals. When converted into energetic units, between 74% and 99% of the observed losses in body energy content were attributable to the catabolism of body fat. Furthermore, bears that derived the highest proportion of their energy needs from lipid stores were those that were relatively fat when first captured. We suggest that in polar bears, and ursids in general, the previously noted ability to minimize protein loss during extended fasts is in part dependent on the extraordinary magnitude of fat stores that some individuals can accumulate in seasons when food is abundant.
10.1086/515426|The evolution of energetics must begin with variation within population in ecologically realized rates of energy acquisistion and expenditure. We measured aspects of field energy budgets (including metabolic rates, feeding rates, and growth rates) in a large sample of free living garter snakes (Thammophis sirtalis) from a single temperate/mesic population in northwestern California during their summer active season. We then analyzed interindividual variation for correlations among variables and patterns attributable to body size and sex. Field metabolic rates (measured with use of doubly labeled water) scaled in direct proportion to body mass. These rates of field energy expenditure were higher (both in absolute terms and in realtion to resting metabolic rates) than those previously measured in snakes and iguanian lizards and were similar to those reported for highly active, widely foraging scincomorphan lizards. Feeding rates (as indedexed by water influx rates) and growth rates were correspondingly high compared to those of other squamate reptiles. We found considerable residual variation in all measured variables not attributable to body size. Effects of sex were detected for water influx and growth rates (females > males), but not for field metabolic rate. Individual field metabolic rate was apparently consistent (repeatable) over time, water influx rate was not, and individual growth rates were strongly negatively correlated over two sequential time periods. We were unable to detect convincing correlations between any individual measures of field energetics and any commonly measured, standard laboratory measurements of exygen consumption (standard metabolic rate at two bodyt temperatures and maximal oxygen consumption for exercise) made on the same individuals. Howere, bodysizeindependent field rates of energy expenditure, energy intake, and growth were strongly and positively intercorrelated among individuals. We attribute these patterns to an overriding effect of costs associated with digestion and growth on field energetics, such that individual snakes that were effective foragers achieved high feeding rates and, hence, high growth rates, but also incurred high costs of growth and digestion that largely determined field metabolic rate.
30158630|Sugar gliders maintained body weight and nitrogen balance on a honey-pollen diet containing only 5.0 mg N  g DMI. The maintenance dietary nitrogen requirement, estimated by regression analysis, was 87 mg
30157934|Abrupt changes in the relationship between physiological responses and environmental parameters yield data that frequently cannot be described with a single regression equation. Many approaches used to deal with this problem result in incomplete description of the data and imprecise approximations of the physiological threshold(s) at which the relationship changes. We describe a technique for determining the best continuous two-phase, straight-line regression model and for statistically estimating the point at which the relationship between the independent and dependent variables changes (i.e., threshold point).
30156067|Foragers were active on the insolated surface between sand surface temperatures (
30152628|The rate of evaporative water loss (EWL) of the Australian tree frogs Litoria caerulea and Litoria chloris was evaluated over the temperature intervals 25 -50 C and 25 -47 C, respectively. At 25 C, EWL of L. caerulea averaged 7.5 mg g h and that of L. chloris averaged 4.2 mg g h. These values are much lower than those measured for similar-sized North American arboreal frogs. Consonant with these results, the cutaneous resistances to water vapor flux (
30156233|Starvation of the fish Paralabrax nebulifer was accompanied by complex changes in the synthesis rates of different classes of proteins within the white muscle. Synthesis of white-muscle myofibrillar proteins, as measured by incorporation of
30164324|In an earlier study, we found that yellow-rumped warblers had in vitro active uptake rates of D-glucose that were only a few percent of the glucose absorption rate achieved at the wholeanimal level. Here we used a pharmacokinetic technique to test whether a substantial amount of sugar can be absorbed passively. We used yellow-rumped warblers (Dendroica coronata), known for their seasonal frugivory, freely feeding on a synthetic mash formulated with naturally occurring concentrations of D-glucose. Birds absorbed 89.8%  1.0% (SE) of the D-glucose in the mash. When fed the same mash with trace-labeled H L-glucose, the stereoisomer that does not interact with the intestinal Na-glucose cotransporter, H appeared in plasma, an indication that this stereoisomer of glucose was absorbed. We used H levels in plasma and excreta in a pharmacokinetic model to calculate L-glucose extraction efficiency (i.e., the percent absorbed). Calculated mean extraction efficiency for the passively absorbed L-glucose averaged 91%  23%. Our finding of considerable passive absorption reconciles the in vitro and in vivo results for D-glucose absorption and is in concert with results from five other avian species. The passive pathway appears to provide birds with an absorptive process that can respond quickly to changing luminal concentration and that is energetically inexpensive to maintain and modulate in real time but that may bear a cost. Less discriminate passive absorption might increase vulnerability to toxins and thus constrain foraging behavior and limit the breadth of the dietary niche.
30158289|Reproduction stops during the breeding season of many rodent populations, including Peromyscus maniculatus. The proposition that water availability mediates the midseason breeding hiatus in male deer mice was evaluated in the present study. Paired testicular and epididymal weights (absolute and relative to body mass) were reduced after 10 wk of restricted water consumption. Spermatogenesis was also impaired by limited water intake. Blood plasma testosterone concentrations were reduced, but plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) titers were unaffected by water restriction. Finally, the number of offspring sired was reduced in mice with restricted access to water. Carcass water content did not significantly differ between animals with restricted (25% of ad lib.) or unrestricted access to water; however, body mass was reduced about 15% after chronic water intake restriction. Although reproductive function (i.e., reproductive organ mass, plasma testosterone titers, and sperm counts) was significantly depressed in water-restricted mice, the reproductive systems of about 25% of the animals were relatively unaffected by water restriction. In order to study the physiological factors associated with individual reproductive responses to water restriction, animals were rank ordered according to their epididymal sperm numbers; individuals in the top (Q) and bottom (Q) quartiles of epididymal sperm counts were further compared. Water-restricted Q deer mice did not significantly differ on any parameter from mice with ad lib. access to water. No water-restricted Q deer mice possessed any epididymal sperm. Deer mice in Q significantly reduced paired testicular and epididymal masses as compared with animals in the top quartile. It was important that Q deer mice reduced their body mass by 34%. Plasma LH titers were significantly depressed in Q animals as compared with Q mice or mice with ad lib. water. Body fat content was also reduced only in the Q deer mice. Taken together, these findings suggest that water availability may act as an extrinsic cue to suppress fertility in deer mice independently of temperature and day length and somewhat independently from food because despite an absolute reduction in food consumption with the onset of water restriction, food intake corrected for body mass did not differ. Animals that stopped reproductive function (Q mice) lost substantial body fat and total mass. Water-restricted males that maintained body fat levels also maintained reproductive function. Differential hydrolysis of adipose tissue in response to decreased testosterone titers may account for the phenotypic variation in reproductive responsiveness to water restriction. These results are discussed in terms of their ecological and evolutionary implications.
30155864|The oxygen consumption rates at 30 C and the temperature sensitivity of the rates were compared for member groups (larvae, pupae, callows, workers, females, and males) of three species of harvester ants which occur at different altitudes in southern California. Developmental changes in both rates and temperature sensitivity were found. There is an abrupt doubling or tripling of the respiratory rates of males prior to the mating flights. No similar changes were found in the respiratory rates of the females. The males are dimorphic, with each size having different respiratory rates. In general, Pogonomyrmex montanus MacKay, the harvester ant from the highest altitude, had the highest respiratory rates and demonstrated the greatest temperature sensitivity. The mid-altitude species, P. subnitidus Emery, had intermediate respiratory rates. The lowest-altitude species, P. rugosus Emery, had the lowest respiratory rates and demonstrated the least temperature sensitivity. These differences are important as the ants are exposed to different temperature ranges; the higheraltitude species are exposed to lower temperatures. This physiological adaptation may be necessary to allow each of the species to be active at similar rates in the three different habitats. Although a physiological adaptation involving higher respiratory rates in ants from higher altitudes was determined in the three species investigated, it may not be a general phenomenon in ants. It is suggested that further investigation is needed to determine the parameters which have an effect on the important physiological process of respiration and to provide ecological interpretations for the differences observed.
30156208|Hemolymph osmolality increased twofold after 120 h aerial exposure at 95% relative humidity and 25 C and was correlated with water loss (r = 0.83). Blood sodium and chloride levels remained approximately constant throughout the period ofaerial exposure. Calcium increased threefold over 120 h emersion and was correlated with osmolality (r = 0.86). Unmeasured solute (presumably HCO) also increased. On reimmersion, osmolality returned to normal within 6 h. Hemolymph sodium and chloride levels were lower than controls after 3 d exposure and returned to control levels between 2-6h reimmersion. Hemolymph potassium and calcium concentrations dropped to control levels within 6h after return to pond water. Net ion fluxes in thefirst hour ofreimmersion were high and negative. Calcium and chloride initial netfluxes were highest at-41.6 4.0 (mean  SEM) and -23.9  3.8 Eq (g dry tissue  h), respectively. Sodium andpotassium net fluxes were -65  2.2 and -0.9  0.2, respectively. Net ion fluxes decreased and by 5-16 h were not different from zero. There was no effect of aerial exposure on unidirectional sodium fluxes. Chloride eflux increased while influx was not affected. Aerial exposure stimulated the excretion of base equivalents on reimmersion. Some sodium and chloride may shift to intracellular space during emersion and return to hemolymph on reimmersion. Calcium and its anion were mobilized, presumably from the shell, for maintenance of body fluid acid-base balance.
30163738|We measured basking duration of fed and nonfed yellow slider turtles (Pseudemys scripta) in a constant-temperature environmental chamber. We acclimated and tested turtles at four temperatures (10, 20, 30, and 35 C), once in spring/summer and once in fall/winter. In the spring/summer there was a statistically significant difference (P < .01) between basking durations of fed and nonfed turtles and between basking times of males and females at all acclimation temperatures except 35 C, when basking time was minimal for both fed and nonfed animals. Fed females basked much longer than fed males (P < .05), and both groups of fed turtles basked much longer than nonfed animals. These differences were greatest at 10 and 20 C but were also apparent at 30 C. In the fall/winter there were no statistically significant differences between the basking times of fed and nonfed turtles or between the basking times of males or females. There were, however, statistically significant differences (P < .01) between basking times at all four acclimation temperatures. We suggest that basking in turtles is a complex behavior that is affected by the nutritional status, acclimation, season, and sex of the individual.
30155802|Fecundity (number of eggs per surviving female) of Drosophila simulans st and D. melanogaster Or-R-C was measured over consecutive 12-h periods for 7 days post-eclosion in replicated experiments where adult density (6 levels), species frequency (6 levels), and
30164183|The circadian rhythm of body temperature of the thirteen-lined ground squirrel, Spermophilus tridecemlineatus, was studied by telemetry. The amplitude of the daily variation of body temperature in squirrels maintained under a long photoperiod (14L:10D) at a neutral ambient temperature (24C) was found to be much larger than that of most endotherms (range ~34 - 39C). Four out of nine animals entered daily (or multidaily) torpor with body temperatures approaching ambient temperature. The body temperature of eight out of nine animals was severely reduced by exposure to lower environmental temperatures (down to 5C). In free-running conditions, as well as in the entrained state, the body temperature rhythm remained synchronized to the rhythm of locomotor activity.
30158259|We performed two experiments using rumen-fistulated mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) and elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) to test hypotheses regarding particle breakdown and passage within the rumen. In experiment 1, labeled particles of three sizes, including large particles (LP), 2.8-4.8 mm in diameter, medium particles (MP), 1-2.8 mm, and smallparticles (SP), 0.1-1 mm, were introduced into the rumen. Breakdown and passage were measured for each fraction by periodic ruminal sampling. Particle breakdown and passage exhibited first-order kinetics, but large particles were not reduced to medium particles in a simple cascade process. The process was more complex: 89% and 92% of LP in elk and deer, respectively, went directly to SP, while 84% and 100% of the MP in elk and deer were comminuted to SP before passage from the rumen. In experiment 2, five forages were introduced as LP into the rumen, and their breakdown and passage were measured. Although breakdown kinetics were significantly different between forages and animals, the fit of the model to SP kinetics was significant in 21 of 24 cases (87%). We concluded that compartmental models are appropriate for describing rumen function in these animals.
30155791|The physical dimensions, water vapor conductance (
30155714|Rates of O consumption (
30163717|Water fluxes were measured isotopically for free-ranging marine iguanas on Isla Fernandina, Galpagos. Captive animals were fed a normal diet of algae supplemented with seawater and held in outdoor cages. Concentrations of electrolytes in food, plasma, nasal secretions, feces, and urine were measured, as was water content of food and excreta. Values thus obtained were used in conjunction with field metabolic rates and food utilization efficiencies to construct field water and electrolyte budgets for adult animals. Field water influx averaged 48.2 ml/kg day for adults and 31.1 ml/kg day for hatchlings. For adults, 58% of water influx comes from food, 38% from seawater ingestion, and 4% from metabolism. Electrolyte input is high (14.5 m mol Na, 3.6 m mol K, and 15.7 m mol Cl/kg day. Almost all of the K and one-third of Na and Cl inputs are via food. Cloacal water losses are large because of the high water content (ca. 88%) of the excreta. Nasal secretions account for elimination of about 95% of ingested Na and Cl, and 80% of K input, using only one-fourth of the water input (ca. 12 ml/kg day). Concentrations of Na, K, and Cl in nasal secretions of fed marine iguanas were about 1,170 mM, 280 mM, and 1,330 mM, respectively. Plasma electrolyte concentrations are high in field animals (201 mM Na, 153 mM Cl) and decline when the animals are held without food or water. Marine iguanas "fed" only seawater to maintain weight regulated plasma Na, whereas plasma K declined.
30166498|Neurotensin-like material was found throughout the gut of the amphibian Necturus maculosus, in both muscle layers and mucosa, and with the highest levels in the intestine. Ion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and reversed-phase HPLC revealed several peaks of immunoreactive material, with one closely related to neurotensin 1-6 occurring by both methods. Exogenous neurotensin was excitatory on longitudinal stomach muscle; this excitation was unaffected by tetrodotoxin, indicating a direct effect on the smooth muscle. An inhibitory effect of neurotensin on circular muscle preparations was abolished by tetrodotoxin, revealing an excitatory effect. Noradrenaline and adrenaline were in many cases inhibitory on the circular preparations, an effect that was blocked by the -adrenergic anztagonist propranolol. Propranolol also blocked the inhibitory effect of neurotensin in approximately 50% of the tests, which suggests an involvement of an adrenergic link in the inhibitory effect of neurotensin on the circular muscle. The results are compatible with the view that a neurotensin-like peptide is involved in a simultaneous phase of shortening and widening of a segment of the stomach.
30156079|Postural shifts of blood to the tails of snakes were measured by a plethysmographic technique during head-up tilt in air. Shifting of blood volume to dependent tissue increases with tilt angle and has two components, expansion of vessel volume and filtration of plasma into tissue spaces. The relative magnitude of these combined fluid shifts is unrelated to body length and therefore is a species characteristic. In comparison with Crotalus viridis (a rattlesnake), Pituophis melanoleucus (gopher snake) maintains higher arterial pressure at the head and is considerably less prone to postural edema and pooling of blood during tilt. In their natural environments, Pituophis is an effective climber whereas Crotalus appears behaviorally less subject to gravitational disturbance of the circulation. Data for nine other species of snakes are consistent with this ecological correlation: postural shifts of fluid in arboreal and terrestrial species (including an arboreal viperid) are one-third or less than those in aquatic species that are relatively unaffected by gravity in their normal habitat. The data indicate that cardiovascular adaptation for arboreal habits in snakes involves both effective control of arterial pressure and mechanisms that impede pooling of blood and edema in tissues.
30163797|Thermal conductance of carcasses of 14 aquatic bird species was determined by the warming constant technique. The effect on thermal conductance of body mass, age, sex, fat deposits, and the degree of contact with water were studied. Only body mass and the degree of submergence in water had an effect. A negative exponential relationship between body mass and thermal conductance was found. Water contact increased the thermal conductance by a factor of 2.2 during swimming and a factor of 4.8 during diving. Leaving the water in order to reduce thermoregulatory costs is put forward as a behavioral option that might make several aquatic birds more flexible in adjusting their feeding time to meet increasing energetic requirements. Not being able to leave the water has obvious implications for both breeding and winter distributions for different-sized aquatic birds.
30156068|Helix aspersa were subjected to 100 days of desiccation at 19-25 C in summer and in winter; total weight declined 33%. After desiccation, winter animals showed little significant change in hemolymph protein, Na and K concentrations, or osmolality. In summer snails, desiccation caused significant increases in all of these hemolymph constituents. Seasonal differences in hemolymph components were limited, except for Na; in both hydrated and desiccated snails, Na concentrations were significantly higher in summer than in winter. In snail kidney, desiccation did not change significantly the concentrations of Na, urate, water, or kidney wet weight. In both seasons, kidney K concentration rose significantly after desiccation. Seasonal differences were found among kidney contents-especially, winter snails (both hydrated and desiccated groups) had much higher Na and K contents. The kidney urate content of desiccated winter snails was higher than that of desiccated summer snails. It is hypothesized that the abundant urate spheres in snail kidney sequester K ions released by tissue degrowth during dormancy. In summer, sufficient K seems to be sequestered during desiccation to displace Na from kidney urates, leading to the higher hemolymph Na concentrations in summer snails. Qualitative differences in regulatory processes seem to exist between summer and winter snails.
30159979|The short-tailed shrew Blarina brevicauda is one of the red-toothed shrews of the subfamily Soricinae. The thermogenic capabilities of B. brevicauda were examined to see whether the relatively high BMR, which is characteristic of this group, was reflected in enhanced thermogenic abilities in the face of severe cold stress. A helium-oxygen environment was used to mimic severe cold. Our results confirmed the relatively high BMR. This was 17.8 Wkg, which is approximately double comparable values calculated from allometric equations for placentals. The maximum increase in sustained heat production of warm acclimated shrews was four to five times their BMR, but this was eight to nine times "expected" placental values. Cold acclimation had a marked effect on the thermogenic capacity of B. brevicauda. Summit metabolism was increased by some 50% to a level of 108 Wkg or
30155947|The effectiveness of thermoregulatory postures in the black dragon (Hagenius brevistylus Selys; Odonata) was tested relative to wind speed and air temperature on live and dead dragonflies in a closed circuit wind tunnel. The postures appeared to allow the dragonflies to behaviorally select body temperatures exceeding a range of 20 C and reach temperatures as low as the ambient air or as high as the sun-warmed substrate. At least one posture appeared to be transitory and appeared to be used primarily to warm up from low body temperatures. Live dragonflies kept individually in a large flight cage showed different patterns of posturing depending on the amount of insolation. Free-ranging dragonflies were not active at low air temperatures, and postured differently in response to different substrate temperatures. We concluded that black dragons can select from a broad range of potential body temperatures as the result of behavioral posturing.
30166502|Body temperature and rate of oxygen consumption were measured as a function of environmental temperature in two swiftlets from New Guinea, Collocalia esculenta and Collocalia vanikorensis, two nightjars from New Guinea, Eurostopodus mystacalis and Caprimulgus macrurus, and two frogmouths, Podargus strigoides from Australia and P. papuensis from New Guinea. Compared to rates expected from mass, basal rates of metabolism in these birds progressively decrease with an increase in mass. The reduction in basal rate may reflect food habits in swiftlets and food habits, sedentary habits, and small pectoral muscle masses in nightjars and frogmouths. The combination of small mass and low rate of metabolism might account for the variable body temperatures found in swiftlets, but no evidence of torpor has been found in these swiftlets, frogmouths, or nightjars. At cool temperatures, C. esculenta often clustered in the field and in the laboratory, a behavior that led to a 30% reduction in energy expenditure. Thermal conductances, which tend to be low in all species with low basal rates, often fell markedly in the largest frogmouth when exposed to ambient temperatures below 16 C.
30152538|Arousal of Otala lactea (Mller) from dormancy occurs at relative humidities of 75% or higher at 25-30 C. The probability of arousal is directly related to ambient relative humidity. Arousal from dormancy is less likely to occur at high ambient temperatures than at low ones. The temperature range within which arousal occurs is related to the ambient relative humidity. The range is narrow at low relative humidities and wide at high humidities. Repeated arousals do not take place following a return to the dormant condition, even in the presence of favorable environmental conditions. The absence of light favors arousal; exposure to continuous light acts as a deterrent to emergence from dormancy.
30158241|Measurements of body mass, body composition, and O consumption rate
30163707|Solitary bees (Centris pallida Fox; Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae) were observed during diurnal activity in a hot desert environment. Females foraged throughout the day in flowering paloverde trees; males divided their time between foraging and hovering in search of receptive females. Thoracic temperatures (
30163748|Recent studies that have shown that variation in avian foraging behavior can produce changes in reproductive success and survival have raised the question of the role of energy budgets in determining reproductive behavior and other life-history traits of birds. The study reported here describes how the daily energy budgets of breeding populations of the zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata influenced the rate at which broods were produced, the size of broods that could be success-fully supported by their parents, and the subsequent survival of the parents. This was examined by experimentally altering the net rate of energy gain of four populations of randomly chosen zebra finches. The experimental design increased the amount of time spent searching for food without altering the amount of food available or consumed, which resulted in differences in the daily energy budget. Zebra finches with low rates of energy gain spent more time and energy foraging and had less energy available for reproduction than did finches with high rates of energy gain. A decrease in energy available for reproduction increased the time interval between successive broods while decreasing average brood size, juvenile survivorship, and adult survivorship.
30163809|Many plant secondary metabolites have been identified as feeding deterrents; however, the physiological effects of these compounds remain largely unknown. Coniferyl benzoate (CB) is the principal secondary metabolite in quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) flower buds, a primary winter food for ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus), and is a feeding deterrent for grouse and other birds. We conducted mass-balance trials with captive ruffed grouse to determine the efect of this compound on dietary mass and energy assimilation. A method is described for correcting assimilation coeficients for the intake of dietary plant secondary metabolites whereby changes in a bird's ability to utilize dietary mass and energy can be distinguished from artifacts due to energy and mass dilution by plant secondary metabolites. Nitrogenous excretory products were measured to determine nitrogen balance and sources of nitrogen loss. In addition, energy losses resulting from the excretion of CB detoxification products were quantified. Birds that fed on a high CB diet were in negative nitrogen balance and excreted higher amounts of ornithine and ammonium than birds on control diets. Excretion rates for ornithine and ammonium may be even higher for birds feeding on aspen buds because otherphenolic compounds must be detoxified along with CB. Coniferyl benzoate did not decrease the ability of ruffed grouse to utilize dietary energy but did decrease utilization eficiencies simply by a dilution effect Overall, assimilation eficiencies increased over the 3-mo study. Acidosis, from acidic detoxication products, and nitrogen loss may be two reasons why wild ruffed grouse avoid feeding on aspen buds containing high CB levels; however, the principal mechanism by which CB acts as a feeding deterrent is still uncertain.
30163870|The contribution of propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC) to the control of anaerobic metabolism by acid-base parameters (pH, Pco, and [HCO]) was investigated with a purified enzyme preparation and isolated mitochondria from the body wall musculature of Arenicola marina. The enzyme catalyzes the rate-limiting step in anaerobic propionate formation, namely, the carboxylation of methylmalonyl-CoA with concomitant formation of ATP and base equivalents (= HCO). Propionyl-CoA carboxylase is likely not saturated with its substrates methylmalonyl-CoA, ADP, and
30155853|To determine the influence of depth-related factors on enzymic activity and, hence, on metabolism, we measured enzymic activities of white skeletal muscle and brain in two teleost fishes of the genus Sebastolobus (Scorpaenidae). These species are genetically close and have similar life histories but differ in their depth distributions. White skeletal muscle of the shallow-living species, S. alascanus, contained approximately twice the activity (measured as units per g wet weight of tissue) of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), pyruvate kinase (PK), malate dehydrogenase (MDH), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), and citrate synthase (CS) as the white muscle of the deep-living species, S. altivelis. The CS and LDH activities exhibited body-sizerelated scaling; CS activity decreased and LDH activity rose in larger-sized specimens. The interspecific activity differences may derive either from differences in substrate turnover number (e.g., LDH) or from differences in enzyme concentration (e.g., PK). Through these two activity-regulating mechanisms, constant ratios of activity of different enzymes within the muscles of each species are maintained, while approximately twofold interspecific differences are maintained. The interspecific differences in enzymic activity are attributed to the importance of depth-related environmental factors, e.g., food availability, lack of light, and a low-energy physical environment, which may permit reduced levels of metabolism at depth. Correlated with the reduced capacity for muscle metabolism in S. altivelis is a small (9%) reduction in muscle-buffering capacity. Protein and water content did not differ in the muscle tissues of the two species. Unlike muscle, in brain tissue no interspecific differences in enzymic activity (LDH, PK, and CS) were found. This suggests that the differences in enzymic activity noted for muscle tissue reflect muscle-specific changes associated with reduced metabolic and locomotory demands at depth. Comparisons of congeneric species experiencing similar thermal regimes and having similar life history and ecological characteristics, but having different depth distributions, permit sensitive analyses of depth-related biochemical adaptations.
30158246|Minimum and cold-induced maximum metabolisms were measured in six heteromyid and one cricetine species of rodents. Minimum and cold-induced maximum metabolisms have similar slopes, and maximum metabolism is significantly elevated over minimum metabolism by approximately 65 times at 45 g. Minimum metabolism adjusted for body mass is statistically lower for heteromyids than for other rodents. The aerobic capacity model for the evolution of endothermy would predict that since heteromyids have a low minimum metabolism they should also have a low maximum metabolism. Such is not the case in the relatively few species examined. The aerobic capacity model also predicts that mass-independent minimum and maximum metabolic rates will be correlated. This is true for the species we measured here when maximum was induced using cold. The correlation is also significant for rodents in general regardless of whether maximum metabolism was elicited with cold or exercise. Cold-induced maximum metabolism is significantly lower than exercise-induced maximum metabolism in rodents.
30155776|Daily energy metabolism of Peromyscus leucopus and Tamias striatus was measured in three natural seasonal temperature regimes by gas analysis. Average daily metabolic rates (ADMR) were calculated from these daily metabolic patterns. Polynomial multiple regression analyses were conducted to examine the relative influence of body mass, ambient temperature, and time of day on metabolic rates. Several predictive equations are derived from regression analyses which are compared with both the observed data and similar predictive equations of other authors. In both species, ADMRs are approximately double the estimated resting metabolic rates under the same environmental conditions. The
30164266|We collected milk samples from two rodents, Kerodon rupestris and Acomys cahirinus, that live in arid habitats and produce precocial young, in order to determine milk composition throughout the lactation period. Milk from species producing precocial young has been predicted to be low in energy and protein content, while milk from arid-dwelling species has been predicted to be high in total solids. Milk samples were analyzed for total fat, protein, and sugar content. Milk from Acomys was much higher in energy content than Kerodon milk, exhibiting higher concentrations of total solids (41% vs. 20%), fat (21% vs. 6.9%), and protein (12% vs. 66%); however, sugar concentration was lower in Acomys milk (2. 9% vs. 5.3%). Milk composition varied throughout the lactation period in both species, with protein levels increasing and fat levels decreasing in Kerodon and sugar levels decreasing and total solids and fat levels increasing in Acomys. The milk of Kerodon females exhibited a threefold variation in fat content, while milk from Acomys females showed a twofold variation in protein content. The results of this study lend some support to the idea that mammals inhabiting arid environments conserve water by producing milk with a high proportion of solids. Furthermore, these results do not support the hypothesis that milk from rodents with precocial young is low in energy content but instead indicate that precocial species produce milk that is high in total solids and fat.
30155974|The embryos of Procellariiformes develop slowly, reportedly, at least in part, as a result of low incubation temperatures, and some species such as Wilson's and Leach's storm petrels experience long periods of chilling. Incubation temperatures of eggs of Leach's storm petrel (on Kent Island, New Brunswick), Wilson's storm petrel, and the southern giant fulmar (Palmer Station, Antarctica) averaged 35.9, 35.7, and 35.5 C, respectively. These are well within the range of temperatures for other species of birds and indicate that the prolonged incubation periods of petrels are not attributable to low incubation temperatures. We measured the depressing effect of cooling (
30164251|Energy metabolism in red-eared turtles (Trachemys [=Pseudemys] scripta elegans) was monitored in air-breathing animals at 11-14 C, in animals forced to dive over a 16-wk period in normoxic water at 3 C, and in animals recovering for up to 8 wk from forced dives. Diving had no effect on blood glucose levels; hematocrit and blood lactate were marginally higher during diving Heart and brain glycogen levels did not decrease during diving These findings suggest that anaerobic metabolism was not activated and that survival was more likely dependent on metabolic depression and/or a low level of aquatic respiration. The absence of an activation of anaerobic metabolism in this species is in contrast to the usual response in diving turtles. Heart and brain total RNA levels remained constant during the diving period, but there was an increase in total RNA during recovery, which suggests a burst in protein synthesis at this time. Activity levels of hexokinase, pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, citrate synthase, 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, and cytochrome oxidase were measured. In heart, pyruvate kinase levels showed a tendency to decline during the diving period; pyruvate kinase and cytochrome oxidase increased during recovery. In brain, cytochrome oxidase declined during diving; pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, citrate synthase, and cytochrome oxidase increased during recovery. The increase in activity of various enzymes during recovery was consistent with the elevation in RNA content and may be associated with increased cardiovascular activity, neural activity, and nutrient supply of amino acids.
30152600|The house finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) is resident in tropical and subtropical regions as well as in localities having relatively severe winters. The extent of its winter acclimatization was assessed in freshly captured individuals of this species from southern California and Colorado. In severe cold stress tests involving exposure to
30156001|Tadpoles of the frog Xenopus laevis underwent significant thermal acclimation of the rate of oxygen consumption. Acclimation to cool temperatures increased the rate of oxygen consumption at cool temperatures; the
30164220|Harp seals (Phoca groenlandica) give birth on pack ice and nurse their pups for about 13 d. We hypothesized that lactating females would transfer milk and energy to pups at a high rate to compensate for the brevity of lactation. To test this hypothesis, the milk intake of five pups was measured over a 6-8-d period after administration of deuterium oxide; the initial age of pups was estimated to range from 0 to 5 d postpartum. Body water content of 17 pups was also measured by isotope dilution, and body composition of 12 pups was determined by chemical analysis. The proximate composition of harp seal milk (n = 21) was also assayed. Harp seal pups contained little fat (3%) at birth, but 61% of the increase in body mass (average 2.3 kg/d) was fat, with the result that fat accounted for 47% of body mass at weaning. Body water estimated by isotope dilution was not significantly different from that measured directly (n = 9 paired samples); water composed 72% of lean body mass. From birth to weaning, milk lipid increased from 36% to 57%, and milk water declined from 51% to 32%. Pup milk intake averaged 3.7 kg/d. Mass gain of pups was highly correlated with both milk intake and energy intake (r > 0.98 for both). On average, pups consumed about 75 MJ/d, which is equivalent to a maternal energy yield of 1.9 MJ/(
30158170|When specimens of the terrestrial slug Limax maximus are dehydrated to 70% of their initial body weight (IBW), they exhibit water-orientation behavior that is characterized by both an increase in locomotor activity and a preference for the moist arm of a Y maze. Water orientation was elicited in fully hydrated slugs by injection of 10 M arginine vasotocin (AVT, calculated final hemolymph concentration). Injection of 10 M AVT elicited water-orientation behavior in slugs dehydrated to only 80% IBW, demonstrating that the effects of AVT and dehydration are additive. Injection of slugs with the octapeptides angiotensin II (AII) and arginine vasopressin (AVP), at concentrations ranging from 10 to 10 M, failed to elicit water orientation. Water orientation does not seem to be mediated solely by the alterations in hemolymph volume or osmolality that occur during dehydration. Rather, it appears that a dehydration-induced increase in hemolymph ionic concentration is involved in initiating water orientation.
30156227|Oxygen consumption and maximum pumping performance were measured in situ perfused trout (Salmo gairdneri) hearts at acclimation temperatures of 5 and 15 C. Myocardial oxygen consumption increased linearly as a function of myocardial power output at both acclimation temperatures. The slope of the regression equation was significantly lower at 5 C compared with that at 15 C This difference was attributed to power output related changes in mechanical efficiency at 5 C (but not at 15 C) and a lower mass-specfic oxygen consumption for maximal performance of the larger heart of cold-acclimated fish.
30158208|Total and regional (pelvic and pectoral) osmotic water flow (
30164236|The energy expenditure of female barn swallows (Hirundo rustica) was measured during the period of egg formation using the doubly labelled water (DLW) technique. Mean field metabolic rate (FMR) was 104-112 kJ d (standard deviation [ SD] = 22, n = 12), dependent on assumptions used in the calculations. The energy expenditure of female swallows did not differ significantly between egg formation, incubation, and nestling-rearing periods. Water turnover rate of laying females was 18.4 mL d (SD = 2.0, n = 12). The amount of egg material deposited during energy expenditure measurements was determined for 11 of the birds by feeding them lipophilic dye, which marked the outside of each rapidly developing ovarian follicle. The energy content of egg material deposited in 24 h averaged 4.9 kJ (SD = 2.3, n = 11), which represented 4.5%-4.9% of FMR. Variation in FMR was not correlated with egg deposition. The mean clutch size of swallows for which FMR was measured during egg formation was slightly but significantly smaller (4.3 eggs) than that of undisturbed birds matched for laying date (4.7 eggs). Costs of egg synthesis were small in relation to routine energy requirements during reproduction. Energy shortage during egg formation should not normally constrain reproductive output by swallows.
30161234|Cardiac performance was compared in an in situ perfused heart from rainbow trout with the pericardium intact and then cut. Cutting the pericardium reduced the control cardiac output by 44% and significantly shifted the ventricular function curve to the right. Maximum cardiac output and power output were also reduced by 8% and 18%, respectively, with the pericardium cut. Intrapericardial pressure was subambient and was reduced during ventricular contraction. These data suggest that vis a fronte filling of the heart is very important under resting conditions in trout and that vis a tergo filling of the heart becomes progressively more important as maximum cardiac output is reached.
10.1086/515897|The metabolic rate of precocial bird eggs reaches a plateau when about 80% of the incubation period has passed. This is unexpected, as in many species the embryo continues to grow and maintenance costs must therefore increase. To investigate this paradox, daily energy budgets were constructed for embryos of four galliform species according to two models that used empirical data on egg metabolic rate and embryo growth. In the first model, embryonic synthesis costs were estimated, with an assumed synthesis efficiency, before calculating the maintenance costs. In the second model, embryonic maintenance was calculated first, and no assumptions were made on the synthesis efficiency. The calculations show that assumptions of the synthesis efficiency had a major impact on the energy budget calculations, because embryonic growth rate was high. During the plateau phase, a galliform embryo allocated energy in favor of its maintenance costs in three ways: by decreasing growth rate, by increasing synthesis efficiency, and by depressing the formation of glycogen. Our study suggests that a reduction in growth rate plays a minor role. An increase of synthesis efficiency is more likely to explain the plateau in energy expenditure, since small increases in synthesis efficiency can lead to great savings on synthesis costs.
30158232|Seasonally acclimatized dark-eyed juncos were exposed to one of three temperature regimes: 30 C (thermoneutrality), - 12 C (moderate cold), or 2 C in a 20.9% oxygen/79.1% helium gas mixture (severe cold), for 2 h or until they became hypothermic. Plasma glucose and free fatty acids (FFA), pectoralis muscle and liver glycogen, and pectoralis lactate were measured after exposure. Pectoralis muscle mass increased by 28% in winter. This increased muscle mass may assist in improving cold tolerance by increasing capacity for shivering thermogenesis in winter birds. Plasma glucose was signiicantly reduced and plasma FFA were significantly elevated under severe cold in winter No differences in plasma metabolites with temperature were detected in summer. Pectoralis muscle glycogen decreased with increasing severity of cold stress at both seasons, but winter levels were significantly greater than summer levels under severe cold. No temperature-induced differences in liver glycogen were apparent, but pooled winter values significantly exceeded summer values. Pectoralis lactate was significantly lower under severe cold at both seasons. In addition, mean lactate values for birds becoming hypothermic in both summer (n = 7) and winter (n = 1) were markedly lower than for normothermic birds at the same test temperatures. These data are consistent with a pattern of augmentedpreferential use of FFA to support shivering, coupled with sparing of muscle glycogen, in winter birds relative to summer birds. Furthermore, the decrement of pectoralis lactate with hypothermia may suggest a link between a reduced ability to mobilize muscle glycogen and the onset of hypothermia.
30163720|Nitrogen (N) is a scarce and perhaps limiting nutrient for many herbivores. Herbivore populations that are able to adjust density rapidly in response to changes in ambient N levels would be able to optimize growth, survival, and reproduction during periods when N is more available and to avoid habitat depletion and mass starvation should N availability decline. We report here that the natural plant diet is growth limiting for the red land crab Gecarcinus lateralis (Freminville) on Bermuda, and that supplementation of the diet with high-nutrient food (soybeans) results in markedly reduced cannibalism of adults on conspecific juveniles. This predicts that populations in habitats where food quality is high will have greater survival of recruits than those in nutrient-deficient habitats. Nutritionally modulated cannibalism would allow population size to expand and contract with nutrient availability while minimizing mortality in reproductively active age classes.
30158230|The effects of ionic and/or osmotic change on skeletal muscle mitochondrial performance were investigated. Two substrates, pyruvate and glutamate, and variation in osmotic pressure from 205 to 360 mosm in KCl or mannitol/sucrose media had no effect on maximal respiratory rate (state 3) or coupling (respiratory control ratio) in either species. Over an equivalent range of osmolalities associated with dehydration, organismic maximal O-consumption rates are severely diminished with increasing osmolalities. The data do not support a mitochondrial limit to organismic O consumption under dehydration. There were interspecies differences in state 3 respiration and coupling that were similar to diferences noted in mitochondria isolated from fish red and white muscle, with toad mitochondria behaving more like red muscle and frog mitochondria behaving more like white muscle.
30155712|Increased levels of polypeptide elongation factor 1 (EF-1) have been found in livers of cold-acclimated toadfish in summer and winter. About 70% of the increased activity in cold-acclimated fish is associated with low-molecular-weight (50,000-200,000 daltons) forms of EF-1. Levels of EF-1 activity in vitro are shown to be correlated with elongation rate in vivo. The results suggest that EF-1 may be a rate-limiting component in control of protein metabolism with temperature acclimation.
30164215|We conducted two experiments to investigate how exercise endurance is modulated by the social environment of male lizards (Sceloporus undulatus) and whether this response is dependent on endogenous androgens. Male lizards were held in captivity for either 8 or 9-11 wk prior to measurements of running endurance. In both experiments, lizards were held either in complete isolation or in a single crowded group, and half of the isolated lizards in the 8-wk experiment were castrated to remove the predominant endogenous source of androgens. Endurance in the 9-11-wk experiment was threefold greater, and cardiac muscle mass was about 20% greater, in isolated than in crowded lizards. Testis, epididymis, and kidney morphology indicated that androgenic activity was higher in isolates. In the 8-wk experiment, running endurance was twofold greater in intact isolates than in either of the other two groups, whose values were indistinguishable. Plasma androgens were reduced in castrates compared with those in the other two groups. The intensity of communicative ventrolateral and gular pigmentation, which is known to be influenced by androgens, was significantly more vivid in intact isolates than in castrated or crowded lizards. Our results show that exercise endurance can change substantially within individuals over fairly short time periods. The expression of high endurance in isolates was associated with morphological evidence of higher androgenic activity than that in crowded males and required intact testes. Thus, the difference in endurance between crowded and isolated male lizards is associated with a probable difference in cardiac performance and seems likely to be mediated at least in part by androgenic steroids.
30157926|Juvenile mussels (Mytilus edulis) of ~10 mg dry mass were maintained at five ration levels, and their rates of heat dissipation were determined by direct calorimetry. Metabolic energy expenditure (heat dissipation rate) was partitioned into separate metabolic components in order to assess the relative costs of maintenance, food acquisition, digestion/absorption, and growth in relation to changes in algal ingestion rate (0.04-0.73 mg algae ingested d). Experimentally derived estimates of metabolic costs were then compared with theoretical bioenergetic estimates of costs. The cost of food acquisition and movement through the gut was minimal (<3% of total metabolic rate) and confirmed the low theoretical estimates. The measured cost of digestion and absorption was 17% of the total metabolic energy expenditure, and maximum theoretical estimates accounted for ca. 75% of this cost. The cost of growth increased to 34% of the total metabolic rate at the highest ingestion rate, and maximum theoretical estimates of the cost of protein and nonprotein synthesis could explain only ca. 56% of the measured cost of growth. The results are summarized in terms of the effect of ration level on the overall partitioning of metabolizable energy intake into tissue deposition (protein and nonprotein) and the total metabolic energy expenditure into the costs of maintenance, digestion, and growth.
10.1086/515864|Dissolved H
10.1086/515907|The objective of the present study was to determine the plasma levels of testosterone and corticosterone in male
30155886|Biotelemetry transmitters were surgically implanted in the abdominal cavity of 12 mature swamp rabbits, Sylvilagus aquaticus, to monitor the heart-rate response to forced and voluntary diving. Atropine and propranolol were used to investigate autonomic control of heart rate. Each untreated rabbit showed a marked (- 79%) bradycardia when forcefully submerged for 10 s. Mean heart-rate values during predive, dive, and recovery were 213  12.6, 44  7.5, and 206  14.9 beats/min (
30156176|Herbivorous reptiles are a comparatively rare group of animals, likely in part because of constraints resulting from interactions between ectothermy and herbivory. Herbivorous lizards, as a group, are characterized by a unique set of morphological, anatomical, and physiological properties. Additionally, most herbivorous lizards are found in (and perhaps partially confined to) the tropics. The most northerly distributed herbivorous lizards, the chuckwalla (Sauromalus obsesus) and the desert iguana (Dipsosaurus dorsalis), occur only in very hot regions of the desert southwestern United States. Herbivorous lizards digest their food much less efficiently than nonherbivorous lizards, and digestive efficiency is affected little by body temperature. However, the rate at which food passes through the gut is affected by body temperature in chuckwallas; specifically, food passes through the gut more slowly at lower body temperatures. Throughout the activity season, free-ranging chuckwallas exploit microhabitats allowing them to have high and constant body temperatures for the maximum amount of time during the day. The inefficiency with which chuckwallas extract energy from food may partially explain why this species occurs in hot desert climates. Indeed, this inefficiency may help to explain, inpart, why all herbivorous lizards in the Western Hemisphere occur in warm climates.
30158569|We used multiple regression analysis to evaluate the relationship between metabolic rate and three independent variables-mass, temperature, and standard or resting state-for squamate reptiles. For comparisons among adults of different species, mass raised to the .80 power explains 88% of the variation in metabolic rate. (The .80 mass exponent is significantly greater than the .75 predicted by theoretical considerations.) A further 8% of the variation in metabolic rate is explained by body temperature and whether the lizard is in a standard or resting metabolic state. Residuals were used to determine whether metabolic rates varied as a function of phylogenetic relationship or ecological grouping. Familial associations explained 16% of the variation in metabolic rate for varanids, lacertids, iguanids, colubrids, scincids, xantusiids, gekkonids, and boids. More variation (45%) was explained when lizards were partitioned into four ecological categories: day-active predators, hervibores, reclusive predators, and fossorial predators. A single equation relating metabolic rate to mass is thus inappropriate to estimate the metabolism of squamates. For intraspecific comparisons, the mass exponents of the relationship between metabolic rate and mass are significantly lower than .80 for 25 of 28 data sets. Estimating the metabolic rates of juvenile squamates from equations based on comparisons among species is thus invalid. Moreover, there is significant variability among mass exponents among the 14 species that met the statistical requirements for analysis of covariance, and a common mass exponent cannot be assumed for intraspecific comparisons.
10.1086/515909|We evaluated the use of water and sodium by freeliving individuals of several species of Australian honeyeaters (
30163835|These studies show that the ileum and possibly the rectum of larval lepidopterans are important sites of recovery of base equivalents secreted by the midgut. A model for recycling of fluid and solutes between gut lumen and hemolymph is presented. In this model K, bicarbonate, and fluid return from posterior to anterior parts of the animal both in the form of hemolymph and as Malpighian tubule fluid flowing in tubular loops closely apposed to the hemolymphal surface of the midgut. This arrangement appears adapted to maximize the eficiency of excretion of uric acid and other weak acids, while recycling K and bicarbonate.
30161223|Budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) flying at 37 km h in a wind tunnel were exposed to 2.45 GHz continuous wave (CW) radiation at power densities of 50 and 0 (control) mW cm for 600 s. Body temperatures were measured before and after flights, and thermoregulatory behavior was observed during and after flights. A power density of 50 mW cm induced thermoregulatory behaviors at ambient temperatures (<tex-math>$T_{a}$</tex-math>) above 26 C. Budgerigars were forced to land before the end of the 600-s exposure period when <tex-math>$T_{a}$</tex-math> was greater than 32 C. The specific absorption rate (W kg mW cm) of small bird species (<40 g) is greater than that for larger species and is more sensitive to the orientation of the long axis of the body to the electric (E) vector of the microwave field. Small bird species may be less susceptible to microwave-induced hyperthermia due to a greater ability to lose heat by convection, reradiation, and evaporation of water.
30161248|Ancestry, environment, and life-style of an animal determine its kidney form and function. Four suggestions are presented concerning functional and morphological adaptations: (1) in crocodilians (secondary invaders of aquatic environments) a diminished tubular ability to dilute the urine has been overcome through the exchange of Na and Cl for NH and HCO in tubular and cloacal fluids; (2) many species of lizards are partly ureotelic, and the presence of a bladder may be associated with urea excretion. In partly ureotelic lizards the urinary bladder serves as reservoir when water is available. When water is scarce, urine bypasses the bladder and flows directly into the coprodaeum, resulting in bacterial breakdown of urea and recycling of nitrogen into uric acid; (3) marine fishes and birds excrete excess salt extrarenally. In spite of salt loading, an NaCl solution isosmotic to the urine is reabsorbed from the bladder of marine fishes and from the urine in the lower intestine of marine birds. It serves in water conservation as it permits urinary concentration of divalent ions; and (4) in mammals, urine refluxes into the renal pelvic extentions only during rapidly rising urine flow when the urine osmolality is decreasing. Refluxing urine contacts primarily the vasa recta of the outer medulla. It promotes rapid wash-out of inner medullary urea and establishment of a water diuresis.
30163923|Hibernation in most mammals is accompanied by a pronounced seasonal body weight cycle. Fat is accumulated during summer and consumed during the following hibernation season. We investigated the annual time course of energy intake and energy expenditure and their interrelation with seasonal body weight fluctuations and hibernation in captive alpine marmots (Marmota marmota). All animals exhibited an annual body weight cycle with maximum weights in October and minimum weights after termination of hibernation, regardless of food availability during the hibernation season. Both energy uptake and expenditure reached highest values between June and August, when highest rates of body weight gain were observed. Between May and August energy intake exceeded the expenditure by an average of 383  28.3 kJ/d. From September onward, when weight gain in marmots was reduced, the energy balance became less positive. During the normal hibernation season a negative energy balance was observed, even when food was available. Body weight gain in alpine marmots was achieved by a more than 100% enhanced food intake during the summer months. However, this surplus of energy intake could be only partly used for fat accumulation since energetic costs for digestion and catabolism were also considerably increased. The observed annual cycle of energy expenditure reflects to a large extent the metabolic constraints of fat catabolism. The drop in energy expenditure prior to hibernation is therefore at least partly caused by a decreased food intake and body weight gain and seems to be less likely an energy saving mechanism to facilitate further fat accumulation.
30164203|We tested predictions of a chemical reactor model of digestion of glucose solutions by rainbow lorikeets (Trichoglossus haematodus, 125 g). The optimization criterion was the maximization of net energy gain. The predictions were that residence time in the small intestine would be inversely related to sugar concentration, and extraction efficiency would be inversely related to sugar concentration and generally below 90%. Residence time in the small intestine was indexed by the transit time (TT) of the nonabsorbed marker polyethylene glycol (molecular weight = 4, 000), and extraction efficiency was measured by the inert indicator ratio technique. Birds were tested when ingesting 0.4 or 1.2 M D-glucose. All predictions were rejected: TT was independent of concentration (average = 37  4 min, n = 7 birds), and extraction efficiency was uniformly very high (98.0%  0.4%) and also not influenced by glucose concentration. At low and high sugar concentration the rates of glucose absorption were similar (average = 4 mmol/ h). Extraction efficiency of sucrose solution at one concentration, 1.2 M, was 90.5%  1.0% (n = 6). Stomach-emptying rate appeared slower at high glucose concentration, perhaps owing to negative feedback arising from intestinal receptors. Total (mouth-to-anus) mean retention time was independent of glucose concentration and averaged 88  12 min. Because the birds were not growing, storing fat, or reproducing, perhaps the assumption about energy maximization was inappropriate. The birds' responses were consistent with the goal of minimizing feeding time.
10.1086/515923|Energy allocation for maternal maintenance and milk production was examined in lactating hispid cotton rats
10.1086/515973|The goals of this study were to (1) measure plasma osmolytes and rectal gland weights of a freshwater (FW) Atlantic stingray (
30163716|Metabolic rates (doubly labeled water), daily time budgets, and feeding rates were determined for free-ranging marine iguanas on Isla Fernandina, Galpagos. Field metabolic rates were related to body mass according to the equation kJ/day = 0.079
30155743|The ratio of extravascular lung water content to blood-free, dry-lung weight in the domestic fowl (Gallus domesticus) is approximately 2.10. The fractional water content of the blood-free lung in the domestic fowl is approximately 0.68. The pulmonary extravascular water content of the domestic fowl is less than that reported for mammals and may reflect an important difference in pulmonary fluid balance between the two classes of animals.
30158667|When Polymesoda was transferred from 10 to fresh water, the free amino acid (FAA) pool decreased by 70% in 24 h; alanine accounted for 85% of the decrease. In Polymesoda blood, FAA doubled within 10 h after hypoosmotic stress; between 10 and 24 h the FAA decreased by 24%. Most of the increase and subsequent decrease were accounted for by alanine. In Corbicula, transferred from 5 to fresh water, the FAA pool decreased by 87% in 48 h; alanine accounted for 73% of the decrease. Upon transfer from fresh water to 10, the free amino acid (FAA) pool of Polymesoda foot muscle increased from 27 to 176 mol/g dry weight during the first 36 h; between 36 and 73 h the FAA pool increased only to 187 mol/g dry weight. Alanine accounted for 56% of the increase before 36 h and 77% after 36 h. When Corbicula was transferred from fresh water to 5 the FAA pool increased from 20 to 115 mol/g dry weight; between 70 h and 30 days the pool increased to 197 mol/g dry weight. Alanine accounted for 78% of the initial increase in the FAA pool.
30155888|During hibernation the metabolism of Eptesicus fuscus is supported almost entirely by the oxidation of fats. The present study presents evidence for seasonal and shortterm adjustments which could account for the virtual absence of carbohydrate metabolism during hibernation in this species. Seasonal changes in the activities of the enzymes phosphofructokinase, hexokinase, -hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase, and citrate synthase and in the concentration of cytochrome c indicate a seasonal decrease in the capacity for carbohydrate oxidation relative to that for fatty acid oxidation. The maximal respiratory rates of pectoralis muscle homogenates using pyruvate as a substrate are significantly greater in homogenates prepared from summer bats than in those from hibernating bats. The maximal respiratory rates supported by palmitate oxidation do not vary seasonally. The oxidation pyruvate by mitochondria isolated from pectoralis muscles is markedly inhibited by physiological concentrations of palmitoyl-carnitine, with no decrease in oxygen consumption, indicating that pectoralis muscle mitochondria preferentially oxidize fatty acids when they are present. This pattern of inhibition was observed in mitochondria from both summer and winter bats. However, the inhibition of pyruvate oxidation by palmitoyl-carnitine is significantly greater in mitochondria isolated from hibernating bats than in those from summer bats. These data suggest that carbohydrate metabolism is limited during hibernation by a number of factors which may work in concert in vivo.
30160964|In the resting, air-breathing sea snake, Laticauda colubrina, the gas tension differences between the alveoli and the pulmonary vein
30158649|Sea snakes (Pelamis platurus) acclimated to a 10-m tank for 24 h routinely dove with sufficient lung volumes to be near neutrally buoyant at depth. Naive snakes in the same tank dove with much more variable lung volumes, and one of these snakes had sufficient volume to be neutrally buoyant at 30 m (4 atm). With longer dive times, acclimated snakes, because of their consumption of pulmonary O and the transcutaneous losses of CO and N, lost lung volume and became negatively buoyant. Sixtyfive percent of the dives of free-swimming snakes tracked at sea are characterized by a four-phased pattern of (a) descent, (b) bounce ascent, (c) gradual ascent, and (d) final ascent. The gradual ascent phase accounts for about 82% of total submergence time on each dive and may reflect a period when free-swimming snakes gradually ascend and, by Boyle's Law, compensate for buoyancy lost because of the decline in pulmonary volume. The capacity of P. platurus to dive deeply and repetitively is attributable to increased lung 02 supply, to specializations for cutaneous gas exchange, and to an intracardiac pulmonary shunt. Shunting, which is well developed in sea snakes, assures management of pulmonary O reserves in a fashion that augments cutaneous respiration and establishes favorable transcutaneous diffusion gradients that facilitate the loss of N (to avert Caisson disease) and the uptake of O. Our studies suggest that shunting also minimizes the rate of buoyancy change and thus lowers the energetic costs of swimming for a diving snake.
30163746|We determined the effects of dietary protein and
10.1086/515895|Rainbow trout exposed to unbuffered water of pH 10.5 initially showed significant increases in blood pH, plasma cortisol and glucose, partial pressure of NH
30163856|Little is known about how the mammalian ventilatory system accommodates the large change in rates of O consumption
30164289|The dependency of the Christmas Island blue crab, Cardisoma hirtipes, on fresh water for respiratory gas exchange and transport was investigated in laboratory simulations. The gas exchange rates of air-breathing C. hirtipes were similar to those of other land crabs but decreased to 20% in submerged crabs. Crabs with access to air maintained arterial and pulmonary O content (CO) and partial pressure (PO), while in submerged crabs the PO and CO rapidly decreased (by 50%). There was no anaerobiosis, but haemolymph glucose concentration and cardiac output decreased when crabs were submersed, which suggests a hypometabolic state. Submersion induced a metabolic rather than a respiratory alkalosis, and since respiratory gas exchange was low, CO excretion to water was unimportant. Cardisoma hirtipes haemocyanin (Hc) has high O affinity but low pH sensitivity, which facilitates O uptake from hypoxic environments. The high Hc-O affinity supports O loading but may prevent access to a venous O reserve. Calcium, magnesium, and urate, but not L-lactate, were effectors of Hc-O affinity. In submerged crabs increased circulating urate maintained haemolymph O content. The CO capacitance and nonbicarbonate buffering of the haemolymph were relatively low. A significant Haldane effect seemed important for CO excretion but would require CO and O exchange to occur at the same organ (gills or lungs). Submersion interferes with respiration and is not needed for haemolymph acid-base balance; thus, C. hirtipes is an air-breathing crab.
30158596|The body temperature (
30158586|Male European starlings, Sturnus vulgaris, were implanted with varying dosages of testosterone in June, shortly before the natural onset of the molt. Dose-dependent effects on the primary, secondary, and body molts were found. In general, testosterone delayed the onset of molt and slowed its progress. Since the duration of the molt was relatively unaffected, the molt in testosterone-treated birds stopped before its completion. It was not resumed when the implants were removed in November. The plasma testosterone levels in all implanted birds tended to be lower during the molt than afterward. The opposite was true of thyroxine plasma titers. A negative correlation was found between testosterone levels during the molt and the final molt score, and a positive correlation was found between thyroxine and the final molt score.
30152560|Thermoregulation of Arctic least weasels (Mustela rixosa) and ermines (Mustela erminea) in winter and summer pelage was studied at Point Barrow, Alaska. Mean body temperatures at
30161224|Although sand partridges (Ammoperdix heyi) and chukars (Alectoris chukar sinaica) of the Negev desert are sympatric in some areas, sand partridges are endemic to arid regions, whereas chukars are primarily mesophilous. We reasoned that one thermoregulatory adaptation that might favor sand partridges over chukars in arid environments would be a better ability to regulate brain (hypothalamic) temperature, especially during heat stress and water deprivation. We therefore exposed both species to ambient temperatures ($T_{a}$) from 28.5 to 44.5 C before and after water deprivation. We simultaneously measured colonic and hypothalamic temperatures ($T_{c}$, and $T_{h}$ respectively) and the frequencies (f) of breathing, panting, and gular flutter. The $T_{c}$, increased directly with $T_{a}$ to the same extent in both watered and water-deprived groups of both species. However, sand partridges could thermoregulate and maintain $T_{h}$ lower than $T_{c}$, even when $T_{a}$ exceeded $T_{c}$, whereas chukars could not. Both species responded to water deprivation by reducing f increasing $T_{c}$ and $T_{h}$ thresholds for panting, and changing the patterns and/or frequencies of panting and gular flutter. As a result, $T_{c} - T_{h} (i.e., \DeltaT)$ in waterdeprived birds decreased with increasing $T_{c}$ (i.e., T) in water-deprived birds decreased with increasing $T_{c}$ until panting began. At that point T began to increase with $T_{c}$. In chukars, T was influenced by $T_{a}$, by water deprivation, and by the interaction between them, whereas T in sand partridges was influenced only by the interaction of water deprivation with $T_{a}$. Our findings suggest that sand partridges are better able to regulate body and brain temperatures during heat stress and water deprivation than are chukars and that this may contribute to their ability to live in very arid areas from which chukars are absent.
30163817|Resting metabolic rate (RMR) and body temperature (
30164245|The energetic cost of molt in birds is generally considered to be high and is frequently regarded as being a main reason for the temporal separation of molt from reproduction and other activities. We assessed the energetic cost of the postnuptial molt in dippers, Cinclus cinclus, using laboratory measurements of O consumption and CO production of molting and nonmolting individuals, timeactivity budgets in the field, and the doubly labeled water technique on free-living, molting birds. Energy expenditures of molting dippers within their thermal neutral zone in the laboratory (males, 92 kJ
30155787|A study was made of respiration and metabolism in Amazonian manatees (Trichechus inunguis) weighing between 20 and 170 kg. These animals had a low metabolic rate, 0.36 times that predicted by Kleiber's 1975 equation for placental mammals. They also had a low breathing frequency and minute ventilation, and high O extraction and CO output. The mean dive times were less than 2 min but dives of up to 10 min-duration were noted. Sequential dive times exhibited a pattern only in that several short dives followed a prolonged one.
30163775|The physiological responses of rainbow trout were followed during 48 h of high pH (pH 9.5) exposure and a further 48 h of recovery at pH 8.0. High pH exposure temporarily inhibited ammonia excretion (
30158192|The properties of 6-phosphofructo-1-kinase (PFK) were analyzed in foot muscle, mantle, and hepatopancreas of the land snail, Otala lactea (Pulmonata, Helicidae). The enzyme in all tissues showed properties common to PFK from other invertebrate sources including sigmoidal fructose 6-phosphate (F6P) kinetics at pH 7, activation by AMP, fructose-2, 6-bisphosphate, NH, and inorganic phosphate, and weak inhibition by Mg ATP and citrate. Novel to O. lactea PFK, however, was an activation of the enzyme by low levels of phosphoenolpyruvate (
30159950|Oxygen consumption of the eastern tent caterpillar moth, Malacosoma americanum (mean body mass = 88 mg), during free hovering flight was independent of ambient temperature from 17 to 30 C and averaged 126 ml of O (g  h). Mean wing stroke frequency was also unaffected by
30152621|Total oxygen consumption (
30164319|Neonates of many mammalian species, including humans, depend primarily on thermogenesis by brown adipose tissue as a defense against cold challenge. Although the steady-state thermogenic responses of brown adipose tissue to various air temperatures are well known, the dynamic responses have received relatively little attention. In this article, we examine the relative stability of brown adipose tissue thermogenesis during brief perturbations of air temperature. Specifically, week-old rats were allowed to settle at one of two levels of cold exposure. These two levels were defined on the basis of previous work as being moderate (30.5C) or extreme (23C). After pups had settled at these temperatures, they were exposed to positive or negative air temperature perturbations of approximately 3.7C. Pups experiencing perturbations from the moderate air temperature, unlike those exposed to the extreme air temperature, exhibited organized thermogenic responses that allowed them to return quickly to their preperturbation conditions. These data suggest that brown adipose tissue thermogenesis is more stably controlled than has previously been suspected.
30158288|The effects of the angiotensin II (AII) antagonist, saralasin, on the rehydration behavior of dehydrated toads (Bufo punctatus) were examined during periods of (1) rising or steady and (2) falling barometric pressure. When allowed to rebydrate during periods of rising or steady barometric pressure, Ringer's-treated (control) toads returned to their pretest (ad lib.) weight, while saralasin-treated toads terminated water-absorption-response (WR) behavior before regaining their ad lib. weight. When the barometric pressure was falling the pattern of WR behavior and weight gain was reversed: control toads failed to regain their ad lib. weight, while saralasin-treated toads did regain their ad lib. weight. The rates of water gain were the same for all treatment groups, indicating that the changes in water gain were due to the time spent in the WR. The results of this study suggest that endogenous All is involved in the regulation of WR behavior in B. punctatus and that WR behavior is also modulated by climatic factors that might affect the availability of water.
30166347|When naturally infected with the malarial parasite Plasmodium mexicanum, Western fence lizards, Sceloporus occidentalis, exhibit numerous reproductive pathologies. Infected males display fewer courtship and territorial behaviors, have altered sexually dimorphic coloration, and have smaller testes. Infected animals store less fat by late summer, which, for females, reduces clutch size in the spring We describe hormonal alterations associated with malarial parasitism that may underlie this reproductive inhibition. We caught lizards in the field and bled them either immediately or 1 h after capture for measurement of basal and stress levels of steroid hormones. Compared to uninfected lizards, infected lizards had lower levels of basal plasma testosterone (24 vs. 38 ng/mL) and higher levels of corticosterone (18 vs. 8 ng/mL) following 1 h of capture and confinement. Infected animals also had lower levels of plasma glucose (243 vs. 270 mg/dL). When we experimentally elevated plasma corticosterone of uninfected lizards in large outdoor enclosures, the animals showed decreases in testosterone, testis size, and stored fat similar to those of infected animals in the wild. We hypothesize that the parasite induces alterations in the adrenal response to acute stress, resulting in a suppression of testosterone and the inhibition of reproductive behavior.
30156240|Adjustments of renal function can conserve significant amounts of water for terrestrial mammals and birds during periods of water scarcity. By measuring renal function in unanesthetized, unrestrained Gambel's quail (Callipepla gambelii) while normally hydrated (NH) and after 4-5 d of water deprivation (WD), we tested the hypothesis that these birds respond to water deprivation by decreasing their glomerular filtration rate (GFR), thus lowering urine flow and attendant water loss. Glomerular filtration rate averaged 17.7 mL/h in NH quail and declined to 7.7 mL/h in WD quail. Tubular reabsorption of fluids increased slightly as a result of water deprivation, but the primary renal mechanism for water conservation was reduction in GFR. When deprived of water, Gambel's quail did not reduce their GFR more, nor concentrate their urine more, than other avian species from more mesic habitats. Urine-to-plasma osmotic ratios averaged 1.6. Final adjustments in water content of the urine are likely made in the lower gastrointestinal tract because NH quail reflux urine from the cloaca into this region. However, as urine osmolality increases because of dehydration, the osmotic gradient between plasma and luminal contents of the lower intestine may eventually prevent solute-linked water flux from the intestine. We suggest that quail no longer reflux urine under such circumstances. We developed an allometric equation relating GFR to body mass for NH birds that predicts a GFR of 40.3 mL/h for a 158. O-g Gambel's quail, a value 2.3 times higher than measured. We suggest that the evolution of a conservative metabolic rate has permitted a reduction in GFR and attendant water loss by way of urine flow.
30159998|The effects of changes in temperature (1.5 to 25 C) and in the concentration ofLlactate on oxygen binding by the bemocyanin of Hyas araneus and H. coarctatus were compared. At temperatures above 15 C the binding of oxygen by both bemocyanins was essentially temperature insensitive, but below 15 C and at lowpH the sensitivity increased. Comparing data obtained at temperatures above 10 C with those collected at 1.5 C, the temperature decrease was accompanied by a reduction in the size of the Bohr effect. The Bobrfactor changedfrom approximately 0.7 to 0.3 andfrom 0.8 to 0.SforH. coarctatus andH. araneus hemocyanin, respectively. Temperature changes affected the affinities of the deoxygenatedH. coarctatus hemocyanin to a greater extent than that of the oxygenatedpigment, which was reflected by a decrease in cooperativity. This was due to a depression of the intrinsic affinity
30159946|Sea turtle (Chelonia, Caretta) eggs consume O throughout their 55-65 day incubation. The pattern of O uptake (at 30 C) appears sigmoidal. The rate of O uptake increases rapidly during the second half of incubation, slowing slightly just prior to hatching. The maximum O uptake (
30163899|Baroreceptors with afferent fibers in branches of the glossopharyngeal nerve or the vagus have been identified in all three arterial arches in anuran amphibians. Baroreceptors in the pulmocutaneous arch (PCA) appear to provide the principal feedback of arterial blood pressure to the cardiovascular centers of the medulla. An additional contribution arises from receptors within the aortic arch. The receptors are slowly adapting mechanoreceptors and, at least in the case of the PCA baroreceptors, transmit baroreceptive information via nonmyelinated afferents. Pressure thresholds coincide with the range of systolic arterial pressures associated with undisturbed toads. Therefore, increases in systolic pressure above resting result in both increases in firing frequency and the recruitment of previously inactive receptors. Denervation experiments demonstrate that feedback from PCA baroreceptors tonically inhibits the cardiovascular system even at rest. Experimental elevation of PCA pressure above resting values causes bradycardia and reduces systemic vascular resistance, resulting in a compensatory reduction in systemic arterialpressure. In addition, PCA resistance increases, which probably reflects a constriction of the extrinsic pulmonary artery. This response opposes the negative feedback regulation of arterial pressure but may protect the pulmonary microvasculature by increasing upstream resistance, thereby reducing intravascular pressures in pulmonary vessels. This is consistent with the view that the primary role of anuran PCA baroreceptors is to protect the delicate vasculature of the gas-exchange organ against high central driving pressures transmitted by the incompletely divided anuran circulation. Future studies should be directed toward an investigation of the central pathways involved in the PCA baroreflex.
30158156|The crustacean cardiac ganglion consists of a small number of neurons that drive contractions of heart muscle. In isopods, cardiac neurons are similar in size and spontaneity. They all couple electrically and produce synchronous bursts of impulses to activate the muscle. In stomatopods, cardiac neurons are divided into pacemakers and followers, although all are motoneurons and are electrically connected. In decapods, cardiac neurons are differentiated into large motoneurons and small interneurons. The large and small neurons interact mutually via electrical and chemical synaptic connections to produce synchronous burst discharges. These neurons exhibit overlapping innervation fields. Synchronization of their output is dominated by electrical interaction in the short crab ganglia and by chemical interaction in the longer lobster ganglia. When the lobster heart is exposed to high filling pressure, heart rate usually follows the bursting of the large neurons. Under the influence of serotonin, which selectively activates small cardiac neurons, heart rate follows the bursting of small neurons, even at high filling pressures. Therefore, the maximum rates of decapod hearts may vary as afunction of activation of the large and/or small neurons.
30158441|An elevated metabolism requires the sea otter, Enhydra lutris, to include large quantities of invertebrate prey in its diet. This necessitates processing large quantities of energy, nitrogen, electrolytes, and water. Feeding studies were conducted to document these high material and energy fluxes and the dilution of tritiated water through time was used to measure total water flux. Total energy influx on a diet of clam and squid was 234  19 (X  SE) kcal/kg-day with an assimilation efficiency of 82% and an estimated metabolic efficiency of 72%. Material influx from food was 5.22  0.41 (X  SE) g/kg-day nitrogen and 166 meq/kg-day electrolytes (Cl, Na, K, Mg). The presence of large lobulate kidneys may allow for the production of large volumes of urine at elevated concentrations. Urine samples from wild and captive animals had a mean osmotic pressure of 1,627  91 mOsm/kg (range, 910-2,130), which was composed of 647 meq/L Na, K, Cl and 698  67 mmol/L urea. Total water flux was 269  25 mL/kg-day. Mean seawater ingested was estimated to be 62 mL/kg-day (range, 0-124), and it may aid in the urea elimination by increasing the urinary osmotic space.
30155807|We measured standard operative temperatures (
30163705|Specific dynamic action (SDA), measured in three sea otters using indirect calorimetry, is 10.0%-13.2% of the ingested clam or squid energy. Sea otter SDA is intermediate in magnitude and shorter in duration than reported for marine mammals that were fed fish. The postprandial peak increase in resting
10.1086/515869|A high correlation was observed between the concentration of urea in the maternal plasma and the concentration of urea in the ovarian fluid during postyolk sac growth of the embryos in the ovary of the viviparous blenny (eelpout)
30156182|The relationship between flight-muscle ratio (FMR; flight-muscle mass/body mass) and aerial competitive ability was studied in Plathemis lydia dragonflies. These dragonflies approximately double their body mass during adult maturation. This is due primarily to growth of flight muscle in males and growth of ovaries in females. Males attain one of the highest FMRs of any animal; up to 60% of their body mass is flight muscle. During observations of relative mating success among groups of two to five individually marked males, there was a significant decline in mating success with decreasing FMR rank. Relative mating success was measured by the proportion of total daily oviposition time spent by females mated last by each male. Males that had their FMRs reduced experimentally by attachment of small weights had poor territorial and mating success when they were competing with unweighted males. These results suggest that a high FMR enhances ability to compete in aerial contests, which enables greater short-term mating success. Mature males with the highest FMRs had the least gut contents and fat reserves; thus, there is a trade-off made between flight ability and nutritional state that may affect longevity and long-term mating success. A trade-off between benefits derived from enhanced flight performance and costs incurred by reducing the mass of tissues other than flight muscle is probably widespread among flying animals.
30163904|This review summarizes current knowledge of avian baroreceptor location, innervation pattern, and function. Birds have one set of arterial baroreceptors associated with the root of the aortic arch and innervated bilaterally by the aortic nerves, branches of the vagus originating from the nodose ganglia. There is a tonic level of baroreceptor input to the baroregulatory mechanisms in the brain stem, and this baroreceptor input is necessary for the maintenance of normotensive pressure in birds. Arterial blood pressure rises acutely and remains chronically elevated after barodenervation. Few studies of baroreceptor or baroreflex function have been made in birds. Baroreceptors discharge in systole with properties similar to high-threshold, slowly adapting mammalian baroreceptors. Evaluating the results of studies of baroreflex function in birds is problematic, since these studies were inconsistent in methodology. They were done in either awake or anesthetized animals, and several different methods for varying arterial pressure were used. It is recommended that baroreflex function be assessed by examining the correlation between spontaneously occurring values of heart rate or cardiac output and arterial pressure measured simultaneously in awake, unrestrained animals. The contribution of baroreceptors to cardiovascular control during exercise and submersion, and possible roles of the baroreflex in homeostasis, are discussed This review emphasizes the lack of data about the nature of baroreceptors and their participation in the integrated control of the circulation in birds.
30158647|Evidence from respiratory and circulatory studies suggests that the hagfish genus Eptatretus is more adapted to an aerobic life and is more active than Myxine. This study aims to compare the cardiac dynamics of the two genera. The ECG of E. cirrhatus differed from that of fish in showing both a clear V wave and a PT deflection, the first caused by depolarization of the sinus venosus and the second by the repolarization of the atrium. Atrial and ventricular pressures were low; the ventral aortic average pressure was 16.3  3.5 cm HO. Various cardiac parameters of the two hagfish are compared, and it is concluded that their hearts are very alike but differ from those of teleost fish in the slow rate of conduction in and contraction of the myocardium. These findings are discussed with reference to its anaerobic metabolism, its absence of a coronary circulation and T tubules, and the uncertain development of gap junctions between the myocardial cells.
30163938|The white-tailed prairie dog is a spontaneous hibernator that enters an anorexic state followed by torpor in early fall. The black-tailed prairie dog is a facultative hibernator that enters torpor only when deprived of food and water in the winter. The physiological state of hibernation is similar to a Phase II euthermic fast characterized by elevated fat catabolism, increased blood ketone bodies, and conservation of protein tissues. It was hypothesized that these spontaneous and facultative hibernators use fat and protein differently during a fast prior to the hibernation season. Weekly blood and urine samples were taken from both species during a 5-wk period of food and water deprivation. The black-tailed prairie dog lost mass at a greater rate and had a larger daily urine volume and urea, ammonia, and potassium excretion, as well as a higherplasma urea/creatinine ratio, all of which define a greater rate of protein catabolism for this species than for the white-tailed prairie dog. The black-tailed prairie dog, therefore, does not conserve protein to the same extent as the white-tailed prairie dog during a Phase II fast typical of hibernation starvation. Ketone bodies do not appear to regulate protein catabolism directly. But the greater protein catabolism by the black-tailed prairie dog may be related to pH and water balance requirements that are circumvented in the white-tailed prairie dog by engaging in spontaneous torpor. Both species evolved from populations of ancestral prairie dogs that have retained the ability to hibernate spontaneously. It is hypothesized that the black-tailed prairie dogs may not have maintained the capacity for a deep Phase II, protein-conserving state typical of hibernation starvation but keep an active profile throughout winter, relying to a greater extent on protein catabolism in response to selective pressures of greater predation, higher food abundance, and perhaps a need to preserve fat stores for reproduction.
30164212|We systematically determined the prevalence of altered enzyme expression by examining all the enzymes in a single metabolic pathway, glycolysis. The contributions of evolutionary adaptation and physiological acclimation to this alteration were distinguished by quantifying the variation between populations and determining the effect of acclimation on enzyme expression. Of the 10 cardiac glycolytic enzymes, two enzymes, phosphoglucoisomerase and aldolase, were expressed at a significantly greater level in a northern population of Fundulus heteroclitus than in a southern population but were unaffected by acclimation temperature. The expression of two other enzymes, phosphoglyceromutase and enolase, was the same in both populations at a given temperature but significantly greater at the colder acclimation temperature. These findings indicate that both evolved differences between populations and physiological adjustment within a population occur in a single pathway and can potentially compensate for the differences in the thermal environment. All four enzymes that show variation are equilibrium enzymes that are traditionally considered to be incapable of producing compensatory metabolic changes. Our results thus call into question the paradigm that only nonequilibrium enzymes are important for the regulation of metabolism.
30163350|From 25, 15, and 5 C-acclimated green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus), liver microsomes were prepared by Ca precipitation. During cold acclimation, phosphatidyl choline (PC) declined and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and inositol increased. In coldadapted fish the proportion of saturated fatty acids in the phospholipids (PLs) was less, the proportion of monounsaturated fatty acids was greater, and the proportion of polyunsaturated fatty acids did not change. The ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids increased on cold acclimation as previously reported. Microsomes from winter fish contained less saturated fatty acids and more mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acids than microsomes from summer fish when the fish were similarly acclimated in the laboratory. Analyses of incorporation of fatty acid substrates (16:0, 8:0, 18:2n6, 8:3n3) showed that palmitate was preferentially incorporated into phosphatidyl classes. The proportion of labeled palmitic acid in phosphatidic acid may reflect reorganization of the total lipid pool. Incorporation of
30152634|Continuous records of nighttime O consumption (
30159964|Water loss in Eleodes armata and Cryptoglossa verrucosa increased with increasing temperature and decreasing vapor activity (
30158539|Daily activity periods, thermal profiles, and stomach contents of Sceloporus variabilis (7.7 g mean body mass) were studied at Bastonal (1,000 m elevation) and Monte Pio (45 m elevation) in southern Veracruz, Mexico. Metabolic rates of free-ranging lizards were measured during late summer using doubly labeled water and were compared to values for temperate sceloporine lizards. Lizards were active from about 0800 hours to 1800 hours. Mean body temperatures of lizards averaged 28.9 C at Bastonal and 32.4 C at Monte Pio. Water-influx rates averaged 132 and 108 mL CO (kg d) at Bastonal and Monte Pio, respectively. Metabolic rates measured in the field were not different at the two sites and when combined averaged 0.40 mL (g h) or 240 J (g d). Metabolic rates averaged about 6.5 times estimated resting metabolic rate, and activity metabolism accounted for 73% of total respiration. Water-influx rates of S. variabilis are about 4.5 times higher and field metabolic rates are about 1.6 times higher than similar values reported for temperate sceloporine lizards. The increased metabolic and water-flux rates in S. variabilis are apparently due to a combination of greater availability of food and water, favorable thermal conditions, and a higher level of foraging activity and movements than those of temperate sceloporine lizards.
30156247|We examined hypoxic boundary layers surrounding the skin-breathing aquatic plethodontid salamander Desmognathus quadramaculatus and investigated the flow regime in the natural habitat of this species. In slow-flowing water (<10 cm  s), which we found to be the preferred microhabitat in nature, the boundary layer is the major resistance to oxygen uptake. Consequently, PO at the skin surface in slow-flowing water falls below 60 Torr even though Po in the free stream exceeds 150 Torr, and aerobic metabolism is severely impaired. Four salamanders survived reduced aerobic metabolism for 4 mo in the laboratory, implying that D. quadramaculatus can severely restrict overall metabolic needs and/ or makes extensive use of anaerobic metabolic pathways.
30156106|The nutrient composition of yolk was analyzed in giant Canada geese (Branta canadensis maxima) in relation to growth and early organ development. Eggs were collected from wild geese and incubated artificially. The goslings were raised in groups of either fed or starved birds and killed at intervals up to 25 days of age. Organs of the digestive system of fed goslings grew faster than the rest of the body from day 0 to day 6 and grew more slowly in the later growth period (days 10-25). Goslings increased significantly their ability to metabolize energy after day 8. The gizzard and large intestine of starved goslings increased in weight from day 0 to day 4, while all other components remained the same weight. After day 4 the leg muscles, pectoralis, and the rest of the body were depleted. Subcutaneous fat was the major source of energy for starved birds. Fed and starved goslings used yolk at the same rate after hatching and were similar in their use of protein, minerals, neutral lipids, phospholipids, and cholesterol. In both starved and fed goslings yolk does not function solely as a source of energy but also provides nutrients for rapid growth of the digestive system.
30161214|The abilities to maintain body mass (<tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math>) during water deprivation and to recover <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> when water becomes available were compared in captive sand partridges (Ammoperdix heyi) and chukars (Alectoris chukar sinaica). These two phasianids are broadly sympatric in the Negev Desert; however, sand partridges, the smaller and paler of the two, inhabit extremely arid areas where chukars are absent. Six sand partridges and five chukars were offered water following 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 days of water deprivation. There were five successive trials in each water treatment except the first, when there were 10 trials. Rates of <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> loss at 1-3 days of water deprivation were higher in chukars (1.5%-2.8% <tex-math>$m_{b}/day$</tex-math>) than in sand partridges (1.3%-2.2%), but were similar at 4-6 days of water deprivation (1.2%-1.3% <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> per day). Sand partridges consistently recovered <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> better than chukars, and the difference was significant in the 5-day treatment. When the birds received water every 6 days, plasma osmolality was 346 mOsm/kg in sand partridges and 356 mOsm/kg in chukars immediately after drinking and increased to 374 mOsm/kg and 376 mOsm/kg, respectively, with water deprivation. Following drinking, the water in excreta was 93% in chukars and 77% in sand partridges (P < .01) and fell to 57% and 59%, respectively, with water deprivation. Evaporative water loss (EWL) during 6 days of water deprivation was 41% of the total water loss for sand partridges, or 1.3% <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> per day, and 60% of the total water loss for chukars, or 1.8% <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> per day. These rates declined to 1.1% and 1.5% <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> per day for sand partridges and chukars, respectively, during the last 3 days of the 6 days of water deprivation. Sand partridges apparently are better able to maintain <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> during water deprivation and are better able to recover <tex-math>$m_{b}$</tex-math> with intermittent drinking. These advantages of the sand partridges are mainly due to their lower EWL when compared with the chukars and may explain in part how they can inhabit extremely arid areas where chukars are absent.
30158632|Retention times of markers of particulate (
30156018|Oxygen consumption and body temperature were monitored for two subspecies of western harvest mouse, Reithrodontomys megalotis, under standard conditions for resting (basal) metabolism and during shallow daily torpor. Reithrodontomys m. longicaudus (7.77 g), from southern California, had a resting metabolic rate 127%, and a heat loss coefficient 126%, that expected from body mass. Reithrodontomys m. ravus (9.81 g), from near the Great Salt Lake in Utah, had both a significantly lower resting metabolic rate (114%) and a significantly lower heat loss coefficient (91%) than longicaudus. Reithrodontomys m. longicaudus was readily induced to enter shallow daily torpor when held at temperatures below thermoneutrality and starved for 10-12 h. Despite its lower rate of metabolism, R. m. ravus rarely entered torpor under any combination of cold- or starvation-induced stress. This differential use of torpor between two closely related subspecies may be partially attributed to differences in body mass and heat loss. McNab's "boundary line" hypothesis for homeothermy was examined with respect to R. megalotis.
30161265|The fractional rate of protein synthesis ($K_{s}$ %/day-i.e., the percentage of tissue protein synthesized per day) was measured in various tissues of 6-day fasted rainbow trout at 3, 6, and 12 h after being refed. There was a significant stimulation in the rate of protein synthesis in all of the tissues except the white muscle by 3 h after refeeding. The red muscle, white muscle, and ventricle exhibited a slow, graded response, with the white muscle not reaching levels found in continually fed fish 12 h after the meal. The gill, stomach, and intestine showed a rapid rise in protein synthesis reaching a plateau after approximately 3 h. The liver exhibited a peak in protein synthesis within 3 h that subsequently declined. Generally, there was no effect of refeeding on tissue RNA/protein ratio (used to indicate tissue ribosome concentration) so that these changes in tissue protein synthesis were brought about through an increase in protein synthesis per unit RNA (which is indicative of an alteration in the rate of ribosomal translation). Following the injection of the prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor, indomethacin, only in the gill was the refeeding stimulation partially blocked, implicating the prostaglandins in the regulation of protein synthesis in this tissue.
30160962|In Drosophila melanogaster, the atrophie gonadique character (ag) can affect either one gonad (S1 type) or both (S0 type); ag penetrance varies according to temperature with a thermosensitive period embryonic development. Analysis of the relationship between the frequency of atrophy and rising temperature shows that nonaggregative models, in which each pole cell is killed independently of the others, are inadequate to fit the data well. With a Neyman A aggregative model, a good agreement is shown which permits prediction of all observed biological situations. Here, atrophie gonadique might be explained by an embryonic pole-cell thermosensitivity that would induce degeneration or inability to migrate. The notion of penetrance in relation to temperature is discussed in terms of threshold character, taking the underlying explicative variable as the number of surviving pole cells.
30164247|Fatty acid content and enzymes of fatty acid metabolism were studied in overwintering larvae of two cold-hardy gall insects, the freeze-tolerant fly Eurosta solidaginis and the freeze-avoiding moth Epiblema scudderiana. Both species increased the proportion of unsaturated fatty acids during the winter. Whereas total lipid content did not change in Eurosta solidaginis, a decrease in total lipids over the winter in Epiblema scudderiana suggested the use of fat reserves to maintain basal metabolism. Changes in the activities of enzymes of fat oxidation correlated with these observations in Eurosta solidaginis: hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, carnitine-palmitoyl transferase, and acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase activities all decreased during overwintering. In Epiblema scudderiana the same activities were constant, decreased, or increased. These activities were, however, higher in the fat-oxidizing, freeze-avoiding species than in the freeze-tolerant larvae. Lipid content in Epiblema scudderiana increased again by early spring, possibly indicating this pool as the fate of carbon derived from the spring clearance of the cryoprotectant glycerol pool. Decreased activities of malic enzyme and ATP-citrate lyase suggested decreased potential for fatty acid synthesis in both species over the winter, consistent with the cessation offeeding in the fall. The potential for ketone body metabolism, measured as the activity of P-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, increased greatly in both species during overwintering; however, levels of-hydroxybutyrate remained less than 0.35 mol/g wet mass throughout the study period. These data indicate that changes to storage lipid profiles in order to maintain fluidity and to lipid-metabolizing enzyme activities may play important roles in insect cold hardiness.
10.1086/515849|The metabolic rates of six female grey seal
30155878|Bumblebees ranging in mass from 65 mg (the smallest workers of the smallest species) to 830 mg (the largest queens of the largest species examined) maintained similar average thoracic temperatures (
30156104|Lytechinus variegatus were collected from 25 C waters, maintained in the laboratory for 4 wk at either 16 or 23 C, and fed an artificial food. Feeding rates of individuals maintained at 16 C were low initially but subsequently increased to rates near those of individuals maintained at 23 C. Passage times of food through the gut decreased after 4 wk at 16 C but remained longer than those observed at 23 C. Activities of digestive carbohydrases were similar and low in both groups when measured at 16 C and showed a
30157949|The first objective of this study was to determine whether species exhibiting different breathing patterns during hibernation have different relative sensitivities to changing blood gases while euthermic. The second was to determine whether the species-specific changes that appear in the relative sensitivities to O and CO as respiratory stimuli in ground squirrels during hibernation are the consequence of changes in ambient temperature and/or seasonal changes as animals prepare for hibernation or whether they are the consequence of entrance into hibernation per se. Toward this end, we examined the changes in ventilatory sensitivity and response thresholds to hypoxia, hypercarbia, and hypoxia plus hypercarbia in summer animals at ambient temperature
30155884|Energy metabolism in the tail musculature of Cherax destructor during escape behavior was studied by examining muscle ultrastructure, maximum activities of catabolic enzymes, changes in metabolites following exercise, and muscle buffering capacity and the effects of exercise on muscle pH. Electron microscopy indicates that the muscle is fast phasic with limited capacity for oxidative phosphorylation. Enzyme profiles suggest the use of anaerobic rather than aerobic metabolism during periods of high work output. In animals exercised to exhaustion, arginine phosphate and anaerobic glycolysis are equivalent in terms of ATP production. However, these ATP sources are separated in time, with only arginine phosphate being used during the initial burst of rapid tail flipping and only anaerobic glycolysis during the second slower and less powerful series of tail flips that follow a period of defensive behavior. Buffering capacity of the tail muscle is low, and accumulation of lactate is accompanied by a significant fall in pH. These features indicate that C. destructor may not normally accumulate high concentrations of lactate during escape behavior in nature.
30156237|This perspective takes a comparative view of cardiac physiology in fish to provide insights into cardiac control mechanisms and the degree of cardiac plasticity between species. Between the extremes represented by tuna and hagfish, there is a 15-fold difference in cardiac output that is largely accounted for by species differences in heart rate rather than in stroke volume. The relative importance of heart rate and stroke volume is reversed in many fish in terms of explaining the up to threefold increase in cardiac output observed during swimming A conspicuous and unexplained observation is that all fish studied so far, with the exception of tuna, have heart rates lower than 120 bpm. In many fish, luminal O, in venous blood is the sole myocardial O, supply, and a venous PO threshold may ultimately limit cardiac performance. More active fish have bigger ventricles that generally beat faster and generate higher blood pressures and flows. The bigger ventricle in active fish, while improving convection to working skeletal muscle, requires the development of a coronary circulation to supplement to varying degrees the luminal myocardial O supply. It is hoped that these generalities will act as a framework for future research.
30163942|The control of tail skin temperature in mice was evaluated with transient and frequency analysis using 2,450-MHz microwave radiation and ambient temperature as thermal stimuli. Restrained mice at an ambient temperature (
30158612|We measured metabolic rates of adult Leach's storm-petrels on Kent Island, New Brunswick, in order to determine the energetic costs of reproductive activities in a small, pelagic seabird. Oxygen consumption of captive birds was determined volumetrically, and daily energy expenditure of free-living individuals was estimated by the doubly labeled water technique (DLW). Errors inherent in DLW gave rise to expected standard deviations in estimates of CO production on the order of 20%-30% of the mean, which were similar in magnitude to the variation observed among individual measurements. Furthermore, when final concentrations of
30151332|1. Previous experiments (Allee, 1928, 1929) concerning the action of hypotonic water extracts of other Procerodes and Planaria maculata culture water on the marine Procerodes wheatlandi isolated therein, are confirmed. 2. Adsorption on charcoal or on egg albumen does not significantly affect the protection furnished by planarian culture medium. 3. No protection is furnished by egg albumen, gum arabic, or mucus made by dissolving dried parotid gland in water. Previous work had shown the same situation with gelatine. 4. Ethyl urethane, a depressant, does not give protection; it acts in this respect as had ethyl alcohol in previous experiments. 5. Water solutions or suspensions made from ether-soluble and ether-insoluble fractions of Procerodes extracts exhibit less protection than does the whole water extract. 6. Cane-sugar solutions definitely confer protection in all concentrations tried from M/1 to M/33. Solutions of M/40 and M/50 gave the same survival as did the non-sugar controls. The protection conferred in these experiments by M/25 and M/33 solutions was approximately that given in accompanying isolations into planarian culture water. 7. The Planaria maculata culture water did not possess osmotic pressure beyond that furnished by electrolytes, and these were balanced with those in the controls in all this series of experiments in so far as that can be done by testing their conductivity. 8. These experiments reinforce and extend the essential conclusions of the earlier work but do not throw light on the nature of the protective mechanisms involved.
10.1086/515418|The energy expenditure of breeding male harbour seals Phoca vitulina, on Sable Island, Nova Scotia, was investigated by measuring changes in body mass, body comosition, and water flux using isotope dilution. Seals lost 0.04%  0.04% (n = 34) of their initial mass per day during the breeding season (4 wk),and fat, water, and protein accounted for 64.3%  4.8%, 27.8%  3.3%, and 6.9  1.4% of this was estimated as 33.3  1.9 MJ d1, or 3.9  0.2 W kg1 (n = 17), similar to rates measured in terrestrially mating pinniped species. However, unlike terrestrially mating pinnipeds, male harbour seals did not fast during the breeding season, and energy intake from foraging accounted for 61.8%  4.0% of the total energy expended. Males derived most of their expended energy from food intake early in the breeding season. However, as oestrus females became increasingly available, reduced rates of food intake in males were coupled with increased rates of total energy expenditure. Larger males expended significantly more energy from body stores and more total energy than smaller males. Male harbour seals appeared to balance the energetic costs of reporduction against the constraints of small body size by foraging during deepdiving trips before the appearance of oestrus females and by opportunistie feeding throughout the breeding season while at sea. We suggest that size dimorphism may be less pronounced in aquatically mating pinnipeds partly because the temporal and spatial separation of foraging and reproduction is less distinct than it is for terrestrially breedings pinnipeds.
30156162|Using 1-h pulse of radioactively labeled Escherichia coli, we examined, during a 24-h period, the feeding activities of Ephydatia fluviatilis in the presence of different bacterial concentrations. The results indicate an influence of the nutritional state of the sponge and the existence of a steady optimal retention rate value related to the maximal rate of phagocytosis and digestion of the sponge. These results are consistent with the measurements of sponge growth showing that bacteria can fulfill the entire food requirements of E. fluviatilis and sustain high rates of growth. The pattern of retention in relation to the bacterial concentration and nutritional state of the sponge is discussed.
30157957|Rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) survived in alkaline fresh water (pH = 9.50) for 72 h, although the exposure rendered the fish more susceptible to mortality from other causes. At pH 9.50 ammonia excretion (
30158662|Saluki dogs, exposed to temperatures increasing from 25 to 47 C, demonstrated respiratory alkalosis, with pH increasing from 7.391  0.004 to 7.507  0.014, and
30163936|Salivary water loss during seed husking was examined in two rodent species, deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) and Great Basin pocket mice (Perognathus parvus), feeding on four species of seeds (lodgepole pine [Pinus contorta], antelope bitterbrush [Purshia tridentata], Jeffrey pine [Pinus jeffreyi], and sunflower [Helianthus annuus]). Great Basin pocket mice, a desert-adapted species, lost little or no salivary water while husking seeds. Deer mice, however, lost significant quantities of salivary water to all four seed species. This apparently occurred as moist surfaces of the lips and tongue contacted the hygroscopic seed coats during seed manipulation and husking. Relatively small or hygroscopic seeds, such as those of lodgepole pine and antelope bitterbrush, impose a greater relative cost in salivary water loss to deer mice than do larger seeds. Heteromyid rodents appear to have specialized lips that isolate the moist surfaces of the mouth from seeds. Furlined cheek pouches and specialized lips may assist these rodents to persist in arid environments by solving the problem of salivary water loss to the seeds they handle and store.
30155824|Plethysmographic measurement of ventilation during the sniffing behavior of white rats showed that respiratory frequency (f) increased fourfold from 1.7 to 6.4-6.9 breaths/s. This confirms other measurements on which correlations with limbic system theta rhythm have been made. Minute volume (
30152548|Blood oxygen affinity of 15 species of colubrine snakes is related to body size by the equation
10.1086/515429|Studies of the metabolic and physiological changes that bears undergo during hibernation have, for the most part, supported the paradigm that bears use only fatty tissues as a metabolic substate during hibemation. This study was performed to document the extent of protein loss and alteration of musclefiber characteristics of selected muscles in black bears during winter dormanc. Muscle biopises were removed from the gastrocnemius and biceps femoris from seven freeranging female black bears on the Uncompahgre Plateau in westcentral Colorado. Six of the seven bears produced cubs during the hibernating season. Muscle samples were collected from the left hind limb shortly after bears entered their dens (fall), and additional samples were collected from the right hind limb Just prior to bears leaving their dens (spring). Protein concentration, fastand slowtwitch musclefiber rations and musclefiber crosssectional areas, and citrate synthase activity were measured in the laboratory. While Protein concentration decreased in both muscles during the hibernation period, it was lower than predicted for lactating females, In addition, musclefiber number and crosssectional area were unchanged in these muscles, suggesting only limited muscle atrophy. In support of these observations, there were a moderate but significant increase in the proportion of fasttwitch fibers only in the biceps femoris, with a concomitant decrese in citrate synthase activity, but no alteration of the fiber ratio in the gastrocnemius during hibernatio. The findings suggest that hibernating bears, particu
30163346|Mallee fowl (MF) and brush turkey (BT) lay large, energy-rich eggs (173 g at 10.2 kJ/g contents for MF and 180 g at 9.8 kJ/g contents for BT) that are incubated by burial in mounds of warm earth or decaying vegetation. Their incubation periods of 62 days (MF) and 49 days (BT) are unusually long, and their hatchlings are among the most precocial of any birds. Metabolic rates of embryos of both species just prior to hatching are about 61 cm O/h, 98% (MF) and 64% (BT) higher than predicted. Metabolism is supported solely by chorioallantoic respiration until hatching, and pulmonary respiration begins suddenly when the shell membranes are torn. Estimates of total energy expenditure during incubation prior to hatching (
30155936|We have studied various factors which govern the constant rate of water loss of gull eggs (Larus heermanni and L. occidentalis livens) during natural incubation in the relatively warm and dry climate of the Gulf of California, Mexico. The water vapor conductance of the eggshell in the former species is fixed by approximately 5,700 pores averaging 8.6 and 270 m in radius and length, respectively. The constant daily rate of water loss by diffusion across these pores (300 mg HO  day) is therefore controlled by maintenance of a water vapor pressure gradient across the eggshell averaging 26 torr. The vapor pressure in the air spaces of the egg is determined by the egg temperature, but the vapor pressure in the nest's microclimate is controlled by parental behavior serving to "ventilate" the nest air. The resultant transport of the accumulating water vapor from the nest to the atmosphere allows maintenance of a relatively constant nest humidity.
30152603|Psammomys obesus, a diurnal desert rodent, was exposed to air temperatures (
30161233|Elysia chlorotica do not exhibit a volume recovery following a hyperosmotically induced shrinkage. However, in response to hyperosmotic conditions, the tissues of E. chlorotica accumulate amino acids and proline betaine. The major amino acids (Ala, Pro, Gin, and Glu) all have unique time courses of concentration change. Alanine alone accumulates rapidly; the others increase in concentration only days or weeks later. Furthermore, all the amino acids ultimately return to prestress levels, even though the stress continues. At its peak, Ala contributes 190 mol/g dry wt. The other amino acids never contribute more than 40 mol/g dry wt to the osmolyte pool. Proline betaine begins to accumulate between 4 and 7 days after the stress. It reaches peak concentrations at 14 days and, unlike the amino acids, remains elevated. Although the intracellular proline betaine concentrations are much higher (651 mol/ g dry wt) than those of the amino acids, it can not balance the entire external osmotic increase and, as a result, does not provide sufficient solute for a volume recovery. The delayed time course of the proline betaine accumulation is consistent with the hypothesis that action of the genome is required for the synthesis. Finally, Elysia lacking chloroplasts have similar proline betaine concentrations to normal animals, indicating that the molecule is not a chloroplast product.
30152556|In this study we compared heat-balance experiments carried out under standardized and defined conditions-i.e., climatic chamber-with those performed under the complexity of natural conditions, using identical methodology and instrumentation. Heat production and the partitioning of evaporative cooling were measured in the black bedouin goat from the Sinai desert when the goats rested or walked on a treadmill in a climatic chamber (26 C and 40 C, relative humidity 30%). These were measured in the same goats while they were fully exposed to desert conditions. Heat production of resting goats was 2 kcal (kg.h) at 26 C and morning experiments in the field and 2.5 kcal (kgh) at 40 C and noon experiments. Heat production of goats walking at a speed of 2.60-2.95 kmh was 4.1-4.9 kcal (gh) in both climatic chamber and field experiments. Under mild conditions, 26 C and morning, evaporation dissipated up to 50% of the heat produced. At 40 C in climatic chamber, evaporation equaled heat production, but at noon in the desert it increased twofold. Under these desert conditions both resting and walking goats had the same excess, 1.72 kcal (kgh), of evaporative heat loss over heat production. This represents the net heat load imposed by the desert environment; its magnitude approximately equals the goat's resting metabolism. In the climatic chamber the goats used mostly panting to dissipate heat. In the desert, however, the amounts of heat dissipated by sweating were twice as great as those lost through the respiratory system. These high rates of sweating (up to 143 g HO [mh]) are attributed to the absorption of solar radiation, a factor which does not exist in the laboratory but is very prominent in the desert environment.
30158571|Behavior and heart rate response of seven ornate box turtles (Terepene ornata) to visual threat, touch, forced diving, and voluntary diving were investigated. Visual stimulus resulted in two different behavioral and two different heart rate responses. Three of seven turtles turned and walked away from the stimulus with no change in heart rate. Four turtles stopped walking and withdrew their feet and head. Heart rate was reduced 37%. Atropine had no effect on behavior but abolished bradycardia. Tactile stimulus resulted in withdrawal of feet and head and reduction of heart rate by each of the turtles. Heart rate was reduced 68%. Atropine abolished bradycardia but did not alter behavior. Reduction in heart rate was instantaneous and occurred during the first R-R interval following stimulus. Forced diving reduced the heart rate 56%. Bradycardia was abolished with atropine. Bradycardia onset was gradual, suggesting chemoreceptor involvement. Voluntary diving was not accompanied by bradycardia.
30159978|The effect of water deprivation (dehydration) on cutaneous water evaporation (CWE, E,) was studied in seven heat-exposed rock pigeons (Columba livia). Dehydrated pigeons lost about 16% of the initial body mass after 48 h of water deprivation and additional heat exposure, resulting in a significant increase in hematocrit and serum sodium and chloride concentrations. Serum urea nitrogen concentration increased by 300%. These birds recovered almost all mass lost within 30 min of free access to water. At room temperature (30 C),
30152633|Hummingbirds subsist almost entirely on a liquid diet composed of floral nectar, and, when energy demands are high, they can consume more than three times their body mass in fluid per day. At the same time, however, the hummingbird's high metabolism requires efficient extraction of energy and nutrients from a dilute food source that is passing rapidly through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The ability of the hummingbird to efficiently process and excrete such large volumes of water must surely entail structural or functional specializations of the kidney and GI tract. The rate of waterflux and nutrient extraction efficiency are also influenced, however, by the animal's feeding behavior. Because meal size affects the passage rate of food through the digestive tract (and, therefore, assimilation efficiency), feeding frequency and the amount of nectar consumed per feeding bout will affect the efficiency of nutrient absorption. Ultimately, the water and nutrient content of the nectar produced by the plants should reflect the ability of the hummingbird pollinator to balance its required intake of energy and electrolytes with its ability to excrete the accompanying water load. The simultaneous regulation of water and energy balance in hummingbirds consequently involves the complex integration of renal and intestinal functions and of these physiological processes with behavior and ecology. The hummingbird is a unique animal: its kidney appears to be structurally similar to that of a reptile, but its rate of waterflux is more typical of an amphibian. Nonetheless, it sustains a metabolic level as high as that of any endotherm. The inextricable links among energetics, nutrition, and osmotic regulation in hummingbirds provide a fascinating example of the functional integration of vertebrate organ systems operating at the extreme.
10.1086/515931|The gutless hydrothermal tubeworm
30156120|The desert camel, like the goat, rapidly replaces lost water after being severely dehydrated. In contrast to the goat, however, the camel quickly absorbs water into its bloodstream, which allows for a rapid return to normal of its renal function. The GFR, renal plasma flow (RPF), and urine flow return to normal within  h of drinking. The urine becomes highly diluted in appearance as well. The changes in urea metabolism are probably associated with the decline in ADH concentrations. To prevent serious hemodilution, aldosterone secretion accounts for the slight drop in GFR and RPF 2 h following drinking. The camel has thus adapted to the desert not only by being able to withstand severe dehydration but also by being able to rapidly restore body functions, especially renal function.
10.1086/515989|Relative to small embryos, large embryos may have longer developmental periods and, subsequently, relatively greater maintenance budgets. Because of the potentially increased metabolic costs of maintaining large embryos for long embryonic periods, Salthe and Mecham (1974) suggested that as ovum size increases among amphibians, ovum lipids (the primary stored metabolic energy reserves) should increase at a proportionally greater rate. To test Salthe and Mecham's hypothesis, we quantified egg lipids for 13 amphibian species from the southeastern United States. As ovum size increased among species, total, nonpolar, and polar lipids increased at rates uniform with or relatively lower than rates of increase in ovum size, in contrast to the hypothesis of Salthe and Mecham. However, variation in ovum lipids among species may be related to differences in breeding biology. Our results indicate that the amount of lipids allocated to ova do not merely depend on ovum size, but rather on the selective environments of the embryo and neonate.
30159947|Changes in oxygen uptake in response to stepwise changes in environmental temperature have been measured in anomuran decapod Crustacea inhabiting a subtidal habitat (Paguristes turgidus, Elassochirus tenuimanus), an intertidal habitat (Pagurus granusimanus, Pagurus hirsutisculus) and a supratidal habitat (Coenobita clypeatus, Coenobita rugosus). Individuals of each species were housed in respirometers and subjected to three rapid, progressive 5 C increases above their initial acclimation temperature, with
30157876|Synthesis and secretion of antifreeze glycoprotein (AFGP) and other plasma proteins were studied by constant infusion of
30152561|Meliphaga virescens drinks nectar at a greater rate in the morning and at midday than later in the afternoon. This trend is due primarily to similar variations in the time spent drinking rather than changes in the rate of licking or frequency of visits to the nectar source. A progressive reduction in the amount of time spent flying throughout the day results in birds being able to accumulate excess energy at a relatively uniform rate. It has been suggested that this strategy helps birds in their attempt to stabilize body weights. When birds are switched from a 0.8 M to a 0.4 M nectar regime, they increase the rate of fluid intake and decrease the time spent flying. Compensation for calorific dilution is incomplete for birds switched to 0.4 M nectar in that the birds are unable to accumulate the same daily quantities of excess energy as before. This is probably the major reason for their apparent inability to stabilize morning and evening body weights.
30157891|Respiratory and photosynthetic rates of green and aposymbiotic Hydra viridis (Swiss strain) and of their freshly isolated symbiotic algae (FISA) were compared. The effects of some soluble organic nutrients on these parameters were examined. The respiratory rates of intact green or aposymbiotic hydra and the FISA of a single symbiotic hydranth were essentially equal to each other. Per milligram of protein, the relative respiration rates were 1: 1.47 :3.4 for green hydra, aposymbionts, and FISA, respectively. The photosynthetic rate of the algae of a single green hydra was 46% greater than that of the intact hydra. In green hydra, different nutrients stimulated both respiration and photosynthesis, photosynthesis alone, or had no effect on either process. No nutrient tested stimulated respiration by intact aposymbionts; however, several stimulated O consumption in homogenates of these hydra. No substrate tested stimulated photosynthesis in FISA, although many resulted in increased respiratory rates. We conclude that the establishment of the algae-hydra symbiosis involves regulatory changes in metabolism and cellular permeability of the cosymbionts.
30152536|Various aspects of the regulation of Na and Cl were studied in fiddler crabs adapted to 175% sea water. Turnover rate for both ions averaged 28% h. Total fluxes were partitioned into renal route, intestinal route, and the remainder which was presumed to occur across the general body surface. With urine produced at a rate of 0.5% body weight day, renal losses contributed 0.1% total flux for Na and 0.3% for Cl. Intestinal route provided approximately 5% total influx of both ions assuming complete absorption of all ingested salts. The transepithelial potential (TEP) was - 1.3  0.6 mV. In the absence of Na the TEP was -8.9  1.3 mV; in the absence of Cl it was +11.7  0.6 mV. Deletion of Na or Cl from the bathing medium reduced efltux of the corresponding ion, an effect associated with exchange diffusion. But other results indicate such effects could also be due to permeability changes in the absence of Na or Cl. Whether or not exchange diffusion occurs flux ratio analysis indicated both Na and Cl were actively pumped from crabs in 175% sea water. Hypotonicity is discussed in relation to estuarine environment the crabs inhabit.
30164252|An antagonistic pleiotropy between early fecundity and longevity has been well demonstrated in Drosophila melanogaster. It has been suggested that this pleiotropy may in part be due to a trade-off in energy allocation between reproduction and survival. We have tested this hypothesis by examining five populations of Drosophila melanogaster that show increased longevity following laboratory selection for postponed reproduction. These were compared to five control populations. We measured body mass, lipid and carbohydrate content, metabolic rate, and fecundity over the adult life span of the flies. Energy content brought forward into the adult stage from the pupae and adult metabolic rate were identicalfor short-and long-lived flies. Long-lived flies showed decreased fecundity and increased storage of lipid and carbohydrate compared to short-lived flies. Our study is the first to measure simultaneously allocations of metabolic energy resources between various forms of metabolic storage and reproduction in lines of Drosophila melanogaster and to measure their equivalence using a common energy unit (J). Energy equivalence analysis demonstrated that the trade-of in energy allocation between fecundity and metabolic storage was not quantitatively perfect with regard to energy values. Long-lived flies accumulated additional lipid and carbohydrate by forgoing early reproduction, but these accumulated metabolic resources were far lower in energy content than were the additional eggs produced by short-lived flies.
30156085|A study was made of the energetics of Spalacopus cyanus from high-altitude and cold burrows in the Andean Mountains and from low-altitude and warmer burrows near the Pacific Ocean in central Chile. Individuals from both populations are good thermoregulators at ambient temperatures between 2 and 30 C. They maintain a constant
30158513|Fish physiologists have provided the basic information on gill morphology, gill function, and vascular dynamics with which to understand branchial flux of gases, water, and ions. In addition, pharmacologists and toxicologists, working in the area of drug action, have characterized the physicochemical attributes of xenobiotic chemicals that determine their rate of movement across biological membranes. Recently, aquatic toxicologists have applied this information to the question of what mechanisms control the movement of organic chemicals across fish gills and how exchange is affected by chemical properties. This research on gill transfer mechanisms was extended to consider environmental conditions that have been reported to influence chemical exchange (e.g., dissolved and/or suspended organic material, hydrogen ion concentration [pH], dissolved O, content, and water temperature). Mathematical models were developed that predict gill exchange as a function of basic processes such as water flow across the gills, blood flow through the gills, partitioning of the chemical between water and blood, and diffusion between blood and water across gill epithelia. Such mechanistic models can predict the effects of environmental conditions on exchange rates of xenobiotics. To fully develop a predictive capability for xenobiotic uptake and distribution by fish, it will be necessary to incorporate these gill models into emerging, physiologically based models for the entire animal.
30158523|This study analyzes the total potential of the liver in terms of enzyme activities and hepatocyteflux in fed and fasted yellow perch. A 7-wk fast decreased the hepatosomatic index from 1.99 to 0.85 with an equivalent increase in liver DNA concentration, indicating atrophy of the liver with fasting. Total contents of liver and muscle glycogen and protein declined. As a function of body weight, enzyme activities all decreased with the exception of the lipid-catabolizing enzymes; gluconeogenic enzymes declined less than those of glycolysis, the NADPH-producing enzymes, and citrate synthase. No enzyme activities increased with fasting as a function of body weight. Phosphorylation-related changes in regulatory enzymes support the protection or maintenance of gluconeogenesis. Lactate, alanine, and glycerolflux to glucose in isolated hepatocytes all decreased as a function of tissue DNA, as did alanine flux to CO. Again, no increases influx were noted with fasting. These data demonstrate that after a 7-wk fast yellow perch are hypometabolic. The importance of considering changes in tissue size in the analysis of environmental stressors is discussed.
30164228|Thirty virgin female white (MF1) mice (Mus musculus) were divided into three groups: an unmated control group; a second, mated group, allowed to proceed to peak gestation; and a third, mated group, allowed to proceed to peak lactation. Nine unmated animals and eight of each of the two mated groups had their basal metabolism (oxygen consumption at 28 C) measured and were then killed by means of a CO overdose, and the wet masses of 14 different body components measured. Body mass of the control animals averaged 26.5 g, not significantly different from animals in the other two groups immediately postmating. At peak gestation body mass averaged 50.5 g, immediate postpartum mass was 35.5 g, and by the end of lactation it was 38. 4 g. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) of the control animals (0.313 W) was significantly lower than the BMR of both pregnant (0.78 W) and lactating (0.95 W) animals. Food intake of controls was 97.9 kJ d (3.6 X BMR). At peak gestation food intake was 119.3 kJ d (2.4 X BMR), and at peak lactation it was 405.5 kJ d (5.96 X BMR). If BMR had not increased throughout reproduction, the peak food intake would have represented 12.2 times BMR. Morphological changes associated with the reproductive cycle mainly included increases in the masses of the alimentary tract, liver, kidneys, heart, and lungs. A principal components analysis revealed four major dominant axes of variability in the morphology. The first principal component was dominated by the combined alimentary effects and explained 71.8% of the variation in BMR. These data are consistent with the hypotheses that maximal sustainable metabolic rate reflects a link between structure of the alimentary tract, maximal daily food assimilation, and BMR. That is, as mice progressed through reproduction, their increasing food requirements were beyond the capacity of their guts to supply them. This led to hypertrophy of the alimentary tract and associated organs, with a consequent increase in BMR.
30156248|We measured embryonic oxygen consumption (
30163920|Adaptation to the thermal environment depends upon heritable, intraspecific variability in the thermal dependence of organismal function. We tested for variability in the thermal dependence of crawling speed, population growth rate, and mating compatibility among four strains of the ciliate Euplotes vannus (LL1, Elba, Por7, and Sard6). In addition, we tested for differences in thermal acclimation of crawling speed among the four strains after more than 2 wk of chronic exposure to constant temperatures. The thermal dependence of crawling speed and population growth rate differed significantly among the four strains, as determined by ANOVA. Strains also differed significantly in locomotory acclimation to chronic, constant temperature treatments, as indicated by a significant interaction among the effects of strain, acclimation temperature, and test (experimental) temperature. One strain (LL1) showed evidence of positive thermal compensation, whereas other strains showed mixed or no acclimatory responses. The frequency of conjugation between strains of E. vannus was also temperature-dependent. This finding in particular has important implications for Euplotes systematics; genetic exchange may occur between some strains that were previously thought to be reproductively isolated. Differences in functional traits among these clonal strains represent genotypic variability that may broaden the range of thermal environments available to E. vannus and may, in conjunction with differential mating, accelerate the evolutionary response to selection. Such variability may be particularly advantageous for E. vannus, an organism common to shallow marine environments (e.g., tidal pools) that undergo substantial daily and seasonal changes in temperature.
30155940|Three different agents were examined for their effect on pigment concentration in the large erythrophores of Palaemonetes pugio: guanosine 3',5' cyclic monophosphate (cGMP), ouabain, and the divalent cation ionophore A23187. High concentrations (10 mM) of cGMP in the medium did not cause pigment concentration. High concentrations (1 mg/ml) of ouabain failed to inhibit pigment concentration induced by either the ionophore A23187 or the red pigment-concentrating hormone. The ionophore A23187, in Ca-containing saline, caused pigment concentration in the large erythrophores of three internal organs: ventral nerve cord, intestine, and ovary. When erythrophores whose pigment had been concentrated by the ionophore were exposed to Ca-free/EGTA-containing saline, pigment dispersion resulted. Erythrophores whose pigment was concentrated by long-term exposure to a white background did not disperse their pigment when treated with the ionophore in Ca-free/EGTA saline. The red pigment-concentrating hormone responded to Ca-free/EGTA saline by an initial concentration of pigment, followed by redispersion. The activity of the red pigment-concentrating hormone was greatly inhibited in saline whose calcium had been replaced with lanthanum. On the basis of the data above, it is tentatively proposed that the red pigment-concentrating hormone, upon binding to its receptor, behaves as a Ca ionophore.
10.1086/515421|Changes in the physiology and cost of living of fish were studied during exposure to simulated global warming and environmental acidification, alone and in combination. Trout were exposed to slightly elevated water temperatures (/27C), in the presence and absence of sublethal acidity (pH 5.2) in synthetic softwater for 90 d (87127C). Fish were either fed to satiation (ca. 1%3% of their wetbody weight daily) or fed 1% of their wetbody weight once every 4 d. Satiationfed fish exposed to sublethal pH showed no ionoregulatory disturbances but exhibited increased appetites and growth compared to fish in control pH waters. In contrast, fish maintained on a limited ration did not grow and showed typical ionoregulatory responses to acid stress, with lower wholebody Na/ and Cl0 concentrations and greater mortality. Detrimental effects were greater in the global warming scenario (/27C). Overall, a slight temperature increase and sublethal pH increased the cost of living as determined by increased food consumption in satiationfed fish and greater mortalities in fish maintained on a limited ration. Most important, these findings suggest that fish given sufficient food can compensate for increased energy expenditure or difficulties in maintaining ion balance associated with low pH exposure.
30156218|Whole-body lipids andfatty acid synthetase (FAS) activity of liver, white adipose tissue (WAT), and brown adipose tissue (BAT) infield-caught Richardson's ground squirrels were measured to determine the effects of reproduction on fattening. Whole-body lipids increased by 9 g and 8 g/wk, respectively, in males and nonparous females between April 1 and June 5 and by 10 g/wk between May 10 and July 1 inparous females. Males were always heavier than nonparous females, but thepercentage of body mass that was lipid was similar. The lipid mass accumulated by parous females by July 1 had been achieved by nonparousfemales 1 mo earlier. For both liver and WAT, FAS activity in males and nonparous females was similar throughout the active season. FAS activity of liver was depressed in late pregnancy. FAS activity of both liver and WAT was depressed during lactation, being 70 times greater in WAT of nonparous than of parous females. FAS activity in WAT and liver of postlactating females increased, but there was no compensatory increase in rate of fattening or FAS activity above that in males and nonparous females. Apparently, parous females hibernate later than other adults because reproduction causes them to initiate fattening later, and, once initiated, rate offat deposition is similar to that in other members of the population. WAT appears to be the principal tissue of fatty acid synthesis for prehibernation fattening.
30156161|Kangaroo rats are mainly granivores, and some species store large amounts of seeds in underground caches. These desert rodents do not drink free water under natural conditions but instead rely on preformed water in their diet and metabolic water produced by food oxidation. Moisture content may therefore influence kangaroo rat seed selection. Feeding experiments were conducted to determine both the effects of water content in seed preferences by Dipodomys spectabilis and the minimal preformed water requirements of these rodents. Results demonstrate that the minimal seed water content for a positive water balance is 10%-11% wet mass, under laboratory conditions. These rodents can sense a 6.05% difference in water content and always prefer the moistest seeds available, even when selecting among seeds containing over twice the minimal water necessary for a positive balance. These results indicate that kangaroo rats do not ingest only enough preformed water to meet their requirements but instead maximize water intake through their seed preferences.
30163341|Five small species of Australian scincid lizard (<20 g) heated more slowly than they cooled when exposed to step-function changes in ambient temperature. This is the reverse of the pattern typical of larger reptiles. Interestingly, this pattern was predicted by extrapolation from an earlier study that described the relationship between thermal time constant and body mass in reptiles. The reverse pattern is unlikely to represent an adaptive response, so physiological control over thermal conductance is apparently insignificant or lacking in small skinks, and perhaps other small reptiles also, in which thermoregulation must depend primarily on behavioral strategies. As most reptiles weigh <20 g, the importance of regulatory changes in thermal conductance as a mechanism for thermoregulation may have been overrated by some authors as a generalization applicable to the reptilia as a whole.
30158285|Sandgrouse of the genus Pterocles are good models for studying adaptations to deserts, with 14 species living in different parts of a habitat spectrum ranging from semiarid to extreme desert. To evaluate possible differences in bioenergetic and thermoregulatory ability within the group, we studied two species, black-bellied sandgrouse (Pterocles orientalis) and pin-tailed sandgrouse (Pterocles alchata). These two species are partly sympatric, but the latter also occurs in hotter and more arid regions than the former. Black-bellied sandgrouse had a mean resting metabolic rate (RMR) similar to the allometric prediction (5.53 m W g by day, 5.04 mWg at night; 97% and 110% of allometric prediction, respectively), whereas mean RMR in pin-tailed sandgrouse was lower than predicted (4.04 mW g by day; 62% of allometric prediction). Similarly, the pin-tailed sandgrouse was the better thermoregulator of the two species, especially at high temperatures, with a well-developed evaporative cooling ability. At 40C, evaporative heat loss (
30157890|The carpenter bee Xylocopa californica is active during the hot season in the southern California desert. It is endothermic during flight, with a
30152640|During the annual reproductive cycle, the pyloric ceca change in size and synthetic capacity. Changes in the amount of DNA indicated that seasonal changes in the size of the pyloric ceca resulted mainly from changes in the number of cells. The highest concentrations of RNA and the highest RNA:DNA ratios occurred during gametogenesis in the winter; lowest levels and ratios occurred in the summer or during environmental stress. Maximal activities of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6PDH), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6-PGDH), glycerolphosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-3-PDH), and pyruvate kinase (PK) occurred during gametogenesis. Exposure of Luidia clathrata to diferent temperatures in the laboratory did not affect the level of activities of G-6PDH, 6-PGDH, GPDH, and PK when measured at a constant temperature or concentrations of nucleic acids in the pyloric ceca. Activities of 6-PGDH, GPDH, and PK decreased, the concentration of DNA increased, and the concentration of RNA decreased in individuals exposed to low salinity. This resulted from decreased food intake and an apparent increase in the metabolic cost of cell-volume regulation. The significant efects of combinations of environmental factors indicate their importance when cellular responses during the reproductive cycle of L. clathrata are interpreted.
30163919|Incubation temperature determines sex in crocodilians and influences other features of hatchlings. We investigated the effects of incubation temperature, clutch, and sex on the dimensions, mass, and energy reserves of hatchling Alligator mississippiensis. Eggs from three clutches were incubated to pipping at constant temperatures of 29, 31, 32, and 33 C; females were produced at 29 and 31 C, mixed sex ratios at 32 C, and males at 33 C Incubation temperature affects hatchling size and yolk utilization in a consistent, but complex, pattern. Maximum yolk-free hatchling mass occurred at 32 C, and minimum mass at 31 C. Similarly, dimensions were maximized at 32 C and minimized at 29 C Residual yolk mass was inversely related to yolk-free hatchling mass. Higher yolk mass occurred at 31 and 33 C; at 29 and 32 C, values were lower. However, fat mass remained constant in all clutches. Strong clutch effects were present in nearly all traits. At 32 C, males were heavier and had less yolk than females. These differential effects of incubation temperature, and consequently sex, affect important hatchling characteristics and may influence hatchling survival and fitness, in accord with recent theory.
30158536|Our current understanding of how the rate of glycolysis varies with temperature and with the duration of exercise in amphibians and reptiles is derived from studies in which emphasis was placed on the importance of one or the other, but not both, of these variables. No single study to date has clearly documented the simultaneous effects of these two factors on glycolytic power input in a terrestrial ectotherm. Therefore, we measured the effects of both temperature and duration of exertion on the rate of glycolysis in a lizard (Anolis carolinensis) and a frog (Rana pipiens) known to rely heavily on glycolysis during muscular activity. In addition, we measured the influence of temperature and duration of exercise on jumping performance by R. pipiens. The rate of glycolysis during exercise increased with temperature, decreased with duration, and was influenced by the interaction of temperature and duration in both species. Jumping performance of frogs increased with temperature and duration and was also affected by the interaction of these variables. The speed of frogs increased with temperature and was highest early in a bout of exercise. Total body lactate concentration of frogs was strongly influenced by the distance traveled over the 16 combinations of temperature and duration of exercise.
30155695|Young-of-the-year bowfin, Amia calva, were tested for salinity tolerance and for their ability to survive after hypophysectomy. These animals lived well in 24% seawater but promptly failed when transferred into 30% seawater. They retained Na well, but lost whole-body K rapidly, in both distilled-deionized water and dilute seawater. It is suggested that K loss may reflect largely the effect of starvation on the young rapidly growing animals. Hypophysectomy caused an increase in Na permeability which was reversed by ovine prolactin. This hormone, however, caused a marked drop in serum protein levels. While ovine prolactin did prolong survival somewhat, it would not do so indefinitely. This hormone was highly toxic when injected into intact animals. Bovine prolactin and Amia pituitary injections were the most effective treatments found for prolonging survival after hypophysectomy; none of the animals, however, survived more than 17 days.
30152602|During transitions between hibernating and euthermic states, the rates and types of metabolism occurring in small mammalian hibernators undergo major adjustments. Total metabolic rate is severely reduced, and shifts between different fuels for energy metabolism occur. To elucidate the enzyme regulatory mechanisms responsible for these types of metabolic changes, we have examined the influences of temperature and pH on skeletal muscle phosphofructokinase (PFK) purified from the California ground squirrel, Citellus beecheyi. The acidification that occurs during entry into hibernation, approximately 0.3-0.4 pH units, acts synergistically with falling body temperature to promote a large inhibition of PFK activity. This temperature-pH effect is enhanced by the presence of low (25 mM) concentrations of urea. The loss of PFK activity is shown to be due to the freely reversible conversion of the active, tetrameric form of the enzyme to the catalytically inactive, but structurally native, dimeric state of PFK. Restoration of euthermic conditions of temperature and pH lead to rapid restoration of the tetrameric state and, thus, to PFK activity. Regulatory effects of these types could be important in reversibly inhibiting glycolytic flux during entry into hibernation and thereby eliminating the potential for shivering thermogenesis, while conserving muscle glycogen stores for thermogenesis during arousal and for bouts of locomotory activity following arousal.
30161220|To determine the cutaneous water-loss responses of birds to environmental temperature, we measured transcutaneous evaporation, skin and body temperature, and oxygen consumption in pigeons over a wide range of air temperatures. We used a general Fick diffusion model to estimate integumental plus boundary layer resistance to diffusion of water vapor. Cutaneous water loss (mean  SE) increased from 1.4  0.09 mg m s at 0 C to 3.0  0.09 mg m s at 30 C and increased sharply to 9.0  0.32 mg m s at 40 C. Whole-body vapor diffusion resistance of pigeons (mean  SE) varied with air temperature, decreasing from 130.0  8.2 s/cm at 0 C to 97.0  4.1 s/cm at 30 C and to 45.0  3.4 s/cm at 40 C. Measurements of the vapor resistance of the plumage made in isothermal diffusion chambers and estimates of the boundary-layer resistance to evaporation obtained from predictive equations indicate that the feather coat and associated layer of still air are together only 6.2%-25.8% of total vapor resistance and that the skin is therefore the primary barrier to cutaneous water loss in birds. Temperature-dependent reductions in skin vapor resistance that we observed in the pigeon may result from vasomotor adjustments, stearic changes in skin lipids, or hydration of the stratum corneum.
30158209|Honeybee drones (Apis mellifera) returning to the hive exhibited thorax temperatures (
30155688|Arginase activity has been demonstrated in the liver, kidney, and brain tissues of nine species of lizards. In addition arginase has also been shown in the testis, duodenum, ileum, and ovary of Calotes versicolor. In the light of these findings, Clementi's long-standing rule that arginase is absent from the liver of the uricotelic vertebrates stands invalid.
30156170|Doubly labeled water (DLW) estimates of field metabolic rates (M) and feeding rates (I) in free-living terrestrial vertebrates should be accurate to within  119%. In comparison with simultaneous DLW measurements, time-energy budget (TEB) determinations of M may be more than 40% too low, 55% too high, or very accurate. No one TEB model tested to date has been accurate in all cases. To yield reliable results, future TEB studies of small endotherms should include field measurements of operative temperature
10.1086/515991|The study of the role of carotenoids on the physiology and evolutionary ecology of birds demands methods for their quantification in the bloodstream. We compared colorchart scores of plasma hue with the actual concentration of plasma carotenoids obtained by spectrophotometry in 356 wild birds from 26 species. Repeatability of chart scores between three independent observers was high. However, color scores did not correlate with the spectrophotometric results in interspecific analyses. Within species (
30155741|Horizontal and vertical gradients of humidity and of temperature were set up in sand columns and the conditions within them monitored by appropriate sensors. Arenivaga nymphs, tagged with the radioactive isotope technetium 99m, were introduced and their movements observed and photographed by means of a gammascintillation camera. The maximum dose of ionizing radiation received by any insect was less than one-tenth of the minimum required to affect its ability to absorb water vapor or to survive. Insects moved to the moist end in both horizontal and vertical humidity gradients (>95%-<5% relative humidity). Orthokinesis is an important component of the orientation mechanism, and the sensilla involved are probably on the antennae. The insects also oriented in both horizontal and vertical temperature gradients, showing a preferred temperature range of 22-36 C, with maximum aggregations from 27 to 29 C. The observed behavioral mechanisms are adaptive in the insects' natural environment-desert sand dunes.
30158188|Metabolic rates were calculated from energy losses over time in fasting, freeswimming tuna (30-50 cm fork length). Water content accurately predicted caloric density measured by bomb calorimetry. A subsample that accurately predicted water and energy content in whole tuna was found. The mean metabolic rate for Katsuwonus pelamis starved < 1 wk was 0.36 kJd  g wet mass. Tuna kept for longer periods had lower and less variable swimming speeds and metabolic rates. Mean rates for 1-2 wk of starvation were 0.22 kJd g for K. pelamis and 0.18 kJd  g for both Euthynnus affinis and Thunnus albacares. For >2 wk of starvation, the mean rates were 0.14 kJd g for K. pelamis and 0.12 kJd  g for both E. affinis and T. albacares. Our energy-loss estimates of metabolic rate covered the same range as K. pelamis respiration rates. Energy losses in fasting tuna were about twice as high as in fasting cold-bodied fish under equivalent conditions.
30161222|Studies of thermoregulatory behavior and body temperature carried out on the house finch and blue jay indicate that there is no observable thermoregulatory stress induced by microwave radiation (MWR) of 10 mW/cm or less for 10 min at normal ambient temperature for Suffolk County, Massachusetts. House finches exhibit only slight stress at 25 mW/cm, while blue jays exhibit increases in body temperature and in behaviors which reduce thermoregulatory stress. At 50 mW/cm, both species experience thermal stress and show significant elevation in cloacal temperature during 10 min of MWR. Both species experienced significantly greater elevation in body temperature when the longitudinal axis of the body was oriented parallel to the E vector of the MWR than when oriented perpendicular. This study suggests that the level of microwave radiation proposed for use in a satellite power system (SPS), that is, 23 mW/cm or less, will have little effect on birds the size of blue jays or smaller. Larger birds may be at a greater risk if exposed to 23 mW/cm.
30163851|Regression models are presented that can be helpful in estimating and predicting the amount and fat and lean composition of nutrient stores in birds, when carcass data on body mass, fat mass, and body size are available. It is assumed that birds will show a breakpoint in composition during starvation, because stores, the nutrients accumulated in anticipation of shortage, have a different composition from that of the structural part of the body. The models differ only in the assumptions on the sources of variation in the data. One model, for example, assumes that all variation is due to unexplained variation in the mass of the structural part of the body. Another model assumes that the only variation is in the composition of the stores. It is shown that these models may yield completely different results. Examples suggest that the most reliable assumption on the source of variation differs among bird species. The need for ancillary information to verify the assumptions is emphasized. Prevailing methods, such as regressing fat mass on body mass and size, or regressing fat mass on condition indices such as body mass divided by size, are shown to be based on questionable assumptions, or to lack any theoretical justification, respectively. Their use should be abandoned.
30156035|Tasmanian devils were run on a treadmill in short sprints and long runs, and arterial acid-base status and lactate concentration were measured. During runs there was a steady increase in body temperature of 0.12-0.24 C/min, and the maximum body temperature observed was 41.7 C. During the short sprints there was a rapid rise in lactate to 6.5 mmol/liter, producing a simple metabolic acidosis. After this exercise, lactate and pH returned to normal within 30-50 min. During long runs there was very little disturbance of acid-base status. Overall, the Tasmanian devil shows very good regulation of arterial pH during exercise and rapid removal of lactate.
30156188|Shell thickness, water vapor conductance, pore density, and pore structure were examined in three regions (blunt pole, equator, sharp pole) of both unincubated and hatched mute swan eggs. There was a trend for shell thickness to increase from the blunt pole to the sharp pole in unincubated eggs. During incubation, shell in the equatorial and sharp pole regions was eroded so that shell thickness in all regions was similar in hatched eggs. Pore density and water-vapor conductance of unincubated eggs were significantly smaller in the equatorial region, compared with that in either the blunt or sharp pole regions, but increased during incubation. Pore structure of unincubated eggs was similar in all three regions. The removal of the mammillary knobs from the equatorial and sharp pole regions during incubation caused the shell to thin but had a negligible effect on pore structure. Therefore, the increase in water-vapor conductance in the equatorial region during incubation was directly related to the increase in pore density that occurred in this region.
30155793|Surface temperature (
30157967|Metabolic rate, branchial morphology, and modes of gill ventilation were studied in young (2-10 g) North American paddlefish, Polyodon spathula, with anatomical, behavioral, and physiological methods. Polyodon lacks the oral and opercular valves that are typical for fishes that rely on a buccal pump system to ventilate the gills, and the jaw opening system of Polyodon is poorly suited for regular pumping movements. Unrestrained, undisturbed juvenile paddlefishes swim constantly at a mean speed of 1.1-1.5 body lengths 
30164207|We studied differences in body composition and basal metabolic rate (BMR, measured in postabsorptive birds under thermoneutral conditions at night) in two subspecies of red knots, Calidris canutus: one that spends the nonbreeding season under energetically costly climatic conditions at temperate latitudes (subspecies islandica in western Europe) and one that winters in the hot and humid tropics (subspecies canutus in West and South Africa). To examine whether the possible differences would be upheld under identical conditions, we kept both groups in captivity as well Body composition was quantified with respect to the fat and lean components of 10 "organs" (breast muscles, leg muscles, stomach, intestine, liver, kidneys, lungs, heart, and the skin, and skeleton and attached muscle). Captive birds had lighter lean tissues than wild birds, especially those of the stomach, intestine, kidneys, and liver (the nutritional organs). During the northern winter wild islandica knots had higher lean masses than canutus knots in tropical Africa. Tropically wintering red knots had lower BMRs than their temperate-wintering conspecifics, and birds in long-term captivity had lower BMR values than their free-living counterparts. Average BMR values per category of birds (wild or captive of either subspecies) were strongly correlated with the group averages of lean mass. Prediction of BMR on the basis of total lean mass of red knots undergoing incipient starvation follows this same relationship because metabolically active tissue is being depleted. That the two subspecies converged to similar body composition in captivity indicates that individual red knots may possess considerable flexibility. We argue that red knots, and probably most other long-distance migrants, have metabolic machinery that is able to adjust continuously, depending on the ecological conditions and food types encountered in the course of the year. We further argue that variation in (functional components of) lean mass is the vehicle for seasonal adjustments in metabolic physiology to variable demand levels. Body mass adjustments offer a flexible response enabling red knots to economize on total daily metabolic expenditure whenever conditions allow a relaxation of metabolic scope, such as during winter in the Tropics.
10.1086/515997|When exposed to high ambient temperatures, birds defend body temperature by increasing evaporative water loss, via either respiratory or cutaneous water loss. Water deprivation can lead to changes in thermal responses and lower levels of water use for thermoregulation. We have studied the effect of 23 wk of water deprivation on the physiological responses of emus during exposure to an ambient temperature of 45C. Water deprivation led to a delay in the onset of panting (54 vs. 24 min after start of exposure) and to higher body temperatures (38.7 vs. 38.3C) at the end of exposure to 45C. After panting was initiated and body temperature stabilised, the waterdeprived emus had a lower total evaporative water loss (77 vs. 101 g/h), the same respiratory water loss (70 vs. 72 g/h), and a lower cutaneous water loss (7 vs. 29 g/h) than they did when hydrated. The factor contributing most to the lower total evaporative water loss in the dehydrated emus was a 47% reduction in dry thermal conductance, which led to a decrease in the exogenous environmental heat load and therefore the level of evaporation needed to defend body temperature. We suggest that the decrease in dry thermal conductance follows from the lower level of cutaneous water loss.
30156146|A rapid and nondestructive method for determining lean body mass and lipid stores in live animals is described. This technique relies on use of a commercial device to determine lean body mass from a noninvasive determination of total body electrical conductivity. The method yields adequate data for birds and mammals in a size range of 40-600 g if care is taken to ensure that animals are held in a standard position and are maintained at near normal levels of hydration and body temperature.
30157899|Thoracic and abdominal temperatures (
30155773|Embryos of the fork-tailed storm petrel survived exposure to 26, 30, and 34 C. However, during artificial incubation at 26 C, metabolic rate did not increase, and presumably development did not progress. When incubated at 30 and 34 C, eggs showed a gradual increase in metabolism commensurate with development, but success of pipping and hatching was much greater at 34 C than at 30 C. The reduction of metabolic
30155985|Last instar larvae of the corn earworm, Heliothis zea (Boddie), self-select an 80:20 protein:carbohydrate (casein:sucrose) ratio when offered two diets that are identical and complete except that one lacks casein and the other lacks sucrose. This ratio is nutritionally superior to four others, ranging from 100% casein to 100% sucrose, when incorporated in otherwise equivalent diets and fed to larvae throughout the last instar. The 80:20 ratio supports the best overall utilization of food (ECI) and the highest conversion of digested food to biomass (ECD). When the 80:20 ratio is fed throughout larval development, it is found to be better than the 50:50 ratio (the next best) with respect to growth rate and mortality. It is proposed that in nature most insects have both the opportunity and the capability to self-select a favorable nutrient mix. Herbivorous insects, for example, could self-select from an array of different plant species or from the various structures and tissues of a plant.
10.1086/515428|The primary energy source for migration is fat, but nonfat body components can vary in concert with lipid stores in some migrants. The goals of this study were (1) to validate for a small Old World warbler (the blackcap, Sylvia atricapilla) nondestructive methods to measure lean and fat mass, (2) to quantify the relative contribution of lean mass to bodymass change of migrants, and (3) to ascertain what lean tissues might be involved. Using totalbody electrial conductivity and dilution space of isotopelabeled water, we measured lean and fat mass with precision of 3%4% and 10%15%, respectively, In newly arrived migrants with apparently similar structural size (tarsus length), there was as significant prositivie correlation between lean mass and fat mass; 37% of each unit change was lean mass and 63% fat. Captive blackcaps, fed ad lib. for 7d, gained body mass, with 40% being lean mass. When captives were fasted 1.53 d, both body mass and lean mass declined; lean mass accounted for 42% of body mass lost. In Fasted birds, the masses of liver, stomach, and small intestine declined and accounted for 44% of the total lean mass decline, a disproportionate amount considering that these organs make up only 11% of a blackcap's lean mass. In freshly captured blackcaps, organ masses were positively correlated with lean mass minus the organ masses, suggesting that these organs are a source of lean mass catabolized by migrants. We conclude that migrants' need for protein to rebuild lean mass during stopover could constrain diet selection and require increased foraging time, thus slowing mass gain and lengtheing overall migration time.
30163946|Previous studies of the parthenogenetic whiptail lizard Cnemidophorus uniparens have provided the best evidence for an endogenous circannual rhythm of reproduction in a reptile. However, these studies were restricted to captive animals on constant photothermal conditions. We report the results of field and laboratory studies indicating that timing of reproduction is dramatically affected by seasonal temperature change. Our field data show that between-year variations in timing of breeding in natural populations are correlated with between-year variations in spring temperatures. Our laboratory data demonstrate that reproduction is delayed and synchronized by exposure to winter-like photothermal conditions. Thus, temperature appears to be the most important environmental cue regulating timing of reproduction in this species. However, the conclusion of previous studies that the natural reproductive cycle is controlled by a circannual rhythm is equivocal and requires further study.
30158226|The effects of elevated temperatures on mitochondrial respiration and the activities of selected mitochondrial enzymes were measured for several invertebrates endemic to the deep-sea hydrothermal vents to determine whether the differences in distribution patterns noted among these species are related to differences in temperature adaptation. Parallel studies were done with related (congeneric or confamilial) species from shallow marine habitats. Mitochondrial respiration of hydrothermal vent species living in zones with high water flux (high, variable temperatures), including the large tube worm Riftia pachyptila, the Pompeii worm Alvinella pompejana, and the brachyuran crab Bythograea thermydron, was more resistant to high temperatures than was mitochondrial respiration of hydrothermal vent species or shallow-living species in cooler waters, for example, the vent clam Calyptogena magnifica and mussel Bathymodiolus thermophilus. The temperatures at which Arrhenius plots of respiration rate exhibited sharp breaks were correlated with the apparent maximal habitat temperature of the species. The apparent Arrhenius activation energies of respiration also correlated with maximal habitat temperature, although not as closely as the Arrhenius break temperatures. Temperature inactivation of mitochondrial enzymes generally adhered to the pattern noted in the interspecific comparisons of mitochondrial respiration. These findings suggest that diferences in thermal adaptation exist among endemic vent species and that these differences are correlated with the microhabitat conditions the diferent species encounter at the vent sites.
30158193|Captive Costa's hummingbirds (Calypte costae) were fed liquid purified diets containing 0%, 0.75%, 1.5%, or 3.0% protein (dry-matter basis). The birds were weighed and excreta samples were collected at days 5 and 10 of 10-d experimental periods. Body-mass maintenance data revealed that the hummingbirds require about 4.5 mg N/d, or 1.5% protein in their diets. Nitrogen balance analysis suggested that these birds should be in balance when ingesting only 1.11 mg N/d (0.4% protein), but this level did not maintain body mass. Similar positive N balances without growth have been documented in other avian and mammalian species, but the fate of this unaccounted N has not been explained. The bodymass data indicated that adult, nonreproducing hummingbirds have a low protein requirement. These results are compared with published time-budget studies of free-living hummingbirds, which have shown that the birds spend most of their feeding time foraging for nectar to meet their high energy needs.
30163929|Environmental factors influencing habitat selection decisions were investigated in two species of water scavenger beetles. Tropisternus mixtus inhabits moderate pond environments, and Tropisternus columbianus inhabits the relatively extreme and spatially variable environment of thermal pools in Yellowstone National Park, where small pools separated by less than 1 m differ by as much as 75C in temperature and 10-fold in dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration. Water temperature and DO concentration in both study areas varied in similar diel cycles. While vegetation density is the primary determinant of habitat selection decisions in T. mixtus, T. columbianus appears to respond to the interaction of temperature, DO, and light. Although both species are negatively phototactic and able to detect and locate regions of preferred temperature in a thermal gradient, the strength of the phototactic response is greater and preferred temperature more narrowly delimited in T. columbianus. Tropisternus columbianus responds to severe hypoxia and elevated water temperature with increased activity, while dctivity in T. mixtus is not related to either factor. I conclude that the observed interspecific differences suggest that T. columbianus has evolved behavioral responses not present in T. mixtus that are correlated with extremes of environmental variation normally encountered in nature.
30155689|Oxygen consumption (
30164322|Hyper- and hypothyroidism were induced by subcutaneous injection of thyroxine and by oral administration of methimazol in Brandt's voles. The effects of the two treatments on metabolic thermogenesis at 25C and 4C were investigated. The level of resting metabolic rate was closely related to thyroid status: high in the hyperthyroid case and low in the hypothyroid case. However, no increase in resting metabolic rate occurred in either case during further cold acclimation. Hyperthyroidism resulted in an increased nonshivering thermogenesis, which was much enhanced by lower temperature, but hypothyroidism led to a suppressed nonshivering thermogenesis in the cold. The state-4 and state-3 respirations and the activities of cytochrome-c oxidase of liver mitochondria were elevated in hyperthyroid animals but attenuated in hypothyroid ones. However, these levels were scarcely changed after further cold acclimation. Both hyperthyroidism and cold acclimation induced the recruitment of brown adipose tissue, but brown adipose tissue was different biochemically in the two cases: in hyperthyroidism, the total protein was reduced, while fat content increased; in cold acclimation, the total and mitochondrial proteins were increased. However, in hypothyroid voles, the normal adaptive changes in brown adipose tissue were impaired in further cold acclimation. The activity of cytochromec oxidase in brown adipose tissue was increased by hyperthyroidism and enhanced in further cold. In contrast, its activity was inhibited in hypothyroid animals, though activated to some extent in cold. These results demonstrate that normal thyroid function is essential for the cold-induced increase of resting metabolic rate and nonshivering thermogenesis and that there is a synergism between thyroid hormone and cold acclimation in the regulation of nonshivering thermogenesis in Brandt's vole. In addition, the blunted response of brown adipocytes to the cold may be the cytological mechanism for the suppressed nonshivering thermogenesis found with hypothyroidism.
30158581|Rates of growth (Pr) and metabolism (Mr) as well as timing of metamorphosis can be precisely described using feeding rate (Cr) as the predictor in Rana tigrina and selected anurans exposed to variables of more than one environmental factor. To predict size at metamorphosis in these anurans, Pr and development rate (Dr) as well as stage-specific growth (Ps) are jointly used as the predictor. Since Cr can predict Pr and Dr, one must know Cr and Ps to predict size at metamorphosis when variables of more than one environmental factor are considered.
30164255|The aerobic capacity modelfor the evolution of endothermy contends that endothermy arose as a result of selection for enhanced aerobic capacity rather than for thermoregulatory considerations. An implicit assumption of this model is that basal metabolism (BMR) increases with an increase in sustainable activity (i.e., aerobic capacity). We tested this assumption for passerine birds using individuals of 10 diferent species to determine whether basal and summit (maximum coldinduced) metabolic rates were correlated. Metabolic rates were measured as oxygen consumption by open-circuit respirometry. Regressions of basal and summit metabolism against body mass (
30164312|From the first discovery of a hormone in a crustacean in the 1920s until the present, the field of crustacean endocrinology has undergone, as do many crustaceans during their development, a marked metamorphosis. The field has moved from the classical era of endocrinological techniques, such as extirpation and additive methods, to the modern era of sophisticated biochemistry and molecular biology. As new investigatory techniques have been devised, crustacean endocrinologists have quickly adopted them and, as a consequence, have made major advances. Nevertheless, there is still much room (and need) for the older techniques, particularly because there is still a vast gap in our knowledge of the endocrine mechanisms of the less highly evolved crustaceans. The bulk of the information we have about crustacean endocrinology has been derived from studies of decapods. Crustacean endocrinology not only provides information about the basic biology of this important group of organisms but also has the potential of greatly enhancing our ability to culture species used as food sources for humans.
30157975|In laboratory experiments, the effect of food composition and body temperature on digestive efficiency was investigated in the lizard Iguana iguana on Curaao (Netherlands Antilles). In a series of experiments the animals were kept in cages with a temperature gradient and different foods were offered ad lib. Mean selected daytime body temperatures were 35.0-36.4 C (mean 24 h
10.1086/515856|We examined oxygen consumption and total evaporative water loss of aardwolves
30155883|The time course following exhaustive exercise of changes in lactate in blood, muscle, skin, kidney, urine, and branchial exhaled water in larval Rana catesbeiana, and in blood and muscle of adult R. catesbeiana, has been investigated. Tissue concentrations of pyruvate, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity, and whole-animal
30163810|Aspects of electrolyte balance were studied in aquatic red-spotted newt adults (Notophthalmus viridescens). In the laboratory, newts subjected to aged tap water (ATW) at controlpH (6.20-7.40) experienced a slight net Na loss. However, the rate of net Na loss after acute exposure to low pH (4.24-4.32) ATW increased significantly. Chronic exposure to low pH, followed by a final transfer to pH 4.22-4.37, reduced the rate of net Na loss to less than that observed in control animals. Body K concentration was greater in animals taken from the natural habitat (pH 5.24-7.80) than in animals acclimated to any of the laboratory conditions. Both body mass and body K concentration were significantly reduced in newts exposed to either low-pH treatment. Total body Na concentration was virtually unaffected by low-pH exposure. Rates of unidirectional Na influx and efflux were dramatically altered as a result of the laboratory treatment regimes. The rate of Na influx was significantly less in newts acutely transferred to low-pHATW than it was in control animals, but chronic low-pH exposure restored the Na influx to control levels. The rate of Na eflux was higher in control newts than it was in animals acutely or chronically exposed to low pH. Apparently, red-spotted newt adults possess adaptations permitting a more favorable state of Na balance than occurs in most teleosts and amphibians exposed to lowpH conditions.
30163344|Electroencephalogram (EEG), electromyogram (EMG), and brain temperature (Tbr) were recorded from seven pocket mice (Perognathus longimembris) during euthermia and 22 bouts of torpor induced by food deprivation. All but one of a total of 22 entrances into torpor began during slow-wave sleep (SWS), and SWS continued throughout 89% of the entrances, whereas rapid eye movement (REM) sleep was almost completely suppressed. Although EEG amplitude diminished as
30158206|Gecarcoidea natalis and Geograpsus grayi are both ammonotelic but excrete ammonia by different routes and mechanisms. In G. natalis ammonium ions in the final excretory fluid (P) constitute 67. 7% of the total nitrogenous output of 38. 11  23.0 SD mol N  kg  h. The urine contains little ammonium (0.36  0.081 SD mmol  L) and is released into the branchial chambers where ammonium is added and salts are reabsorbed. When the P is finally released it contains 10.8  7.79 mmol NH  L, but individual values as high as 73 mmol * L have been measured. Starvation lowered the concentration of urea, ammonium, and amino acids in the hemolymph and reduced output of nonprotein nitrogen compounds in the feces. In G. grayi gaseous ammonia accounts for 82.3% of the total nitrogenous excretion of 106. 6  50.3 SD mol N  kg  h. Periods of excretion lasting 1-2 d alternate with similar periods of minimal excretion. Starvation did not alter the rate of ammonia excretion but caused a reduction in output of fecal N and a fall in the concentration of urea in the hemolymph.
30157941|Aspects of Na regulation of Enneacanthus obesus were examined to elucidate the adaptations that allow them to inhabit low-pH environments. We examined Na uptake kinetics in this native of extremely soft waters, and the mechanisms for the prevention of Na loss upon exposure to low pH. Active Na uptake (
30163777|Metabolic rate is one of the most intensively studied aspects of organismal physiology, but much of the large body of data on metabolism concerns adult animals while largely ignoring juvenile stages, and focuses on mean values of traits while neglecting to consider the significance of intraspecific variation. To study the importance of ontogenic change and individual differences in aerobic performance in a typical small mammal, we measured minimal resting oxygen consumption (
30163845|Thermal optima for physiological processes are generally high (30-40 C) in lizards. Performance decreases substantially at low temperatures, yet some lizards are nocturnal and are active with body temperatures below 15 C. We corroborated three hypotheses about the ecophysiological consequences of the evolution of nocturnality in lizards: (1) nocturnality requires activity at low temperature; (2) activity at low temperature imposes a thermal handicap that constrains performance capacity; (3) nocturnal species have higher performance capacity at low temperature than do comparable diurnal species. Field body temperatures during activity averaged 15.3C in Teratoscincus przewalskii, a nocturnal, terrestrial gecko from northwestern China. Individuals of T. przewalskii sustained exercise at 15 C on a treadmill for more than 60 min at 0.18 km  h. However, 15 C was suboptimal for sustained locomotion. Resting and maximum oxygen consumption at 15 and 25 C were similar to predicted values for diurnal lizards, supporting the hypothesis that much of thermal physiology in lizards is evolutionarily conservative. The minimum cost of transport (
30156050|Times for 50% lethality (
30155963|The steady-state energy expenditure of incubating starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) was studied at different air temperatures, at day and at night, and on different clutch sizes. During the night, energy expenditure (oxygen consumption) increases linearly from 20 down to - 10 C air temperature. During the day, the values at 25 and 10 C air temperature are 50%-60% higher than during the night but only 10% higher at -5 C. This increase is due to the digestive calorigenic effect of food at 25 and 10 C, but at -5 C the heat of the calorigenic effect substitutes for the thermoregulatory requirements. Increasing clutch size results in greater energy expenditure of the incubating starling below 20 C air temperature but has no effect in the thermoneutral zone. Each increase of clutch size by one egg increased the energy expenditure by 3%-5%. The lower critical temperature increased from 14.1 C for a clutch of two eggs to 23.6 C for a clutch of eight eggs. The consequences of different clutch sizes for the time and energy budget of free-living birds are discussed.
30155682|A multiple-regression equation was derived in which the statistical significance of the effects of six independent variables on metabolic rate could be arranged in the following order: exposure temperature, body weight, starvation period, feeding period, acclimation temperature, and percentage of lipids. Two multiple-regression equations were required to express the metabolism of Ligia oceanica without loss of accuracy when reapplied to the individual experimental data. One equation accounted for 84% of the variation of metabolism in animals acclimated to 5 or 12 C; the second accounted for 85% of the variation of metabolism in animals acclimated to 18 or 26 C. The rate:temperature curve for aerobic metabolism was sigmoid. A region of reduced temperature sensitivity occurred at intermediate exposure temperatures. Thermal acclimation had little effect on the level of metabolism of well-fed Ligia. The maximum metabolic rate shifted from 27.6 C in fed animals acclimated at 5 C to 28.2 C in those acclimated at 12 C, to 33.1 C in those acclimated at 18 C, and to 33.4 C in those acclimated at 26 C. The region of reduced temperature sensitivity shifted from 15-25 C at low acclimation temperatures to 20-35 C at high acclimation temperatures. The effects of starvation on oxygen consumption are controlled by body size, duration of starvation, and acclimation temperature. Metabolism is suppressed in small animals sooner than large ones at each acclimation temperature; high acclimation temperatures enhance the onset and magnitude of such effects. Exposure temperature and the period of starvation influenced the effect of body size on metabolism.
10.1086/516001|To assess how the highsugar/lowprotein content of fruit diets affects digestive function and nutrition of frugivorous birds, I compared intake, passage rate, sugar utilization, protein requirements, and mass changes of cedar waxwings (
30157924|The field metabolic rates (FMRs) of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were studied at low (1,230 m) and high (3,800 m) altitudes by means of the doubly labeled water (DLW) technique. Maximal rate of oxygen consumption (
30163948|The hypoxic resistance of hearts of a diving mammal (Ondatra zibethica) and of a nondiver, guinea pig, was investigated in a Langendorff perfused preparation. Hearts were perfused for 20-30 min under hypoxic conditions followed by 20-30 min of reoxygenation. Hearts were paced at 250 beats per minute and perfused at a pressure of 70 cm HO. In the absence of insulin, left ventricular pressure decreased less in the muskrat heart during hypoxia and recovered more during reoxygenation compared with guinea pig hearts. Lactate production was similar in the two species. Glucose uptake could not be demonstrated by chemical means. When insulin was added to the perfusion medium, glucose uptake was about 60% greater in muskrat hearts compared with the guinea pig hearts. Lactate production was also significantly greater. In spite of the greater anaerobic metabolism in the muskrat, left ventricular pressure was similar during hypoxia in the two species. However, during reoxygenation mechanical performance recovered more completely in the muskrat. When hearts were perfused with a buffer containing both glucose and palmitic acid under normoxic conditions, the preferred fuel was glucose for the muskrat and fatty acid for the guinea pig. It is concluded that increased energy supply and reduced energy demand are mechanisms that confer hypoxic resistance to isolated muskrat hearts.
30152625|Intestinal sucrase and maltase activities were measured in three species of hummingbirds and 11 species of passerine birds from western Mexico. Maximal sucrase activity standardized by nominal area of intestine was 2-118 times higher in hummingbirds than in the nine species of passerines that showed significant sucrase activity. Two species of passerines (Turdus rufopalliatus and Catharus aurantiirostris) lacked significant sucrase activity. Lack of functional sucrase activity has been reported in five species of passerine birds restricted to three closely related families (Muscicapidae, Sturnidae, and Mimidae). Interspecific variation in sucrase activity is probably influenced both by feeding habits and phylogenetic affinities. No allometric relation between sucrose hydrolysis capacity and body mass was found. When the two species with no significant sucrase activity were deleted from the sample, maltose hydrolytic capacity and body mass were allometrically related (exponent = 0.65). Maltase and sucrase activity were linearly correlated. Hummingbirds and passerines differed in the relationship between maltase and sucrase activities. It can be hypothesized that this difference is because the sucrase-isomaltase enzyme complex of hummingbirds has less maltase activity than that of passerines. The apparent affinity of sucrase varied almost 10-fold among species. This variation probably does not reflect differences in "real" affinity (i.e., the affinity of sucrase in solution) but can be attributed to unstirred-layer effects resulting from sucrase's being a membrane-bound enzyme. The presence or absence of sucrase activity in birds can have behavioral and ecological consequences. Birds lacking sucrase activity reject foods containing sucrose. The absence of sucrose in the pulp of bird-dispersed fruits can be partially explained by the lack of sucrase activity in bird frugivores.
30156214|The development of thermogenic abilities, evaporative water loss, and maintenance ofskin and rectal temperatures are reportedfor neonates of two cricetid rodent species difering in developmental mode. A thermogenic response to lowered air temperature developed rapidly in the precocial cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus) and more slowly in the altricial wood rat (Neotoma floridana). At any body temperature, neonatal cotton rats generated about twice the metabolic heatper unit body mass than did similarly aged wood rats. Newborn cotton rats maintained nearly constant metabolic rates from 35 to 20 C, but metabolic rate decreased with lowered air temperature below 30 C in newborn wood rats. Individuals ofboth species frequently exhibited local interscapular skin temperatures higher than colonic temperature. Cotton rats had higher skin temperatures and maintained higher body temperatures at younger ages than did wood rats, but neither species maintained body temperatures independent of air temperatures before weaning. At higher air temperatures, cotton rats dissipated more heat by evaporative cooling than was generated metabolically. Under similar conditions wood rats dissipated slightly less heat by evaporation than was generated metabolically. Evaporative water loss was correlated with body mass, air temperature, and metabolic rate in wood rats, but was correlated with skin temperature in cotton rats. Significant individual variation in metabolic rate waspresent in both species. For cotton rats, this variation appears to be related to skin and core temperatures, but not to body mass. In wood rats, this variation is not related to diferences in core or skin temperatures. The development of homeothermy in these species appears to be limited by diferentphysiological factors. In cotton rats, homeothermic status is strongly linked to ontogenetic increases in metabolic heat production. Development of homeothermy in wood ratsproceeds along a completely different pathway from that in cotton rats, and relies on the acquisition of significant insulation rather than on metabolic capability. The combination ofhigh metabolism and rapid growth in cotton rats violates subtractive theories of energy allocation.
30155850|The relationships of weight and temperature on the oxygen consumption of the land planarian, Bipalium kewense, from central Arkansas (U.S.A.) were studied. The coefficients (b) based on oxygen consumption of fully differentiated worms and asexually produced fragments of worms were .716 and .998, respectively, at 30 C. The b value of differentiated worms was close to the generalized b value of .75 for poikilothermic animals, but the b value of asexual fragments was almost directly proportional to weight. In the temperature ranges of 27-29 C and 29-31 C, the
30157882|Nymphs of the dragonfly, Erythrodiplax berenice, are common on rocky mangrove flats in the lower Florida Keys at salinities of 36-48 ppt. Erythrodiplax berenice appears to be the only truly marine odonate, and the nymphs are able to tolerate wide variations in salinity. Hemolymph osmotic pressures for nymphs freshly captured in seawater or held in artificial seawater were 358-412 mOsm. There was little further variation at salinities between freshwater and 260% seawater (2,612 mOsm). In 300% seawater, hemolymph osmotic pressure rapidly increases to about 1,000 mOsm, and death ensues. The transition point between hyper- and hypoosmotic regulation occurred at approximately 350 mOsm seawater. Freshwater- and seawater-acclimated nymphs differ little in body water content (about 80%), but Na content is elevated from 50 to 89 Mmol/g wet wt, respectively. In 35 ppt seawater, Na influx and efflux were approximately balanced near 400 mol/100gh. In freshwater (1 mM Na), these fluxes decline to about 10 mol/100gh. The time for complete turnover of body Na increases from 0.9 day in seawater to 21 days in freshwater. On rapid transfer from water of 470 mM Na to water of 1 mM Na, the Na efflux in 1 mM was only slightly higher than expected for freshwater-acclimated nymphs. At a water Na level of 0.25 mM, Na efflux increases greatly, and there is a large net loss of Na. Water influxes of nymphs in distilled water or 35 ppt seawater were similar (33 and 40 1/gh, respectively); complete turnover of body water occurs in about 0.8 day. Nymphs of E. berenice rival the better-known dipterans in osmoregulatory abilities and should be studied further to compare mechanisms of hypoosmotic regulation that have presumably evolved independently in these two orders.
30156244|American martens and white-tailed prairie dogs are mammals of similar body mass, exposed to periods of food deprivation, but of vastly different body fat content. While both species demonstrated a protein conservation phase during a short-term fast, martens had a greater reliance on protein as depicted by greater loss of body weight, higher daily urine volume, and glomerular clearance rates, as well as higher daily urinary urea excretion. Protein use was calculated to be 3.15 and 1.23 g/d for martens and prairie dogs, respectively. Martens did not hydrolyze a greater amount of urea as they were hypothesized to do in order to conserve water. Urinary beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHBA) excretion decreased during the fast in both species but prairie dogs had higher plasma levels of BHBA, which suggests that regulation of protein catabolism may be in part from ketone bodies. By using fat and protein in a ratio of about 2:1, martens may maintain suficient hydration, extend their fat stores, and retain muscle integrity during short-term fasts.
30155833|Triodopsis albolabris accumulated large quantities of fluid within the mantle cavity, i.e., pallial fluid, as a result of hydration. During periods of dehydration, pallial fluid quantities decreased significantly and the rate of pallial fluid weight loss reflected the pattern of body water (weight) loss. The contribution of pallial fluid weight loss to total animal weight loss during dehydration was relatively constant. Pallial fluid osmolality remained between 38 and 58 mOsm during dehydration of the animals, far below that of the hemolymph of snails both with and without pallial fluid. Hemolymph osmolality of snails retaining pallial fluid during dehydration was significantly lower than that of snails forced to expel pallial fluid prior to exposure to dehydrating conditions. Direct measurements of locomotor activity of individual snails using a treadmill apparatus showed that snails with pallial fluid were active significantly longer than snails without pallial fluid. The results show a direct relationship between the possession of pallial fluid and prolonged locomotor activity of T. albolabris. The present evidence strengthens the hypothesis that pallial fluid acts as a water reserve to replenish water lost to evaporation and mucus production as a result of exposure and locomotor activity.
30163780|Spore retention by the digestive tract of mycophagous rodents may affect the temporal and spatial dynamics of spore dispersal; rodents may also benefit from consuming a discrete resource rich in minerals and vitamins. Some research suggests that hypogeous fungi are not a nutritionally high-quality food item for small rodents, regardless of being highly consumed by these small mammals. Fungi may be a valuable dietary item when higher-quality food is in low abundance. However, the extent to which fungi are incorporated into diet will ultimately depend on the physiological capacities of organisms for digesting such a resource. Here we investigate digestibility of fungus compared with insects and young foliage of plants, and we draw inferences about digestive constraints in a forestdwelling, mycophagous, habitat-generalist rodent (Abrothrix longipilis) exploiting different diets. We show that the fruiting bodies of fungi are less digestible than young leaves of plants and insects. The intake of fungus, in grams of dry mass per day, did not differ from the intake of plants. However, the wet intake of fungus was 23.8 g wet mass  d, while the amount of plants consumed was 7.1 g wet mass  d and insect intake was 10.7g wet mass  d. In spite of small mammals' increasing the wet weight of food eaten as the quality and digestibility of the diet decreases, they may be unable to process the required amount of fungus fast enough to maintain their energy or matter budget and minimize the feeding time. Finally, and based on the fact that many insects utilize fungi as oviposition sites, we hypothesize for A. longipilis that a quantity of insect larvae ingested with fruiting bodies of fungi confers a nutritional benefit beyond that of the fungi alone.
30163857|The allocation of metabolic energy under fluctuating conditions of supply and demand was studied in isolated goldfish hepatocytes. Inhibition of glycolytic ATP production resulted in a decrease in the activity of one of the major ATP consuming components of cellular energy budgets, the sodium pump ((Na, K)-ATPase), because of the removal of substrates for the trichloroacetic acid (TCA) cycle. This was confirmed through restoration of activity to control levels by adding pyruvate and malate to the suspension. Ouabain-sensitive oxygen consumption constituted a fairly constant fraction of 15% to 25% of total oxygen consumption, whereas the relative load exerted by the pump on anaerobic energy metabolism (on the basis of measurements of Rb flux and lactate production) was much higher, ranging from 90% to 50% during the experimental period. Moreover, when pump activity was inhibited by the addition of ouabain, oxidative energy output decreased immediately, whereas under the restricted conditions of glycolytic energy supply a corresponding ouabain-sensitive component of lactate production was not observed. Such an apparent mismatch between supply and demand ofATP is interpreted as reflecting the flexibility of energy allocation under energy-limiting conditions. When ATP production was reduced by inhibiting either glycolysis or oxidative phosphorylation, the concentration of ATP in the hepatocytes dropped within 30 min from the control steady state to a new, lower, steady state that was maintained for at least 60 min.
30155724|We constructed estimates of daily energy budgets for male Eugenes fulgens and female Archilochus alexandri from daily time budgets, energetic rate functions, measurements of food intake, and nocturnal oxygen consumption. These budgets permitted us to examine the relationship between net energy gains and the occurrence of torpor. Results indicated that torpor was used only in "energy emergency" situations at a minimum "threshold" of energy reserves and not to reduce nocturnal energy expenditures when net energy gains during the day were sufficient for overnight expenditures.The feeding behavior of hummingbirds together with a threshold model of torpor generates a scheme of daily energy balance which produces the relationship between torpor and reduced net energy gains that is characteristic of several species exhibiting daily torpor. The absence of torpor except in energy emergencies suggests either a loss in energetic efficiency due to torpor or a constraint from entering torpor due to predation or some physiological risk.
30158162|Sodium cyanide (NaCN) was used as a chemical probe to help localize externally and internally oriented oxygen-Sensitive chemoreceptors and to identify the reflex effects they control in anesthetized, spontaneously breathing channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus). Fish responded rapidly to NaCN (500g) given in the inspired water flow (external NaCN) with transient bradycardia and a more prolonged stimulation ofgill ventilation frequency (
30156083|Evaporative water loss was determined at ambient air temperatures of 10-35 C in 10 species of dasyurid marsupials ranging in body mass from 9 to 900 g. Mass-specific evaporative water loss (
30159994|Migratory birds in captivity continue to show migratory restlessness throughout the normal breeding period. We investigated whether reduced endocrine activity of the testes of captive male white-crowned sparrows causes this extension of migratory state. Experimentally elevated circulating levels of testosterone at the time it attains maximum levels in free-living male conspecifics after arrival on their territories did not suppress the migratory activity of captive males. Also, exposure to estradioltreated females did not affect migratory activity. Testosterone treatment at the end of the reproductive period postponed the seasonal termination of migratory activity and the onset of postnuptial molt. It is suggested (1) that unknown environmental or neuroendocrine cues suppress migratory behavior during breeding; and (2) that testosterone indirectly delays the final termination of vernal migratory behavior of captive males by its delaying effect on the onset of photorefractoriness, which ultimately terminates the tendency to migrate to the breeding area.
30158271|The role of key Cori cycle organs, white muscle and liver, and a lactate oxidizing organ, heart, in the clearance of blood-borne lactate after strenuous exercise in winter flounder was examined. During recovery from exercise, the fish were injected with uniformly labeled
30158239|Goldfish, Carassius auratus L., were acclimated to constant (
30158154|Flow conductances (resistance) ofsaline-perfused gills ofCarcinus maenas and Ovalipes catharus varied with transmural pressure (
30156209|Comparisons of osmotic regulatory capabilities were made over a wide range of ambient salinities among three closely related cyprinodontids. Floridichthys carpio and Jordanella floridae were evaluated here and compared withprevious studies of Cyprinodon variegatus made by the senior author. Floridichthys is typical of nearshore marine areas, Jordanella of fresh waters, and C. variegatus ofsalt marshes, but in isolated instances the three species exist sympatrically. When groups ofacclimated individuals were used, Floridichthys showed bestplasma osmotic regulation at salinities from 435 to 2, 030 mosm/kg, while tolerating ambient salinities of 15 to 2,610 mosm/kg. Jordanella showed bestplasma osmotic regulation at ambientsalinities from 145 to 1,160 mosm/kg and tolerated salinitiesfrom that of fresh water to 2,320 mosm/kg. Cyprinodon variegatus showed goodplasma osmotic regulation over a wider range of ambient salinities than either of the other two, from fresh water to 2,030 mosm/kg, and tolerated ambient salinities from fresh water to 3,625 mosm/kg, greater than either of the others. All three species, regardless of present habitat, retain significant adaptive characteristics of euryhalinity.
30155792|Incorporation of
30157860|Spectacled hare wallabies (Lagorchestes conspicillatus) have a basal metabolic rate (0.32 cm Ogh) that is about 70% of the value that would be anticipated for most eutherian mammals of corresponding size (2.66 kg). The body temperature and heart rate of these marsupials are also relatively low by eutherian standards. Lagorchestes regulates its body temperature well in environments as cool as 6 C, relying on augmented heat production and heat conservation resulting from effective insulation and peripheral heterothermy involving the tail and distal portion of the limbs. The minimal heat-transfer coefficient for this wallaby is 1.1 kcal (mh C), a value similar to those reported for other macropodids. Hare wallabies cope with heat stress by a combination of controlled hyperthermia and evaporative cooling. The latter involves panting; breathing rates exceeding 400 cycles/min were noted in individuals tested in environments at 43 C. Panting resulted in a slight increase in blood pH after 2-4 h. Licking behavior also appears to contribute to evaporative water output at high temperatures. Cutaneous water loss is not an important component of this output, at least in the resting animals utilized in this study. Hare wallabies are nocturnal in nature and spend the day protected from solar radiation and high air temperatures within shelter provided by porcupine grass (Triodia angusta). Behavior thus serves to minimize requirements for evaporative output of water on hot days. The physiological performance of the hare wallaby is compared with that of the jackrabbit, an animal of similar size and ecology occupying North American deserts.
30163823|We studied the influence of body size on the development of temperature regulation in chicks of 10 North American and five European shorebird species belonging to the families Charadriidae and Scolopacidae. Neonatal body mass ranged between 4 and 55 g, and asymptotic body mass ranged between 20 and 650 g. We measured the change in body temperature of chicks individually exposed for 30 min to ambient temperatures of 2, 10, and 18C. An index of homeothermy for each species at each ambient temperature increased as a linear function of the logarithm of body mass. Before achieving homeothermy at 18C, chicks of small species almost tripled their body mass from hatching, whereas chicks of the largest species increased their body mass by only 10%. In the five European species we studied the development of resting and peak metabolic rate, and minimal thermal conductance, as a function of body mass. The development of homeothermy resulted mainly from a strong increase in the maximum mass-specific heatproduction due to thermogenesis (peak metabolic rate minus resting metabolic rate in the thermoneutral zone). The latter phenomenon is linked with a parallel reduction of the relative growth rate of the chick. These results are consistent with the hypothesis of Ricklefs (1979), who suggested that well-developed muscle function is incompatible with a high relative growth rate.
30152597|Hummingbirds depend on floral nectars for energy. This entails a significant water excess which is eliminated in chronic diuresis. In the eight species from which we obtained urine samples, solutes were conserved by reducing urine osmotic concentrations to approximately one-fifth of plasma levels. Sodium and potassium salts accounted for one-half to one-third of the osmotic concentration of urine. These salts can be replaced mostly from trace amounts in the floral nectars. Data from field, laboratory, and the literature are combined to account for salt and water exchanges of broad-tailed and rufous hummingbirds. Published accounts of avian renal morphology and physiology are consistent with hummingbird urinalysis.
30164277|The ctenophore (comb jelly) Mnemiopsis leidyi is a periodically abundant and voracious predator in U.S. coastal waters. Mnemiopsis leidyi is especially competitive at high prey concentrations because of its very efficient extracellular digestion. We investigated the functional basis for these outstanding digestion capabilities. Extracellular digestion takes place in the pharynx and consists of three distinct and consecutive phases. The three phases take place in different regions of the pharynx so that various prey items can be treated simultaneously in each phase. The first phase is acidic, while the second and the third are alkaline. Extracellular digestion is completed by ciliary currents that mechanically disrupt the predigested food. Bulky indigestible food fragments are expelled through the mouth. Except for a small area, the paths for ingestion and egestion are separate. Hence, both ingestion and egestion can occur simultaneously. The flattened and elongated shape of the pharynx provides the morphological basis for this flow-through system with various regions for different digestive treatments of the food. This system is highly elaborated compared with those of other lower invertebrates and allows for an efficient, fast, and simultaneous digestion of many prey items, which accounts for the outstanding feeding capabilities of M. leidyi.
30163847|In a previous study of lactating mice we experimentally varied litter size up to 26 pups. We found that mothers' food intake at peak lactation increased with litter size up to a maximum weanable litter size (14pups). That intake corresponded to a sustained metabolic scope (ratio of sustained to basal metabolic rate) of 7.2. Did that food intake represent a ceiling on intake and sustained metabolic rate, or would intake have increased even further if lactation had been extended (so that the mother mouse was still providing all the nourishment for her growing pups) beyond 15 d? To answer this question, we prolonged lactation to 24 d, using a cage with food at the top of a ladder that only the mother could climb. Pup and litter mass increased 39%-44%, but the mother's intestinal mass and uptake capacities for glucose and proline did not increase beyond their values at day 15. Food intake for mothers of either eight or 14 pups at day 24 was the same as reported for mothers of 14 pups at day 15. Thus, the observed food intake appears to represent a ceiling for lactating mice (under our experimental conditions). It remains to be determined whether that ceiling is imposed by the intestine itself or something else (e.g., by milk production), and whether it applies to other types of demand.
30156249|Clinocottus analis, a common tidepool cottid fish occurring in the marine intertidal zone in central and southern California, readily tolerated exposure to air for up to 24 h. Like species of amphibious marine fish, its rate of O consumption during air exposure was not different from that when in water, even after 24 h in air. Aerobic metabolism was suficient to meet resting metabolic needs, as shown by the absence of an increase in aquatic O consumption rate following air exposure and the lack of accumulation of lactate as a result of 6 h of aerial exposure. Aerial release of CO was high, and aerial respiratory exchange ratio (CO released/O consumed) was 0.82, suggesting that respiratory acidosis should not occur during air exposure. These results indicate that C. analis, although it may be emerged only rarely during low tides in nature, is able to respire in air.
30158160|The electrocardiograms (ECGs) and blood pressures in the lateral pericardium of palinurid lobsters were recorded simultaneously by implanted electrodes and catheters. Eachpulse of the ECG was followed by a transient drop inpericardial pressure (pericardial systolic pressure, PSP). The amplitude of PSP at rest was about 20 Pa. Electrocardiogram recordings often showed regular extended periods of bradycardia (1-15 min). At heart rates lower than 20 bpm, pericardial diastolic pressure (PDP) rose and reached a sustained level when hydraulic pressure on the lobster was constant. At heart rates above 30 bpm, summation of PSP occurred, resulting in progressive lowering of PDP. The maximum drop in PDP rangedfrom 200 to 500 Pa. The lowered PDP was capable of a motive force to fill the pericardial cavity with recurrent blood. When the lobster raised its antennae in an aggressive gesture, the heart rate quickly rose, while the amplitude of PSP slowly increased to 100 Pa. During feeding, PSP also increased gradually from 50 to 100 Pa in amplitude. With flinching PSP was often reduced from 50 to 20 Pa and recovered gradually. The change in PSP amplitude may indicate the change of cardiac performance associated with the behavior.
30163836|The midgut of the tobacco hornworm (Manduca sexta) undergoes structural reorganization during the last larval stadium. Changes in midgut active ion transport and metabolism during this transition were studied by monitoring short-circuit current, maximal enzyme activities, and mitochondrial respiration. The short-circuit current of midguts from feeding caterpillars was over seven times higher than that of wandering larvae. No short-circuit current was detected in midguts from prepupae, whereas the midguts of pupae had a small but significant level of active ion transport. Paralleling the decline in active ion transport during larval development was the decline in the activity of citrate synthase, a key enzyme in oxidative metabolism. Aerobic metabolism was explored further by monitoring the oxidation of substrates by mitochondria isolated from the midguts of feeding and wandering larvae. Oxidation of all substrates, except ascorbate, was lower in mitochondria isolated from wandering larvae. These results indicate that the decline in active ion transport during larval development may be caused by a decline in mitochondrial energy production. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that the highly aerobic larval midgut is reorganized into a pupal epithelium with low rates of ion transport and oxidative metabolism.
30164317|The tropical Australian turtle Chelodina rugosa normally lays its hard-shelled eggs in mud, under shallow freshwater, during the monsoon season. The eggs undergo developmental arrest until the water recedes and oxygen is able to diffuse into the embryo. This period of arrest can exceed 12 wk without embryonic mortality. To understand how the eggs avoid osmotic absorption of water leading to shell rupture and embryonic death, this study investigates the solute concentrations and volumes of the albumen and yolk compartments during submergence in distilled water. The albumen loses considerable sodium through the shell, particularly during the first week, and its osmotic concentration drops from 234 mmol/kg at laying to about 23 mmol/kg. Meanwhile, water from the albumen slowly moves through the vitelline membrane into the yolk compartment, which enlarges at a constant rate until it approaches the inside of the shell at about 22 wk. Osmotic uptake dilutes yolk solutes, decreasing the osmotic concentration from 281 mmol/kg at laying to 132 mmol/kg at 157 d. Loss of embryonic viability is associated with contact of the vitelline membrane with the inside of the shell. The principal adaptation of this species for protracted developmental arrest under water is a vitelline membrane of such low permeability to water that the expansion of the yolk compartment occurs about 10 times more slowly than in other chelonians.
30157965|As a possible basis for providing new insights into adaptive mechanisms and certain physiological processes, examples of similarities between plant and animal defense systems are presented. Some animals and plants have cryptic colorations to escape detection by predators. Animals often mimic plants or other animals to prevent their identification as edible; plants appear to mimic animals or other plants with the same result. If identified as edible, many animals avoid the approach of a predator by unpredictable responses. Certain plants fold their leaves when approached, apparently for the same reason. Furthermore, the mechanism of leaf movement involves propagated action potentials with characteristics similar to those in animals. Subjugation and consumption of plants and animals may be prevented by various forms of mechanical resistance and by substances belonging to similar chemical groups-alkaloids, steroids, various cyanogens, and proteins. With regard to escaping diseases, certain processes occur in plants that may be compared with vertebrate immune systems. For example, protein synthesis often occurs during infection. Although these pathogenesis-related proteins are not antibodies, the induced proteins are specific for microorganisms and may be found throughout the plant even after local attack. Long-term resistance to certain diseases is a property of the vertebrate immune system, but it can also be demonstrated in plants. Transgenic plants synthesize unnatural proteins that are harmless to the plant, but can prevent infections or discourage predation. Plants may also kill invaders by production of activated O in a manner similar to phagocytic action. Considering the profound developmental and structural differences between plants and animals, the similarities observed for defense purposes are striking. A familiarity with the pertinent literature for both kingdoms may lead to novel, productive approaches to old problems.
30163822|Like other penguin species, adult king penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus) fast several weeks when they molt and at the beginning of their breeding cycle. Moreover, chicks of this species can withstand up to 5 mo of food deprivation during the austral winter. To assess possible variation in the prefasting amounts of nutrient reserves, we determined body composition (water, protein, total lipid, and ash contents) of adults and chicks of king penguins at the beginning of their long-term fasts. Accumulation of subcutaneous fat stores anticipates each of these periods and appears to be an obligatory prerequisite to fasting However, prewinter chicks contained 1 kg more fat and, consequently, had a higher adiposity (34%) than premolting chicks (22%) and prebreeding adults (18%), indicating that the higher the fat stores, the higher the fast resistance. Prewinter chicks also possess a 19% lower lean body mass (6 61 vs. 8.12 kg in premolting chicks), that is, a low amount of metabolically active tissues, thus minimizing their fasting energy expenditure. When compared with adult breeding fast, adult molt is anticipated by a 3.3-kg body mass increase due mainly to water (67%) and protein (23%). Two tissues (integument and pectoral muscles) account for 84% of this body mass difference. The increase in integument (feather, skin, and subdermal fat) mass involves water and fat (59% and 28% of the mass increase, respectively), whereas that in breast muscle mass involves protein and water (32% and 68% of the increase, respectively). Such protein stores anticipate the use of endogenous body protein for new feather synthesis during the molting fast. This study clearly shows that different amounts of fat and protein are builtup in anticipation of fasts of different durations and nutrient needs in king penguins.
30156128|During starvation the metabolism of"nonfatty" fish, i.e., fish with limited reserves of lipid, is supported to a significant extent by the degradation of proteins in white muscle. We have investigated the effects of starvation on selected glycolytic enzymes and actin in white muscle of the barred sand bass Paralabrax nebuhlifer. The concentration of actin remains stable during 4 wk of starvation, but the activities of the glycolytic enzymes phosphofructokinase (PFK), aldolase (ALD), glyceraldehyde-3phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and pyruvate kinase (PK) all decrease. Using a new detergent extraction technique for separating the soluble and myofibrillar proteins of muscle, we show that the intracellular localization of these glycolytic enzymes shifts during starvation. A decreased percentage of the total enzymatic activity is found associated with the myofibrils in starved fish. PFK, an important regulatory enzyme in glycolysis, shows the most striking shift in compartmentation. Refeeding fish starved for 21 days led to a near-complete recovery of enzymatic activity within 24 h. However, only PFK regained the myofibrillar association noted in fed fish. The changes in the activities and intracellular localizations of these enzymes are discussed in terms of the energetics of starvation, the selective degradation of proteins during starvation, and the physiological significance of glycolytic enzyme distribution between soluble and myofibrillar compartments in muscle.
30152582|Circadian rhythms of metabolic rate (oxygen uptake) and locomotor activity (perch hopping) were measured in redpolls, Carduelis flammea L., exposed to light-dark cycles (LD 5.0:1.0 or 0.15:0.01 lux) with different periods as zeitgeber and to continuous illumination (LL 0.05 or 0.15 lux) following entrainment to LD cycles with different light times (photoperiods) and different zeitgeber periods (T). The redpolls showed a high degree of persistence (stability) of the circadian period (), demonstrated by the absence of significant aftereffects of long and short light times or of zeitgeber periods longer than 24 h. Summer-winter differences were observed in the upper limit of the ranges of entrainment of the rhythms of metabolic rate (
30162291|Following a period of water deprivation, Bedouin goats became rehydrated by drinking 0.9% NaCl solution. During one continuous drinking bout, these goats ingested 3.26  0.42 liters of saline and regained their initial body mass. The outflow from the rumen during the first hour after drinking saline amounted to 596  333 ml/h, eight times the rate recorded during the time when the goats became rehydrated by drinking tap water. Plasma protein concentration dropped more rapidly immediately following the drinking of saline than after drinking tap water. Within an hour after they had drunk saline, urine flow exceeded the predrinking levels. Six hours following drinking it barely regained the rate recorded at the end of dehydration period. The pattern of changes in GFR (creatinine clearance) and RPF (PAH clearance) was similar to that observed with urine flow. It is concluded that the rumen in the Bedouin goat "stores" water following the rapid rehydration with tap water but does not function as an osmotic protective mechanism when the animals become rehydrated with saline. Presumably, the rate at which water leaves the rumen is inversely related to the hypotonicity of the rumen fluid.
30158563|Field measurements of body water balance were made in the insular, herbivorous lizard Sauromalus hispidus during a comparatively dry year when succulent annual plants were not available. Lizards fed selectively but irregularly on potassium-laden fruits of perennial cacti and lost an average of 21% of their body mass between April and August; decreases in total body water accounted for ca. 82% of this loss in mass. Fluid volumes in chuckwalla "accessory lymph sacs" decreased significantly (>50%) over the lizard's active season. Despite these net losses in body fluids and the osmotic load imposed by their food, measurements of total osmolality, ionic concentration, and erythrocyte content of the blood indicated that lizards maintained osmotic stability of their extracellular fluid. Reductions in the duration of daily activity presumably accounted for an extremely low requirement of body water (7.3 ml/kg  day), which is less than one-half that predicted and is the lowest rate of water turnover measured in any vertebrate at steady state.
30164223|The composition of milk from free-ranging koalas was examined as part of a study of the energetics of reproduction in the koala, an arboreal folivorous marsupial that displays a number of energetically conservative characteristics often associated with arboreality and folivory. Koala milk composition showed a number of deviations from the general marsupial pattern that suggest koalas have adopted a lactational strategy different from that of most other marsupials previously studied. Milk solids decreased at the time of exit of the young from the pouch, in contrast with the solids content of the milk of most marsupials, which rises at that time. Lipids provided the major source of milk energy even in early to midlactation and did not rise at pouch exit, unlike lipid levels in other marsupials, which are low in early to midlactation and rise sharply at pouch exit to high levels in late lactation. The carbohydrates of late-lactation koala milk contained mainly lactose and some oligosaccharides, but little or none of the monosaccharide found in the milk of many other marsupials. Koalas share most of these features with the common brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) and common ringtail possum (Pseudocheirus peregrinus), the only two other marsupial arboreal folivores in which milk composition has been studied. This suggests that the koala'spattern of changes in milk composition may be common to marsupial arboreal folivores and may be associated with energetic limitations imposed directly by their folivorous diet or indirectly via selection for their long period of lactation and slow weaning. However, koalas' milk was more concentrated than that of the other two marsupial folivores, the importance of which, to the lactational strategy of the koala, can be resolved only by further study of milk production.
30163689|We compared the body temperature of arctic and temperate bumblebees in order to find out whether arctic bees have special thermal adaptations. The thoracic temperatures of arctic queens, drones, and workers foraging from flowers in the field were identical to those of temperate bumblebees. Arctic queens differed from temperate queens in maintaining higher abdominal temperatures (
30161262|The ventilation of the lugworm was studied at different controlled PO values in the ambient water at 20 C. When ventilation in normoxia is taken as a reference value, hyperoxia (300 and 500 Torr) depressed ventilation, mild hypoxia increased ventilation slightly, severe hypoxia depressed ventilation, and extreme hypoxia arrested ventilation. At each controlled PO, 30-s exposures to oxygen-saturated water (PO ca. 700 Torr) were performed-the "oxygen tests"-and the subsequent ventilation were measured. Oxygen tests led to no change of ventilation in hyperoxia, a fall of ventilation in normoxia and mild hypoxia, and an increase of ventilation in severe and extreme hypoxia. This ventilatory behavior is best explained by assuming, as a base ventilation, the low ventilation observed in hyperoxia that corresponds to the spontaneous activity of a pacemaker located in the nerve cord. The decrease of ambient PO toward normoxia and mild hypoxia activates a chemoreflex ventilatory drive, and ventilation increases. With stronger hypoxia, ventilation is inhibited by the activity of special chemoreceptors located near the tip of the tail, which discharge maximally in extreme hypoxia and anoxia. The functional significance of this unique ventilatory behavior relates to the way of life of the lugworm. Within its gallery in the sand of the intertidal zone, it is cyclically exposed twice a day to normoxia at high tide and to complete anoxia at low tide.
30156107|We investigated whether environmental temperature has any causal role in the winter fattening in certain finches of the subfamily Carduelinae. Correlational analyses between fat content of American goldfinches (Carduelis tristis) and various short- and long-term measures of temperature provide no evidence for a proximate role of this environmental variable in determining the degree of fattening of these birds in southeastern Michigan. Their fat content shows the best correlations (r = -.61 to -.63) with the long-term average minimum temperature or record low temperature for the date of capture. Furthermore, inclusion of long-term thermal measures in multivariate analyses excludes from significance temperature conditions surrounding the day of capture. Comparison of American goldfinches wintering in Michigan, California, and Texas, respectively, strengthens the conclusion that environmental temperature does not directly influence their fat content. Taken together, our data on this species favor the hypothesis that temperature is an ultimate, i.e., evolutionarily significant, rather than a proximate factor in winter fattening. Comparisons of American goldfinches, pine siskins (Carduelis pinus), and common redpolls (Carduelisflammea) in Michigan indicate that these similar-sized congeners show different levels of winter fattening under similar winter conditions. The differences in fat content among these species do not correlate in any simple way with their respective overall winter distributions.
30158648|Maintenance nitrogen requirements (MNRs) were determined in greater gliders fed Eucalyptus radiata foliage and in brushtail possums fed E. melliodora foliage. Both species had high nitrogen requirements compared with most other marsupial species; the greater glider required 0.56 g truly digestible nitrogen
30159983|The metabolic rate of three adult female polar bears (Ursus maritimus) was investigated under simulated denning conditions. Experiments were conducted during the winter, using a metabolic chamber as a simulated den. Ambient laboratory temperatures ranged from -10 to -35 C. Adult female polar bears were given the opportunity to enter the den of their own volition. Metabolic measurements were obtained by immobilizing the study animals and moving them into the respiration chamber. The study animals were in the den for a minimum of 1 wk prior to the measurement of oxygen consumption. A total of 50 metabolic measurements were obtained. The average standard metabolic rate for the study animals was reduced by 25% from expected values. The lowest observed metabolic rate averaged about 50% of predicted values for basal metabolism. The bears were held in the simulated den from 27 to 59 days. Weight loss for the three female bears averaged 0.70 kg/day.
30163339|Recently ovulated eggs and newborn of two species of viviparous reptiles, Gerrhonotus coeruleus (Sauria: Anguidae) and Nerodia rhombifera (Serpentes: Colubridae), were analyzed for organic (nitrogen, lipid) and inorganic (total ash, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium) content. Eggs contain 41%-48% water, 46%-56% organic matter, and 3%-5% inorganic salts. Total protein (based on measurement of nitrogen) is higher in egg yolk than total lipid. Analysis of the composition of newborn indicates that eggs of both species gain water and lose dry mass during development. Most of the dry mass loss is a reduction in amount of lipid, presumably due to catabolism. There was no substantial change in total nitrogen in newborn compared to yolk. There was evidence of an extravitellogenic source of mineral ions in both species. Newborn G. coeruleus have a substantially higher ash content than recently ovulated eggs. Although total ash was not higher, newborn N. rhombifera contain more sodium and potassium than eggs. Transplacental transfer of inorganic material occurs in both species but to a greater degree in Gerrhonotus than Nerodia.
30163696|We measured body temperature (
30158176|To test the hypothesis that heat produced as a by-product of physical activity substitutes for avian thermoregulatory requirements, we measured daytime CO production of a very active small passerine, the verdin (Auriparus flaviceps), at various standard operative temperatures (
30166505|We measured metabolic rates (mL O h, converted to kcal d), deep body temperatures (
30155736|Adaptation of energy expenditure to partial or complete food deprivation was studied in the laboratory rat. Energy expenditure was measured by means of a material balance technique and with indirect calorimetry. Increasing the temporal resolution of the latter method and combining it with other techniques allowed a detailed analysis of expenditure into its components. All experiments were done at a temperature of 30 C. Total expenditure during food deprivation went down by nearly three-fifths of its ad lib. value. Of the total decrease of 59%, 12%-13%, was due to cessation of food processing, 12% to reduction of activity, and 34%-35% to a drop of fasting resting metabolic rate. Finally the consequences of the expenditure changes for the regulation of body temperature were studied. The mean core temperature fell by 1 C while the animals reduced their thermal conductance. The adaptive significance of the findings is discussed.
30163842|We measured the energy costs of locomotion and load carriage in two species of the honeypot ant, Myrmecocystus. The diurnal forager, Myrmecocystus mendax, ran voluntarily in a running tube respirometer at 40 C. After running for about an hour, foragers were removed and given access to honey water, which they drank. The energy cost of carrying this internal load was then measured. The nocturnalforager, Myrmecocystus mexicanus, ran voluntarily in the running tube at 30 C. These ants could not be persuaded to collect honey water. The minimum costs of transport (MCOT)-160 and 105 J kg m for M. mendax (6 mg) and M. mexicanus (14 mg), respectively-were substantially below values estimated from current allometric equations relating MCOT to body mass. Using our voluntary locomotion regime, we found the Y-axis intercept of the relation between metabolic rate and running speed to be equivalent to standard metabolic rate for all species and load conditions. The cost per unit mass of internal load carriage in M. mendax (the smallest animal to date for which we have data on load carriage costs) was equivalent to that of body mass carriage. Internal load carriage therefore does not appear to offer cost savings compared with external load carriage.
30158164|The flight physiology of migrating Urania fulgens (Uraniidae) was studied under natural conditions. Airspeed, as opposed to ground speed, was measured directly for moths in free flight over Lake Gatun, Panama. The same insects were then captured, and their thoracic temperatures were measured. Detailed morphological measurements were made on all individual insects. Although significantly different in many aspects of body size, male and female moths flew at the same airspeeds and thoracic temperatures. These results suggest that, during a migratory flight, airspeed and thoracic temperature in U. fulgens remain independent across a range of ambient temperatures and morphological sizes. Surprisingly, although males and females differed in all other morphological parameters measured, they did not differ in body length. The invariance of mean body length between males and females suggests that this trait is constrained in some unknown way. It is argued that stored lipid reserves alone are unlikely to provide sufficient energy for the continuous flapping flight characteristic of U. fulgens during migration, and carbohydrates imbibed at flowers are the most probable source of additional energy.
30163697|I incubated eggs of the smooth softshell turtle (Apalone mutica) at 26, 28, and 30 C in 2 yr to investigate the physiological significance of temperature on developing embryos and hatchlings. In particular, I tested the hypothesis that temperature has a direct effect on physiology of developing embryos independent of the hydric environment, specifically as expressed through its effects on hatchling size and locomotor performance. Hatching success was lowest at 26C but did not differ significantly among treatments or between years. Survivorship of turtles to 2 wk posthatching varied significantly among temperature treatments, because relatively few individuals from 26C survived Duration of incubation was negatively related to incubation temperature. However, sex determination of hatchling turtles was independent of incubation temperature. All but one measure of body size of turtles varied positively with incubation temperature in both years, which suggests that temperature directly affected embryonic growth. Body size of hatchlings also differed significantly among clutches, even after accounting for initial egg mass, which implies maternal or genetic variation in embryonic development. Measures of locomotor performance (running and swimming speed) were significantly influenced by incubation temperature in both years, such that warmer temperatures produced faster hatchlings. In 1989, but not in 1990, larger turtles ran and swam faster than smaller individuals. Clutch exhibited a significant influence on running and swimming speed in both years, which suggests maternal or genetic effects underlying performance. Both measures of locomotor performance were positively correlated in both years, and the correlations were significant, which indicates that faster runners were also faster swimmers. Running and swimming speed were highly repeatable within the 1-d trials in both years and exhibited significant heritable variation. These findings highlight the pervasive influence of environmental and genetic factors on the physiological ecology of embryonic and hatchling turtles and indicate that growth and locomotor performance may possess the genetic variation necessary to evolve in response to selection pressures in nature. Experimental field studies of the ecological and evolutionary consequences of variation in these traits would prove valuable in elucidating the pervasive impact of environmental conditions during embryonic development.
30163744|Using metabolic (in vivo) labeling methods and immunoblotting (Western) analysis, we determined the threshold induction temperature for enhanced synthesis of heat-shock proteins (HSP70 and HSP90) and the constitutive levels of these two classes of HSPs, respectively, in brain, gill, and liver of four species of marine teleost fishes acclimatized to a common temperature (10C). For a given tissue of a species and among tissues of a species, little variation was found in HSP induction temperatures. However, among tissues of a species, the constitutive levels of HSPs differed substantially. Among species, wide variation was found in induction temperature (up to 8C when averaged for all tissues) and HSP concentration (greater than 10-fobld differences for a single tissue). These results, obtained by analysis of animals from natural populations, contradict many of the assumptions, based largely on in vitro studies of isolated cells and tissues, about the dependence of the HSP threshold induction temperature and HSP concentrations on the previous acclimatization temperature. The wide variation in the HSP threshold induction temperatures among the different species and the wide variation in constitutive HSP levels among and within species may reflect, in addition to recent thermal exposure, the thermal history of the species during its evolution and the occurrence in the individual's habitat of other stressors that, like temperature, are capable of activating the heat-shock (stress) response.
30155674|The Australian freshwater crocodile, Crocodylus johnstoni, heats significantly faster than it cools. Under the experimental conditions, cooling rate was found to be approximately 80% of heating rate in both air and water. Heart rate during heating is more rapid than during cooling. Convective transfer of heat within the body is effected by the circulatory system, and this far exceeds rates of heat transfer by conduction alone. Localized heating of the body surface results in a cutaneous vasodilation which promotes uptake of heat. Localized cooling of the body surface results in cutaneous vasoconstriction, promoting heat conservation. Increase or decrease in heart rate accompanies cutaneous vasodilation or vasoconstriction. The dilation or constriction of cutaneous blood vessels and the acceleration or deceleration of heart rate are seen as separate responses to surface heating or cooling. Together they promote heat gain or retard heat loss and provide physiological mechanisms contributing to thermoregulation in C. johnstoni.
30155722|Tiger salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum) showed significant routine daily cycles of oxygen consumption at 15 and 25 C. Routine blood lactate and blood glucose values at 15 C showed no significant variation over a 24-h cycle. Aerobic scope during 30 min of forced activity was 30.0 and 33.8 l g h at 15 and 25 C, respectively. Anaerobiosis was the primary source of energy production during activity; 61.4% and 66.5% of the total ATP produced at 15 and 25 C, respectively, was derived anaerobically. Correlation of O debt with lactate production suggests that the oxygen debt is primarily lactacid. The volume of the O debt would allow gluconeogenesis of only about half of the total lactate formed, the remainder presumably being otherwise eliminated. Liver lactate concentrations returned to resting levels before blood levels, an indication that other organs (nongluconeogenic) function in lactate removal.
10.1086/515969|Gulf toadfish,
30155747|In the laboratory, crowding inhibits pupation of larvae of Zophobas rugipes (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae). Pupation-ready larvae must disperse away from high-density populations in order to find an undisturbed pupation site. In the laboratory, the pupation chamber is defended against intruding larvae, and the success of occupants in preventing intrusion increases with isolation up to 96 h. Thereafter the larvae begin to enter the pharate pupal stage. Over a challenge period of 5-10 h occupant success declines to a plateau but remains above the randomly expected value for 24 h, provided the occupants have been isolated at least 12 h. Dispersal and single occupancy of chambers are due to fighting between occupant and challenger. The major components of the behavior are "shoveling" with the head, opening mandibles, biting the opponent, and violent side-to-side thrashing of the body. All these components increase rapidly during the first 24 h of isolation. Among mature larvae, success in chamber defense is not affected by relative weight (650-750 mg vs. 850-950 mg) or relative age (11-12 mo vs. 14-15 mo). Success is decreased but still significantly nonrandom if occupants are removed from chambers and forced to redisperse along with the challengers. Success is greatly increased if larvae are selected for success in a prior experiment. The ability to defend a pupal chamber successfully thus appears to be an intrinsic property of the larvae. Immobilized larvae are unable to prevent intrusion into their chambers, indicating that single occupancy results from active defense. Pharate pupae and pupae have a limited capacity to exclude intruders from their chambers. Immobilized larvae are subject to heavy cannibalism by active larvae.
30152624|Altricial birds are essentially ectothermic at hatching. Parental brooding is the primary thermoregulatory mechanism, and body temperature (
30157862|Bee-eaters excavate tunnel nests to a depth sufficient to blunt the impact of wide variations in surface temperatures on the thermal environment in the nest chamber. Thermal environment of the inhabitants is maintained within or near their thermal neutral zone. High chamber humidity, minimal thermal stress, and succulent insect food combine to stabilize water balance of nestlings. Diffusion of gases through soil and along the nest tunnel can account for maintenance of tolerable levels of O and CO; however, the absence of nest sanitation and presence of microorganisms causes significant periodic elevations in NH and CO and a decrease in chamber O. This latter circumstance is associated with windless conditions. Wind movements rapidly improve internal conditions by the formation of gas vortices which penetrate via the nest tunnel to the chamber while displacing chamber gas to the exterior. The piston effect of adult birds moving along the tunnels and thermally induced density currents further augment gas renewal. The combination of soil characteristics and nest design provides a generally equable and uniform microenvironment for the developing young, even though external conditions may vary widely.
10.1086/515854|Eggs of intermittently incubating birds are periodically rewarmed by a transient pulse of heat from the parent's brood patch. Estimating the energy cost of rewarming such an egg requires knowledge of the egg's thermal capacity, typically assumed to be the product of the egg's mass and its specific heat, designated here as the gravimetric thermal capacity. When chicken eggs are transiently warmed by an artificial brood patch, the energetic costs of the rewarming indicate that they have thermal capacities about onethird the gravimetric thermal capacity. In this article, I show that birds' eggs warmed locally by a brood patch have effective thermal capacities that differ substantially from the eggs' gravimetric thermal capacities, both in absolute magnitude and in response to varying the temporal properties of the transient pulse of heat. An effective thermal capacity exists because heat from a brood patch flows unevenly through an egg and because of thermal impedance effects on the unsteady component of heat flow into the egg. If these conditions in any way characterize the rewarming of eggs by intermittently incubating birds in nature, intermittent incubation may be considerably less costly in time and energy than has heretofore been assumed.
30157912|Ixodes uriae White (Ixodidae, Acarina) is the predominant tick on the Antarctic peninsula. This species has a circumpolar distribution in both hemispheres and is associated with or known to parasitize 48 species of seabirds. Large colonies of 1,000 or more individuals of all life stages were found beneath rocks on the periphery of Adlie penguin rookeries near Palmer Station, Anvers Island. All life stages (egg, larva, nymph, and adult) were intolerant of freezing. Engorged nymphs and larvae had supercooling points between -18 and -20 C. Eggs had the lowest supercooling points (-28.7 C), while adults had the highest values (from -7 to -13 C). Acclimation to temperatures between -12 and +25 C for 2 wk had no effect on the supercooling point of engorged immobile nymphs. Desiccation of engorged nymphs to 80% of their initial weight resulted in no change in supercooling points or glycerol levels. In January, engorged nymphs enter a state of apolysis and lose mobility. Correlated with this change is an increase in cold tolerance as evidenced by a decrease in supercooling points from -11.5 to -19.5 C. This species exhibits the greatest range of thermal tolerance, from -30 to 40 C, reported for any Antarctic terrestrial arthropod. Except for a short period associated with feeding, I. uriae remains in a permanent state of cold-hardiness throughout the year.
30158652|In certain circumstances, wild animals may obtain adequate nutrition merely by random consumption of foods but, in other circumstances, may need to feed selectively for specific nutrients. For instance, it has been argued that requirements for certain amino acids may be so great during periods of production such as egg laying or molt that highly selective feeding is necessary to avert malnutrition. We evaluated the ability of captive molting white-crowned sparrows to choose between two semisynthetic diets (Choice) that were essentially identical, except in sulfur-amino acid (SAA = cyst(e)ine + methionine) concentration. The high-SAA diet was more than nutritionally adequate, and the low-SAA diet was inadequate for molting sparrows. Two parallel experimental groups were fed only the high-SAA diet (Control) or the low-SAA diet (Deficient), respectively. Food was supplied to each bird in two glass food cups, side by side. Choice birds thus had free access to a high-low-SAA-diet pair, while Control (high-high-diet pair) and Deficient (low-low-diet pair) birds had free access to right- or left-hand cups containing identical diets. Daily food intake by Control birds was 50:50 from rightand left-hand cups before, during, and after molt. Their body-mass variation and molt pattern (duration = ca. 54 days) were normal. Daily food intake by Deficient birds was less (25%-30%); body mass was less (ca. 15%); and molt was longer (105 days) than in Control or Choice birds. Many new feathers in Deficient birds were malformed. A subgroup of the Deficient group that was given a high-low-diet choice midway through the experiment quickly regained normal body mass and accelerated molt above the normal rate, so that molt was completed in 75 days. Daily food intake, body mass, and pattern and duration of molt in the Choice birds were indistinguishable from these variables in Control birds. Choice birds consumed a 50:50 ratio of diets before and after molt but during molt preferentially consumed the high-SAA diet in rough proportion to molt intensity, with a mid-molt plateau at about 65% highSAA diet. Tests involving switching of diet (food-cup) locations showed that the birds can sense diet quality and respond to altered diet location within at least 16 h (1 feeding day).
30152575|Oxygen consumption of Rhea (Rhea americana) and Emu (Dromiceius novaehollandiae) eggs increases exponentially during the first 70% of incubation and reaches a maximum about three-quarters of the way through incubation. Rate of O consumption then declines to about 75% of the peak value, increasing again just prior to pipping. We suggest the decline in rate of O consumption is due to a decline in growth rate, and that growth of the embryo of ratites is essentially complete at the time of the peak in O consumption. Completion of growth prior to the normal end of incubation may permit ratite eggs of different ages to synchronize hatching within a clutch. Rates of O consumption just prior to the initiation of pulmonary respiration are 104  7 cm h in Rhea eggs and 75  7 cm h in Emu eggs. Calculated and measured air-cell gas tensions at this stage of incubation vary systematically with egg size between species of birds. Large eggs have higher air-cell O tensions and lower air-cell CO tensions than do small eggs. Water vapor conductance of Emu eggs is 46.2  9.6 mg day torr, much lower than predicted on the basis of egg size and incubation period.
30156132|Per os inoculations of migratory grasshoppers Melanoplus sanguinipes with the microsporidian protozoan Nosema acridophagus resulted in an increase in the grasshoppers' preferred temperature by about 6 C. Maintenance of grasshoppers at febrile and nonfebrile temperatures showed that fever benefited infected grasshoppers in terms of survival and growth. Febrile temperatures negatively affected the growth of uninfected grasshoppers, but, for infected grasshoppers, these costs were outweighed by the benefits. Nonfebrile infected M. sanguinipes were less fecund than nonfebrile controls, while fecundity of febrile infected M. sanguinipes did not differ significantly from febrile controls. This investigation is, to our knowledge, the first to show that (1) protozoal infections can generate fever in an ectotherm, (2) the costs of fever involve decreased growth rate of the host, and (3) a net benefit of fever occurs when the pathogen is introduced to the host by a natural route.
30161255|Foraging patterns of genetically similar colonies of Eastern tent caterpillars were continuously recorded in the field (in normal and artificially manipulated microenvironments) and in the laboratory. Frequency and duration of foraging bouts were similar despite average daytime body temperatures, which differed by as much as 15 C. Caterpillars which had access to radiant heat regulated their body temperature. Body temperature of caterpillars without radiant heating passively followed ambient conditions. Growth of tent caterpillars was positively correlated with body temperature and paralleled rates of food processing, as indicated by rates of feces production immediately after feeding. Behavioral thermoregulation enhances growth rates in tent caterpillars by increasing rates of food processing during inactive periods, presumably increasing the amount eaten in the next feeding bout.
10.1086/515867|We examined the influence of a wide range of environmental salinities on routine metabolic rate and critical oxygen tension in
30156184|In situ estimates of intracellular pH (
10.1086/516003|Wintering in a temperate climate with low water temperatures is energetically expensive for diving ducks. The energy costs associated with body cooling due to diving and ingesting large amounts of cold food were measured in tufted ducks (
30164308|The daily changes in body temperature experienced by Parabuthus villosus (Buthidae), a scorpion found on the gravel plains around Gobabeb, Namibia, and by Opisthophthalmus flavescens (Scorpionidae), a dune-dwelling species from the same area, were measured under similar field conditions. Thermocouples implanted under the segments of the mesosoma measured maximum temperatures as high as 43C in the shade. Air temperatures reached a maximum of 33C during the daytime and a minimum of 12C at night. Very low metabolic rates compared with those of other nonsedentary invertebrates were recorded in both species; oxygen consumption ranged from 8 L g h at 16C to 115 L g h at 40C. A pulsed Doppler system was used to measure heart rate in situ in free-moving scorpions. At night, heart rate declined to about 4 beats min in resting undisturbed scorpions. During daylight excursions and while scorpions hunted for food, heart rates as high as 180 beats min were observed. Heart rate was linearly correlated with temperature in P. villosus, with a slope of 2.37 (
30158518|Metabolic acidosis, whether endogenous (exhaustive exercise) or exogenous (ammonium sulfate infusion), had qualitatively similar effects on net ammonia flux (
30158204|The duration of natural intertidal air exposure was determined for a population of Chiton stokesii from the rocky intertidal zone of Naos Island, Panama. On-site measurement indicated that chitons seek protected locations during air exposure and are little affected by increased air temperatures. Construction of an artificial tidal system allowed hemolymph sampling and assessment of physiological compensation of chitons during air exposure in the laboratory. During air exposure chitons showed significant hemoconcentration associated with reduction in heart rate and intracardiac hemolymph pressure. Air exposure was also associated with the buildup of hemolymph Pco and the development of significant but largely compensated hemolymph acidosis. No consequent decrease in postbranchial hemolymph oxygenation occurred; indeed, the partial pressure of O in postbranchial hemolymph (Pao) had increased slightly but significantly at 17 h air exposure. This increased oxygenation was not associated with significant change in of O uptake (
10.1086/515885|We investigated the relationship between maintenance costs (standard metabolic rates, measured as O
30155744|Perch-hopping activity rhythms were studied in house sparrows that were kept under a variety of experimental lighting conditions. Circadian rhythms of locomotor activity were well defined and were entrained by 24-h light-dark cycles. When sparrows were kept in constant bright light (1169 Ix), 80% of them became arrhythmic within 2 wk. When special experimental lighting changes were imposed on the sparrows, the following results were obtained. (1) When sparrows were transferred from constant light (either 1169 or31 lx) to constant dark, all of them exhibited freerunning circadian rhythms. The phases of the sparrows' circadian rhythms were synchronized among the individuals as though the transition were a normal "dusk" for all the birds. (2) When sparrows with freerunning rhythms in constant dark were transferred to constant light (1169 or 31 lx), there was no synchronization of the phases of their ensuing rhythms; i.e., they did not respond as though the transition were a normal "dawn." (3) Sparrows entrained to a series of different photoperiods ranging from 1-23 h of light/day exhibit a coincidence of the ends of their locomotor activity with the end of the light time on photoperiods 8 h or longer. (4) Sensitivity to light (as derived from the phase-response curve for sparrows and from the photoperiodic testis response in sparrows) is greatest in the dark time or subjective dark time. This sensitivity is also seen in other species (both nocturnal and diurnal) if one examines their phase-response curves. The experimental results (for sparrows at the intensities used) are interpreted as meaning that the circadian "watch" is synchronized principally by dusk and that the measurement of day length depends on the presence of a sensitive period close to the light-to-dark transition. This may extend to some, but probably not all, other circadian systems.
30155742|Total body water (TBW) and the biological half-life of water (t-) were estimated by the tritiated water dilution technique using both plasma and urine samples. Values for t- did not depend on the source of the sample. Urine sampling overestimated TBW by 2%-3%. Since values for t- were identical and those for TBW were similar for plasma and urine sampling, urine sampling could be useful in field studies of water metabolism. Changes in water metabolism during the estrous cycle were different in each of the three species studied. Female rats showed very transient increases in t- during the night of proestrus, but no changes in TBW. During estrus, t- gradually increased in female spiny mice. Maximum t- occurred following ovulation, at the start of the diestrus phase of the cycle. Lowest values were seen at the end of diestrus and in spayed females. No changes in TBW or body mass were seen during the cycle. Food intake was decreased and TBW was increased in female prairie dogs at estrus, but t-, water intake, and body mass did not change at this time. Increases in TBW could be induced in anestrous prairie dogs by the injection of estradiol benzoate and progesterone but not by estradiol benzoate alone. Rats could not maintain their body mass when given vegetables as a water source, but both spiny mice and prairie dogs could. Spiny mice did not begin to lose mass until their water intake was reduced to 50% of ad lib. values. Prairie dogs began losing mass when their water intake was reduced to 30% of normal. Changes in water metabolism during the estrous cycle in spiny mice were probably a result of changes in water intake that were not sufficient to cause mass loss but did induce water conservation. Increase in TBW at estrus in the prairie dog were probably due to changes in body composition resulting from decreased food intake.
30163722|Rates of cutaneous evaporative water loss were measured in seven arboreal and 11 nonarboreal anuran species under controlled environmental conditions. Areaspecific rates of cutaneous evaporative water loss of arboreal species (genera Hyla and Osteopilus) were 47% lower than those of nonarboreal species (genera Acris, Atelopus, Bufo, Gastrophryne, Rana, Scaphiopus, and Xenopus). Body and skin temperatures of arboreal species averaged 4.4 C higher than those of nonarboreal ones. Boundary layer resistance was similar in both groups of frogs and averaged 0.80 s cm; skin resistance averaged 0.05 s cm in nonarboreal frogs and was 41 times higher in arboreal ones. The results of this study conflict with those of previous studies and emphasize the need for careful control of animal posture and water vapor density when measuring evaporative water loss.
30159972|The major anaerobic by-product of spiders is D-()-lactic acid. Minor accumulations of L-glycerol-3-phosphate may account for about 5% of the anaerobic ATP production. The possibility remains for other pathways, especially one that results in the accumulation of alanine and succinate. Lactate accumulations after maximal activity are greatest in the legs and prosoma and can be as large as 15 mol/g; accumulations of lactate in the opisthosoma seldom exceed 4 mol/g and average near 2.5 mol/g. Opisthosomal lactate accumulations are inversely correlated with the relative size of the spider's opisthosoma compared with its prosoma. Evidence is presented that suggests that, at a common level of exercise, an inverse relationship exists between prosomal lactate accumulation and book lung surface area.
30164267|Adult rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) were acclimated to artifcial soft water to evaluate potential physiological responses compensating for the thickening of the blood-to-water diffusion barrier that is known to accompany branchial lamellar chloride cell proliferation. Indirect estimates of gill ventilation volumes using the Fick principle demonstrated pronounced hyperventilation in the softwater-acclimated fish (2,280  434 mL min kg) when compared to the control fish (1,217  166 mL min kg). Despite the hyperventilation, the soft-water-acclimated fish displayed significantly lowered arterial Po values (93.7  2.4 Torr [1 Torr = 133.32 Pa] vs. 102.5  1.6 Torr); arterial Pco was unaffected by acclimation to soft water. An in vitro radioisotopic assay was used to demonstrate that an intrinsic acceleration in the rate of HCO flux through the red blood cell and hence accelerated HCO dehydration was not contributing to the maintenance of arterial Pco in the soft-water-acclimated fish. The construction of blood O equilibrium curves in vitro revealed an increased affinity of haemoglobin-O, binding in the soft-water-acclimated fish (
30152641|The South American field mouse Abrothrix andinus (Rodentia: Cricetidae) is a small mammal active throughout the year in the Andes, despite substantial seasonal environmental changes. Body mass exhibited a significant decrease during winter, and maximum metabolic rate for thermoregulation increased by 36.6%. In absolute terms, the maximum thermal differential between body and environmental temperatures increased 44 C during winter. On the other hand, body temperature and thermal conductance did not show significant changes through the year; however, mass-independent conductance decreased in winter. Parallel to these changes, the length and dry mass of the total digestive tract changed significantly with wintertime; at the same time the length and mass of the small intestine and the length of the large intestine also showed significance. Significant differences in gastrointestinal morphology between males andfemales were found only during the reproductive season (summer).
30158275|We investigated whether daily O consumption (
30155852|The constraints placed upon diffusive gas exchange by the eggshell, and parameters of embryonic respiration were examined in naturally incubated eggs of the Bonin petrel on Sand Island, Midway. The incubation period of the Bonin petrel egg was 49 days, or 184% of the predicted value based on egg mass; this is relatively longer than in larger members of the order. A low eggshell gas conductance was matched by a low egg O uptake (
30164280|Captive emperor penguins in Antarctica hand-fed Antarctic krill assimilated an average of 70.5%  1.7% (n = 3) of the energy in the diet. Water intake estimated by tritiated water turnover was 9.4%  2.4% less than that measured gravimetrically. Tritium took 1.5 h from injection to equilibrate with the penguins' body water pools.
30156183|The Australian wood duck, Chenonetta jubata, is a small (0.87kg) obligate herbivore that has few marked morphological specializations for the utilization of herbage. The ceca are relatively small, and there are no other obvious sites suitable for the extended retention and subsequent fermentation of dietary fiber. Nevertheless, an examination of the degradation of fiber components along the gut indicated that 40% of total fiber (as estimated from neutral detergent fiber) was apparently assimilated. Of the components of this fiber, the apparent assimilations of hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin were 74%, 11%, and 4%, respectively. Ducks were shot while feeding on natural forage, which consisted of almost equal proportions of short green grasses and small forbs. Naturally occurring manganese was used to estimate apparent assimilations between the gizzard and the rectum. Apparent assimilations based on lignin gave only slightly lower values. Overall apparent assimilations were dry matter 61%, energy 66%, cell contents 92%, and neutral detergent fiber 40%. Fiber digestion contributed 30% of the assimilated energy, with most coming from hemicellulose. Degradation of the hemicellulose occurred mainly in the proximal small intestine, but the ceca may also be involved since they contained high levels of volatile fatty acids.
30158572|Adenosine deaminase (ADA), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) activity levels were measured in mosquitofish populations from contrasting natural environments. Significant differences in enzyme level, in the level of soluble protein, and in length and weight were observed among populations from different habitats. MDH and LDH activities were highest in running-water populations, whereas ADA was elevated in coastal environments. Still-water females were longer and weighed less than running-water females. The regression relationships of length vs. weight and protein vs. weight also varied significantly among populations. The proportion of enzyme activity variation which could be accounted for by habitat, location, or log length was not the same for the three enzymes, suggesting that biological and physical factors influence the activities of various enzymes in different ways.
30152622|Most mammals attempt to increase their food intake when experiencing low ambient temperature (
30156074|The operative temperature (
30155845|The yolk-free body mass, the mass of selected organs, the rates of oxygen consumption, and the air cell gas tensions were measured throughout incubation in embryos of the bar-headed goose, Anser indicus, and the Canada goose, Branta canadensis. The embryo mass for both species increased exponentially with incubation time to a stage just prior to pipping when growth appeared to stop. The rates of oxygen consumption for the embryos paralleled the rate of growth for the first 40%-50% of the increase in embryo mass, followed by a period when the rate of oxygen consumption plateaued at a value of 43.9  0.7 cm O/h for the embryos of the Canada goose and 39.1  1.7 cm O/h for the embryos of the bar-headed goose. The oxygen tensions in the air cell decreased with time concomitant with the increase in oxygen consumption to a value of 96.3  2.0 torr for the Canada goose and 88.0  1.0 torr for the bar-headed goose. The lower air cell oxygen tensions in the bar-headed goose reflect a lower eggshell permeability and smaller egg size. When acutely exposed to hypoxic hypoxia, the normoxic embryos of the bar-headed goose were able to maintain rates of oxygen consumption at significantly lower oxygen tensions than were the embryos of the Canada goose. However, the embryos of the Canada goose were able to acclimate to incubation under conditions of hypoxic hypoxia as evidenced by a shift to the left in the oxygen tension necessary to reduce the rate of oxygen consumption.
30163340|Eggs of pied-billed grebes (Podilymbus podiceps) are incubated in warm, wet nests built of decaying vegetation 3-7 cm above the waterline. The daily mass loss (
30160963|Eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) absorb water across that portion of the eggshell in contact with the substrate and simultaneously lose water by transpiration from that part of the eggshell exposed to air inside the nest chamber. Depending upon the rates of influx and efflux, eggs may experience increases or decreases in mass during incubation, or mass may remain essentially constant between oviposition and hatching. Water exchanges are especially sensitive to such factors as substrate water potential, relative surface exposed to the nest atmosphere, hydraulic conductance of the eggshell, and conductance of the eggshell to water vapor. Hatchlings emerging from eggs absorbing and storing large quantities of water are heavier than hatchlings emerging from eggs taking up smaller quantities of water from the substrate. Furthermore, water absorption equal to, or in excess of, water loss by transpiration assures that the original shape of the egg will be preserved, thereby guaranteeing that sufficient space is available within the egg for normal development of the embryo.
30162286|The brine fly Paracoenia calida Mathis is known only from the hot (source temperature = 54 C) saline (22 ppt) waters of Wilbur Hot Springs, Colusa Co., California. To investigate whether the high salinity is responsible for the endemic distribution of P. calida, I measured its hemolymph osmotic and ionic (sodium, chloride, potassium) concentrations and salinity tolerance (50% lethal exposure) of larvae exposed to a range of salinities (0-102 ppt) and water temperatures (15-40 C). Results were compared to similar measurements made on a co-inhabitant of P. calida, the geographically widespread brine fly Ephydra goedeni Wirth. In hypertonic waters (380-1,900 mM sodium chloride; 22-102 ppt) both species maintained their hemolymph hypoosmotic at concentrations between 150 and 350 mM NaCl regardless of water temperature. In hypotonic waters (0 and 25 mM NaC1), both species regulated their hemolymph hyperosmotic at 100 mM NaC1 regardless of water temperature. In contrast to their similar patterns ofosmoregulation, larvae of P. calida had an extremely low survivorship in deionized (0 mM NaC1) and diluted Wilbur Hot Springs water (7 mM NaCl; 1 ppt), whereas E. goedeni larvae exhibited their highest survivorship in deionized water. Paracoenia calida larvae in deionized water had high concentrations of K in their hemolymph. Perhaps this excess K leaked out from muscle and nervous tissues in response to declining hemolymph levels of Na and Cl; or the loss of K from these tissues may be an effect of cell death. Regardless, I suggest that P. calida is restricted to Wilbur Hot Springs because it cannot tolerate dilute salinities. In contrast, E. goedeni occurs throughout western North America in part because it can tolerate dilute salinities.
30156201|The pattern and rate of microbial fermentation were studied in captive and wild-shot greater gliders (Petauroides volans) and captive brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) fed Eucalyptus foliage. The cecum and the cecum/proximal colon were the principal sites of microbial activity in the greater glider and brushtail possum, respectively. Total short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) concentrations were 36 mM and 70 mM in captive and wild-shot greater gliders, respectively, and 75 mM in the brushtail possums. SCFA production rates in the hindgut were similar in vitro in the two species (19-20 mmol/L/h) but slower than in the hindgut of most herbi-vores, although this was of set by the large volume of digesta contained in the hindgut. The pattern and rate of fermentation were similar in captive and wild-shot greater gliders. The difference between the initial molar proportions of acetate, propionate, and butyrate and their proportional contributions to total SCFA production in both species suggested that SCFAs were absorbed in proportion to their chain length. SCFA production contributed similar amounts of energy to both species, but as a proportion of digestible energy (DE) intake, SCFA was 15% of the DE intake of the brushtail possum and 7% of the DE intake of greater gliders. The relatively low level of SCFA production in both greater gliders and brushtail possums is largely due to the lignified nature of the fiber of Eucalyptus leaves and, in the brushtail possum at least, the inhibitory effects of leaf phenolics.
30157866|The levels of immunoreactive luteinizing hormone (irLH), testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), estradiol, estrone, and corticosterone have been measured through the course of the breeding season in the plasma of both sexes from a breeding population of white-crowned sparrows, Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis, on Camano Island, Washington. Birds were captured in nets or traps. After removal of the blood sample and performance of laparotomy to ascertain the developmental stage of the reproductive system, the birds were marked with unique combinations of colored leg bands for identification in field observations and on recapture for procurement of blood samples and for laparotomy. Males arrive on the breeding ground in late April with levels of irLH and testosterone significantly higher than in winter and with partially developed testes. During the ensuing period of establishment of territory, arrival of females, mating, and courtship, the testes attain full development, and irLH and testosterone reach maximum levels in the plasma. Females arrive after territories have been established by the males. Ovaries have begun development at that time; estrone and estradiol are detectable in the plasma; irLH and testosterone are at winter levels. During pairing, courtship, and mating, the ovary develops rapidly, and the plasma levels of irLH, estrone, and testosterone become conspicuously higher. The period of elevated testosterone is brief and coincides with the time during which the females participate in territorial defense. It returns to the winter level before the onset of oviposition at which time estrone has reached maximum level. Regression of the ovary during incubation is coincident with decreases in the levels of irLH and estrone. At this time in the males there is a decrease in irLH and a precipitous decrease in testosterone, which remains low, but above winter level, for the remainder of the year. There is a slight regression in testicular weight. Prior to the laying of the second clutch, the plasma level of irLH increases again but less conspicuously than in females. During the time of the second clutch, there is an increase in plasma androgens in females but not in males. Testes and ovaries return to the level of development attained prior to the first clutch. At the time of oviposition, plasma estrone in females is again maximal. By the time of fledging of the second brood, the levels of irLH and estrone are declining precipitously and gonads are regressing. During the postnuptial molt, testosterone, estrone, and irLH reach winter levels. In females maxima in plasma levels of corticosterone coincide with the two periods of oviposition. The single maximum in males occurs during the time of the second brood. During feeding of the young of the second brood, the corticosterone levels decline in both sexes and reach minimum levels during the postnuptial molt.
30164284|Associations of glycolytic enzymes with the subcellular particulate fraction of skeletal muscle and heart were examined during entrance to daily torpor in deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus). In skeletal muscle a significant decrease in enzyme binding occurred during torpor entrance for phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and pyruvate kinase, with an additional significant decrease for phosphofructokinase and pyruvate kinase during the deepest state of torpor. Reductions in enzyme binding during torpor entrance also occurred in heart; significant changes were observed in hexokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and pyruvate kinase binding. Contrary to the finding of additional reductions in enzyme binding seen in skeletal muscle, significant increases in enzyme binding during the deepest torpor state were observed for hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, pyruvate kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase in heart. These results suggest that a decrease in the binding of glycolytic enzymes to subcellular structures in skeletal muscle and heart may be at least partially responsible for initiating the reduction in metabolic rate during torpor entrance. This decreased binding may continue to mediate the metabolic reduction in skeletal muscle throughout torpor; heart, however, may require the use of different molecular mechanisms. The increased binding in heart during the deepest state of torpor may represent an anticipatory response in preparation for increased activity during arousal.
30158169|We studied the osmoregulatory strategy of salt-marsh savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis beldingi) in the field in Baja California, Mexico, and we compared these birds with a subspecies of savannah sparrow found concurrently in the uplands surrounding the salt marsh. Passerculus sandwichensis beldingi had higher plasma osmolalities (349 vs. 339 mmol/kg), higher ureteral urine osmolalities (577 vs. 477 mmol/kg), higher urine sodium concentrations (126 vs. 74 meq/L), higher urine flow rates (7-10 vs. 1. 7L/min), and larger kidneys (0.36vs. 0.21 g/pair of kidneys) than the upland sparrows. Other unusual findings in the salt-marsh birds were the presence of substantial volumes of hyperosmotic fluids (up to 811 mmol/kg) in the lower intestine and uric acid extending into the ileum. The rectal epithelium of P. s. beldingi was relatively smooth, with few low apical membrane extensions, whereas that of the upland sparrows had a dense apical microvillous brush border. The maximum urine concentration that we measured in freshly captured P. s. beldingi was 2. 7 times plasma osmolality. Our findings suggest an osmoregulatory strategy that includes a high intake of solute, a copious urine flow to excrete this solute load, and, at least at times, substantial refluxing into the intestines of hyperosmotic urinary fluids. This unusual strategy presumably reflects the unusual circumstance of a bird without salt glands living in a salt marsh.
10.1086/515423|California grunion, Leuresthes tenuis (Osteichthyes: Atherinidae), leave the ocean to spawn in the sand following extreme high tides in summer. Eggs develop out of water and are able to hatch within 913 d, the primary hatching period. Eggs hatch on immersion and agitation by waves at the next extreme hightide series. However, if the waves do not reach them and hatching is not induced, eggs remain viable in the sand for several weeks. During this period, grunion eggs will delay hatching, but will hatch at any time if immersed and agitated in seawater. Egg metabolism during embryonic development was measured by aerial respirometry. Metabolism increased linearly until the first date at which eggs were able to hatch. At that time, metabolic rate stabilized and remained constant for two additional weeks of embryonic incubation. Larvae induced to hatch after different durations of incubation within this period were not significantly different in length; however, the amount of oil contained in the yolk decreased linearly during the delayed hatching period. We suggest that the increase in grunion egg metabolism during the time to primary hatching capability, and the steady, high metabolic rate throughout the delayed hatching period, permit reproduction in the unique niche of these marine eggs. These semiterrestrial anamniotic eggs develop quickly and remain continuously ready to hatch over an extended period in response to an environmentally dependent and somewhat unpredictable embryonic timetable.
30155675|American alligators of both sexes ranging in weight from 0.60 to 7.64 kg were heated from 15 to 35 C and cooled from 35 to 15 C in air (300 cm/s air flow) and water. Under all conditions the heating rate exceeded the cooling rate. The difference between heating and cooling rates increased with increasing body weight. Heating and cooling rates in water exceeded heating and cooling rates in air. The thermal time constant () was used as a more meaningful measure of thermal response. Heart rate during warming exceeded heart rate during cooling for any given body temperatures. Cardiovascular adjustments were implicated as important in physiological thermoregulation of the alligator.
30158268|Hemocyanin (Hc) properties in Helix pomatia were investigated to ascertain functional consequences and molecular mechanisms associated with anomalously shaped O-binding curves reported earlier. Hemolymph oxygenation properties and in vivo arterial and venous O tensions showed that half the O-binding capacity of Hc is exploited in O transport and that Hc is responsible for two-thirds of the O delivered to the tissues in nonestivating animals. The Bohr effect was strongly biphasic; at 20 C, the partial pressure of O at 50% Hc saturation (
30163909|In northern pike, ovarian recrudescence and membrane lipid restructuring occur during winter and may thereby create physiological requirements for essential fatty acids (EFAs) that surpass dietary EFA intake. Seasonal changes in the fatty acid composition of pike ovary and whole-body lipids and mass balance comparisons were used to identify mechanisms that during winter help balance physiological requirements for EFAs with the dietary supply. Mature ovaries of pike exhibited a polar lipid:neutral lipid ratio (70:30; based on the weight of fatty acids) much greater than that of somatic tissues (30:70), yet the fatty acid compositions of ovarian and somatic total lipids were quite similar. This similarity resulted from an adaptive reduction in the percentage of n-3 EFAs in ovarian neutral and polar lipids to levels lower than those typical of somatic lipids. Adaptive features of ovarian fatty acid composition, combined with significant reductions in the n-3 EFA content of somatic neutral lipids during winter, reduced the n-3 EFA requirements associated with ovarian recrudescence by 55%. The fatty acid compositions of ovarian and somatic total lipids differed in one important aspect: ovarian total lipids were considerably enriched in 22:6n3. This may be an adaptation to the insectivorous feeding habits of larval pike.
30158157|Information on the blood systems of the gills of water-breathing crabs, and of the gills and lungs of air-breathing crabs, is summarized. Blood flow through the gill lamellae is channeled by rows ofpillar cells and the intralamellar septum, and distinct afferent and efferent areas are apparent. Potential flow-control structures occur at the junctions between afferent and efferent areas and where the efferent channels enter the efferent branchial vessel. The gills also receive a direct arterial supply of blood. The inner surfaces of the branchiostegites (lungs) of aquatic and amphibious crabs are vascularized, and in terrestrial forms this vasculature becomes extremely sophisticated. The lung systems of air-breathing crabs are highly effective in oxygenation of the blood. The partition of the respiratory system between and within the respiratory organs is discussed.
30155713|The oxygen uptake of the katydids Neoconocephalus robustus and Euconocephalus nasutus is about 0.03-1.5 ml O h g at rest. During the warm-up that precedes stridulation and during stridulation this rate increases to 18.4 ml O h g (maximum 26.4) in Euconocephalus and to 15.8 ml O h g (maximum 19.5) in Neoconocephalus. Oxygen uptake during stridulation is 1.5-1.9 ml O min per gram active muscle, a value similar to that of wing muscle of other insects in flight. The thorax temperature 'increases during warm-up and stridulation. Cooling that occurs when singing ceases is not a simple exponential function. Metabolic rates calculated from cooling curves are lower than measured values; we suggest they are lower because the rate of heat loss is about 23% greater during singing because heat is convected by wing movement. On the basis of measurements of abdominal temperatures we suggest that about 40% of the heat produced by the thorax is transferred to the abdomen and lost via this avenue.
30161221|The European green lizard Lacerta viridis heats more rapidly than it cools when tested during the activity portion of its daily cycle. In contrast, slower rates of cooling relative to heating are not typical when lizards are tested during their normal scotophase rest period. Furthermore, L. viridis cools at a slower rate than do other lizards of equal size. Simultaneously measured oxygen consumption displayed an inverse pattern during daytime heating and cooling with significantly higher metabolic rates during 75% of the entire cooling process, whereas nighttime metabolic responses were practically identical during both heating and cooling. Responses to acute heating and cooling varied according to the time of day tested, coinciding with the activity and rest phases.
30158161|We monitored the growth and metabolism of 28 nestling white ibis (Eudocimus albus) taken at 21 d of age and hand-reared for 3 wk on ad lib. diets of (1) freshwater crayfish (Procambarus clarkii; salt content 535 mosm kg; n = 12), (2) brackishwater fiddler crabs (Uca spp.; 1,080 mosm kg; n = 12), and (3)freshwater crayfish salt-loaded to a salt content approximating that of fiddler crabs (1,090 mosm kg; n = 4). Brackish water (480 mosm kg) or fresh tap water was provided to the birds on an ad lib. basis. Nestlings maintained on the unaltered-crayfish diet gained mass at rates similar to those of parent-reared nestlings. Birds on the fiddler-crab and salt-loaded crayfish diets lost approximately 3% of their body massper day until fresh water was substituted for brackish water 7 d into the experiment. Nestling hematocrits, serum osmolality, and serum electrolyte levels indicated that during the first week of the experiment, nestlings on the two high-salt diets were dehydrated and salt loaded. This occurred even though birds on high-salt diets exhibited hypertrophic development of their salt glands. When birds on the high-salt diets were allowed to drink fresh water, all began gaining mass within 2 d, and their serum osmolality and salt returned to levels similar to those of nestlings on the low-salt diet. Our experiments indicate that a physiological constraint acting on nestling ibis is responsible for the fact that ibis breeding in coastal colonies fly long distances inland to secure freshwater prey for their young.
30163900|Reciprocal variations in the heart rate (HR), pulmonary vascular resistance (
30158551|The accuracy of the tritiated water (HTO) and sodium-22 (
30156075|Oxygen consumption by male spring peepers (Hyla crucifer) increased linearly with calling rate, reaching peak values of 1.5-1.7 ml O/(g  h) at the highest calling rates. The intercept of the regression line describing the relationship between metabolism and calling rate does not differ significantly from daytime resting metabolism (0.11 ml O/[g  h]). Metabolic rate during vigorous locomotor exercise at the same temperature (19 C) was only 1.1 ml O/(gh). We measured activities of mitochondrial enzymes in the trunk muscles (internal and external obliques) involved in sound production and in mixed hind limb muscles of male and female frogs. Male trunk muscles were very large, accounting for 15% of total body mass, whereas female trunk muscle constituted only 3% of total body mass. Citrate synthase (CS) activity in male trunk muscle, indicative of oxidative capacity, was six times the CS activity in leg muscle (86 vs. 14 mol/[min  g fresh muscle at 20 C]) and 17 times the CS activity in female trunk muscle (5 mol/[ming fresh muscle]). The capacity to oxidize fat, as indicated by -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity, was five times higher in male trunk muscle than in leg muscle (30 vs. 6 mol/[ming fresh muscle]), suggesting that fatty acid oxidation plays an important role in the energetics of vocalization in this species. Phosphofructokinase activity, a key glycolytic marker, was not significantly different in trunk and leg muscle. The capacity of male spring peeper trunk muscles for aerobic metabolism exceeds considerably the highest values yet reported for ectothermic vertebrate muscle tissue and is comparable to highly oxidative muscles of endotherms.
30158526|The hormonal mechanisms underlying parental care behavior in fish are poorly understood. This study investigates the effects of bromocriptine, a specific dopamine receptor agonist that inhibits secretion of prolactin from the pituitary, on parental care behaviors of nesting male bluegills. Parental male bluegills (Lepomis macrochirus) exhibit a complex set of reproductive behaviors including the construction of nests in colonies and courtship of females. After spawning, these males then alone remain to fan and guard the eggs and larvae from predators. Compared with control males, males implanted with bromocriptine showed significantly less defense of their broods and spent significantly more time rim circling their nests, a behavior typical of prespawning males. Because there were no significant differences among male groups in the levels of 11-ketotestosterone (11KT) or testosterone (T), the observed behavioral alterations cannot be ascribed to androgenic effects of bromocriptine. Instead, we suggest that prolactin, mediated through the action of dopamine, is involved in the expression of parental care behavior in this species.
30155677|Three species of hedgehog (Insectivora) were chosen to represent temperate (Erinaceus europaeus), semi-arid (Hemiechinus auritus), and desert regions (Paraechinus aethiopicus). Metabolic rates, temperature regulation, and evaporation of water were studied under laboratory conditions. All three species maintained their body temperature close to 34 C (about 3-4 C lower than other mammals). All three species are competent temperature regulators which at low air temperature maintain body temperature by increasing oxygen consumption, and at high air temperature by increasing the evaporation of water. The rate of oxygen consumption is lowest in the desert species (Paraechinus) and highest in the temperate species (Erinaceus). However, thermoregulatory abilities are similar in all three species and not readily correlated with their geographical distribution.
30156031|Physiological correlates of the ontogenetic transition from generally nonflying hive bees to foragers were described. Peak foraging activity of workers occurred between 15 and 32 days of age in six honeybee colonies, depending on season. Whole wet body mass decreased ~40% in correlation with the transition to foraging behavior. The entire loss of mass occurred in the abdomens, with 85% of the total decrease occurring in the digestive tract exclusive of the honey crop. Maximal thorax-specific rates of oxygen consumption (
30156075|Oxygen consumption by male spring peepers (Hyla crucifer) increased linearly with calling rate, reaching peak values of 1.5-1.7 ml O/(g  h) at the highest calling rates. The intercept of the regression line describing the relationship between metabolism and calling rate does not differ significantly from daytime resting metabolism (0.11 ml O/[g  h]). Metabolic rate during vigorous locomotor exercise at the same temperature (19 C) was only 1.1 ml O/(gh). We measured activities of mitochondrial enzymes in the trunk muscles (internal and external obliques) involved in sound production and in mixed hind limb muscles of male and female frogs. Male trunk muscles were very large, accounting for 15% of total body mass, whereas female trunk muscle constituted only 3% of total body mass. Citrate synthase (CS) activity in male trunk muscle, indicative of oxidative capacity, was six times the CS activity in leg muscle (86 vs. 14 mol/[min  g fresh muscle at 20 C]) and 17 times the CS activity in female trunk muscle (5 mol/[ming fresh muscle]). The capacity to oxidize fat, as indicated by -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity, was five times higher in male trunk muscle than in leg muscle (30 vs. 6 mol/[ming fresh muscle]), suggesting that fatty acid oxidation plays an important role in the energetics of vocalization in this species. Phosphofructokinase activity, a key glycolytic marker, was not significantly different in trunk and leg muscle. The capacity of male spring peeper trunk muscles for aerobic metabolism exceeds considerably the highest values yet reported for ectothermic vertebrate muscle tissue and is comparable to highly oxidative muscles of endotherms.
30158526|The hormonal mechanisms underlying parental care behavior in fish are poorly understood. This study investigates the effects of bromocriptine, a specific dopamine receptor agonist that inhibits secretion of prolactin from the pituitary, on parental care behaviors of nesting male bluegills. Parental male bluegills (Lepomis macrochirus) exhibit a complex set of reproductive behaviors including the construction of nests in colonies and courtship of females. After spawning, these males then alone remain to fan and guard the eggs and larvae from predators. Compared with control males, males implanted with bromocriptine showed significantly less defense of their broods and spent significantly more time rim circling their nests, a behavior typical of prespawning males. Because there were no significant differences among male groups in the levels of 11-ketotestosterone (11KT) or testosterone (T), the observed behavioral alterations cannot be ascribed to androgenic effects of bromocriptine. Instead, we suggest that prolactin, mediated through the action of dopamine, is involved in the expression of parental care behavior in this species.
30155677|Three species of hedgehog (Insectivora) were chosen to represent temperate (Erinaceus europaeus), semi-arid (Hemiechinus auritus), and desert regions (Paraechinus aethiopicus). Metabolic rates, temperature regulation, and evaporation of water were studied under laboratory conditions. All three species maintained their body temperature close to 34 C (about 3-4 C lower than other mammals). All three species are competent temperature regulators which at low air temperature maintain body temperature by increasing oxygen consumption, and at high air temperature by increasing the evaporation of water. The rate of oxygen consumption is lowest in the desert species (Paraechinus) and highest in the temperate species (Erinaceus). However, thermoregulatory abilities are similar in all three species and not readily correlated with their geographical distribution.
30156031|Physiological correlates of the ontogenetic transition from generally nonflying hive bees to foragers were described. Peak foraging activity of workers occurred between 15 and 32 days of age in six honeybee colonies, depending on season. Whole wet body mass decreased ~40% in correlation with the transition to foraging behavior. The entire loss of mass occurred in the abdomens, with 85% of the total decrease occurring in the digestive tract exclusive of the honey crop. Maximal thorax-specific rates of oxygen consumption (
