30158115|We tested the hypothesis that the lack of metabolic thermal acclimation ability in tropical and subtropical amphibians is dependent on season and investigated the effects of body size, sex, time of day, and season on metabolic rates in
10.1086/605394|The extreme energetic demands of avian migration result in various physiological changes that can be observed during the migratory period. However, the degree to which birds alter muscle physiology in advance of migration has been poorly studied. We studied the effects of migratory photoperiod and exercise on metabolic enzymes, fatty acid transporter mRNA expression, and muscle phospholipid fatty acid composition in captive whitecrowned sparrows (
30160554|Humic substances are ubiquitous components of natural waters with important roles in alleviating metal toxicity to aquatic organisms. Recent literature reports suggest that humic substances may also exert direct influences on biota. This study investigated the influence of two commercially available humic substances on sodium metabolism in
10.1086/665407|Life-history theory predicts that selection will favor optimal levels of parental effort that balance benefits of current reproduction with costs to survival and future reproduction. The optimal level of effort depends on parental traits, offspring traits, and provisioning strategy. Additionally, how these factors influence effort may differ depending on the stage of reproduction. The relative importance of maternal and offspring traits on energy allocation to offspring was investigated in known-age Antarctic fur seals
PBZ10122|Birds have demonstrated a remarkable ability to manipulate offspring sex. Previous studies suggest that treatment with hormones can stimulate females to manipulate offspring sex before ovulation. For example, chronic treatments with corticosterone, the primary stress hormone produced by birds, stimulated significant skews toward female offspring. It has been suggested that corticosterone acts by influencing which sex chromosome is donated by the heterogametic female bird into the ovulated ovarian follicle. However, it is difficult to pinpoint when in developmental time corticosterone affects offspring sex, because in previous studies corticosterone treatment was given over a long period of time. We treated laying hens with acute high-dose corticosterone injections 5 h before the predicted time of ovulation and quantified the sexes of the subsequently ovulated eggs to determine whether mechanisms exist by which corticosterone can skew offspring sex ratios just before ovulation. We hypothesized that an injection of corticosterone coincident with segregation of the sex chromosomes would stimulate hens to produce more female than male offspring. Contrary to our predictions, hens injected with corticosterone produced a significant bias toward male offspring, nearly 83%. These results suggest that acute corticosterone treatment during meiosis I can influence primary sex ratios in birds, potentially through nonrandom chromosome segregation. Furthermore, acute corticosterone exposure, compared with chronic exposure, may act through different mechanisms to skew offspring sex.
30161080|Recent reports on patterns and occurrence of torpor and other natural hypothermic states in birds have prompted a revision of many longstanding opinions. For instance, a larger assortment of birds covering a wider range of body mass than previously recognized uses energyconserving mechanisms in the face of abundant food supplies. Thus, although acute energetic stress triggers the occurrence of hypometabolic states in many birds, energy deficits can no longer be regarded as the sole stimulus for avian torpor. Additionally, the phenology of this phenomenon (phases, duration, depth) shows more interspecific variation than previously appreciated, and traditional concepts of the phases of torpor are not always adequate. Hence, inclusive definitions of torpor based on physiological and/or behavioral criteria have become more difficult to formulate. However, average nighttime body temperature, which is highly consistent throughout the class Aves (
10.1086/681000|The nutritional condition of cultured
30158692|Some species of terrestrial lizards in wetdry tropical climates reduce their body temperatures (
30161322|We measured temperature preferences of 12 species of hylid frogs (
30160043|Marine intertidal organisms are subjected to a variety of abiotic stresses, including aerial exposure and wide ranges of temperature. Intertidal species generally have higher thermal tolerance limits than do subtidal species, and tropical species have higher thermal tolerance limits than do temperate species. The adaptive significance of upper thermal tolerance limits of intertidal organisms, however, has not been examined within a comparative context. Here, we present a comparative analysis of the adaptive significance of upper thermal tolerance limits in 20 congeneric species of porcelain crabs, genus
10.1086/589815|Measurement of acceleration can be a proxy for energy expenditure during movement. The variable overall dynamic body acceleration (ODBA), used in recent studies, combines the dynamic elements of acceleration recorded in all three dimensions to measure acceleration and hence energy expenditure due to body movement. However, the simplicity of ODBA affords it limitations. Furthermore, while accelerometry data loggers enable measures to be stored, recording at high frequencies represents a limit to deployment periods as a result of logger memory and/or battery exhaustion. Using bantam chickens walking at different speeds in a respirometer while wearing an accelerometer logger, we investigated the best proxies for rate of oxygen consumption (
30097044|Because selection on juvenile lifehistory stages is likely strong, disproportionately high levels of performance (e.g., sprint speed, endurance, etc.) might be expected. Whereas this phenomenon has been demonstrated with respect to locomotor performance, data for feeding are scarce. Here, we investigate the relationships among body dimensions, head dimensions, and bite force during growth in lizards and turtles. We also investigate whether ontogenetic changes in bite performance are related to changes in diet. Our analyses show that, for turtles, head dimensions generally increase with negative allometry. For lizards, heads scale as expected for geometrically growing systems. Bite force generally increased isometrically with carapace length in turtles but showed significant positive allometry relative to body dimensions in lizards. However, both lizards and turtles display positive allometric scaling of bite force relative to some measures of head size throughout ontogeny, suggesting (1) strong selection for increased relative bite performance with increasing head size and (2) intrinsic changes in the geometry and/or mass of the jaw adductors during growth. Whereas our data generally do not provide strong evidence of compensation for lower absolute levels of performance, they do show strong links among morphology, bite force, and diet during growth.
30161012|G proteins are members of a highly conserved superfamily of GTPases, which includes heterotrimeric (, , ) proteins acting as critical control points for transmembrane signaling. In ectothermal vertebrates, knowledge about these proteins is scarce, and our work provides the first demonstration that G
10.1086/665982|Highly active animals require a high aerobic capacity (i.e., a high maximum metabolic rate [MMR]) to sustain such activity, and it has been speculated that a greater capacity for aerobic performance is reflected in larger organs, which serve as energy processors but are also expensive to maintain and which increase the minimal cost of living (i.e., the basal or standard metabolic rate [SMR]). In this study, we assessed the extent of intraspecific variation in metabolic rate within a group of brown trout (
10.1086/682220|Oxygen limitation of aerobic metabolism is hypothesized to drive organismal thermal tolerance limits. Differences in oxygen availability in air and water may underlie observed differences in upper thermal tolerance of intertidal limpets if oxygen is limiting in submerged environments. We explored how cardiac performance (heart rate, breakpoint temperature [BPT], flat-line temperature [FLT], and temperature sensitivity) was affected by hyperoxia and hypoxia in the finger limpet,
30158097|We integrated field and laboratory studies in an investigation of water balance, energy use, and mechanisms of coldhardiness in hatchling painted turtles (
30157996|The Angolan freetailed bat (
10.1086/591950|We examined the oxygen consumption rates and activity levels of respiratory enzymes involved in the aerobic (citrate synthase [CS]) and anaerobic (octopine dehydrogenase [ODH]) metabolism of gonatid squids (
30158037|The specific roles of corticosterone in promotion of avian migration remain unclear even though this glucocorticosteroid is elevated in many migrating bird species. In general, glucocorticosteroids promote metabolic homeostasis and may elicit effects on feeding and locomotion. Because the migratory stages of refueling and flight are characterized by distinct behaviors and physiology, the determination of corticosterone levels during each stage should help identify potential processes in which corticosterone is involved. We measured baseline levels of corticosterone in bartailed godwits (
10.1086/651387|Temperature dependence, energetics, and speed of locomotion have important implications for the ecology and evolution of ants. Here, we report the results of a fullfactorial study investigating the responses of active metabolic rate (AMR), voluntary locomotion speed, and cost of transport (COT) to three temperature acclimations (710 d; 20, 25, and 30C) and three test temperature treatments (2 h; 20, 25, and 30C) in a seedharvester ant,
30162171|In dilute seawater,
30160036|Do animal species that normally consume large meals at long intervals evolve to downregulate their metabolic physiology while fasting and to upregulate it steeply on feeding? To test this hypothesis, we compared postfeeding regulatory responses in eight snake species: four frequent feeders on small meals and four infrequent feeders on large meals. For each species, we measured factorial changes in metabolic rate, in activities and capacities of five small intestinal brush border nutrient transporters, and in masses of eight organs that function in nutrient processing after consumption of a rodent meal equivalent to 25% of the snake's body mass. It turned out that, compared with frequent feeders, infrequent feeders digest that meal more slowly; have lower metabolic rates, organ masses, and nutrient uptake rates and capacities while fasting; have higher energy expenditure during digestion; and have higher postfeeding factorial increases in metabolic rate, organ masses, and nutrient uptake rates and capacities. These conclusions, which conform to the hypothesis mentioned above, remain after phylogeny has been taken into account. The small organ masses and low nutrient transporter activities during fasting contribute to the low fasting metabolism of infrequent feeders. Quantitative calculations of partial energy budgets suggest that energy savings drive the evolution of low mass and activities of organs during fasting and of large postfeeding regulatory responses in infrequent feeders. We propose further tests of this hypothesis among other snake species and among other ectotherms.
10.1086/651098|Size and hydrolytic activity of the gastrointestinal tracts of altricial birds undergo large and rapid changes during ontogeny. However, nothing is known about the development of the capacity of absorption of products of digestion, a factor that can limit total digestive performance. Using pharmacokinetic methods applied to wildcollected and laboratoryraised altricial nestlings of house sparrows (
30097055|The Namaqua rock mouse
10.1086/590218|The faststart escape response in fish is essential for predator avoidance, but almost nothing is known about whether sublethal concentrations of pollutants can impair this reflex. Ammonia, a pervasive pollutant of aquatic habitats, is known to have toxic effects on nervous and muscle function in teleost fish. Golden gray mullet (
30158030|We measured unidirectional ion fluxes of fish collected directly from the Rio Negro, an extremely dilute, acidic blackwater tributary of the Amazon. Kinetic analysis of Na
30161178|The rocky intertidal zone is characterized by a predictable cycle of environmental change cued by the ebb and flow of the tides. Tidepools are thus an excellent environment in which to determine whether predictability of environmental change can entrain an endogenous rhythmicity in heat shock protein (Hsp) levels. In this study, we monitored changes in Hsp mRNA and protein levels that occurred over the tidal cycle in tidepool sculpins and investigated whether there was an endogenous tidal rhythm in Hsp expression that persisted once the sculpins were transferred to a stable environment. Fluctuations in the tidepool environment increased
10.1086/682010|Environmental variability occurring at different timescales can significantly reduce performance, resulting in evolutionary fitness costs. Shifts in thermoregulatory behavior, metabolism, and water loss via phenotypic plasticity can compensate for thermal variation, but the relative contribution of each mechanism and how they may influence each other are largely unknown. Here, we take an ecologically relevant experimental approach to dissect these potential responses at two temporal scales: weather transients and seasons. Using acclimation to cold, average, or warm conditions in summer and winter, we measure the direction and magnitude of plasticity of resting metabolic rate (RMR), water loss rate (WLR), and preferred body temperature (
10.1086/651459|The common earthworm
30162247|Urea not only is utilized as a major osmolyte in marine elasmobranchs but also constitutes their main nitrogenous waste. This study investigated the effect of feeding, and thus elevated nitrogen intake, on nitrogen metabolism in the Pacific spiny dogfish
10.1086/651564|The allometric 3/4 power relation, initially used for describing the relation between mammalian basal metabolic rate and body size, is often used as a general model for organismal design. The use of allometric regression as a model has important limitations: it is not mechanistic, it combines all physiological variables into one correlate of body size, and it combines data from several physiological states. In reassessing the use of allometric equations, we first describe problems with their use in studies of organismal design and then use a formulation for distributed net heat production and temperature distribution within the body to derive an alternative equation for the relation between basal metabolism and body size. Tests of the heat flow equation against data reported in the literature indicate that it is an accurate estimator of basal metabolism under thermoneutral conditions and suggest that the allometric equation is a special case of this mechanistic and more general model. We propose that our method is more meaningful and widely applicable for thermoneutral conditions than is a purely allometric approach.
10.1086/651584|Survival success under conditions of acute oxygen deprivation depends on efficiency of the central and peripheral chemoreception, optimization of oxygen extraction from the hypoxic environment and its delivery to the periphery, and adjustments of energy production and consumption. This article uses a comparative approach to assess the efficiency of adaptive strategies used by anoxiatolerant and hypoxiasensitive species to support survival during the first minutes to 1 h of oxygen deprivation. An aquatic environment is much more demanding in terms of diurnal and seasonal variations of the ambient oxygen availability from anoxia to hyperoxia than is an air environment. Therefore, fishes and aquatic turtles have developed a number of adaptive responses, which are lacking in most of the terrestrial mammals, to cope with these extreme conditions. These include efficient central and peripheral chemoreception, acute changes in respiratory rate and amplitude, and acute increase of the gasexchange interface. A special set of adaptive mechanisms are engaged in reduction of the energy expenditure of the major oxygenconsuming organs: the brain and the heart. Both reduction of ATP consumption and a switch to alterative energy sources contribute to the maintenance of ATP and ion balance in hypoxiatolerant animals. Hypoxia and hyperoxia are conditions favoring development of oxidative stress. Efficient protection from oxidation in anoxiatolerant species includes reduction in the glutamate levels in the brain, stabilization of the mitochondrial function, and maintenance of nitric oxide production under conditions of oxygen deprivation. We give an overview of the current state of knowledge on some selected molecular and cellular acute adaptive mechanisms. These include the mechanisms of chemoreception in adult and neonatal mammals and in fishes, acute metabolic adaptive responses in the brain, and the role of nitrite in the preservation of heart function under hypoxic conditions.
30158141|To maximize their fitness, longlived species face tradeoffs between survival and reproduction. The cost of reproduction, which is defined as the negative effect of current parental investment on chances of adult survival and future reproduction, may affect immune function, possibly through hormonal changes. In this study, components of acquired immunity and plasma corticosterone levels of female eiders (
30158302|This research examined the influence of acute changes of water temperature on the recovery processes following exhaustive exercise in juvenile Atlantic salmon (
30160572|European starlings (
10.1086/648580|Ecophysiological research aiming at explaining the causes and consequences of variation in individual condition, health state, and allostasis is traditionally performed on captive animals under controlled laboratory conditions. The question about how captivity per se affects studied parameters is therefore of central importance for generalizing the information gained from such studies. We addressed this question by comparing various indexes of physiological condition of wintering greenfinches sampled in the wild and kept in captivity for different time periods. Bringing wild greenfinches into captivity did not result in systematic alteration in nine of 12 physiological parameters studied. Captive birds had consistently lower plasma carotenoid and uric acid levels than wild ones. Variation in differential leukocyte counts did not reveal any signs of elevated stress of birds kept in captivity. These results indicate that for a number of physiological parameters, information obtained from captive animals can be generalized to natural situations. Variance in traits most closely related to physical exercise capacity (body mass and hematocrit) were much lower in the wild than in captivity. These findings suggest that under harsh environmental conditions experienced by wild birds (i.e., predation threat, scarce resources), traits such as hematocrit and body mass are fine tuned by physiological tradeoffs.
30160972|In geographically widespread ectotherms, variation in life history phenotypes may be caused by differences in maintenance metabolism of individuals. I estimated daily and annual maintenance metabolism of eastern fence lizards,
10.1086/676832|Phenotypic flexibility of various morphological and physiological characters is widespread in animals. Resident endothermic animals of temperate climates provide a natural experiment in phenotypic flexibility. In this study, we took an integrative approach to assess seasonal and geographic influences on metabolism in Eurasian tree sparrows (
30160565|Results of field surveys and laboratory measurements of oxygen consumption and body fluid osmolality at different salinities in the mysids
10.1086/594382|Extreme morphologies are often associated with extreme demands on performance in a given ecological setting. Even though such extreme morphologies are relatively rare, the craniate trophic system provides many examples of this evolutionary trend despite its highly integrated nature and intrinsic complexity. In this article, as an introduction to the special issue on functional consequences of extreme adaptations of the trophic apparatus in craniates, we survey case studies highlighting the occurrence of extreme morphologies in the trophic system in craniates and briefly review a number of associated conceptual issues: (1) Are extreme morphologies associated with constrained functional versatility? (2) Do highperformance systems necessarily involve extreme morphological adaptations? and (3) Do extreme morphologies limit functional and ecological capacities? An overview of the case studies presented here shows that the craniate trophic system is a suitable model system to explore the evolution of extreme morphologies but currently provides no clearcut answers to conceptual issues addressed.
10.1086/651100|We used a commongarden rearing experiment to explore environmentally induced tolerance to hypoxia in the African mouthbrooding cichlid
30161323|Most frog species show little resistance to evaporative water loss (EWL), but some arboreal species are known to have very high resistances. We measured EWL and cutaneous resistance to evaporation (
10.1086/650471|Smooth and skeletal muscle changes were compared from overwintering whitetailed prairie dogs, spontaneous hibernators that undergo regular, lowtemperature torpor bouts, and blacktailed prairie dogs, facultative hibernators that use sporadic, moderatetemperature torpor bouts. The objectives were to assess the abilities of these two species with dramatically different torpor patterns (1) to conserve skeletal muscle morphology, protein, and strength and (2) to use labile protein in the small intestine and liver during the winter season of reduced activity and food intake. Mass and protein concentration of the extensor digitorum longus (EDL), soleus, liver, and small intestine, as well as skeletal muscle strength and fiber morphology for the EDL and soleus, were compared before and after hibernation in both species. Both species appeared to be similar to overwintering black bears and underwent very little strength and protein loss, as compared with euthermic models of immobility and longterm fasting. Although the two species used vastly different hibernation strategies, none of the changes in parameters related to muscle atrophy and labileprotein use during the hibernation season differed significantly between them. Therefore, it appears that regardless of the phenotypic expressions of hibernation, the outcome is the conservation of skeletal muscle.
10.1086/666463|Locomotor performance can influence the ecological and evolutionary success of a species. For fish, favorable outcomes of predator-prey encounters are often presumably due to robust acceleration ability. Although escape-response or fast-start studies utilizing high-speed cinematography are prevalent, little is known about the contribution of relative acceleration performance to ecological or evolutionary success in a species. This dearth of knowledge may be due to the time-consuming nature of analyzing film, which imposes a practical limit on sample sizes. Herein, we present a high-throughput potential alternative for measuring fish acceleration performance using a sprint performance chamber (SPC). The acceleration performance of a large number of juvenile European sea bass (
10.1086/678955|During hovering flight, animals can increase the wing velocity and therefore the net aerodynamic force per stroke by increasing wingbeat frequency, wing stroke amplitude, or both. The magnitude and orientation of aerodynamic forces are also influenced by the geometric angle of attack, timing of wing rotation, wing contact, and pattern of deviation from the primary stroke plane. Most of the kinematic data available for flying animals are average values for wing stroke amplitude and wingbeat frequency because these features are relatively easy to measure, but it is frequently suggested that the more subtle and difficult-to-measure features of wing kinematics can explain variation in force production for different flight behaviors. Here, we test this hypothesis with multicamera high-speed recording and digitization of wing kinematics of honeybees (
30158142|We determined the effect of water and nitrogen intake on nitrogenous waste composition in the nectarivorous Pallass longtongued bat
10.1086/671746|The ability to find sufficient high-quality stopover habitat is a crucial factor for successful migration for woodland migrant birds. Woodland habitats are scarce in the Northern Prairie region of North America, and natural woodlands have been greatly reduced concurrent with the appearance of small anthropogenic woodlands on the landscape. Landbird migrants use both natural and anthropogenic woodlands in this region as stopover habitats, but the relative quality of these two habitats is unknown. We assessed the relative habitat quality of the two habitats by comparing body mass (
10.1086/666473|Heterothermic rodents increase self-selection of diets rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) when exposed to cold, short days, or short-day melatonin profiles, and Djungarian hamsters (
30158680|We measured the activities of eight digestive enzymes in four species of herbivorous and carnivorous prickleback fishes and determined the effects of ontogeny, diet, and phylogeny on these enzyme activities. Of the four species,
30158432|Dualenergy xray absorptiometry (DXA) is a nondestructive technique that can potentially measure specific components of wholebody composition in freeliving and labraised animals. Our aim was to test the ability of DXA to measure the composition of a common arvicoline rodent, the northern redbacked vole (
10.1086/667533|Baboons regularly drink surface waters derived from atmospheric precipitation, or meteoric water. As a result, the oxygen isotope (
PBZ10056|It has been proposed that female birds can influence the phenotype of their offspring by provisioning eggs with variable amounts of nutrients and maternal hormones. Egg quality is strongly influenced by maternal body reserves and the amount of food available at the time of egg formation. This study investigated the effects of maternal state and food availability on the capacity of female lesser black-backed gulls
30160551|The acidbase status of extra and intracellular fluids was studied in relation to the anaerobic energy metabolism in the adductor muscle, mantle, gills, and heart of the marine bivalve
30158326|Elevated CO
30097041|When competing for food or other resources, or when confronted with predators, young animals may be at a disadvantage relative to adults because of their smaller size. Additionally, the ongoing differentiation and growth of tissues and the development of sensorymotor integration during early ontogeny may constrain performance. Because ectothermic vertebrates show different growth regimes and energetic requirements when compared to endothermic vertebrates, differences in the ontogenetic trajectories of performance traits in these two groups might be expected. However, both groups of vertebrates show similar patterns of changes in performance with ontogeny. Evidence for compensation, resulting in relatively high levels of performance in juveniles relative to adults, appears common for traits related to locomotor and defensive behaviors. However, there is little evidence for compensation in traits associated with feeding and foraging. We suggest that this difference may be due to different selective regimes operating on locomotor versus feeding traits. As a result, relatively high levels of locomotor performance in juveniles and relatively high levels of feeding performance in adults are observed across a wide range of vertebrate groups.
30158734|Ectotherms can adjust their thermoregulatory set points in response to bacterial infection; the result may be similar to endothermic fever. We examined the influence of dose on the set point of body temperature (
10.1086/672092|Life-history evolutionthe way organisms allocate time and energy to reproduction, survival, and growthis a central question in evolutionary biology. One of its main tenets, the allocation principle, predicts that selection will reduce energy costs of maintenance in order to divert energy to survival and reproduction. The empirical support for this principle is the existence of a negative relationship between fitness and metabolic rate, which has been observed in some ectotherms. In juvenile animals, a key function affecting fitness is growth rate, since fast growers will reproduce sooner and maximize survival. In principle, design constraints dictate that growth rate cannot be reduced without affecting maintenance costs. Hence, it is predicted that juveniles will show a positive relationship between fitness (growth rate) and metabolic rate, contrarily to what has been observed in adults. Here we explored this problem using land snails (
30158145|We previously demonstrated that the relationship between respiratory gas exchange and metabolic heat production is unexpectedly variable and that conventional approaches to estimating energy expenditure by indirect calorimetry can incorporate large errors. Prior studies, however, comparing direct and indirect calorimetry of animals focused only on endothermic organisms. Given that endothermy and ectothermy represent a fundamental dichotomy of animal energetics, in this analysis we explore how these contrasting physiologies correlate with the relationship between heat production and respiratory gas exchange. Simultaneous indirect and direct calorimetry in an ectotherm, the ball python (
10.1086/603637|Two groups of female Steller sea lions (groups H and P) were subjected to periods of energy restriction and subsequent refeeding during winter and summer to determine changes in energy partitioning among principal physiological functions and the potential consequences to their fitness. Both sea lion groups consumed highquality fish (herring) before and after the energy restrictions. During restrictions, group H was fed a lower quantity of herring and group P a caloric equivalent of lowquality fish (pollock). Quantitative estimates of maintenance and production energies and qualitative estimates of thermoregulation, activity, and basal metabolic rate were measured. During summer, all animals compensated for the imposed energy deficit by releasing stored energy (production energy). Group H also optimized the energy allocation to seasonal conditions by increasing activity during summer, when fish are naturally abundant (foraging effort), and by decreasing thermoregulation capacity when waters are warmer. During winter, both groups decreased the energy allocated to overall maintenance functions (basal metabolic rate, thermoregulation, and activity together) in addition to releasing stored energy, but they preserved thermoregulatory capacity. Group H also decreased activity levels in winter, when foraging in the wild is less efficient, unlike group P. Overall, sea lions fed pollock did not change energy allocation to suit environmental conditions as readily as those fed herring. This implies that a low energydensity diet may further reduce fitness of animals in the wild during periods of nutritional stress.
10.1086/677541|Long-distance migrations are energetically expensive for many animals, including migratory songbirds. During these demanding journeys, birds likely face limitations in allocating resources to different physiological functions, including lipid reserves needed to fuel the migration and costly immune defense against pathogens. We sampled three species of long-distance migratory songbirds during their fall migration through coastal Georgia and quantified their body condition, subcutaneous fat reserves, and infection status with blood parasites (
30158337|Proximal mechanisms describing the evolution of high levels of basal metabolic rate (BMR) in endotherms are one of the most intriguing problems of evolutionary physiology. Because BMR mostly reflects metabolic activity of internal organs, evolutionary increase in BMR could have been realized by an increase in relative organ size and/or massspecific cellular metabolic rate. According to the membrane pacemaker theory of metabolism, the latter is mediated by an increase in the average number of double bonds (unsaturation index) in cell membrane fatty acids. To test this, we investigated the effect of divergent artificial selection for bodymasscorrected BMR on the mass of internal organs and the fatty acid composition of cell membranes in laboratory mice (
30158120|Humic substances have important functions in aquatic systems. While these roles are primarily indirect, influencing the physicochemical environment, recent evidence suggests these materials may also have direct biological actions. This study investigated the mechanism by which humic substances perturb sodium metabolism in a freshwater invertebrate, the water flea
10.1086/681031|Anhydrobiosis is an adaptive strategy that allows withstanding almost complete body water loss. It has been developed independently by many organisms belonging to different evolutionary lines, including tardigrades. The loss of water during anhydrobiotic processes leads to oxidative stress. To date, the metabolism of free radicals in tardigrades remained unclear. We present a method for in vivo monitoring of free radical production in tardigrades, based on electron paramagnetic resonance and spin-trap DEPMPO, which provides simultaneous identification of various spin adducts (i.e., different types of free radicals). The spin trap can be easily absorbed in animals, and tardigrades stay alive during the measurements and during 24-h monitoring after the treatment. The results show that hydrated specimens of the tardigrade
30158730|This study is the first step in characterizing ion uptake mechanisms of mosquito larvae from the Amazon region of Brazil. Hemolymph NaCl levels and rates of unidirectional Na
10.1086/682154|Prolonged shivering in birds is mainly fueled by lipids. Consequently, lipid transport and catabolism are vital for thermogenic performance and could be upregulated along with thermogenic capacity as part of the winter phenotype. We investigated summer-to-winter variation in lipid transport and catabolism by measuring mRNA expression, protein levels, and enzyme activities for several key steps of lipid transport and catabolic pathways in pectoralis muscle and heart in two small temperate-zone resident birds, American goldfinches (
30160063|The effects of acute and developmental temperature on maximum burst swimming speed, body size, and myofibrillar ATPase activity were assessed in tadpoles of the Pacific tree frog,
10.1086/676309|Cetaceans are obligate aquatic mammals derived from terrestrial artiodactyls. The defining characteristic of cetaceans is a thick and dense lip (pachyosteosclerotic involucrum) of an ear bone (the tympanic). This unique feature is absent in modern terrestrial artiodactyls and is suggested to be important in underwater hearing. Here, we investigate the mineralogical and biochemical properties of the involucrum, as these may hold clues to the aquatic adaptations of cetaceans. We compared bioapatites (enamel, dentine, cementum, and skeletal bone) of cetaceans with those of terrestrial artiodactyls and pachyosteosclerotic ribs of manatees (Sirenia). We investigated organic, carbonate, and mineral composition as well as crystal size and crystallinity index. In all studied variables, bioapatites of the cetacean involucrum were intermediate in composition and structure between those of tooth enamel on the one hand and those of dentine, cementum, and skeletal bone on the other. We also studied the amino acid composition of the cetacean involucrum relative to that of other skeletal bone. The central involucrum had low glycine and hydroxyproline concentrations but high concentrations of nonessential amino acids, unlike most bone samples but similar to the tympanic of hippos and the (pachyosteosclerotic) ribs of manatees. These amino acid results are evidence of rapid bone development. We hypothesize that the mineralogical and amino acid composition of cetacean bullae differs from that of other bone because of (1) functional modifications for underwater sound reception and (2) structural adaptations related to rapid ossification.
30161121|In an experimental study, we compared reproductive and developmental traits of endemic sesarmid crabs from Jamaica living in landlocked limnic or terrestrial habitats. Laboratory rearing and behavioral observations showed that the larval development of
10.1086/678131|Vesicomyid bivalves form dense clam beds in both deep-sea cold seeps and hydrothermal vents. The species diversity within this family raises questions about niche separation and specific adaptations. To compare their abilities to withstand hypoxia, we have studied the structure and function of erythrocyte hemoglobin (Hb) and foot myoglobin (Mb) from two vesicomyid species,
30158074|Rainbow trout embryos and larvae were continuously exposed (at 12.5C) to waterborne silver in a flowthrough setup, from fertilization to swimup, at nominal silver concentrations of 0, 0.1, or 1.0 g/L total silver (as AgNO
30161167|In winter, rainbow smelt (
10.1086/652243|Timekeeping is important at two levels: to time changes in physiology and behavior within each day and within each year. For the former, birds have a system of at least three independent circadian clocks present in the retina of the eyes, the pineal gland, and the hypothalamus. This differs from the situation in mammals in which the input, pacemaker, and output are localized in different structures. Each bird clock interacts with at least one other clock, and together, they appear to form a centralized clock system that keeps daily time. These clocks have a powerful endogenous component, and the daily lightdark cycle entrains them to 24 h. The timing and duration of life history stages that make up annual cycle of an individual must also be controlled by some form of timekeeping. However, evidence for the existence of an equivalent endogenous circannual clock is less clear. Environmental cues, particularly photoperiod, appear to have a more direct role than simply entraining the clock to calendar time. For example, the timing of migration is probably greatly influenced by photoperiod, but its manifestation each day, as
10.1086/676669|Small avian species wintering at northern latitudes typically show increases in basal metabolic rate (BMR) and maximal thermogenic capacity (Msum). Those are widely assumed to reflect changes in body composition, with enlargement of digestive and excretory organs resulting in elevated winter BMR and larger body muscles driving the increase in Msum. Using free-living black-capped chickadees (
30158369|Plasma corticosterone increases in association with migratory flight in the red knot
30160570|Anuran metamorphosis is one of the most spectacular processes in nature. Metamorphosis entails morphological transformations and extensive changes in feeding habits, such as transforming from an herbivore to a carnivore. This phenomenon is especially sensitive to environmental cues. We studied the phenotypic plasticity of intestinal morphology and enzyme activity in tadpoles of the Chilean giant frog
30161077|Basal metabolic rate (BMR) was established as a common reference point allowing comparable measures across different individuals and species. BMR is often regarded as a minimal rate of metabolism compatible with basic processes necessary to sustain life. One confusing aspect, however, is that BMR is highly variable, both within and between species. A potential explanation for this variability is that while individuals with high BMRs may suffer the disadvantage of having to feed for longer to cover the extra energy demands, this may be offset by advantages that accrue because of the high metabolic rate. One suggested advantage is that high levels of BMR are a consequence of maintaining a morphology that permits high rates of the maximal sustained rate of metabolism (SusMR)the rate of metabolism that can be sustained for days or weeks. We have been studying the energetics of MF1 laboratory mice during peak lactation to investigate this idea. In this article, we review some of our work in connection with three particular predictions that derive from the hypothesised links among morphology, basal metabolism, and sustained metabolic rate. By comparing groups of individuals, for example, lactating and nonlactating individuals, the patterns that emerge are broadly consistent with the hypothesis that BMR and SusMR are linked by morphology. Lactating mice have bigger organs connected with energy acquisition and utilisation, greater resting metabolic rates in the thermoneutral zone, called RMRt (approximately equivalent to BMR), and high sustainable rates of maximal energy intake. However, when attempts are made to establish these relationships across individuals within lactating mice, the associations that are anticipated are either absent or very weak and depend on shared variation due to body mass. At this level there is very little support for the suggestion that variation in RMRt (and thus BMR) is sustained by associations with SusMR.
30158073|The possible presence of urea transport mechanisms in the gill and kidney of the freshwater rainbow trout (
30158410|Anuran jumping is an ideal system for examining the relationships between key morphological, physiological, and kinematic parameters. We used the Australian rocket frog (
30163967|Offspring phenotype can be affected by maternal history before and during gestation. Offspring sensitivity to maternal conditions is believed to have evolved to favor preadaptation of offspring to environmental factors they are likely to encounter. Because the locomotor capacity of an individual is likely to have important fitness consequences, we examined the role of longterm and shortterm prenatal conditions on offsprings locomotor performance in the lizard
30160095|Mammalian terrestrial locomotion has many unifying principles. However, the Macropodoidea are a particularly interesting group that exhibit a number of significant deviations from the principles that seem to apply to other mammals. While the properties of materials that comprise the musculoskeletal system of mammals are similar, evidence suggests that tendon properties in macropodoid marsupials may be size or function dependent, in contrast to the situation in placental mammals. Postural differences related to hopping versus running have a dramatic effect on the scaling of the pelvic limb musculoskeletal system. Ratios of muscle fibre to tendon crosssectional areas for ankle extensors and digital flexors scale with positive allometry in all mammals, but exponents are significantly higher in macropods. Tendon safety factors decline with increasing body mass in mammals, with eutherians at risk of ankle extensor tendon rupture at a body mass of about 150 kg, whereas kangaroos encounter similar problems at a body mass of approximately 35 kg. Tendon strength appears to limit locomotor performance in these animals. Elastic strain energy storage in tendons is mass dependent in all mammals, but exponents are significantly larger in macropodid. Tibial stresses may scale with positive allometry in kangaroos, which result in lower bone safety factors in macropods compared to eutherian mammals.
10.1086/674432|Interest in the imbalance between the production of reactive oxygen species and the state of the antioxidant machinerythat is, oxidative stresshas recently grown among comparative physiologists and evolutionary/behavioral ecologists. The number and types of markers used to estimate oxidative stress is, however, under debate. The study of covariation among these markers is necessary to better interpret the information content of each independent variable. Here, the covariation in levels of 10 blood parameters in a group of zebra finches (
30158358|The Magadi tilapia (
30161293|Zinc is a vital micronutrient, yet as an environmental toxicant it can be deleterious to aquatic organisms such as fish. Consequently, the study of zinc uptake mechanisms is essential for understanding nutrition, toxicity, and metabolism of this metal. Intestinal zinc uptake was studied in two marine teleosts, using both in vitro (in vitro perfusion and intestinal sacs) and in vivo techniques (in situ bolus). Female squirrelfish (
10.1086/673313|There is some urgency in the necessity to incorporate physiological data into mechanistic, trait-based, demographic climate change models. Physiological responses at the individual level provide the mechanistic link between environmental changes and individual performances and hence population dynamics. Here we consider the causal relationship between ambient temperature (
30161111|We examined the phenotypic flexibility of field urine osmolality (Uosm) in response to seasonal rainfall and the experimental expression of renal aquaporins (AQPs) in the leafeared mouse
30161128|We examined the effects of hibernation and fasting on intestinal glucose and proline uptake rates of chuckwallas (
10.1086/648484|Coral species throughout the world are facing severe local and global environmental pressures. Because of the pressing conservation need, we are studying the reproduction, physiology, and cryobiology of coral larvae with the future goal of cryopreserving and maintaining these organisms in a genome resource bank. Effective cryopreservation involves several steps, including the loading and unloading of cells with cryoprotectant and the avoidance of osmotic shock. In this study, during the time course of coral larvae development of the mushroom coral
10.1086/648393|Intraspecific allometric (scaling) relationships for metabolism, which have received little examination compared to interspecific relationships, reflect a complex interplay of organogenesis, growth, and shifting physiologies. In this study of the silkworm
30160143|Since the yolk lipids of the king penguin (
30158720|The importance of glycolysis, as an ATPproducing and substrateproviding pathway, was studied in anoxiatolerant (goldfish) and anoxiaintolerant (trout) hepatocytes. Inhibition of glycolysis with iodoacetic acid (IAA) left aerobic ATP production largely unaffected in hepatocytes from both species but caused a significant decrease of ATP contents in the goldfish cells. Ouabainsensitive oxygen consumption (os
30160032|Individuals within a species, living across a wide range of habitats, often display a great deal of phenotypic plasticity for organ mass and function. We investigated the extent to which changes in organ mass are variable, corresponding to environmental demand, across an altitudinal gradient. Are there changes in the mass of oxygen delivery organs (heart and lungs) and other central processing organs (gut, liver, kidney) associated with an increased sustainable metabolic rate that results from decreased ambient temperatures and decreased oxygen availability along an altitudinal gradient? We measured food intake, resting metabolic rate (RMR), and organ mass in captive deer mice (
30161157|Through functional analyses, integrative physiology is able to link molecular biology with ecology as well as evolutionary biology and is thereby expected to provide access to the evolution of molecular, cellular, and organismic functions; the genetic basis of adaptability; and the shaping of ecological patterns. This paper compiles several exemplary studies of thermal physiology and ecology, carried out at various levels of biological organization from single genes (proteins) to ecosystems. In each of those examples, tradeoffs and constraints in thermal adaptation are addressed; these tradeoffs and constraints may limit species' distribution and define their level of fitness. For a more comprehensive understanding, the paper sets out to elaborate the functional and conceptual connections among these independent studies and the various organizational levels addressed. This effort illustrates the need for an overarching concept of thermal adaptation that encompasses molecular, organellar, cellular, and wholeorganism information as well as the mechanistic links between fitness, ecological success, and organismal physiology. For this data, the hypothesis of oxygen and capacitylimited thermal tolerance in animals provides such a conceptual framework and allows interpreting the mechanisms of thermal limitation of animals as relevant at the ecological level. While, ideally, evolutionary studies over multiple generations, illustrated by an example study in bacteria, are necessary to test the validity of such complex concepts and underlying hypotheses, animal physiology frequently is constrained to functional studies within one generation. Comparisons of populations in a latitudinal cline, closely related species from different climates, and ontogenetic stages from riverine clines illustrate how evolutionary information can still be gained. An understanding of temperaturedependent shifts in energy turnover, associated with adjustments in aerobic scope and performance, will result. This understanding builds on a mechanistic analysis of the width and location of thermal windows on the temperature scale and also on study of the functional properties of relevant proteins and associated gene expression mechanisms.
10.1086/592821|Accurate estimates of penguin energetics would represent an important contribution to our understanding of the trophodynamics of the Southern Ocean ecosystem and our ability to predict effects of environmental change on these species. We used the heart raterate of oxygen consumption technique to estimate rate of energy expenditure in adult king penguins raising a chick, in combination with data from the literature on changes in adult mass, chick energy requirements, and prey energy density. Our model estimated a variety of energetic costs and quantities of prey consumption related to raising a king penguin chick during the austral summer. The total energy requirements of a king penguin chick at the Crozet Archipelago from hatching until reaching a mass of 8 kg 90 d later is 271 MJ, representing the consumption of 38.4 kg of myctophid fish. A successfully breeding male requires 0.78 kg d
10.1086/648481|The objectives of this study were (1) to measure plasma (V
10.1086/665567|Net energy availability depends on plasma corticosterone concentrations, food availability, and their interaction. Limited net energy availability requires energy trade-offs between self-maintenance and reproduction. This is important in matrotrophic viviparous animals because they provide large amounts of energy for embryos, as well as self-maintenance, for the extended period of time during gestation. In addition, gravid females may transmit environmental information to the embryos in order to adjust offspring phenotype. We investigated effects of variation in maternal plasma corticosterone concentration and maternal food availability (2  2 factorial design) during gestation on offspring phenotype in a matrotrophic viviparous lizard (
PBZ10070|Temperature is a primary determinant of insect and other ectotherm distribution and activity. Physiological and behavioral adaptations allow many insects to survive at subzero temperatures, yet the evolutionary influences on insect cold tolerance are unclear. Supercooling points, basal cold tolerance, cold-tolerance strategy, and inducible cold tolerance from rapid cold-hardening or acclimation were measured in a phylogenetically independent context in larvae of 27 phylogenetically diverse
10.1086/653476|Small animals typically rely on quick bursts and intermittent pauses when moving in the wild. Hence, the study of acceleration capacity is important for understanding the ecology and evolution of locomotor performance. In this study, we investigate intraspecific variation in the acceleration capacity of a small lizard (
30161008|We examined the physical properties of digesta from the proximal (sacciform) and distal (tubiform) regions of the forestomach of tammar and parma wallabies maintained on a ryegrass sward. The digesta exhibited high viscosity, which, in conjunction with low flow rates calculated from published retention times of particulate marker in the stomach, results in a low potential for macrofluid mixing during onflow of food by displacement. The pseudoplastic nature of the viscosity profile and very low flow behavior index also indicate that macrofluid mixing around haustrae would be very localized. These findings indicate that the uniform mixing of whole digesta required for continuously stirred tank reactors (CSTRs) is unlikely. Voidage, the proportion of digesta not occupied by solid material, and consistency index were greater in the digesta from the proximal than in the distal regions of the forestomach. We conclude that the mixing conditions in wallaby stomachs are better described as a partially emptying batch reactor (PEBR) than a CSTR series and that lower permeabilities in conjunction with higher viscosities decrease axial mixing and thus increase efficiency in PEBRs.
30158133|In most anurans, the production of advertisement calls is accompanied by the inflation of a vocal sac. Current functions of the vocal sac, however, are not fully understood, although several hypotheses have been proposed. One hypothesis suggests that the vocal sac decreases the intercall interval (i.e., increases call rate) by reinflating the lungs more rapidly than is possible with the buccal pump. We investigate this hypothesis by analyzing audio and video recordings of calling tngara frogs. We compare the first two call bouts emitted by an originally uninflated male. The first call bout requires lung inflation via buccal pumping, but in the second, the male is already inflated because of capture of air and reinflation of the lungs by the vocal sac. Lung inflation to typical field levels requires 2651 buccal pumps, which takes at least 4.4 s. This estimate is more than 2.5 times the typical intercall interval with lung reinflation via a vocal sac (ca. 1.7 s). Evidence from phonotaxis tests demonstrates that these differences in intercall intervals are salient to females and that female
30158717|Frogs submerged at 3C in hypoxic water (
10.1086/660850|Testosterone (T) is thought to affect a variety of traits important for fitness, including coloration, the size of sexual ornaments, aggression, and locomotor performance. Here, we investigated the effects of experimentally elevated T and locomotor training on muscle physiology and running performance in a nonterritorial male lizard species (
30160097|The best supported hypothesis for the evolutionary origin of insect wings is that they evolved from articulated, legderived respiratory structures of aquatic ancestors. However, there are no fossils of the immediate ancestors of winged insects, and it is difficult to imagine how a functional transition from gills to wings could have occurred. Recent studies of surfaceskimming locomotion in stoneflies and mayflies offer a plausible solution by showing how rudimentary wings and muscle power can be used to accomplish twodimensional aerodynamic locomotion on the surface of water. Here we extend that line of research by examining the phylogenetic distribution and mechanistic diversity of surface skimming in stoneflies, along with a limited examination of mayflies. These investigations reveal both a broad taxonomic occurrence and a fine gradation of mechanically distinct forms. Distinct forms of wingflapping surface skimming include (1) stoneflies that flap their wings weakly while maintaining their body in contact with the water and undulating their abdomen laterally in a swimminglike motion, (2) stoneflies that skim while elevating their body above the water and maintaining all six legs on the surface, (3) stoneflies and mayflies that skim with only four legs on the water surface, (4) stoneflies that skim with only their two hind legs on the surface, and (5) stoneflies that, beginning with a series of leg motions nearly identical to hindleg skimmers, use their hind legs to jump from the water into the air to initiate flapping flight. Comparisons across these forms of skimming show that wingbeat amplitude, horizontal velocity, and the verticality of aerodynamic force production increase as the body orientation becomes more upright and contact with the water is minimized. These behaviors illustrate a mechanical pathway by which flying insects could have evolved from swimming ancestors via a series of finely graded intermediate stages. The phylogenetic distribution of skimming and flight in stoneflies does not indicate any clear directionality toward either greater or lesser aerodynamic abilities; however, the broad and apparently basal phylogenetic distribution of skimming taxa supports the hypothesis that the common ancestor of stoneflies was a surface skimmer. This may also be true for the common ancestor of stoneflies and mayflies, that is, the first winged insects. We combine these data with fossil evidence to form a synthetic model for the evolution of flying insects from surface skimmers.
30162236|The efficiency with which mothers convert acquired energy into milk is a key determinant of the magnitude of parental investment in mammals; however, the mechanisms underlying lactation efficiency are poorly understood. Investigations on northern elephant seals have shown lactation efficiency, measured as the proportion of total energy expenditure that goes to the pup as milk, increases with age. In a crosssectional study the physiological and behavioral determinants of lactation efficiency were investigated in eight young and seven prime (older) elephant seals by conducting behavioral observations and collecting milk, blood, and tissue on days 3 and 22 of lactation. Milk composition, circulating fatty acid and triglyceride concentrations, and mammary and blubber lipoprotein lipase activity were determined. Prime females had significantly greater percent milk fat and circulating fatty acids on day 3 than did young females, but these differences disappeared by day 22. The ability for prime females to produce higherenergy milk early in lactation may allow them to increase lactation efficiency by increasing the rate of energy transfer. In addition, prime females spent significantly more time resting. A combination of reduced activity and more rapid energy delivery likely explains the increase in lactation efficiency with age found in a previous study.
10.1086/605395|Oxidative stress is the imbalance between the production of prooxidant substances and the level of antioxidant defenses, which leads to oxidative damage. It has been proposed that senescence is the result of accumulated oxidative damage throughout life. In birds, the sources of individual variability in oxidative stress are still poorly understood. Among these sources, age, as related to senescence, should be particularly relevant. Furthermore, recent findings suggest that breeding effort may also deeply influence susceptibility to oxidative stress. However, there is still no evidence of a link between breeding effort and oxidative damage in any vertebrate. Here we analyzed 288 captive redlegged partridges (
30161192|Dietary specialization is thought to be rare in mammalian herbivores as a result of either a limitation in their detoxification system to metabolize higher doses of plant secondary compounds or deficiencies in nutrients present in a diet composed of a single species of plant.
30161309|Microarrays, or gene chips, are transforming the way that gene expression is measured by allowing us to determine the expression of thousands of genes from a sample. This gives immense power to examine gene expression on a global scale within individual animals and between animals. The scope for analysing complex animal functions at the molecular level is within our grasp. Relatively few studies have examined complex behaviours and correlated them with gene expression in the central nervous system. Here, we review the use of microarray technology in the dissection of behaviour and focus specifically on dominance status. A cDNA library using suppression subtraction hybridisation on rainbow trout
30160039|Wholebody and organlevel transcapillary filtration rates and coefficients are virtually unexamined in ectothermal vertebrates. These filtration rates appear to be greater than in mammals when plasma volume shifts and lymphatic function are analyzed. Gravimetric techniques monitoring wholebody mass changes were used to estimate net systemic filtration in
10.1086/651070|Hypothermiainduced reductions in metabolic rate have been proposed to suppress metabolism and prolong the duration of aerobic metabolism during dives of marine mammals and birds. To determine whether core hypothermia might contribute to the repetitive longduration dives of the northern elephant seal
30158381|Despite the importance of developmental rate, growth rate, and size at maturity in the life history of poikliotherms, the tradeoffs among these traits and selection pressures involved in the evolution of these traits are not well understood. This study compared these traits in a grasshopper,
30158084|The increase in metabolism during digestionthe heat increment of feedingis often regarded as an energetic waste product. However, it has been suggested that this energy could offset thermoregulatory costs in cold environments. We investigated this possibility by measuring the rate of oxygen consumption of four juvenile Steller sea lions (
30160011|Plasma cortisol elevation, a common consequence of stress, occurs in salmonids of subordinate rank; these fish acquire a smaller share of available food and grow more slowly. This study examined the role of cortisol itself in these phenomena. Cortisol implants, with parallel sham and control treatments, were used to create a chronic threefold elevation in plasma cortisol levels in juvenile rainbow trout, and the individual feeding patterns of the fish were evaluated using Xray radiography. The three treatment groups were (1) held alone and fed to satiation, thereby providing a measure of voluntary appetite, or mixed together in equal proportions and fed to either (2) satiation or (3) halfsatiation, thereby allowing assessment of the additional effects of competitive interaction and food limitation. Chronic plasma cortisol elevation had significant negative effects on individual appetite, growth rate, condition factor, and food conversion efficiency, independent of whether the fish were held under unmixed or mixed conditions. Under the latter, mean share of meal was reduced and fin damage increased in cortisoltreated fish; negative growth effects were more severe with food limitation, but the response patterns were otherwise unchanged. Even in the absence of other groups, cortisoltreated fish showed more variable feeding patterns. When compared at the same individual ration levels, cortisoltreated fish had lower growth rates, reflecting a higher cost of living. Cortisol treatment had no effect on aerobic swimming performance. These results suggest that the structure of the feeding hierarchy may not be determined solely by competitive ability but may also be greatly influenced by differences in the feeding behaviour of unstressed fish versus stressed fish caused by cortisol elevation in the latter.
PBZ11040|Marsupials are born with structurally immature lungs and rely, to varying degrees, on cutaneous gas exchange. With a gestation of 13 d and a birth weight of 13 mg, the fat-tailed dunnart (
30097052|The costs of using and maintaining presumed adaptations are unknown for most animals. Energetically expensive traits, such as some agonistic and antipredator behaviors in animals, may incur tradeoffs with other aspects of an animals life history, such as feeding and reproduction. However, infrequent and brief use may reduce the costs of vigorous behaviors. The shaker muscles in the tails of rattlesnakes are an excellent system for studying the potential costs of a specialized defensive system. The high energetic cost of rattling may increase feeding requirements or use energy that could otherwise be available for reproduction. I used energetic modeling to test whether the cost of rattling in western diamondbacked rattlesnakes (
PBZ10049|Life-history theory predicts that there should be negative fitness consequences, in terms of future reproduction and survival, for parents with increased reproductive effort. We examined whether increased incubation demand affected innate immunity and body condition by performing a clutch-size manipulation experiment in black guillemots (
30158710|Many small mammals inhabiting fluctuating and cold environments display enhanced capacity for seasonal changes in nonshivering thermogenesis (NST) and thermoregulatory maximum metabolic rate (MMR). However, it is not known how this plasticity remains in a mammal that rarely experiences extreme thermal fluctuations. In order to answer this question, we determined body mass (
10.1086/680384|Survival at high latitude requires the capability to cope with seasonally imposed stress, such as low winter temperatures or large temperature fluctuations. The Colorado potato beetle,
10.1086/677317|The wide thermal tolerance range of a eurythermic fish (goldfish,
30161079|Basal metabolic rate (BMR, mL O
10.1086/671446|During negative energy balance periods, fatty acids (FAs) are mobilized to cover the metabolic demands of the body. FAs from adipose tissue are selectively mobilized according to their carbon length (CL) and number of double bonds (DBs); however, studies in vivo have focused only on fasting and nonlactating animals. During lactation, UK gray seals fast for 18 d, mobilizing a large amount of lipid from blubber to sustain their own metabolic demands and the nutritional requirements of pups. We investigated FA mobilization in individual gray seal mothers from two UK colonies sampled in 2005 and 2006. Linear mixed-effects models were used to examine to what extent the mobilization observed from FAs in blubber can be explained as a function of FAs CL and number of DBs. FAs were mobilized according to their structure, such that for a given CL, mobilization increased with the number of DBs, and for a given number of DBs, mobilization decreased as CL increased. This pattern of selective mobilization was very similar between colonies, although the relative amounts of component FAs in blubber at early lactation were different between them. FAs, which are considered crucial to pup development, were mobilized more than predicted by the model. This suggests that selective mobilization of FAs is not related solely to the physicochemical characteristics of the FAs but also to the needs of a growing pup.
10.1086/651704|Dietary shifts have played a major role in the evolution of many vertebrates. The idea that the evolution of herbivory is physiologically constrained in squamates is challenged by a number of observations that suggest that at least some lizards can overcome the putative physiological difficulties of herbivory on evolutionary and even ecological timescales. We compared a number of morphological and physiological traits purportedly associated with plant consumption between two island populations of the lacertid lizard
10.1086/605955|Energy metabolism is fundamental for animal fitness because it fuels locomotion, growth, and reproduction. Mitochondrial capacities often acclimate to compensate for negative thermodynamic effects. Our aim was to determine the importance of transcriptional regulation and membrane fatty acid composition in modulating oxidative capacities at body temperatures selected in a cold and a warm environment by a reptile (
30161117|Relative to other herbivorous vertebrates, the nutritional ecology and digestive physiology of anuran larvae remain poorly understood. Our objective was to compare gut structure and inhabitants, digesta passage, and microbial fermentation in bullfrog tadpoles (
PBZ10022|The physiological mechanisms that determine basal metabolic rate (BMR) of endotherms have long been debated. This journal has recently presented a new model, based on biophysical principles of heat flux through the tissues of mammals, that attempts to explain the allometric relationship between BMR and body size. We offer a critique of the model and conclude that although the model may describe the physics of heat transfer through the body, it cannot explain mechanistically the level of BMR. BMR determines some of the key variables of the model, but no combination of the variables determines BMR. The model arrives at an equation relating BMR to body mass that is similar to descriptive empirical equations, but this coincidence results from the geometry of the model and the empirical values put into it.
30160149|Common snapping turtles,
30161177|Aspiration breathing is the dominant mechanism of lung inflation among extant amniotes. However, aspiration has two fundamental problems associated with it: paradoxical visceral translation and partial lung collapse. These can constrain the inspiratory tidal volume, reduce the effective lung ventilation, and ultimately curtail the aerobic capacity of an animal. Separation of the pleural and peritoneal cavities by an intracoelomic septum can restrict the cranial shift of abdominal viscera and provide structural support to the caudal lung surface. A muscular septum, such as the diaphragm of mammals or the diaphragmaticus of crocodilians, can exert active control over visceral translation and the degree of lung inflation. To a lesser degree, a nonmuscular septum can also function as a passive barrier when stretched taut by rib rotation. Studies of the posthepatic septum in teiid lizards and the postpulmonary septum in varanid lizards underscore the importance of nonmuscular septa in aspiration. These septa provide plausible functional models that help us infer the evolution of mammalian and avian lung ventilatory systems, respectively.
30160113|Field metabolic rates and daily movement distances were measured in 26 individual kit foxes (
10.1086/673755|Carryover effects have been documented in many migratory bird species, but we know little about the physiological mechanisms that mediate those effects. Here we show that the energetic, endocrine, and aerobic characteristics of postmigratory female gray-headed albatrosses (
30160066|We studied ventilation in kangaroos from mesic and arid environments, the eastern grey kangaroo (
10.1086/668697|Flying animals exhibit profound transformations in anatomy, physiology, and neural architecture. Although much is known about adaptations in the avian skeleton and musculature, less is known about neuroanatomy and motor unit integration for bird flight. Hummingbirds are among the most maneuverable and specialized of vertebrate fliers, and two unusual neuromuscular features have been previously reported: (1) the pectoralis major has a unique distribution pattern of motor end plates (MEPs) compared with all other birds and (2) electromyograms (EMGs) from the hummingbirds pectoral muscles, the pectoralis major and the supracoracoideus, show activation bursts composed of one or a few spikes that appear to have a very consistent pattern. Here, we place these findings in a broader context by comparing the MEPs, EMGs, and organization of the spinal motor neuron pools of flight muscles of Annas hummingbird
10.1086/656019|The highly successful Fourth International Conference in Africa for Comparative Physiology and Biochemistry (ICACPB) was held in the Maasai Mara National Reserve in July 2008. The theme of the meeting was Molecules to Migration: Pressures of Life. To enhance the theme, the venue and timing of the meeting were chosen to coincide with the arrival of approximately 1.4 million wildebeest on their annual migration from the Serengeti National Park in Tanzania. Like the three previous ICACPB meetings, the discussion topics and the resulting collection of synthesia presented here were very diverse. The articles in this special collection reflect the authors interest in broadening our understanding of the field of comparative physiology and biochemistry and their commitment to engaging in global research with international colleagues. These articles are brief, synthetic reviews integrating information presented at and inspired by the meeting. From seasonal migration and reproduction in birds, to cardiovascular system development in vertebrates, to strategies for hypoxia survival, papers range from specific to broad interactions. What they all have in common: they increase our understanding of how animals are affected by and respond to the pressures of life.
30158695|Physiological responses (oxygen consumption) and behavioral responses (feeding and activity) of the mud snails
10.1086/591099|Winter acclimatization in small birds overwintering in cold climates, including house sparrows (
10.1086/666904|What is the effect of a variable environment on phenotypic variation? Does the physiological response to a new environment increase or decrease the differences among individuals? We provide a speculative hypothesis suggesting that the induction of a physiological response to environmental change minimizes phenotypic differences among individuals in outbred genetically variable populations. Although this suggestion runs counter to the general idea that environmental variation induces phenotypic variation, we provide evidence that this is not always the case. One explanation for this counterintuitive hypothesis is that in a variable environment, the physiological mechanism that maintains homeostasis changes the concentrations of active transcription factors (TFs). This change in TFs reduces the effectiveness of nucleotide polymorphisms in TF binding sites and thus reduces the variation among individuals in mRNA expression and in the phenotypes affected by these mRNA transcripts. Thus, there are fewer differences among individuals in a variable environment compared with the variation observed in a constant environment. Our conjecture is that the physiological mechanisms that maintain homeostasis in response to environmental variation canalize phenotypic variation. If our hypothesis is correct, then the physiological canalization of gene expression in a variable environment hides genetic variation and thereby reduces the evolutionary costs of polymorphism. This hypothesis provides a new perspective on the mechanisms by which high levels of genetic variation can persist in real-world populations.
30160018|To test the hypothesis that internal ion imbalances at high pH are caused by altered branchial ion transporting capacity and permeability, radiotracers (
30158399|Recent studies have suggested that a biochemical marker, plasma alkaline phosphatase (ALP), can be used as a general indicator of skeletal development in vertebrate animals. In birds, agerelated variation in ALP activity, presumably due to bone formation processes, has been demonstrated, but to date, a direct connection between bone mineralization and enzyme activity has been elusive. In this study, we show that the activity of a bone isoform of ALP (bone ALP) is closely related to the overall rate of skeletal mineralization in nestlings of a small passerine bird, the great tit (
10.1086/668871|Higher vertebrates synthesize two forms of melanin: eumelanin and pheomelanin. While the adaptive functions of eumelanin are diverse, those of pheomelanin, which is phototoxic and whose production consumes a key intracellular antioxidant (glutathione), are not clear apart from being involved in color patterns that confer concealment. The factors that have favored the evolution of pheomelanin thus remain a mystery, causing this pigment even to have been considered an accident of nature. A recent hypothesis posits that pheomelanin has evolved because it represents an alternative mechanism to remove excess dietary cysteine, which can be toxic because of its oxidation. We tested for links between pheomelanin-based color and survival in both an intraspecific study of barn swallows
30161035|While optimal diving models focus on the divers oxygen (O
10.1086/663633|Neurons are highly temperature sensitive. Temperature-induced nerve failure may play an important role in determining organismal thermal tolerance limits and distribution patterns. To expand our understanding of the role of neuronal thermal performance in setting thermal limits, we compared the thermal performance of neurons from five porcelain crab (genus
30158678|Most tropical fishes are ammonotelic, producing ammonia and excreting it as NH
30160119|Newly hatched precocial chicks of arctic shorebirds are able to walk and regulate their body temperatures to a limited extent. Yet, they must also grow rapidly to achieve independence before the end of the short arctic growing season. A rapid growth rate may conflict with development of mature function, and because of the allometric scaling of thermal relationships, this tradeoff might be resolved differently in large and small species. We assessed growth (mass) and functional maturity (catabolic enzyme activity) in leg and pectoral muscles of chicks aged 116 d and adults of two scolopacid shorebirds, the smaller dunlin (
30162165|The reptile immune system is strikingly affected by seasonal variations, which induce changes in the structure of the lymphoid organs and in the function of the leukocytes. The aim of this work is to study several functions of splenic leukocytes from the turtle
30161198|Laboratory experiments have demonstrated that the amount of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in the diet before hibernation influences patterns of mammalian torpor. The hibernation ability of ground squirrels is greatest (longest torpor bouts, greatest number of animals entering torpor) when the PUFA content of their fall diets is 3374 mg/g, under laboratory conditions. The extent to which natural fall diets both (
30160980|Decapod crustaceans with normal heart function respond to the increased oxygen delivery requirements during walking with a step increase in heart and ventilation rate. In American lobsters, ventilation rate increased by the same amount during exercise at two walking speeds (2.4 and 8 m min
30161197|This study of vertical fatty acid profiles, based on analysis of 58 fatty acids sampled at 3mm intervals throughout the blubber column of a model marine mammal, the ringed seal (
10.1086/675863|In the undivided ventricle of noncrocodilian reptiles, the blood perfusing the systemic circulation is a controlled combination of oxygenated pulmonary blood, flowing from left to right across the heart, and relatively deoxygenated systemic blood, flowing from right to left. A clear inverse correlation has been experimentally established between metabolic demand and the magnitude of right-to-left cardiac shunt in several reptile groups. Unilateral left vagotomy renders the single effective pulmonary artery of the South American rattlesnake (
30160120|Although the majority of the sea lamprey's (
10.1086/655977|Current shifts in ecosystem composition and function emphasize the need for an understanding of the links between environmental factors and organism fitness and tolerance. The examples discussed here illustrate how recent progress in the field of comparative physiology may provide a better mechanistic understanding of the ecological concepts of the fundamental and realized niches and thus provide insights into the impacts of anthropogenic disturbance. Here we argue that, as a link between physiological and ecological indicators of organismal performance, the mechanisms shaping aerobic scope and passive tolerance set the dimensions of an animals niche, here defined as its capacity to survive, grow, behave, and interact with other species. We demonstrate how comparative studies of cod or killifish populations in a latitudinal cline have unraveled mitochondrial mechanisms involved in establishing a species niche, performance, and energy budget. Riverine fish exemplify how the performance windows of various developmental stages follow the dynamic regimes of both seasonal temperatures and river hydrodynamics, as synergistic challenges. Finally, studies of species in extreme environments, such as the tilapia of Lake Magadi, illustrate how on evolutionary timescales functional and morphological shifts can occur, associated with new specializations. We conclude that research on the processes and time course of adaptations suitable to overcome current niche limits is urgently needed to assess the resilience of species and ecosystems to human impact, including the challenges of global climate change.
30161119|The effects of temperature on two important biological rate processes, wholebody rates of oxygen uptake (
30158690|Flying animals may experience a selective constraint on gut volume because the energetic cost of flight increases and maneuverability decreases with greater digesta load. The small intestine is the primary site of absorption of most nutrients (e.g., carbohydrates, proteins, fat) in both birds and mammals. Therefore, we used a phylogenetically informed approach to compare small intestine morphometric measurements of birds with those of nonflying mammals and to test for effects of diet within each clade. We also compared the fit of nonphylogenetic and phylogenetic models to test for phylogenetic signal after accounting for effects of body mass, clade, and/or diet. We provide a new MATLAB program (Regressionv2.m) that facilitates a flexible modelfitting approach in comparative studies. As compared with nonflying mammals, birds had 51% less nominal small intestine surface area (area of a smooth bore tube) and 32% less volume. For animals <365 g in body mass, birds also had significantly shorter small intestines (20%33% shorter, depending on body mass). Diet was also a significant factor explaining variation in small intestine nominal surface area of both birds and nonflying mammals, small intestine mass of mammals, and small intestine volume of both birds and nonflying mammals. On the basis of the phylogenetic trees used in our analyses, small intestine length and nominal surface area exhibited statistically significant phylogenetic signal in birds but not in mammals. Thus, for birds, related species tended to be similar in small intestine length and nominal surface area, even after accounting for relations with body mass and diet. A reduced small intestine in birds may decrease the capacity for breakdown and active absorption of nutrients. Birds do not seem to compensate for reduced digestive and absorptive capacity via a longer gut retention time of food, but we found some evidence that birds have an increased mucosal surface area via a greater villus area, although not enough to compensate for reduced nominal surface area. We predict that without increased rate of enzyme hydrolysis and/or mediated transport and without increased passive absorption of watersoluble nutrients, birds may operate with a reduced digestive capacity, compared with that of nonflying mammals, to meet an increase in metabolic needs (i.e., a reduced spare capacity).
30162144|Pulmonary surfactant, consisting predominantly of phosphatidylcholine (PC), is secreted from Type II cells into the lungs of all airbreathing vertebrates, where it functions to reduce surface tension. In mammals, glucocorticoids and thyroid hormones contribute to the maturation of the surfactant system. It is possible that phylogeny, lung structure, and the environment may influence the development of the surfactant system. Here, we investigate the ontogeny of PC secretion from cocultured Type II cells and fibroblasts in the sea turtle,
10.1086/671447|Cold tolerance and overwinter survival are positively correlated with organismal thermogenic capacity (=summit metabolic rate [
30160574|The diets of frugivorous and nectarivorous vertebrates contain much water and generally have high energy but low protein contents. Therefore, we tested the prediction that to save energy under conditions of high energy demands and high water intake, frugivorous Egyptian fruit bats (
30160075|The reliability of methods for nutrient uptake measurements across the intestinal epithelium relies on the integrity of the mucosal epithelium and the enterocytes. We tested effects of tissue handling during the everted sleeves method on the length of intestinal villi, the surface magnification, the circumference of the gut, and the thickness of the muscle layer in sunbirds (
10.1086/605951|Insectivorous bats regularly experience dramatic and sometimes rapid changes in nutrient stores, yet our ability to study these changes has been limited by available techniques. Plasma metabolite analysis has proven effective for studying individual rates of mass change in birds but has not been validated for other taxa. We tested the effectiveness of plasma metabolite analysis by conducting a study with captive big brown bats (
30161280|Specimens of the euryhaline cyprinodontid fish,
10.1086/676138|Low temperatures limit the poleward distribution of many species such that the expansion of geographic range can only be accomplished via evolutionary innovation. We have tested for physiological differences among closely related species to determine whether their poleward latitudinal ranges are limited by tolerance to cold. We measured lower temperature tolerance (LT
30160019|We explored modulation of retention time in cedar waxwings (
10.1086/674566|Studies on interspecific interactions between vertebrates based on thermal benefits are poorly represented in the literature. Ecologists know little about a category of thermoregulation termed kleptothermy. We provide evidence that a close association between a medium-sized reptile (tuatara,
30158324|This study investigated the recovery of locomotory activity in exhausted juvenile rainbow trout (
30161055|Allocation of organic carbon (OC) to primary energetic pathways was estimated under seasonal and artificially elevated ambient temperatures for a field population of a freshwater pulmonate snail,
10.1086/651099|Locomotor performance is commonly used to predict ecological performance of animals and is often considered a proxy for Darwinian fitness. In fish, swimming performance is often measured in the laboratory, but its contribution to individual success in the field is rarely evaluated. We assessed maximal swimming velocity of wild and cultured juvenile
10.1086/679485|Land snails frequently encounter desiccating conditions, and their survival depends on a suite of morphological, physiological, and molecular adaptations to the specific microhabitat. Strategies of survival can be determined by integrating information from various levels of biological organization. In this study, we used a combination of physiological parameters related to water economy and molecular factors (stress protein expression) to investigate the strategies of survival adopted by seven populations of the Mediterranean-type land snail
30158095|Although the amount of energy that males and females invest in reproduction is an integral component of theories explaining the evolution of particular mating strategies, few studies have actually determined the amount of energy that each sex allocates to reproduction. We compared how energy is expended by male and female
10.1086/589870|To examine the possible influence of incubation substrate water potential on rigidshelled chelonian eggs and hatchlings, rigidshelled eggs from four clutches of Brisbane River turtle (
10.1086/676319|The concentrations of fatty acids in the diet influence torpor in numerous species of mammals. Much less is known, however, about the potential effects of other types of dietary lipids. One study demonstrated that increasing dietary cholesterol levels during fall feeding increased torpor bout length and also decreased minimum body temperatures during hibernation by chipmunks. Another hibernation study with ground squirrels revealed that the cholesterol contents of both the cerebral cortex and the microsomes were significantly greater during arousal episodes than during torpor bouts, suggesting that cholesterol plays a role in preserving brain function during torpor. We thus predicted that dietary cholesterol enhances daily torpor in mammals as well. We also predicted that the level of cholesterol found in mammalian brain tissues during daily torpor increases with that of the diet. These hypotheses were tested in a series of laboratory feeding and daily torpor experiments involving Siberian hamsters (
30160083|The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of luteinizing hormone (LH), folliclestimulating hormone (FSH), insulin, and insulinlike growth factor1 (IGF1) on ovarian androstenedione synthesis to understand the mechanism responsible for delayed ovulation in
30158137|Plasma metabolites, including triglycerides, hydroxybutyrate, and glycerol, can be used to estimate mass change in birds. Although dietary fatty acids can be ingested and absorbed as phospholipids, they have been largely overlooked as a potential indicator of mass change. The plasma ratio of triglyceride to phospholipid could also provide insight into diet quality because a high ratio in food items indicates high relative energy content. Variability in dietary phospholipid content and triglyceride:phospholipid may also affect the relationships between metabolites and mass change. We fed Gambels whitecrowned sparrows (
30158123|We investigated the intake response of the nectarivorous Pallass longtongued bat
10.1086/683678|Trade-offs are a common focus of study in evolutionary biology and in studies of locomotor physiology and biomechanics. A previous comparative study of 12 species of European lacertid lizards found a statistically significant negative correlation between residual locomotor speed and stamina (controlling for variation in body size), consistent with ideas about trade-offs in performance based on variation in muscle fiber type composition and other subordinate traits. To begin examining the generality of this finding in other groups of squamates, we measured maximal sprint running speed on a high-speed treadmill and endurance at 1.0 km/h (0.28 m/s) in 14 species of North American phrynosomatid lizards, plus a sample of nine additional species to encompass some of the broadscale diversity of lizards. We used both conventional and phylogenetically informed regression analyses to control for some known causes of performance variation (body size, stockiness, body temperature) and then computed residual performance values. We found no evidence for a trade-off between speed and endurance among the 14 phrynosomatids or among the 23 species in the extended data set. Possible explanations for the apparent difference between lacertids and phrynosomatids are discussed.
30160992|The discontinuous gas exchange cycle (DGC) of the pseudoscorpion
10.1086/675342|The relative contributions of respiratory and cutaneous evaporation to total evaporative water loss (TEWL) and how the partitioning of these two avenues varies with environmental temperature has received little attention in bats. We trained Wahlberg's epauletted fruit bats (
PBZ10071|Experiments were conducted to determine whether low-speed swimming during recovery from exhaustive exercise improved both metabolic recovery and performance during a swimming challenge. For these experiments, brook trout were allowed to recover from exhaustive exercise for 2 h while swimming at 0, 0.5, 1.0, or 1.5 body length (BL) s
30160098|Flying insects achieve the highest known massspecific rates of O
10.1086/665328|A low capacity for regulation of extracellular Mg
PBZ10065|Rapidly growing animals or those that are recovering from nutritional stress may use exogenous nutrients differently from well fed adults. To test this possibility, we compared the rates of exogenous nutrient oxidation among fledgling, fasted adult, and refed adult zebra finches using a technique called breath testing, where animals are fed
30161184|The manipulation of egg content is one of the few ways by which female birds can alter offspring quality before hatch. Lipidsoluble vitamins and carotenoids are potent antioxidants. Female birds deposit these antioxidants into eggs in variable amounts according to environmental and social conditions, and the quantities deposited into eggs can have effects on offspring health and immunological condition. Allocation theory posits that females will alter the distribution of resources according to mate quality, sometimes allocating resources according to the differential allocation hypothesis (DAH), investing more in offspring sired by betterquality males, and other times allocating resources according to a compensatory strategy, enhancing the quality of offspring sired by lowerquality males. It is unknown, however, whether antioxidants are deposited into eggs according to the DAH or a compensatory strategy. We examined deposition patterns of yolk antioxidants (including vitamin E and three carotenoids) in relation to laying order, mate attractiveness, female condition, and yolk androgen content in the house finch (
10.1086/666497|The effects of chronic social stress on hepatic glycogen metabolism were examined in rainbow trout
10.1086/682024|Metamorphosis is an important developmental stage for holometabolous insects, during which adult morphology and physiology are established. Proper development relies on optimal body temperatures, and natural ambient temperature (
30160055|Effects of exogenous cortisol on drinking rate and water content in developing larvae of tilapia (
30160563|Comparison of closely related species that differ in their life histories is a powerful method for studying the underlying physiological mechanisms contributing to lifehistory variation. I investigated whether two closely related members of the
30160585|Redox signaling has emerged as a unifying theme in many seemingly disparate disciplines. Such signaling has been widely studied in bacteria and eukaryotic organelles and is often mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this context, reduced glutathione (GSH) acts as an important intracellular antioxidant, diminishing ROS and potentially affecting redox signaling. Complementing this celllevel perspective, colonial hydroids can be a useful model for understanding organismlevel redox signaling. These simple, earlyevolving animals consist of feeding polyps connected by tubelike stolons. Colonies treated exogenously with GSH or reduced glutathione ethyl ester (GEE) were expected to show a morphological change to sheetlike growth typical of low levels of ROS. Contrary to expectations, diminished stolon branching and polyp initiation was observed. Such runnerlike growth is associated with higher levels of ROS, and surprisingly, such higher levels were found in GSH and GEEtreated colonies. Further investigations show that GSH triggered a feeding response in hydroid polyps, increasing oxygen uptake but at the same time relaxing mitochondrionrich contractile regions at the base of polyps. Diminished gastrovascular flow and increased emissions of mitochondrial ROS also correlated with the observed runnerlike growth. In contrast to celllevel, bottomup views of redox signaling, here the phenotype may arise from a topdown interaction of mitochondrionrich regions and organismlevel physiology. Such multicellular redox regulation may commonly occur in other animals as well.
30160983|The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N
10.1086/649627|Recently, a segment of the AdamsShuswap sockeye salmon (
10.1086/668637|Immune defenses are of great benefit to hosts, but reducing the impact of infection by mounting an immune response also entails costs. However, the physiological mechanisms that generate the costs of an immune response remain poorly understood. Moreover, the majority of studies investigating the consequences of an immune challenge in vertebrates have been conducted on mammals and birds. The aim of this study is to investigate the physiological costs of mounting an immune response during gestation in an ectothermic species. Indeed, because ectothermic species are unable to internally regulate their body temperature, the apportionment of resources to homeostatic activities in ectothermic species can differ from that in endothermic species. We conducted this study on the common lizard
30158135|The goal of this study was to identify the factors that limit the survival of the redeared slider turtle
30161086|Warmblooded animals, mammals and birds, are unique not because they are endothermic in the strict sense of the term but because they use an extravagant economy: they have high energy budgets and spend a large part of their energy resources on basic maintenance. Although several advantages of endothermy are easy to indicate, mechanisms behind evolution of such a wasteful life strategy remain unclear and have been subject to intensive debate. For two decades, the aerobic capacity model has been widely recognized as a promising hypothesis and has catalyzed a new direction in ecological and evolutionary physiologythe study of correlated evolution of behavioral and morphophysiological traits. Recently, two alternative models have been proposed, both of which see evolution of high metabolic rates in birds and mammals as an element in evolution of intensive parental care. Unlike previous models, which treated individuals as static objects of fixed properties, the parental care models explicitly incorporate life histories into a evolutionaryphysiology research program. The aim of this article was to outline the process of evolution of major concepts in the field, which reflects development of the paradigm of modern evolutionary physiology.
30160144|To understand the evolution of biological traits, information on the degree and origins of intraspecific variation is essential. Because adaptation can take place only if the trait shows heritable variation, it is important to know whether (at least) part of the trait variation is genetically based. We describe intra and interindividual variation in three performance measures (sprint speed, climbing, and clambering speed) in juvenile
30158005|The effects of acclimation temperature (30, 20, and 15C) and swimming speed on the aerobic fuel use of the Nile tilapia (
30163970|Many animals develop bright red, orange, or yellow carotenoid pigmentation that they use to attract mates. Colorful carotenoid pigments are acquired from the diet and are either directly incorporated as integumentary colorants or metabolized into other forms before deposition. Because animals often obtain several different carotenoids from plant and animal food sources, it is possible that these pigments are accumulated at different levels in the body and may play unique roles in shaping the ultimate color expression of individuals. We studied patterns of carotenoid accumulation and integumentary pigmentation in two colorful finch speciesthe American goldfinch (
30162260|Good estimates of metabolic rate in freeranging animals are essential for understanding behavior, distribution, and abundance. For the critically endangered leatherback turtle (
30160984|We examine the effect of body mass on milk composition among Old World fruit bats, including
10.1086/644759|The armored catfish,
30097051|We determined trypsin gene sequences and compared relative levels of trypsin gene expression as influenced by ontogeny, diet, and phylogeny in four related prickleback fish species. Of these species,
30160548|Several previous reports, often from studies utilising heavily instrumented animals, have indicated that for teleosts, the increase in cardiac output (
30161277|Experimental manipulation of reproductive phenotype is a potentially powerful approach for understanding the fitness relationships of traits such as egg size, egg composition, and egg number. In this study, I investigated the effect of the antiestrogen tamoxifen on multiple, estrogendependent reproductive traits in female zebra finches (
30160150|Pigeons and doves (Columbidae) are an interesting group to examine for physiological adaptations to climate and diet because this cosmopolitan family comprises more than 300 species that are mostly granivores, although some are specialized frugivores. We determined allometric and phylogenetic effects on body temperature (
30160573|We compared the thermoregulatory abilities of two insectivorous bat species,
30160131|Patterns and rates of air movements in the mounds and nests of
30162166|Arginine (Arg), injected intraperitoneally into rainbow trout (
10.1086/666364|Life phases such as migration or reproduction may partly (or totally) prohibit food accessibility, making regulation of the energy balance one of the main challenges faced by wild organisms. Although long-term fasting is common in a number of species, it has been reported to be detrimental for the organism, notably because it induces oxidative stress. However, fasting metabolism is characterized by successive metabolic adaptations that are likely to be different in terms of stress, and no previous studies, to our knowledge, have tested the dynamics of changes in oxidative balance in relation to the metabolic phases of fasting. Our study provides a first insight into this relationship by inducing prolonged fasting and subsequent refeeding in captive mallards (
10.1086/596512|Even though molt involves both endocrine and energetic changes in bird bodies, this study is among the first to combine assessments of energy costs together with thyroid hormone variations in molting birds. Individual shorebirds (red knots
30161136|Lungfish (Dipnoi) may represent the sister group to all land vertebrates and are therefore important for reconstructing the conquest of land by tetrapods. We determined venous and arterial blood gases, pulmonary O
30160109|The salient feature of the fatty acid profile of kestrel eggs collected in the wild was the very high proportion of arachidonic acid (
30161310|The influence of sublethal chronic dietary copper (Cu) exposure on the dominantsubordinate relationship between pairs of juvenile rainbow trout (
10.1086/605335|Birds and mammals evolved greater aerobic abilities than their common ancestor had. This required expansion of the cardiopulmonary systems capacity for gas exchange, but while directional selection for this expanded capacity resulted in extremely similar avian and mammalian hearts, strikingly different lungs arose, and the reasons for this divergence in lung morphology are not understood. In birds, gas exchange occurs in the lungs as air moves through small tubes (parabronchi) in one direction; in mammals, air flows tidally into and out of the alveoli. Here, I present a scenario for the origin of both the alveolar and parabronchial lungs that explains when and how they could have arisen by a gradual sequence of steps. I argue that (1) the alveolar lung evolved in the late Paleozoic, when high levels of atmospheric oxygen relaxed selection for a thin bloodgas barrier within the lung; (2) unidirectional flow originated in the ectothermic ancestral archosaur, the forerunner of birds and crocodilians, to enable the heart to circulate pulmonary gases during apnea. This hypothesis would be supported by a demonstration of unidirectional flow in the lungs of crocodilians, the extant sister taxon of birds. Airflow in the lungs of juvenile alligators was measured during apnea using dual thermistor flowmeters, and cardiac activity was measured with electrocardiography. Coincident with each heartbeat, a pulse of air flowed in the pulmonary conduit under study with a bias in the direction of movement, yielding a net unidirectional flow. These data suggest the internal structures requisite for unidirectional flow were present in the common ancestors of birds and crocodilians and may have preadapted the lungs of archosaurs to function advantageously during the oxygenpoor period of the early Mesozoic.
PBZ10097|For small aquatic endotherms, heat loss while floating on water can be a dominant energy cost, and requires accurate estimation in energetics models for different species. We measured resting metabolic rate (RMR) in air and on water for a small diving bird, the Cassins auklet (
10.1086/671109|Physiological vagility represents the capacity to move sustainably and is central to fully explaining the processes involved in creating fine-scale genetic structure of amphibian populations, because movement (vagility) and the duration of movement determine the dispersal distance individuals can move to interbreed. The tendency for amphibians to maintain genetic differentiation over relatively short distances (isolation by distance) has been attributed to their limited dispersal capacity (low vagility) compared with other vertebrates. Earlier studies analyzing genetic isolation and population differentiation with distance treat all amphibians as equally vagile and attempt to explain genetic differentiation only in terms of physical environmental characteristics. We introduce a new quantitative metric for vagility that incorporates aerobic capacity, body size, body temperature, and the cost of transport and is independent of the physical characteristics of the environment. We test our metric for vagility with data for dispersal distance and body mass in amphibians and correlate vagility with data for genetic differentiation (
30158725|Many birds switch seasonally or during ontogeny between diets of varying protein content. In mammals, highprotein diets induce hypertrophy of the kidney in general and of the thick ascending limbs (TAL) in particular, along with increases in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and urine flow. A hypothesis to explain these phenomena is that the TAL become increasingly sensitive to peptide hormones (glucagon and antidiuretic hormone [ADH]) released in response to protein feeding; the consequent enhancement of ion reabsorption dilutes urine reaching the macula densa, thereby suppressing tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF) and causing a rise in GFR. Avian kidneys possess most of the elements involved in this mechanism, including loops of Henle with TAL, sensitivity of TAL to ADH (arginine vasotocin [AVT] in birds), and the elements of TGF. We therefore hypothesized that switching from a lowprotein to a highprotein diet would induce responses in birds similar to those found in mammals. We tested this hypothesis by feeding house sparrows,
30160571|For many bird embryos, periodic cooling occurs when the incubating adult leaves the nest to forage, but the effects of periodic cooling on embryo growth, yolk use, and metabolism are poorly known. To address this question, we conducted incubation experiments on eggs of zebra finches (
10.1086/674919|The freshwater, cartilaginous lake sturgeon (
30160624|Organs, even of fully grown adult birds, mammals, and reptiles, may show substantial size changes in relation to specific performances. These changes are difficult to study, because measurements usually can only be obtained following the death of the animal. We explored the use of ultrasonographic imaging, a relatively simple noninvasive technique, to measure size of pectoral muscles and stomach in two small shorebird species (red knots
30158721|Using ventricular cardiomyocytes of the common frog,
30158118|Painted turtles (
30158425|Locomotion is a common measure of performance used in studies of thermal acclimation because of its correlation with predator escape and prey capture. However, for sedentary animals such as freshwater turtles, we propose that diving behavior may be a more ecologically relevant measure of performance. Increasing dive duration in hatchling turtles reduces predator exposure and therefore functions as an ecological benefit. Diving behavior is thermally dependent, and in some species of freshwater turtles, it is also reliant on aquatic respiration. This study examined the influence of thermal acclimation on diving behavior, aquatic respiration, and locomotor performance in the endangered, bimodally respiring Mary River turtle
10.1086/667532|Teeth are generally used for actions in which they experience mainly compressive forces acting toward the base. The ordered tooth enamel(oid) and dentin structures contribute to the high compressive strength but also to the minor shear and tensile strengths. Some vertebrates, however, use their teeth for scraping, with teeth experiencing forces directed mostly normal to their long axis. Some scraping suckermouth catfishes (Loricariidae) even appear to have flexible teeth, which have not been found in any other vertebrate taxon. Considering the mineralized nature of tooth tissues, the notion of flexible teeth seems paradoxical. We studied teeth of five species, testing and measuring tooth flexibility, and investigating tooth (micro)structure using transmission electron microscopy, staining, computed tomography scanning, and scanning electron microscopyenergy-dispersive spectrometry. We quantified the extreme bending capacity of single teeth (up to 180) and show that reorganizations of the tooth (micro)structure and extreme hypomineralization of the dentin are adaptations preventing breaking by allowing flexibility. Tooth shape and internal structure appear to be optimized for bending in one direction, which is expected to occur frequently when feeding (scraping) under natural conditions. Not all loricariid catfishes possess flexible teeth, with the trait potentially having evolved more than once. Flexible teeth surely rank among the most extreme evolutionary novelties in known mineralized biological materials and might yield a better understanding of the processes of dentin formation and (hypo)mineralization in vertebrates, including humans.
30160625|Rates of oxygen consumption during begging behaviour in nestlings of seven species and distress call behaviour in adults of eight species of Australian birds were measured. A transparent mask coupled to an openflow respirometry system was used, and calling was elicited by the presentation of food or by the perceived threat of a predator. Distress calling significantly increased oxygen consumption above the measured resting levels in six of the species of birds tested. The factorial increase in oxygen consumption during distress calling was independent of body mass. In most cases, begging behaviour in juvenile birds caused a significant increase in metabolic rate, with some individuals showing factorial increases over fourfold. There was a significant negative correlation between body mass and the factorial cost of begging behaviour.
10.1086/591948|Morphometrics and blubber depths from all four high Antarctic seals (Weddell, Ross, crabeater, and leopard) were obtained during a midsummer research cruise in the Ross Sea as the physiological ecology component of the U.S. Antarctic Pack Ice Seals project. These data are the only in vivo measurements of all four species from the same location and time of year and focused on variances in morphometrics and blubber depth related to species, sex, and age. By controlling for location and season, this crossspecies design provided the means to differentiate how blubber mass might be influenced in these groups. We measured both absolute blubber depth and ratio of blubber depth to body core diameter. We found that adult and younger animals showed differences in blubber depth, but male versus female seals did not show differences within any given species. However, when compared across species, the ratio of blubber ring depth to body core diameter suggests that adult Weddell seals differ in their use of blubber compared with the other three species. We propose that this difference in blubber pattern is most likely related to Weddell nutritional requirements during the breeding season having a greater influence on blubber depth than thermal requirements when compared with the other three species.
30158113|Some vertebrates depress overall metabolism in an abrupt and reversible fashion when challenged with anoxia, ensuring stabilization of cellular [ATP] and longterm survival, but little is known about the eliciting stimuli (e.g., change in O
30158360|The stressinduced transcription of heat shock genes is controlled by heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF1), which becomes activated in response to heat and other protein denaturants. In previous research on the eurythermal goby
30160045|Sterols are essential nutrients for all arthropods, including grasshoppers, but metabolic constraints may limit which sterols can support normal growth and development. In the firsts part of this study, a comparative experiment, which included five different species of grasshoppers (Orthoptera: Acrididae) representing three separate taxonomic groups, was performed to determine how widespread sterol metabolic constraints are within the Acrididae. Grasshoppers were reared on artificial diets containing sterols that differed in the position of double bonds within the sterol structure, and various life history traits were measured. Sterols with double bonds at position 7, within the sterol nucleus, and/or at position 22, on the cholestane side chain, failed to support development to the adult stage for any of the five species. In addition, grasshoppers reared on sterols with these configurations often had extended developmental times and reduced growth rates in the first and second stadium compared with grasshoppers reared on sitosterol or cholesterol diets. In the second half of this study, we examined how mixtures of suitable and unsuitable sterols influenced survival, growth, and development. Artificial foods containing mixtures of suitable and unsuitable sterols were fed to the highly polyphagous grasshopper
10.1086/680383|The choice of adequate breeding habitat and its associated thermoregulatory conditions are thought to be important in the evolution of amphibian reproductive strategies. Among leptodactylid frogs, there is a terrestrial cline in the oviposition sites chosen to build foam nests for eggs. Although several functions have been attributed to foam nests, their role in temperature regulation for embryos is unclear. Here we tested the hypothesis that foam nests buffer embryos from variation in air temperature. We examined the degree of terrestrial nest sites in three species, finding a terrestrial cline of sites in terms of distance from water. We tested whether this nest-insulation effect varied among these species that differ in the degree of terrestrial nest sites and whether translocating nests impacted embryonic mortality. Our results demonstrate a negative effect of translocating aquatic nests to land, inferred from the highest hatching success in natural nests sites. All nests attenuated environmental thermal variation, but more terrestrial nests buffered embryos from a greater range of temperatures than did aquatic ones. Altogether, our data indicate that foam nests insulate embryos from daily temperature fluctuations among leptodactylid frogs with different degrees of terrestrial nests, which may well have contributed to the evolution of this reproductive strategy.
30162169|An investigation of the effects of fasting, subfeeding, and refeeding on plasma biochemistry was carried out on 22 captive yellowlegged gulls
10.1086/677884|The effects of acute moderate (20% air O
10.1086/588178|The aim of this research was to study how high water temperatures impair the reproductive activity of pejerrey
30160037|The effect of ontogenetic increases in total length on burst swimming performance was investigated in tadpoles of the striped marsh frog (
10.1086/663832|Energy stores are critical for successful breeding, and longitudinal studies require nonlethal methods to measure energy stores (body condition). Nonlethal techniques for measuring energy reserves are seldom verified independently. We compare body mass, size-corrected mass (SCM), plasma lipids, and isotopic dilution with extracted total body lipid content in three seabird species (thick-billed murres
30160584|We measured the mass and several potential indices of functional capacity of the leg and pectoral muscles through 21 d of age in chicks of three species of galliform birds and the domesticated turkey. The study was conducted to test the hypothesis that the growth rate of a tissue is inversely related to its capacity for mature function across species. We measured the proportion of protein and the activities of the catabolic enzymes citrate synthase (CS), pyruvate kinase (PK), and hydroxyacylCoAdehydrogenase (HOAD) and estimated exponential growth rate (EGR) from growth increments. EGR was negatively related to proportion of protein, PK, and HOAD and positively related to CS activity. In a multiple regression, EGR was uniquely related only to proportion of protein; it was higher in pectoral muscles and increased in this order: wild
30161112|Neotropical African honeybees (
10.1086/667938|We assessed hypoxia tolerance in 11 species of fish from the superfamily Cottoidea (commonly called sculpins) that are known to differ in their critical O
10.1086/672371|The immunocompetence pace-of-life hypothesis proposes that fast-living organisms should invest more in innate immune defenses and less in adaptive defenses compared to slow-living ones. We found some support for this hypothesis in two life-history ecotypes of the snake
10.1086/678238|Temperature can have a profound effect on the phenotype of reptilian offspring, yet the bulk of current research considers the effects of constant incubation temperatures on offspring morphology, with few studies examining the natural thermal variance that occurs in the wild. Over two consecutive nesting seasons, we placed temperature data loggers in 57 naturally incubating clutches of loggerhead sea turtles
30158428|Embryonic development of the common chameleon,
10.1086/647926|We investigated the patterns of torpor use and body temperature (
10.1086/665272|Using a long-term study population of wild smallmouth bass
30162257|We present the first data on the effect of hypoxia on the specific dynamic action (SDA) in a teleost fish. Juvenile cod (
10.1086/682251|Many holometabolous insects metamorphose in belowground pupal chambers. Although the chambers may be elaborate and their construction costly, their functions are unknown. Using laboratory and field experiments, we examined the costs and functions of chambers made by the hawk moth
30161130|Growing juvenile animals undergo many morphological, physiological, and behavioural changes that influence their energetic requirements, patterns of energy use, and ultimately, their survival and reproductive success. We examined changes in mass loss and body composition of juvenile southern elephant seals (1 and 2yrolds) during their two annual haulouts. At the start and end of the midyear and molt haulouts, we caught, weighed, and measured 41 and 14 seals, respectively. We measured blubber depth using ultrasound to estimate body composition (lean and adipose tissue mass). Using energy densities of the adipose and lean tissue, we calculated total, lean, and adipose mass changes and energy expenditure. While molting, juvenile seals used more energy than during the midyear, which is related to the increased use of lean tissue for hair and skin regeneration. The amount of energy used increases with mass as individuals mature. We found sexual differences in energy use where females retained greater fat reserves than males by utilizing more lean tissue. These differences are most likely related to haulout function and behavior, growth, and earlier development of females toward sexual maturity.
30158047|Previous studies have demonstrated that certain pesticides, including carbaryl and endosulfan, can modulate the expression of predatorinduced morphology in
10.1086/588490|The whitethroat woodrat (
30160110|We compared incubation temperatures in nests (
30160633|The influence of increased pulmocutaneous arterial systolic pressure on amphibian lymph heart activity was determined in
30162250|The effects of changes in the salinity of the rearing medium on Malpighian tubule fluid secretion and ion transport were examined in larvae of the freshwater mosquito
30158693|The doubly labeled water (DLW) method for studying energy and water balance in fieldactive animals is not feasible for freshwater animals during aquatic activities, but several species of nominally aquatic reptiles leave wetlands for several critical and extended behaviors, where they face challenges to their energy and water balance. Using DLW, we studied energy and water relations during terrestrial estivation and movements in the eastern longnecked turtle (
30160040|Osmoregulation was studied during the postembryonic development of
30161338|Carotenoids have a dietary origin in birds, but mechanisms by which they are absorbed in the gut, transported in the blood, metabolized at various sites, and deposited in the integument remain poorly understood. Variation in both plasma carotenoid levels and external color may reflect different access to dietary carotenoids or individual physiological differences in the uptake and deposition of carotenoids. We compared total plasma carotenoid concentration in nestling white storks (
10.1086/680016|Ultrasonography has proven to be a valuable noninvasive method of measure of muscle size in birds, but validation of its use in birds as small as black-capped chickadees (
10.1086/605952|To better understand intraspecific variation in basal metabolic rate (BMR), we examined environmental, physiological, and/or cellular bases for residual variation in BMR in big brown bats,
30160977|Threespine sticklebacks (
30160545|The evolution of parthenogenesis is typically associated with hybridization and polyploidy. These correlates of parthenogenesis may have important physiological consequences that need be taken into account in understanding the relative merits of sexual and parthenogenetic reproduction. We compared the thermal sensitivity of aerobically sustained locomotion in hybrid/triploid parthenogenetic races of the gecko
PBZ12110|Locomotion and mating ability are crucial for male reproductive success yet are energetically costly and susceptible to physiological stress. In the Sierra willow beetle
30158103|During northward migration, blackcaps that arrive to refuel at stopover sites in Israels Negev Desert have reduced masses of organs that are important in food digestion and assimilation. We tested several predictions from the general hypothesis that smaller organs of digestion (small intestine and pancreas) and nutrient assimilation (liver) bring about a lower capacity to consume food and that the organs must be restored before blackcaps can feed and digest at a high rate. We used a fasting protocol to create a group of blackcaps with reduced intestine and liver mass (reduced by 45% and 36%, respectively) compared with controls fed ad lib. Because most of the small intestines biochemical digestive capacity reside in enterocytes found on villi, we predicted and found that reduced intestinal mass in fasted blackcaps related mainly to changes in enterocytes rather than other cells and tissues such as nonabsorptive crypt cells or underlying muscle. Because migrating blackcaps that stop over to feed begin to increase in body mass only 2 d after arrival, we predicted and found a similar recovery period in blackcaps that were first fasted but then refedthe organ mass, structure, function, and ability to consume food was restored after 2 d of feeding. Another group of foodrestricted blackcaps (fed at onethird ad lib. level) lost similar amounts of body mass as fasted blackcaps but had much greater capacity to consume food than fasted blackcaps, and so we predicted that they would exhibit little or no reduction in alimentary organs relative to controls fed ad lib. A surprising result was that, as in fasted blackcaps, in foodrestricted blackcaps, the decreases in masses of small intestine, liver, and pancreas were proportionally greater than the decreases in body mass or in masses of nonalimentary organs (heart, pectoralis). Food restriction, like fasting, caused a decrease in amount of intestinal mucosa and an alteration in the phenotype of enterocytes. These results are thus not consistent with the general hypothesis, and although they can be rationalized by assuming that blackcaps fed ad lib. have excess digestive capacity, it may also be that the physiological process or processes limiting very high feeding rate lie elsewhere than in the digestive system.
30157997|The yolk diameter of cortisoltreated tilapia (
30160994|The oxygen uptake of
30162256|Bluefin tuna are endothermic and have higher temperatures, heart rates, and cardiac outputs than tropical tuna. We hypothesized that the increased cardiovascular capacity to deliver oxygen in bluefin may be associated with the evolution of higher metabolic rates. This study measured the oxygen consumption of juvenile Pacific bluefin
30162145|To explore a potential conflict between air breathing and acidbase regulation in the bowfin (
30158367|Digestibility by captive numbats for termites was determined by feeding trials to be
30158702|Ecological immunologists are interested in how immune function changes during different seasons and under different environmental conditions. However, an obstacle to answering such questions is discerning the effects of biological factors of interest and investigation artifacts such as handling stress. Here we examined handling stress and its effects on constitutive (noninduced) immune function via two protocols on captive red knots (
30160112|Intraspecific variability in body oxygen reserves, muscle buffering capacity, diving metabolic rate, and diving behavior were examined in recently captured juvenile and adult muskrats. Allometric scaling exponents for lung (
30160077|Lizards in the family Xantusiidae (the night lizards) are known to have resting metabolic rates that are only half those of other lizards of comparable size. We evaluated whether xantusiids also have low field metabolic rates (FMR) and food requirements by measuring FMR and water flux rates with doubly labeled water in three xantusiid species in their natural habitats. Freeliving
30158716|Two related experiments examined the relationship between plasma cortisol concentrations and the development of social hierarchies in fish. In the first, rainbow trout,
30160078|The importance of gas phase diffusion in insect gas exchange remains unclear. The role of diffusion in gas exchange of developing
30163963|Rainbow smelt (
10.1086/603632|Mormon crickets, large flightless katydids from western North America, occur in two forms that differ dramatically in population density and daily movement distances. The lowdensity form is small and cryptic and moves <1 m/d, while the highdensity form is large and dark colored and travels up to 12 km/d in migratory bands. We determined daytime body temperatures and measured resting metabolic rate (RMR) and maximal aerobic metabolic rate (MMR) in forced exercise across a 1040C temperature range. Field body temperatures were 1520C in the morning and 2535C during most of the day, and they never exceeded 40.6C in either form. Massadjusted RMR and MMR were positively correlated across temperatures (significantly in some comparisons), indicating repeatability. Similarly, RMR was always positively and sometimes significantly correlated with MMR, suggesting a functional linkage between minimal and maximal aerobic performance. Factorial aerobic scopes (MMR/RMR) were highest at 10C and declined at higher temperatures, but absolute scope (MMR  RMR) was highest between 30 and 40C. Given the ca. 1,000fold contrast in daily movement distances, we expected higher MMR and aerobic scope in the migratory highdensity form. However, there were no differences between forms in RMR, MMR, aerobic scope, or ventilation patterns. The forms were also similar in metabolic response to temperature (Q
10.1086/680689|Glucocorticoid hormone profiles are increasingly used as physiological markers to infer the strength of species interactions that can influence fitness and ensuing population dynamics of animals. Here we investigated two aims. First, we measured the effect of a 90-min capture stress protocol on the plasma corticosterone responses of a large native Australian lizard, the lace monitor (
30161144|Hydrogen peroxide (H
30158036|To examine whether Atlantic cod maintain constant hierarchies of sprint speeds and muscle metabolic capacities under different feeding regimes, the physiological capacities of individual cod were followed through a starvationfeedingstarvation cycle. We examined sprint speeds and maximal enzyme activities in whitemuscle biopsies at each period. We measured the glycolytic enzymes, phosphofructokinase (PFK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), the mitochondrial enzyme, cytochrome C oxidase (CCO), and the biosynthetic enzyme, nucleotide diphosphate kinase (NDPK). Sprint speeds were measured in a laser diode/photocelltimed raceway. As expected, the feeding regime had a marked impact on the physiological capacities of cod, but the responses differed for sprintswimming and muscle metabolic capacities. The different enzyme activities as well the condition index generally decreased during the first starvation, improved with feeding, and fell again during the second starvation. In contrast, sprint performance improved after feeding but did not fall with the second starvation. Although both the enzyme activities and the sprint speeds showed considerable interindividual variation, sprint speeds were not significantly correlated with the enzyme activities. The hierarchy of sprint performance of the cod was maintained, regardless of the preceding feeding regime, whereas those of muscle metabolic capacities were not.
10.1086/651460|We studied the energetics of hoverfeeding Annas hummingbirds, using three different simultaneous techniques: heat loss as estimated via thermal imaging, metabolic rate as measured at a feeder mask using flowthrough respirometry, and aerodynamic power estimated from wingbeat kinematic data. These three methods yielded comparable estimates of power output at ambient air temperatures ranging from 18 to 26C, whereas heat imbalance at higher air temperatures (up to 34C) suggested loss by mechanisms other than convection and radiation from the body, such as evaporative cooling and enthalpy rise associated with exhaled air and excreted water and convective heat loss from the patagia. Hummingbirds increased wingbeat frequency and decreased stroke amplitude as air temperature increased, but overall muscle efficiency was found to be approximately constant over the experimental range of air temperatures.
10.1086/675310|Life-history theory predicts that a trade-off in the allocation of resources between different physiological systems exists because resources are finite. As a result, females investing heavily in reproduction may compromise their future health. We used hematology, serum biochemistry, mass, and morphometric measurements as indicators of physiological health state to investigate whether reproductive investment altered subsequent maternal health in three Australian freshwater turtles: the oblong turtle (
10.1086/673375|Dehydration and drinking behaviors were investigated in the little file snake (
30158379|Physiological strategies that maximize reproductive success may be phylogenetically constrained or might have a plastic response to different environmental conditions. Among mammals, Canidae lend themselves to the study of these two influences on reproductive physiology because all the species studied to date have been characterized as monestrous (i.e., a single ovulatory event per breeding season), suggesting a phylogenetic effect. Greater flexibility could be associated with environments that are less seasonal, such as the tropics; however, little is known for many of the species from this region. To compensate for this lack of data, two regressions were done on the length of the reproductive season relative to the latitudinal distribution of a species: one with raw data and another with phylogenetically independent contrasts. There was a significant negative relationship, independent of phylogeny, with canids that have longer breeding seasons occurring at lower latitudes. In contrast, the pervasiveness of monestrus within Canidae appears to be phylogenetically constrained by their pairing/packing life and is most likely associated with monogamy. The persistence of the monestrous condition is supported by a captive study where a tropical canid, the fennec fox,
30160626|We analyzed footprints on the surface of a sand dune to estimate maximal running speeds and the incidence of bipedality in nature, as well as to investigate the effects of incline on the escape locomotion of the lizard
10.1086/648488|This study explores the factors that influence modulation of baseline corticosterone levels and the hypothalamopituitaryadrenal cortex (HPA) axis response to stress in Costa Rican rufouscollared sparrows (
30161165|Studies of metabolism are central to the understanding of the ecology, behavior, and evolution of reptiles. This study focuses on one phase of the sea turtle life cycle, hatchling dispersal, and gives insight into energetic constraints that dispersal imposes on hatchlings. Hatchling dispersal is an energetically expensive phase in the life cycle of the olive ridley turtle
10.1086/666059|Conspicuous ornamentation has been linked to immunological and physiological condition in males of many species. In species where both sexes are ornamented, it is unclear whether the signal content of ornaments differs between males and females. We examined the immunological and physiological correlates of carotenoid-based bill and plumage ornamentation in American goldfinches
30160978|Allometric equations can be useful in comparative physiology in a number of ways, not the least of which include assessing whether a particular species deviates from the norm for its size and phylogenetic group with respect to some specific physiological process or determining how differences in design among groups may be reflected in differences in function. The allometric equations for respiratory variables in birds were developed 30 yr ago by Lasiewski and Calder and presented as preliminary because they were based on a small number of species. With the expanded data base now available to reconstruct these allometries and the call for taking account of the nonindependence of species in this process through a phylogenetically independent contrasts (PIC) approach, we have developed new allometric equations for respiratory variables in birds using both the traditional and PIC approaches. On the whole, the new equations agree with the old ones with only minor changes in the coefficients, and the primary difference between the traditional and PIC approaches is in the broader confidence intervals given by the latter. We confirm the lower
30161311|Individual rainbow trout were transferred to visual isolation in experimental aquaria. As a measure of the speed of acclimation, individual food intake was quantified during the first 6 d following transfer. Following acclimation, aggression was quantified by subjecting the fish to three residentintruder tests, with 30 d of recovery between the tests. Moreover, between the residentintruder tests (i.e., two times) the fish were exposed to an unfamiliar environment and their cortisol response was measured. The results of this study show that individuals of juvenile rainbow trout differ distinctly in their response to changes in their environment, and that this diversity in behavior is reflected by consistent behavioral traits displayed by individual fish. These traits have proven to be consistent not only over time but also across situations, revealing two distinct behavioral profiles, in the same manner as shown in studies on proactive and reactive mammals. Our results also show that the reactivity of the hypothalamicpituitaryinterrenal (HPI) axis, when exposed to a stressor, is a consistent physiological trait in juvenile rainbow trout. We found that difference in HPI axis reactivity is linked to the different behavioral profiles. However, HPI axis reactivity could not be linked directly to the singular behavioral traits measured. In other words, we did not find that the consistent behavioral traits shown by the fish were associated with a difference in HPI axis reactivity in the same manner as the reactivity of the hypothalamicpituitaryadrenocortical axis does in mammals. Taken together, our results show that stress coping strategies akin to what has been described as reactive and proactive stress coping in mammals appear to exist in juvenile rainbow trout.
30161332|Diurnally active golden spiny mice (
30161013|A complementary DNA (cDNA) encoding
10.1086/680080|Ontogenetic changes in physiological performance often exemplify the development of adaptations to environmental challenges. For mammals in polar regions, the extreme cold of the environment presents a constant challenge to thermal homeostasis. The harp seal (
10.1086/674696|Temperate birds tend to have a fast pace of life and short life spans with high reproductive output, whereas tropical birds tend to have a slower pace of life, invest fewer resources in reproduction, and have higher adult survival rates. How these differences in life history at the organismal level are rooted in differences at the cellular level is a major focus of current research. Here, we cultured fibroblasts from phylogenetically paired tropical and temperate species, isolated mitochondria from each, and compared their mitochondrial membrane lipids. We also correlated the amounts of these lipids with an important life history parameter, clutch size. We found that tropical birds tended to have less mitochondrial lipid per cell, especially less cardiolipin per cell, suggesting that cells from tropical birds have fewer mitochondria or less inner mitochondrial membrane per cell. We also found that the mitochondria of tropical birds and the species with the smallest clutch sizes had higher amounts of plasmalogens, a lipid that could serve as an antioxidant. Overall, our findings are consistent with the idea that there are underlying molecular and cellular physiological traits that could account for the differences in whole-animal physiology between animals with different life histories.
30161041|Differences between sexes in physiological performance have received little attention in animals. We tested for sex differences in maximum sprint speed and maximal exertion over a range of temperatures in a population of
30161315|The two olfactory epithelia of flatfish of the family Soleidae are essentially in contact with two distinct environments; the upper (right) side samples open water while the lower (left) side samples interstitial water. This study assessed whether there are differences in the responsiveness of the two epithelia by use of the electroolfactogram in the Senegalese sole (
30161155|Incubation temperature influences hatchling phenotypes such as sex, size, shape, color, behavior, and locomotor performance in many reptiles, and there is growing concern that global warming might adversely affect reptile populations by altering frequencies of hatchling phenotypes. Here I overview a recent theoretical model used to predict hatchling sex of reptiles with temperaturedependent sex determination. This model predicts that sex ratios will be fairly robust to moderate global warming as long as eggs experience substantial daily cyclic fluctuations in incubation temperatures so that embryos are exposed to temperatures that inhibit embryonic development for part of the day. I also review studies that examine the influence of incubation temperature on posthatch locomotion performance and growth because these are the traits that are likely to have the greatest effect on hatchling fitness. The majority of these studies used artificial constanttemperature incubation, but some have addressed fluctuating incubation temperature regimes. Although the number of studies is small, it appears that fluctuating temperatures may enhance hatchling locomotor performance. This finding should not be surprising, given that the majority of natural reptile nests are relatively shallow and therefore experience daily fluctuations in incubation temperature.
30158675|Several times throughout their radiation fish have evolved either lungs or swim bladders as gasholding structures. Lungs and swim bladders have different ontogenetic origins and can be used either for buoyancy or as an accessory respiratory organ. Therefore, the presence of airfilled bladders or lungs in different groups of fishes is an example of convergent evolution. We propose that air breathing could not occur without the presence of a surfactant system and suggest that this system may have originated in epithelial cells lining the pharynx. Here we present new data on the surfactant system in swim bladders of three teleost fish (the airbreathing pirarucu
30160094|The transition from breathing air to breathing water requires physiological and morphological adaptations. The study of crustaceans in transitional habitats provides important information as to the nature of these adaptations. This article addresses the physiology of air breathing in amphibious and terrestrial crabs and their relative locomotor abilities.
10.1086/591035|Elevated water temperature has been found to cause gonadal degeneration in fish, including the partial or complete loss of germinal elements, and might impair fertility and reproductive performance. Germ celldeficient and even completely sterile pejerrey
30161317|Marine mammals are constrained in their foraging behaviour because, as obligate air breathers, they must undertake regular trips to the water surface to satisfy the need for respiratory gas exchange. Maximum underwater endurance time is determined by O
30161038|Muskoxen (
PBZ12056|Females often manage the high energy demands associated with reproduction by accumulating and storing energy in the form of fat before initiating their reproductive effort. However, fat stores cannot satisfy all reproductive resource demands, which include considerable investment of amino acids (e.g., for the production of yolk proteins or gluconeogenesis). Because capital breeders generally do not eat during reproduction, these amino acids must come from internal resources, typically muscle proteins. Although the energetic costs of reproduction have been fairly well studied, there are limited data on structural and performance costs associated with the muscle degradation required to meet amino acid demands. Thus, we examined structural changes (epaxial muscle width) and performance costs (constriction and strength) over the course of reproduction in a pure capital breeder, the childrens python (
10.1086/667579|Maintaining appropriate water balance is a constant challenge for terrestrial mammals, and this problem can be exacerbated in desiccating environments. It has been proposed that natural selection has provided desert-dwelling mammals physiological mechanisms to reduce rates of total evaporative water loss. In this study, we evaluated the relationship between total evaporative water loss and body mass in mammals by using a recent phylogenetic hypothesis. We compared total evaporative water loss in 80 species of arid-zone mammals to that in 56 species that inhabit mesic regions, ranging in size from 4 g to 3,500 kg, to test the hypothesis that mammals from arid environments have lower rates of total evaporative water loss than mammals from mesic environments once phylogeny is taken into account. We found that arid species had lower rates of total evaporative water loss than mesic species when using a dichotomous variable to describe habitat (arid or mesic). We also found that total evaporative water loss was negatively correlated with the average maximum and minimum environmental temperature as well as the maximum vapor pressure deficit of the environment. Annual precipitation and the variable
30158136|In addition to the effects of temperature fluctuations on metabolic rate, entrained endogenous rhythms in metabolism, which are independent of temperature fluctuations, may be important in overall energy metabolism in ectotherms. Daily entrained endogenous rhythms may serve as energyconserving mechanisms during an animals active or inactive phase. However, because nocturnal lizards often take advantage of thermal opportunities during the photophase (light), their daily metabolic rhythms may be less pronounced than those of diurnal species. We measured the rate of oxygen consumption (
10.1086/672211|The scaling of insect respiratory systems with body size has important implications for ecology and evolution of insects, ranging from allometry of aerobic performance to current and past environmental constraints on insect body size. Previous work examining scaling across beetle species and during ontogeny of grasshoppers suggests strong tracheal hypermetry, with larger insects investing relatively more volume in their tracheal systems. However, these approaches potentially confound body size differences with species or life stage differences in morphology or physiology. To circumvent these issues, we took advantage of large body size variation within bumblebee nests. Workers with 75% genetic similarity nevertheless varied in body size from under 50 mg to more than 250 mg, and queens exceeded 500 mg. We estimated respiratory volume, dimensions of pronotal spiracles, and body size of individual bumblebees (
30161020|Reduced torpor expression by hibernating mammals is often attributed to physiological constraints that limit their hibernation ability but may instead reflect adaptive, plastic responses to surplus energy availability. We evaluated this hypothesis by supplementing the food hoards of freeranging eastern chipmunks (
PBZ10086|Previous attempts at identifying an alternatively spliced dopamine (DA) D2 receptor in teleosts have proven unsuccessful. We provide evidence of a splicing event of a goldfish D2 (gfD2b1) receptor in the neuroendocrine brain of adult goldfish that produces a spliced short isoform (gfD2b1S). We also identify an additional novel D2b paralog (gfD2b2) that does not appear to be alternatively spliced in adult fish during the reproductive cycle. Relatively high mRNA levels of gfD2b1S were observed in the neuroendocrine brain and pituitary of sexually immature fish compared with sexually regressing fish. Real-time RT-PCR revealed that intraperitoneal injection of either SCH 23390 or sulpirideD1- or D2-specific antagonists, respectivelydecreased mRNA levels of gfD2b1S by 3.9-fold without affecting the unspliced isoforms. We suggest that the expression of the spliced D2 receptor modulates the inhibitory tone of DA throughout the reproductive cycle. The deduced amino acid sequence of gfD2b1S lacks 29 amino acids in the same region as the short isoform of mammalian D2. We propose that the gfD2b1S splice variant is the teleost ortholog of mammalian D2S. The hypothesis that D2 receptor splicing is a relatively recent innovation in higher tetrapods is not supported by our results.
30158102|Detoxification capacity of enzymes in the liver is thought to be the primary factor governing dietary toxin intake by mammalian herbivores. Recently, toxin absorption in the gut was proposed as an alternative process that also influences toxin intake. We examined the role of the gut in regulating toxin absorption by quantifying excretion of a plant secondary compound in the feces. We hypothesized that specialists have a greater capacity to reduce intestinal absorption of toxins than do generalists. To test this hypothesis, we compared fecal excretion of alphapinene in specialist (
10.1086/680862|Animals that fast during breeding and/or development, such as phocids, must regulate energy balance carefully to maximize reproductive fitness and survival probability. Adiponectin, produced by adipose tissue, contributes to metabolic regulation by modulating sensitivity to insulin, increasing fatty acid oxidation by liver and muscle, and promoting adipogenesis and lipid storage in fat tissue. We tested the hypotheses that (1) circulating adiponectin, insulin, or relative adiponectin gene expression is related to nutritional state, body mass, and mass gain in wild gray seal pups; (2) plasma adiponectin or insulin is related to maternal lactation duration, body mass, percentage milk fat, or free fatty acid (FFA) concentration; and (3) plasma adiponectin and insulin are correlated with circulating FFA in females and pups. In pups, plasma adiponectin decreased during suckling (linear mixed-effects model [LME]:
30160996|The energy cost of egg production in passerine birds has typically been estimated to be 45%60% of basal metabolic rate (BMR), but this is based on theoretical models using data on energy content of eggs and reproductive tissue; there are still very few empirical data on egg production costs. In this study, we directly measured resting metabolic rate (RMR) in egglaying female European starlings (
30161039|Temperature acclimation may be a critical component of the locomotor physiology and ecology of ectothermic animals, particularly those living in eurythermal environments. Several studies of fish report striking acclimation of biochemical and kinetic properties in isolated muscle. However, the relatively few studies of wholeanimal performance report variable acclimation responses. We test the hypothesis that different types of wholeanimal locomotion will respond differently to temperature acclimation, probably due to divergent physiological bases of locomotion. We studied two cyprinid fishes, tinfoil barbs (
30162175|To understand the bioenergetic fluxes of freeranging timber rattlesnakes (
10.1086/681243|Temporal variation in oxidative physiology and its associated immune function may occur as a result of changes in parasite infection over the year. Evidence from field and laboratory studies suggests links between infection risk, oxidative stress, and the ability of animals to mount an immune response; however, the importance of parasites in mediating seasonal change in physiological makeup is still debated. Also, little is known about the temporal consistency of relationships among parasite infestation, markers of oxidative status and immune function in wild animals, and whether variation in oxidative measures can be viewed as a single integrated system. To address these questions, we sampled free-living house sparrows (
30160976|To investigate whether there is a relationship between the inherent maximum growth rate of a chick and its degree of developmental plasticity, we studied the effects of food restriction on morphological and physiological development in Pline (selected for high growth rates) and Cline (nonselected) chicks of the Japanese quail between 2 and 64 d of age. In each line, three groups were created; one group in which the chicks were fed ad lib. and two other groups in which the chicks received 70% and 40% of the linespecific ad lib. feeding levels, respectively. In all three groups, chick survival rates were very high, and no relationship was detected between feeding level and chick mortality. The experimental feeding levels strongly affected the chicks attainment of body mass at all ages. In addition, at most ages the growth of the structural components (wing, tarsus, and head) were also significantly affected by the feeding experiment but to a much smaller extent than the body mass. The feeding levels also affected the achievement of female sexual maturity such that, at the end of the experiment, most of the ad lib.fed females and none of the females that received 40% of the ad lib. feeding level were laying eggs. In chicks of both lines that were fed ad lib., homeothermy was achieved at 7 d of age, but in chicks that received 40% of the linespecific ad lib. levels, homeothermy was achieved after 1522 d of age. Poikilothermic chicks (P and Cline) that were relatively heavy for their age exhibited relatively high resting metabolic rates (RMRs) and peak metabolic rates (PMRs) for their age. In addition, a positive relationship was found between the chicks relative mass and RMR (based on massbased predictive equations). No relationship was detected between the chicks relative body mass and their relative PMR (relative to massbased predictive equations). With respect to the metabolic scope (i.e.,
10.1086/679906|A critical window (sensitive period) represents a period during development when an organisms phenotype is responsive to intrinsic or extrinsic (environmental) factors. Such windows represent a form of developmental phenotypic plasticity and result from the interaction between genotype and environment. Critical windows have typically been defined as comprising discrete periods in development with a distinct starting time and end time, as identified by experiments following an on and an off protocol. Yet in reality, periods of responsiveness during development are likely more ambiguous that depicted. Our goal is to extend the concept of the developmental critical window by introducing a three-dimensional construct in which time during development, dose of the stressor applied, and the resultant phenotypic modification can be utilized to more realistically define a critical window. Using the example of survival of the brine shrimp (
30160056|We tested two hypotheses: first, that the inferior anoxia tolerance of the softshell turtle,
30160133|The energetics of endotrophic development, where the nutrition required to complete metamorphosis is provided solely by yolk, has seldom been quantified. The energy cost of development to metamorphosis of the endotrophic Australian frog
30162252|Biologists often use allometric equations that take the form of power functions (e.g.,
30158016|Surfactant occurs in cyclically inflating and deflating, gasholding structures of vertebrates to reduce the surface tension of the inner fluid lining, thereby preventing collapse and decreasing the work of inflation. Here we determined the presence of surfactant in material lavaged from the airspace in the gas mantle of the pulmonate snail
30160553|Blood cell flux (BCF) in ventral pelvic skin capillaries was measured in toads,
10.1086/605878|Two populations of homing sockeye salmon (
30162249|We studied bred and unbred female reindeer (
30162273|In order to address the nature of genetic variation in learning performance, we investigated the response to classical olfactory conditioning in highlearning
30158694|Diet switching in mammalian herbivores may necessitate a change in the biotransformation enzymes used to process plant secondary compounds (PSCs). We investigated differences in the biotransformation system in the mammalian herbivore,
10.1086/648566|We utilized the rainbow trout, a hypoxiaintolerant freshwater teleost, to examine ionoregulatory changes at the gills during hypoxia. Progressive mild hypoxia led first to a significant elevation (by 21%) in
30158420|We tested the hypothesis that dietary specialization by foraging garter snakes is accompanied by increased assimilation efficiency on specialist prey items. Our comparison included two closely related garter snake species considered to be slug specialists (
30161300|Fat deposition and torpor use in hummingbirds exhibiting distinct foraging styles should vary. We predicted that dominant territorial hummingbirds will use torpor less than subordinate nonterritorial species because unrestricted access to energy by territory owners allows for fat storage. Entry into torpor was monitored using openflow respirometry on hummingbirds allowed to accumulate fat normally during the day. Fat accumulation was measured by solvent fat extraction. Territorial bluethroated hummingbirds (
10.1086/597518|Endogenous circadian and circannual rhythms may exist in the metabolism, ventilation, and breathing pattern of turtles that could further prolong dive times during daily and seasonal periods of reduced activity. To test this hypothesis, turtles were held under seasonal or constant environmental conditions over a 1yr period, and in each season,
30161290|Invasive species are commonly thought to have broad tolerances that enable them to colonize new habitats, but this assumption has rarely been tested. In particular, the relative importance of acclimation (plasticity) and adaptation for invasion success are poorly understood. This study examined effects of shortterm and developmental acclimation on adult salinity tolerance in the copepod
10.1086/675974|Repeatability is an important concept in evolutionary analyses because it provides information regarding the benefit of repeated measurements and, in most cases, a putative upper limit to heritability estimates. Repeatability (
30161075|In this article, we review intraspecific studies of basal metabolic rate (BMR) that address the correlation between diet quality and BMR. The foodhabit hypothesis stands as one of the most striking and oftenmentioned interspecific patterns to emerge from studies of endothermic energetics. Our main emphasis is the explicit empirical comparison of predictions derived from interspecific studies with data gathered from withinspecies studies in order to explore the mechanisms and functional significance of the putative adaptive responses encapsulated by the foodhabit hypothesis. We suggest that, in addition to concentrating on the relationship among diet quality, internal morphology, and BMR, new studies should also attempt to unravel alternative mechanisms that shape the interaction between diet and BMR, such as enzymatic plasticity, and the use of energysaving mechanisms, such as torpor. Another avenue for future study is the measurement of the effects of diet quality on other components of the energy budget, such as maximum thermogenic and sustainable metabolic rates. It is possible that the effects of diet quality operate on such components rather than directly on BMR, which might then push or pull along changes in these traits. Results from intraspecific studies suggest that the factors responsible for the association between diet and BMR at an ecological timescale might not be the same as those that promoted the evolution of this correlation. Further analyses should consider how much of a role the proximate and ultimate processes have played in the evolution of BMR.
30161047|Arousal from deep hibernation is accompanied by a transient rise of melatonin (Mel) in circulation; there are no comparable analyses of Mel concentrations in species that undergo much shallower, shorter duration episodes of daily torpor. Serum Mel concentrations were determined during arousal from both natural daily torpor and torpor induced by 2deoxyDglucose (2DG) treatment (2,500 mg/kg, intraperitoneal [IP]); blood samples were drawn from the retroorbital sinus of anesthetized Siberian hamsters. For animals kept in darkness during torpor, Mel concentrations were highest during early arousal when thermogenesis is maximal, and they decreased as body temperature increased during arousal and returned to baseline once euthermia was reestablished. In hamsters kept in the light during the torpor bout, Mel concentrations were elevated above basal values during arousal, but the response was significantly blunted in comparison with values recorded in darkness. Increased Mel concentrations were detected in hamsters only during arousal from torpor (either natural or 2DG induced) and were not simply a result of the drug treatment; hamsters that remained euthermic or manifested mild hypothermia after drug treatment maintained basal Mel concentrations. We propose that increased Mel production may reflect enhanced sympathetic activation associated with intense thermogenesis during arousal from torpor rather than an adjustment of the circadian rhythm of Mel secretion.
30161066|A study was done to test whether toxic plants that occur naturally in the diet affect thermoregulation in mammalian herbivores. The woodrats
30157991|Green toads (
30158370|In comparison with other homeotherms, young recently weaned marine mammals in high latitudes face exceptional energetic demands when foraging and thermoregulating. Lipids are an important source of energy and a major component of insulation that allows them to meet these demands. To examine the role of lipid stores in a highlatitude pinniped, we measured the body composition and thermoregulatory capabilities of Antarctic fur seal (
10.1086/673115|Increased cutaneous resistance to evaporative water loss (
30162258|Studies of locomotor performance have contributed to the elucidation of how suborganismal traits ultimately relate to fitness. In terrestrial populations, exploring the physiological and environmental contributions to wholeanimal performance measures has improved our understanding of phenotypic selection. Conversely, very little is known about the links between phenotypic selection and swimming abilities in fish. Most research on swimming performance in fish has focused on morphological, physiological, and biochemical traits contributing to performance or has used swimming performance as a measure of environmental suitability. Few studies have explored how swimming performance is integrated with lifehistory traits or contributes to Darwinian fitness. In addition, while there are many studies on how the environment influences the swimming performance of fish, few have been done at the individual level. The objective of this study was to broaden our understanding of the relevance of fish swimming performance studies by testing the hypothesis that swimming performance (endurance and sprint) is ontogenetically and temporally stable across fluctuating environmental conditions. We found that individual sprint performances recorded at 12C were significantly repeatable after a 4wk acclimation to 22C, although relative sprint performance of fish that survived 6 mo of natural conditions in a mesocosm was not significantly repeatable. Endurance swimming performance, as measured by critical swimming speed (
30158017|The Tasmanian bettong (
10.1086/673727|The relationship between metabolic rate and body size in animals is unlikely to be a constant but is instead shaped by a variety of intrinsic (i.e., physiological) and extrinsic (i.e., environmental) factors. This study examined the effect of environmental oxygen tension on oxygen consumption as a function of body mass in the galaxiid fish, inanga (
30161331|Conventionally, maximum capacities for energy assimilation are presented as daily averages. However, maximum daily energy intake is determined by the maximum metabolizable energy intake rate and the time available for assimilation of food energy. Thrush nightingales (
30161154|Animals occupy an impressive range of environments, and many approach the limits of conditions that are compatible with life. Such environments are often characterized by low productivity, and survival depends on abilities to maintain levels of hydration sufficient for biochemical reactions and an adequate level of energy turnover. Specific adaptations for acquiring and conserving water affect the intake and utilization of energy that is available for growth and reproduction. Almost any benign, historically stable environment can become hostile if conditions change, and the severity of challenges to animals depends on temporal as well as spatial factors that are related to the intensity and duration of harsh conditions (e.g., drought). Animals have responded to such changes through avoidance, phenotypically plastic adjustments, and evolutionary changes in genomic structure. Here we present an overview of research findings presented at a session of the Third International Conference of Comparative Physiology and Biochemistry. We hope such a synthesis will stimulate new directions in research that address biological responses to environmental change. In this context, we believe that challenging environments in Africa might provide increasingly useful sites for biological investigations relating to the application of comparative and evolutionary approaches toward a deeper understanding of physiological adaptation.
30161320|It is a nutritional challenge for nectarfeeding insects to meet the amino acid requirements of oviposition. Here we investigate whether egg amino acids derive from larval diet or are synthesized from nectar sugar in four species of butterfly:
10.1086/670527|Mammals use five main, mutually nonexclusive mechanisms to balance energy budgets: torpor, metabolic compensation, change in activity patterns, change in ingested energy, and/or variability in digestive efficiency. Bats, as small and actively flying mammals, have a high mass-specific energy demand; therefore, balancing mechanisms should be pronounced in this group. We found that male
10.1086/674320|When wild animals become infected, they still must cope with the rigors of daily life, and, thus, they still can be exposed to acute stressors. The suite of physiological responses to acute stress includes modifying the innate immune system, but infections can also cause similar changes. We examined the effects of an acute stressor (capture stress) on leukocyte abundance and bacteria-killing ability (BKA) in wild birds (house finches
30160029|Ovary tissue fragments of the giant tiger prawn
30160090|Boxfishes (family Ostraciidae) are tropical reefdwelling marine bony fishes that have about threefourths of their body length encased in a rigid bony test. As a result, almost all of their swimming movements derive from complex combinations of movements of their median and paired fins (MPF locomotion). In terms of both body design and swimming performance, they are among the most sophisticated examples known of naturally evolved vertebrate autonomous underwater vehicles. Quantitative studies of swimming performance, biomechanics, and energetics in one model species have shown that (i) they are surprisingly strong, fast swimmers with great endurance; (ii) classical descriptions of how they swim were incomplete: they swim at different speeds using three different gaits; (iii) they are unusually dynamically well controlled and stable during sustained and prolonged rectilinear swimming; and (iv) despite unusually high parasite (fuselage) drag, they show energetic costs of transport indistinguishable from those of much better streamlined fishes using body and caudal fin (BCF) swimming modes at similar water temperatures and over comparable ranges of swimming speeds. We summarize an analysis of these properties based on a dynamic model of swimming in these fishes. This model accounts for their control, stability, and efficiency in moving through the water at moderate speeds in terms of gait changes, of waterflow patterns over body surfaces, and of complex interactions of thrust vectors generated by fin movements.
10.1086/603638|Almost all of the internal organs of migrating birds undergo pronounced mass changes, but the digestive tract changes most and fastest. The masses of the small intestine and the liver may be reduced by as much as 50% during migratory flight, indicating extreme phenotypic flexibility. Birds must rebuild these organs during stopovers to facilitate rapid mass gain and fuel deposition for continuation of migration. Laboratory studies indicate that birds may vary mean gut retention time to maintain high digestive efficiency, even while intestine length is substantially reduced. We examined migratory blackcaps (
30158733|The antioxidant enzyme (AOE) system protects the lung from oxidative damage. The pulmonary surfactant (PS) system lowers the interfacial pressure within the lung, improving lung compliance and aiding lung clearance. In mammals, the AOE and PS systems develop in tandem during the final 10%20% of gestation. Here, we investigated the development of these systems in the viviparous skink,
30161025|Temperature and humidity are dominant environmental variables affecting performance of nocturnal, terrestrial amphibians. Toads are frequently active at body temperatures (
30163962|In this study, the correlation between Cl
10.1086/677218|Maternally transferred antibodies have been documented in a wide range of taxa and are thought to adaptively provide protection against parasites and pathogens while the offspring immune system is developing. In most birds, transfer occurs when females deposit immunoglobulin Y into the egg yolk, and it is proportional to the amount in the females plasma. Maternal antibodies can provide short-term passive protection as well as specific and nonspecific immunological priming, but high levels of maternal antibody can result in suppression of the offsprings humoral immune response. We injected adult female zebra finches (
30158121|Aspects of osmoregulation including salinity tolerance, osmoregulatory capacity, location of transporting epithelia, and the expression of the enzyme Na
30158703|A positive relationship between feeding duration and meal size of avian nectarivores has often been assumed in earlier studies. We investigated whether feeding duration can be used as a surrogate for the amount of sugar solution ingested by whitebellied sunbirds,
10.1086/680054|Research on how insect immunity changes with age as insects develop within an instar, or larval developmental stage, is limited and contradictory. Insects within an instar are preparing for the next developmental stage, which may involve changes in morphology or habitat. Immunity may also vary accordingly. To determine how immunity varies in the fifth instar, we tested humoral immune responses, antimicrobial peptide activity, and phenoloxidase activity using the tobacco hornworm,
30157999|Oxidation of hydrogen sulfide to thiosulfate is one of the bestcharacterized mechanisms by which animals adapted to sulfide minimize its toxicity, but the mechanism of thiosulfate elimination in these animals has remained unclear. In this study, we examined the accumulation and elimination of thiosulfate in the sulfideadapted marine worm
30161152|The purpose of this symposium was to examine how foraging physiology is studied in the field across a diversity of species and habitats. While field studies are constrained by the relatively poor ability to control the experiment, the natural variability in both the environment and animal behavior provides insights into adaptation to change that are usually not tested in the laboratory. Talks in this session examined how foraging energy (both costs and gains) is partitioned over time. Time, in this case, ranged from evolutionary time (how different animals are designed to most efficiently forage), to long, lifetime periods (development of foraging ability and growth), to shortduration feeding bouts, and ultimately to the minutes to hours following ingestion (metabolic and biochemical changes). From this diversity, two core themes emerged: that foraging strategies and behaviors are limited by physiology and biochemical processes and that time plays a central role in the organization of foraging behaviors and the physiological processes that underlie those behaviors.
30161194|Little is known about the energy conservation strategies of freeranging marsupials living in resourcepoor Australian deserts. We studied activity patterns and torpor of freeliving mulgaras (
10.1086/597524|3Omethyl
10.1086/674107|Although all scallops swim using their adductor muscle to close their valves, scallop species differ considerably in how they use their muscle during escape responses, in parallel with the striking interspecific differences in shell morphology. This provides an excellent opportunity to study links between muscle metabolic capacities and animal performance. We found that the capacity for anaerobic glycolysis and aerobic metabolism, as well as phosphoarginine levels in the phasic adductor muscle, differ with escape response strategy. Phosphoarginine contents were high in species that rely on phasic contractions (
30158732|This study examined fuel depletion in white muscle of juvenile rainbow trout sprinted to fatigue to determine whether the onset of fatigue is associated with a measurable metabolic change within the muscle and whether muscle glycogen levels influence endurance. In this study, fuels refer to any energysupplying compounds and include glycogen, phosphocreatine (PCr), and ATP. Fuel depletion in white muscle was estimated by the calculation of the anaerobic energy expenditure (AEE; in mol ATP equivalents g
30161059|We assessed the effects of cold and submergence on blood oxygen transport in common map turtles (
30161274|In preparation for hibernation, goldenmantled ground squirrels (
30160028|Modulation of gut function is important in an ecological and evolutionary context because it likely determines what food items an animal can and cannot eat. We examined how diet affects activity of digestive enzymes in an omnivorous bird, the pine warbler (
30160546|Circulating catecholamine levels and a variety of cardiorespiratory variables were monitored in cannulated bimodally breathing African lungfish (
30162234|Marsupials are born ectothermic and gradually become endothermic during pouch occupancy. In order to study the timing of this transition, we measured the metabolic rates of eight pouchyoung eastern barred bandicoots (
30161087|Physiological, anatomical, and developmental features of the crocodilian heart support the paleontological evidence that the ancestors of living crocodilians were active and endothermic, but the lineage reverted to ectothermy when it invaded the aquatic, ambush predator niche. In endotherms, there is a functional nexus between high metabolic rates, high blood flow rates, and complete separation of high systemic blood pressure from low pulmonary blood pressure in a fourchambered heart. Ectotherms generally lack all of these characteristics, but crocodilians retain a fourchambered heart. However, crocodilians have a neurally controlled, pulmonary bypass shunt that is functional in diving. Shunting occurs outside of the heart and involves the left aortic arch that originates from the right ventricle, the foramen of Panizza between the left and right aortic arches, and the cogtooth valve at the base of the pulmonary artery. Developmental studies show that all of these uniquely crocodilian features are secondarily derived, indicating a shift from the complete separation of blood flow of endotherms to the controlled shunting of ectotherms. We present other evidence for endothermy in stem archosaurs and suggest that some dinosaurs may have inherited the trait.
30160135|Uricotely (uric acid >50% of urinary nitrogen) in birds was once considered ubiquitous. However, Annas hummingbirds (
30160134|Birds display a tremendous variety of carotenoidbased colors in their plumage, but the mechanisms underlying interspecific variability in carotenoid pigmentation remain poorly understood. Because vertebrates cannot synthesize carotenoids de novo, access to pigments in the diet is one proximate factor that may shape species differences in carotenoidbased plumage coloration. However, some birds metabolize ingested carotenoids and deposit pigments that differ in color from their dietary precursors, indicating that metabolic capabilities may also contribute to the diversity of plumage colors we see in nature. In this study, we investigated how the acquisition and utilization of carotenoids influence the maintenance of speciestypical plumage pigmentation in male American goldfinches (
10.1086/674798|The energetic and physiological challenges of spawning migrations in semelparous Pacific salmon (
30158704|Some methods of tissue preservation have significant effects on values of stable isotopes of carbon (
30160581|The successful acclimation of eurhyhaline fishes from seawater to freshwater requires the gills to stop actively secreting ions and start actively absorbing ions. Gill Na
30161011|Recent discoveries indicate that microcystins affect enzymes, such as Na
30158060|Mechanisms that influence body temperature patterns in blacktailed prairie dogs are not well understood. Previous research on both freeranging and laboratory populations of blacktailed prairie dogs (
10.1086/605393|Avian response to fasting has been examined intensively in penguins (
30158738|Smaller guts and slow initial mass gains at stopover sites have led to the idea that digestive physiology limits refueling rates in migrating birds. We tested the digestivelimitation hypothesis in yellowrumped warblers using food restriction to simulate infrequent feeding during migration, which may cause a reduction in alimentary tract mass. Restricted birds had small intestine, pancreas, and liver masses 18%22% lower than ad lib.fed controls. Total activities of sucrase, maltase, aminopeptidase, and amylase were significantly lower in restricted birds, while those of trypsin and chymotrypsin were not. Only aminopeptidase massspecific activity was significantly lower in restricted birds. Previously restricted birds were able to feed and digest at a high rate immediately following return to ad lib. feeding. Digestive efficiency did not differ between groups. These results suggest that before migration yellowrumped warblers have some spare digestive capacity to compensate for declines in their digestive organ masses during migration.
10.1086/588171|The future impacts of climate change are predicted to significantly affect the survival of many species. Recent studies indicate that even species that are relatively mobile and/or have large geographic ranges may be at risk of range contractions or extinction. An ecologically and evolutionary significant group of mammals that has been largely overlooked in this research is Australias large marsupial herbivores, the macropodids (kangaroos). The aims of our investigation were to define and compare the climatic conditions that influence the current distributions of four sympatric large macropodids in northern Australia (
30160991|This study examined the extent of phenotypic plasticity for salinity tolerance and genetic variation in plasticity in the invasive copepod
30160041|Tuatara (
30158729|We examined the ion composition of mosquito breeding sites located in the Amazon rain forest and the ion regulatory patterns of larvae from these habitats. We found larvae of
30160580|Black bears spend several months each winter confined to a small space within their den without food or water. In nonhibernating mammals, these conditions typically result in severe muscle atrophy, causing a loss of strength and endurance. However, an initial study indicated that bears appeared to conserve strength while denning. We conducted an in vivo, nonsubjective measurement of strength, resistance to fatigue, and contractile properties on the tibialis anterior muscle of six hibernating bears during both early and late winter using a rigid leg brace and foot force plate. After 110 d of anorexia and confinement, skeletal muscle strength loss in hibernating bears was about onehalf that in humans confined to bed rest. Bears lost 29% of muscle strength over 110 d of denning without food, while humans on a balanced diet but confined to bed for 90 d have been reported to lose 54% of their strength. Additionally, muscle contractile properties, including contraction time, halfrelaxation time, halfmaximum value time, peak rate of development and decay, time to peak force development, and time to peak force decay did not change, indicating that no smallscale alterations in wholemuscle function occurred over the winter. This study further supports our previous findings that black bears have a high resistance to atrophy despite being subjected to longterm anorexia and limited mobility.
10.1086/651585|Carbon stable isotope (
30158400|Maternal allocation of antioxidants to egg yolk has been shown to affect early embryonic development and nestling survival. In environments with high levels of anthropogenic pollution, antioxidants (such as carotenoids) are important to protect the body from elevated oxidative stress. Thus, female allocation of antioxidants to yolk may be traded off against selfmaintenance. Here we investigate maternal reproductive investment with respect to yolk carotenoid content and composition in relation to subsequent female condition and carotenoid status in urban and rural great tits
10.1086/671901|We examined two sympatric desert fishes, Sonora suckers (
30158366|We examined simultaneous plastic and latitudinal interpopulation variation in the time course of hemolymph protein titers during egg production in the lubber grasshopper. Our goal was to gain insight into possible evolutionary changes in the physiology underlying reproductive plasticity. We used lubbers from three locations in the United States (Florida [FL], Louisiana [LA], and Georgia [GA]), each offered three daily food rations. Previous genetic analysis indicated that grasshoppers from FL (the lowlatitude population) and GA (the highlatitude population) were phylogenetically closer to each other than to LA grasshoppers (the intermediatelatitude population). The ages at maximum titers of vitellogenin (Vg
30160582|Because endocrine mechanisms are thought to mediate behavioral responses to changes in the environment, examining these mechanisms is essential for understanding how longlived seabirds adjust their foraging decisions to contrasting environmental conditions in order to maximize their fitness. In this context, the hormone corticosterone (CORT) deserves specific attention because of its major connections with locomotor activities. We examined for the first time the relationships between individual CORT levels and measurements of foraging success and behavior using satellite tracking and blood sampling from wandering albatrosses (
10.1086/678956|Environmental temperatures that exceed body temperature (
10.1086/675938|Field endocrine studies providing new comparisons for inference into the evolutionary and ecological factors shaping organismal physiology are important, often yielding novel physiological insights. Here, we explored factors associated with the sex steroid hormone concentrations and adrenocortical response to capture stress in Hog Island boas (
30158125|Harbor seal pups are highly precocial and can swim and dive at birth. Such behavioral maturity suggests that they may be born with mature body oxygen stores or that stores develop quickly during the nursing period. To test this hypothesis, we compared the blood and muscle oxygen stores of harbor seal pups, yearlings, and adults. We found that pups had smaller oxygen stores than adults (neonates 57%, weaned pups 75%, and yearlings 90% those of adults), largely because neonatal myoglobin concentrations were low (
30163968|I tested the hypothesis that an animal with an ontogenetic diet shift must have different digestive efficiencies for foods that correspond to its diet shift, so that nutrient and energy extraction are maximized. The iguanine lizard
30162274|In this study, we use the bacterium
10.1086/679718|Interspecific studies of adult mammals show that heart mass (
30158064|Leeches
10.1086/667540|Body mass and body condition are often tightly linked to animal health and fitness in the wild and thus are key measures for ecophysiologists and behavioral ecologists. In some animals, such as large seabird species, obtaining indexes of structural size is relatively easy, whereas measuring body mass under specific field circumstances may be more of a challenge. Here, we suggest an alternative, easily measurable, and reliable surrogate of body mass in field studies, that is, body girth. Using 234 free-living king penguins (
10.1086/588829|We investigated possible biochemical pathways explaining extreme ammonia tolerance by the gulf toadfish and specifically tested the prediction that the gulf toadfish
30158318|Laurence Irving (18951979) contributed significantly over five decades to the development of environmentally oriented physiological studies. He is best known for his investigations of the physiology of diving mammals, the respiratory properties of fish blood, and cold adaptation and acclimatization in poikilotherms and homeotherms, including man. Beyond his own research contributions, Irving benefited American comparative physiology through his key roles in the immigration of Per F. Scholander and Knut and Bodil SchmidtNielsen to the United States. The IrvingScholander research collaboration provides a substantial legacy for comparative physiology. Laurence Irvings administrative contributions include service as the first scientific director of the Arctic Research Laboratory at Barrow, Alaska, and as the founding director of the Institute of Arctic Biology at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. These units have assured the implementation of his philosophy of combining laboratory and field studies in the investigation of environmentally oriented physiological problems. Laurence Irving was an ardent advocate for Alaskan research, and his efforts were an important help in the advancement of science in the state.
30161010|Birds from deserts generally have lower total evaporative water loss (TEWL), the sum of cutaneous (CWL) and respiratory water loss (RWL), than species from mesic areas. We investigated the role of CWL and RWL as a function of air temperature (
10.1086/676146|Dehydration tolerance of anuran amphibians is directly related to their ability to mobilize lymphatic reserves, with more terrestrial species having more effective lymph mobilization dependent on specialized skeletal muscles acting directly on the lymph sacs and via pulmonary ventilation. Consequently, we tested the hypothesis that pulmonary compliance, lung volume, and femoral lymphatic sac volume were related to terrestrialityand, hence, lymph mobilizationfor 18 species of aquatic, semiaquatic, or terrestrial anuran amphibians. Lung compliance and volume were significantly related to body mass, but there was no significant phylogenetic pattern. There were significant habitat-related patterns for mass-corrected and phylogenetically corrected residuals for these pulmonary variables. Femoral lymph volume was significantly related to body mass, with no significant phylogenetic pattern, and there was only a weak correlation for habitat with mass-corrected and phylogenetically corrected residuals. These results suggest that pulmonary volume and compliance are strongly related to terrestriality in anuran amphibians and are under significant selection pressure to enhance lymph mobilization, but lymph sac volume does not appear to have a major role in adaptation to terrestriality.
30158736|The energy and water used by
30158359|Seasonal changes in protein and nitrogen metabolism have not previously been reported in any Antarctic suspensionfeeding species that ceases feeding for extended periods in winter. To provide comparison with data reported on
30160026|Although discontinuous gas exchange cycles (DGC) are known from many insects, the effects of body size and temperature on DGC have not been widely examined. Here, these effects are investigated in five
10.1086/674565|In the summer, the plainfin midshipman (
30158020|Diets of six Steller sea lions (
10.1086/599321|Developing mechanistic models to predict an organisms body temperature facilitates the study of physiological stresses caused by extreme climatic conditions the species might have faced in the past or making predictions about changes to come in the near future. Because the models combine empirical observation of different climatic variables with essential morphological attributes of the species, it is possible to examine specific aspects of predicted climatic changes. Here, we develop a model for the competitively dominant intertidal mussel
30160017|The dynamics of the levels and metabolism of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin were studied in pituitaries of male and female rainbow trout at different stages of gonadal development. In female rainbow trout, the turnover of dopamine (calculated using the inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase methylptyrosine methylester HCl), serotonin metabolism, and norepinephrine levels decreased in the advanced stage of exogenous vitellogenesis with respect to the initial stage. Data obtained in males did not show changes in either serotonergic or noradrenergic metabolism during the last stages of gonadal development; however, an increase of dopaminergic turnover was noticed in the male fish at the end of spermiation. Finally, pituitary dopaminergic activity was significantly higher in immature (prepubescent stage) than in adult fish.
30158676|Many fishes have independently evolved beach spawning with oviposition at the waters edge. These include intertidal, subtidal, and estuarine, as well as a few freshwater, species. Their spectacular reproductive behavior at the boundary of water and land has focused attention on adults, but they emerge either briefly or not at all. The need for air breathing is more apparent in the eggs, and the reasons for emergence are more applicable to eggs than to the adults of most beachspawning fishes. There is little evidence of air breathing in the adults, unless they are regularly emerged at other times as well. Conversely, eggs metabolize in air and show substantial emergence tolerance. We consider beach spawning a form of parental care in fishes. The adults place eggs so they will be emerged into air during part or all of incubation, providing increased temperatures, oxygen availability, and protection. Beach spawning provides habitat segregation at different points in the life history, with air emergence early in the life cycle and a return to water at hatching. The parents take great risks to spawn at the waters edge to give their offspring the most advantageous beginning in life.
30158320|We determined the effects of high gestational loads on ventilation and the rate of oxygen consumption (
10.1086/656004|Technical advances that have made it possible to perform physiological measurements on very small organisms, including those in embryonic and larval stages, have resulted in the formation of the discipline of developmental physiology. The transparency and size of developing organisms in some areas permit insights into physiological processes that cannot be obtained with opaque, adult organisms. On the other hand, it is widely accepted that without eggs, there are no chickens, so physiological adaptations during early life are just as important to species survival as those manifested by adults. Physiological adaptations of early developmental stages, however, are not always the same as patterns known in adults; they often follow their own rules. The adaptability of early developmental stages demonstrates that development is not stereotyped and a phenotype is not just the result of genetic information and the expression of a certain series of genes. Environmental factors influence phenotype production, and this in turn results in flexibility and plasticity in physiological processes. This article comprises exemplary studies presented at the Fourth International Conference in Africa for Comparative Physiology and Biochemistry (Maasai Mara, Kenya, 2008). It includes a brief introduction into technical advances, discusses the developing cardiovascular system of various vertebrates, and demonstrates the flexibility and plasticity of early developmental stages. Fluid forces, oxygen availability, ionic homeostasis, and the chemical environment (including, e.g., hormone concentrations or cholesterol levels) all contribute to the shaping and performance of the cardiovascular system.
30160118|Thermoregulation and the energetic significance of clustering behavior were assessed in the whitebacked mousebird
30158138|Water imbalance during flight is considered to be a potentially limiting factor for flight ranges in migrating birds, but empirical data are scarce. We studied flights under controlled ambient conditions with rosecolored starlings in a wind tunnel. In one experiment, we measured water fluxes with stable isotopes at a range of flight speeds (914 m s
10.1086/604668|Physiological responses to organismal stress can have direct impacts on individual fitness. While responses to stressors mediated by glucocorticoid hormones are well studied, the regulation of the redox system via prooxidant and antioxidant balance as well as the natural causes of oxidative stress in nature remain poorly known, especially for reptiles. In this study, we investigate the interpopulation and intersex variation in oxidative damage and plasma antioxidant capacity in the Galpagos land iguana,
10.1086/663771|Rainbow smelt (
10.1086/678042|Theoretical models predict that predator-induced phenotypes should have lower fitness in the absence of predators. Tadpoles frequently respond to invertebrate predators by reducing activity levels and changing their body proportions. While some studies have shown that induced defenses in tadpoles reduce growth rates, others have found no effect. The aim of this study was to measure the effects of predator presence on energy expenditure in tadpoles. Predator exposure lowered overall metabolic rate by 19%, while specific dynamic action due to food consumption increased resting metabolism by 11%. Control tadpoles moved significantly more (93.6  3.9 cm/min) than predator-exposed animals (50.1  7.5 cm/min), and swimming increased metabolic rate by up to 400% compared to stationary tadpoles, indicating that activity can be energetically expensive and can consume as much as 37% of assimilated energy. These findings suggest that the costs of reduced foraging are context dependent and may even be beneficial in environments where high-quality resources are closely spaced but detrimental when extensive movement is required to obtain optimal resources for growth.
10.1086/682170|Because fitness of ectotherms, including reptiles, is highly dependent on temperature and water availability, the study of ecophysiological traits, such as preferred temperature (
30161285|Organic osmolytes, solutes that regulate cell volume, occur at high levels in marine invertebrates. These are mostly free amino acids such as taurine, which are compatible with cell macromolecules, and methylamines such as trimethylamine oxide, which may have a nonosmotic role as a protein stabilizer, and which is higher in many deepsea animals. To better understand nonosmotic roles of osmolytes, we used highperformance liquid chromatography and
30158330|Sound production efficiency is a complex phenotypic trait that incorporates biochemical and mechanical events beginning with substrate oxidation and ending with the radiation of sound. Its accurate measurement is significant in understanding the mechanisms and energetics underlying acoustic signaling and sexual selection. I show that in the shorttailed cricket
30161061|The wingpolymorphic cricket,
30157987|European starlings (
10.1086/679751|In zebrafish, as in most vertebrates, three different isoforms of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor, Hif-1, Hif-2, and Hif-3, have been identified. The expression data of genes encoding these three proteins, as analyzed so far, show distinct expression patterns for all three isoforms during early development, under hypoxic conditions, and during exercise, suggesting differential roles for all three proteins under these different conditions. While isoform-specific functions for Hif-1 and Hif-2 have been identified in recent years, the role of Hif-3 remains somewhat elusive. Several studies mostly using mammalian cells or tissues discussed Hif-3 as a competitive inhibitor of Hif-1 and Hif-2. In zebrafish, the expression changes for Hif-1 and Hif-3 observed during development and under environmental stress conditions do not support this hypothesis, and recent studies indicate that Hif-3 is also able to directly control transcriptional activity of certain genes. The Hif signaling pathway is tightly connected to cell circuitries such as glucose and lipid metabolism, and only very recently a further linkage to the circadian clock has been described. In this context a detailed analysis of the mRNA concentrations of
10.1086/683058|Life-history theory predicts that organisms will hedge current reproductive investment against potential costs in terms of survivorship and future fecundity. However, little is known regarding the endocrine mechanisms underlying bet-hedging strategies in free-ranging male vertebrates. We examined the relationships among individual energetic status, steroid hormones, mate search, and reproductive behavior in free-ranging male timber rattlesnakes. Snakes were monitored over four active seasons in order to test two hypotheses: (1) males adjust the amount of time and energy allocated toward reproduction according to the level of individual energy stores, and (2) observed condition-dependent reproductive allocation is associated with circulating concentrations of steroid hormones (testosterone and corticosterone) thought to regulate reproductive behaviors in vertebrates. A positive relationship between body condition and testosterone was observed in both the field and the laboratory. Male mate search effort was positively correlated with both body condition and testosterone. Body condition and testosterone concentrations were negatively related to time allocated toward foraging during the breeding season. A strong effect of year was observed in the analysis of testosterone and search effort, suggesting that multiple environmental factors impact hormone production and reproductive investment. Corticosterone was not related to any measured variable. Therefore, our results did not indicate a clear role of corticosterone in mediating observed relationships between energetic status and behavior. Observed relationships are consistent with the hypothesis that males allocate time and energy toward reproduction according to individual energetic status and that testosterone plays a role in mediating the trade-off between current reproductive investment and residual reproductive value.
10.1086/595589|Spitting cobras expulse venom toward the face and/or eyes of potential predators as part of their defensive repertoire. Evaluating the accuracy of the cobras is difficult because the spit venom does not land as a point but rather is distributed, in some cases widely, in complex geometric patterns on the surface of the target. The purpose of this study was to explore the functional bases of the venoms spatial distribution. Using a combination of spatial analysis of caught venom, morphology, highspeed digital videography, and electromyography (EMG), three hypothesis were evaluated. Two of these hypothesesthat the spatial distribution was due to differential venom pressure produced by the contractile activity of the adductor mandibulae externus superficiali and that the spatial distribution was produced by the morphology of the venom canal within the fangwere both rejected. The third hypothesisthat the spatial distribution was due to rapid rotational movements of the head about the vertebral columnwas supported by analyses of EMG activity within the cervical axial muscles and by predictions of venomdistribution patterns based on these cephalic displacements. These results suggest that the ability to spit venom is a unique suite of specializations involving both the axial and the cephalic systems.
30160014|Carbonic anhydrase (CA) activity in blood and other tissues and red blood cell (rbc) anion exchange were measured in the mud puppy,
30161294|Considerable study has focused on the physiological adaptations for freeze tolerance in the wood frog,
10.1086/673099|The trade-offs between reproduction and survival or future reproduction represent the costs of reproduction, which are central to the theory of life-history traits evolution. In particular, different stages of the reproductive cycle may be associated with different costs and thus explain the evolution of alternative reproductive strategies. Viviparity (live bearing) has evolved from oviparity (egg laying) several times independently in vertebrates. To better understand these transitions, we aimed to specifically investigate gestation costs in a squamate reptile with a new experimental procedure. We reduced litter size during gestation in the common lizard (
10.1086/673312|Caudal autotomy is a widespread phenomenon among lizards, and similar processes occur in other groups of vertebrates and invertebrates. Many costs have been associated with autotomy, including the regeneration of lost biomass. For lizards, it is not known whether resources are preferentially directed toward caudal regeneration or whether regeneration occurs only when resources are abundant. Conflicting information is present in the literature, and an absence of controlled experiments prevents determination of what pattern of regeneration may occur under a given set of circumstances. We employed the leopard gecko, a fat-tailed species, to examine whether tail regeneration is a priority and, if so, whether it remains so when resources become limiting. We explored this through caudal autotomy and dietary manipulation under conditions that ensured that differences in diet were sufficient to permit differential growth. We examined juvenile leopard geckos because these animals are rapidly growing and allocation of energy is not compromised by reproductive investment. The effects of dietary resource availability and the demands of caudal regeneration were compared in intact and regenerating animals. Our evidence indicates that caudal regeneration is a priority, even when resources are limiting. We conclude that tail regrowth is a priority that is associated with long-term survival and possibly reproductive success.
10.1086/588177|As top predators in many oceanic communities, sharks are known to eat large prey and are supposedly able to generate high bite forces. This notion has, however, largely gone untested due to the experimental intractability of these animals. For those species that have been investigated, it remains unclear whether their high bite forces are simply a consequence of their large body size or the result of dietrelated adaptation. As aquatic poikilotherms, sharks can grow very large, making them ideal subjects with which to investigate the effects of body size on bite force. Relative biteforce capacity is often associated with changes in head shape because taller or wider heads can, for example, accommodate larger jaw muscles. Constraints on bite force in general may also be released by changes in tooth shape. For example, more pointed teeth may allow a predator to penetrate prey more effectively than blunt, pavementlike teeth. Our analyses show that large sharks do not bite hard for their body size, but they generally have larger heads. Head width is the best predictor of bite force across the species included in our study as indicated by a multiple regression model. Contrary to our predictions, sharks with relatively high bite forces for their body size also have relatively more pointed teeth at the front of the tooth row. Moreover, species including hard prey in their diet are characterized by high bite forces and narrow and pointed teeth at the jaw symphysis.
30161312|This study evaluated the hypothesis that the pulsatile excretion of urea by toadfish could serve as a social signal. In the first experiment, physiological parameters were measured in pairs of dominant and subordinate toadfish. Subordinate toadfish had elevated concentrations of circulating plasma cortisol, an effect maintained even after cannulation. In the second experiment, one fish of a pair was injected with
PBZ11021|All animals route assimilated nutrients to their tissues where they are used to support growth or are oxidized for energy. These nutrients are probably not allocated homogeneously among the various tissue and are more likely to be preferentially routed toward some tissues and away from others. Here we introduce an approach that allows researchers to identify and compare nutrient routing among different organs and tissues. We tested this approach by examining nutrient routing in birds. House sparrows
30162167|Differences in warming and cooling rates in basking lizards have long been thought to be brought about by adjustments in heart rate and blood flow. We examined the physiological control of warming and cooling in
10.1086/590222|During the past 2 decades, interest in interindividual variation in performance traits has increased considerably among physiological ecologists. A great deal of this interest has focused on repeatability studies of physiological traits. One of the most important physiological traits in animals is wholeanimal metabolism because it reflects several aspects of an organisms energy budget. However, in order to respond to natural selection (ultimately), this variable should be consistent over most of an individuals life history. We studied energy metabolism (CO
30160154|Scattered populations of Rppells foxes (
30160031|The proximate chemical composition of milk was determined throughout lactation in the Australian fur seal (
10.1086/650472|The digestive system is the interface between the supply of food for an animal and the demand for energy and nutrients to maintain the body, to grow, and to reproduce. Digestive systems are not morphologically static but rather dynamically respond to changes in the physical and chemical characteristics of the diet and the level of food intake. In this article, we discuss three themes that affect the ability of an animal to alter digestive function in relation to novel substrates and changing food supply: (1) the fermentative digestion in herbivores, (2) the integration of cardiopulmonary and digestive functions, and (3) the evolution of dietary specialization. Herbivores consume, digest, and detoxify complex diets by using a wide variety of enzymes expressed by bacteria, predominantly in the phyla Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes. Carnivores, such as snakes that feed intermittently, sometimes process very large meals that require compensatory adjustments in blood flow, acid secretion, and regulation of acidbase homeostasis. Snakes and birds that specialize in simple diets of prey or nectar retain their ability to digest a wider selection of prey. The digestive system continues to be of interest to comparative physiologists because of its plasticity, both phenotypic and evolutionary, and because of its widespread integration with other physiological systems, including thermoregulation, circulation, ventilation, homeostasis, immunity, and reproduction.
10.1086/652729|Muskoxen are considered to be obligate capital breeders because they rely exclusively on endogenous stores to reproduce. We studied 14 captive female muskoxen (not pregnant,
10.1086/605917|Locomotion is central to behavior and intrinsic to many fitnesscritical activities (e.g., migration, foraging), and it competes with other lifehistory components for energy. However, detailed analyses of how changes in locomotor activity and running behavior affect energy budgets are scarce. We quantified these effects in four replicate lines of house mice that have been selectively bred for high voluntary wheel running (S lines) and in their four nonselected control lines (C lines). We monitored wheel speeds and oxygen consumption for 2448 h to determine daily energy expenditure (DEE), resting metabolic rate (RMR), locomotor costs, and running behavior (bout characteristics). Daily running distances increased roughly 50%90% in S lines in response to selection. After we controlled for body mass effects, selection resulted in a 23% increase in DEE in males and a 6% increase in females. Total activity costs (DEE  RMR) accounted for 50%60% of DEE in both S and C lines and were 29% higher in S males and 5% higher in S females compared with their C counterparts. Energetic costs of increased daily running distances differed between sexes because S females evolved higher running distances by running faster with little change in time spent running, while S males also spent 40% more time running than C males. This increase in time spent running impinged on high energy costs because the majority of running costs stemmed from postural costs (the difference between RMR and the zerospeed intercept of the speed vs. metabolic rate relationship). No statistical differences in these traits were detected between S and C females, suggesting that large changes in locomotor behavior do not necessarily effect overall energy budgets. Running behavior also differed between sexes: within S lines, males ran with more but shorter bouts than females. Our results indicate that selection effects on energy budgets can differ dramatically between sexes and that energetic constraints in S males might partly explain the apparent selection limit for wheel running observed for over 15 generations.
30161279|Nasal respiratory turbinates are complex, epithelially lined structures in nearly all birds and mammals that act as intermittent countercurrent heat exchangers during routine lung ventilation. This study examined avian respiratory turbinate function in five large bird species (1151,900 g) inhabiting mesic temperate climates. Evaporative water loss and oxygen consumption rates of birds breathing normally (nasopharyngeal breathing) and with nasal turbinates experimentally bypassed (oropharyngeal breathing) were measured. Water and heat loss rates were calculated from lung tidal volumes and nasal and oropharyngeal exhaled air temperatures (
30161297|Incubation in most avian species involves transferring heat from parent to egg through a highly vascularized brood patch. Some birds, however, do not develop a brood patch. Unusual among birds, these species hold their eggs under the webs of their feet, but the role of the feet in heat transfer is uncertain. Often the webs are positioned between the feathered abdomen and the egg during incubation, suggesting that either the abdomen, the feet, or both could transfer heat to the egg. We studied heat transfer from foot webs to eggs during incubation in Nazca boobies by spatially separating the feet from the abdomen using an oversized egg. We found that feet transfer heat to eggs independently of any heat that may be transferred from the abdomen. In addition, we found that incubating boobies had significantly greater vascularization in their foot webs, measured as a percentage of web area covered by vessels, than nonincubating boobies. We also found that males, whether incubating or nonincubating, had significantly less web vascularization than females. We concluded that vascularized Nazca booby feet function in the same way during incubation that vascularized brood patches do, acting as surrogate brood patches.
10.1086/605935|Aggression is an important component of behavior in many animals and may be crucial to providing individuals with a competitive advantage when resources are limited. Although much is known about the effects of catecholamines and hormones on aggression, relatively few studies have examined the effects of physical performance on aggression. Here we use a large, sexually dimorphic teiid lizard to test whether individuals that show high levels of physical performance (bite force) are also more aggressive toward a potential threat (i.e., a human approaching the lizard). Our results show that independent of their sex, larger individuals with higher bite forces were indeed more aggressive. Moreover, our data show that individuals with higher bite forces tend to show decreased escape responses and are slower, providing evidence for a tradeoff between fight and flight abilities. As bite force increased dramatically with body size, we suggest that large body size and bite force may reduce the threshold for an individual to engage in an aggressive encounter, allowing it to potentially gain or maintain resources and fight off predators while minimizing the risk of injury.
30160124|Birds fast intermittently during weather disturbances and migration. We tested responses of black duck to lost feeding days during autumn mass gain. Nine adult males were fed a pelleted diet (1.5% fat, 15.8% protein, and 18.3% neutral detergent fiber) and caged indoors during September and October (12 h light; 1724C) to measure balances over 14 d when fed ad lib. each day and fasted intermittently for 2 d wk
30158383|We measured water flux and energy expenditure in freeranging Point Reyes mountain beavers
30158110|Under aquatic conditions,
30161063|There are few intraspecific studies relating physiological parameters to body mass. This study relates scaling of ionic regulation and respiratory parameters with body mass in crayfish (
10.1086/665663|Parental care is a widespread adaptation that evolved independently in a broad range of taxa. Although the dynamics by which two parents meet the developmental needs of offspring are well studied in birds, we lack understanding about the temporal and spatial complexity of parental care in taxa exhibiting female-only care, the predominant mode of parental care. Thus, we examined the behavioral and physiological mechanisms by which female water pythons
30158098|Claustral colony founding, in which new queens rear their first clutch of workers solely from internal reserves, is common in the higher ant subfamilies and is believed to represent a major innovation in ant life histories. The ability to store large amounts of amino acids contained in storage proteins is an essential physiological trait for claustral colony founding by ant queens. To determine whether there is an association between storage protein content and colonyfounding strategy, we identified and quantified two major storage proteins in queens of five harvester ant species in the genus
30161098|Although neonatal development is generally associated with increased levels of circulating testosterone (T) and estradiol (E2), food deprivation may inhibit steroidogenesis. Therefore, these potentially conflicting stimuli were examined in fasting weaned northern elephant seal (
10.1086/662385|We examined whether western fence lizards
PBZ10096|All fish species in the Anabantoidei suborder are aquatic air-breathing fish. These species have an accessory air-breathing organ, called the labyrinth organ, in the branchial cavity and can engulf air at the surface of the water to assist in gas exchange. It is therefore necessary to examine the extent of gill modification among anabantoid fish species and the potential trade-offs in their function. The experimental hypothesis that we aimed to test is whether anabantoid fishes have both morphological and functional variations in the gills among different species. We examined the gills of 12 species from three families and nine genera of Anabantoidei. Though the sizes of the fourth gill arch in three species of
10.1086/651315|The phenomenon of primary offspring sex ratio adjustment is being extensively studied, yet knowledge of the underlying proximate mechanism is still mainly hypothetical. Female birds are the heterogametic sex, thus potentially controlling the sex of the gamete to be fertilized. In several bird species, independent studies showed effects of maternal plasma testosterone, corticosterone, or condition on primary offspring sex ratio. Our objective was to investigate the causal relation between these two maternal hormones, body condition, and offspring sex ratio in homing pigeons (
30160999|The effects of ambient temperatures (
30097054|Many reptiles undergo an ontogenetic diet shift from carnivory to herbivory. In this study, we used the yellowbellied slider turtle,
10.1086/603633|Although research on wild species typically involves capture, handling, and some degree of captivity, few studies examine how these actions affect and/or alter the animals underlying stress physiology. Furthermore, we poorly understand the immediate changes that occur as wild animals adjust to captive conditions. Most studies to date have investigated relatively longterm changes in the glucocorticoid response to an acute stressor, but immediate changes in the fightorflight response are relatively understudied in wildcaught species. In this study, we investigated changes to the cardiovascular stress response during the first 10 d of captivity of freshly captured wild European starlings (
30158715|These studies investigate if crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH) is involved in 5hydroxytryptamine (5HT)induced hyperglycemia. Eyestalk ganglia with intact Xorgansinus gland complex were dissected from the crayfish
30162245|Reptilian viviparity evolves through selection for increasingly prolonged egg retention within the oviduct. In the majority of sceloporine lizard species, however, egg retention past the normal time of oviposition results in retarded or arrested embryonic development. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that the amount of embryonic development normally attained in utero is directly related to in utero oxygen partial pressure (P
30160576|Respirometry is a standard technique in comparative physiology laboratories, with measurements of rates of O
30162150|Milk composition was investigated throughout the 10mo puprearing period in subantarctic fur seals (
10.1086/676466|The muscle-specific forms of creatine kinase in rabbit (RM-CK) and carp (M1-CK) exhibit different temperature-dependent functional properties. Replacing the glycine at residue 268 of RM-CK with asparagine increases the enzymes activity at 10C. In this study, we investigated how hydrophobicity of residue 268 affects the biochemical properties of RM-CK and M1-CK at low temperature. We generated three mutants of both RM-CK and M1-CK: Asp268, Lys268, and Leu268. The secondary structures of these mutants were similar, as revealed by their circular dichroism spectra. Similar to the Asn268 mutants, the Asp268 and Lys268 mutants of RM-CK and M1-CK exhibited higher specific activities at 10C and pH 8.0. However, no such effect was observed for the RM-CK and M1-CK Leu268 mutants. While in the presence of cryoprotectant (sucrose or trehalose), the activities of wild-type RM-CK and M1-CK mutant enzymes with a hydrophobic residue at 268 were higher, and the effect was more profound at pH 8.0. It may be inferred that water molecules affect protein conformation around residue 268, thereby influencing protein stability at low temperature.
10.1086/594381|The pharyngeal jaws of moray eels function exclusively to transport prey from the oral jaws into the esophagus. This functional innovation in the moray pharyngeal jaw system occurred through the loss of some ancestral functions that presumably included prey processing. Therefore, the oral jaws of morays are used to capture and process prey. Dietary accounts suggest that morays can be categorized as either piscivorous or durophagous in feeding habits. These extreme feeding specializations that select for conflicting biomechanical demands on the oral jaws should result in two discrete clusters of cranial form and diet in morphospace. When functional characters underlying the oral jaws were examined for 10 muraenid species, piscivorous and durophagous morays occupied distinct areas of morphospace. Piscivores exhibited longer jaws, narrower heads, and long recurved teeth, while durophagous morays exhibited shorter jaws, greater dentary depths, and short blunt teeth. Durophagous morays process prey in their oral jaws, and their jawopening and jawclosing ratios, along with their enlarged adductors, revealed jaws modified for force transmission. Pharyngeal jaw characters also separated moray species into different areas of morphospace. For example,
30158709|We evaluated metabolic rates during reproduction and the thermoregulatory status of preweaning pups of
30157984|Autonomic nervous control of heart rate was studied in voluntarily diving ducks (
10.1086/680688|Lipid peroxidation products are widely used as markers of oxidative damage in the organism. To properly interpret the information provided by these markers, it is necessary to know potential sources of bias and control confounding factors. Here, we investigated the relationship between two indicators of lipid mobilization (circulating levels of triglycerides and cholesterol) and two common markers of oxidative damage (plasma levels of malondialdehyde and hydroperoxides; the latter estimated from the d-ROMs assay kit). The following five avian species were studied: red-legged partridge (
30158054|August Krogh counseled the careful selection of the best subject organism on which to undertake mechanistic physiological research. But what if an organism with the desired properties does not exist? It is now within our power to engineer organisms genetically to achieve novel combinations of traits. I propose that it is a logical extension of the Krogh principle that we use biological methodologies to create novel organisms ideally suited for particular physiological studies. Transgenics may first come to mind as the method for such transformations, but here I suggest that an alternative and complementary technique for generating biological novelty is experimental evolution. The latter has several advantages, including modification of multiple characters in one experiment, the production of advantageous traits, the testing of evolutionary hypotheses, and the identification of previously unsuspected factors involved in adaptation. Three experiments are reviewed, each of which examined the evolution of different physiological characters in different environments and organisms: locomotor performance in mice, desiccation tolerance in fruit flies, and high temperature adaptation in bacteria. While diverse in experimental type and subject, all resulted in the successful production of new variants with enhanced function in their new environments. Each experiment successfully tested hypotheses concerning physiological evolution, and in each case, unanticipated results emerged, which suggests previously unsuspected adaptive pathways and mechanisms. In addition, replicate populations in each experiment adjusted to their common environments by several different means, which indicates that physiological evolution may follow diverse stochastic pathways during adaptation. Experimental evolution can be a valuable method to produce and investigate new physiological variants and traits. The choice of experimental subjects, according to the Krogh principle, is no longer limited to currently existing organisms but is open to our imaginations and our ingenuity.
10.1086/672012|Hypoxia exposure during embryonic development of rainbow trout causes developmental delay and bradycardia and alters the ontogeny of cardiac regulatory control mechanisms. The purpose of this study was to characterize how hypoxia exposure from the day of fertilization until stage 34 (57 d postfertilization) affects the aerobic fitness and growth of the hatched fish at multiple stages. In addition, we characterized the expression of gene transcripts for seven troponin I (TnI) isoforms to examine the effect of hypoxia treatment on cardiac muscle development. Results demonstrate that the critical swimming speed of the hypoxia-exposed fish was significantly less than that of the control group at stage 35 and the fry stage. Growth was reduced in the hypoxia-treated fish between stages 35 and 37, as was the relative lipid content at stage 37. Finally, six TnI isoforms were found in all hearts. One of these isoforms,
PBZ10050|Scorpions exhibit some of the lowest recorded water loss rates compared with those of other terrestrial arthropods of similar body size. Evaporative water loss (EWL) includes cuticular transpiration and respiratory water loss (RWL) from gas exchange surfaces, that is, book lung lamellae. Estimated fractions of cuticular and respiratory losses currently available from the literature show considerable variation, at least partly as a result of differences in methodology. This study reports RWL rates and their relative importance in scorpions from two families (Buthidae and Scorpionidae), including both xeric and mesic species (or subspecies). Two of the included Buthidae were surface-dwelling species, and another inhabits empty burrows of other terrestrial arthropods. This experimental design enabled correlating RWL importance with scorpion phylogeny, habitat type, and/or homing behavior. Buthidae species exhibited significantly lower EWL rates compared with those of Scorpionidae, whereas effects of habitat type and homing behavior were not significant. Resting RWL rates were not significantly affected by scorpion phylogeny, but rates for the xeric species (totaling 10% of EWL rates at 30C) were significantly lower compared with those of mesic species. These lower RWL values were correlated with significantly lower H
10.1086/673092|Hibernating mammals become sequestered and cease foraging during prolonged seasonal periods of reduced or unpredictable food availability and instead rely on cached food and/or endogenous reserves of fat and protein accumulated during the previous active season. The gain in weight is due to increased food consumption, but it also has been hypothesized that hibernators maximize rates of fattening by decreasing costs of maintenance before weight gain, reflected in reduced resting metabolic rate (RMR). We recorded repeated measures of total body, lean, and fat mass in individual adult male and female arctic ground squirrels across their active season and found that squirrels increased body mass by 42% (males) and 62% (females). This gain was achieved through a 17% increase in lean mass and a 78-fold increase in fat mass; however, mass gain was not linear and patterns differed between sexes. Contrary to our hypothesis, decreases in RMR were not associated with rapid mass gain. We found RMR of males increased (whole-animal RMR or lean-mass-specific RMR) or remained constant (mass-specific RMR) for most of the active season and decreased only after the majority of mass had been gained. In females, although RMR (whole-animal, mass-specific, and lean-mass RMR) generally decreased across the active season, the greatest decrease occurred late in the active season after the majority of mass had been gained. In conclusion, arctic ground squirrels do not trade off metabolism to facilitate rates of weight gain before hibernation, but they do use energy sparing strategies before hibernation that help maintain peak mass.
30161043|Anuran larvae undergo watertoland transition during late metamorphosis. We investigated the development of the iliofibularis muscle in bullfrog tadpoles (
10.1086/675682|Hormones are involved in reproductive decisions, linking environmental cues and body condition and adapting behavior. Mass loss is often accompanied by decreased prolactin and increased corticosterone concentrations, influencing incubation and brooding behavior and ultimately triggering nest desertion. Using blood-sucking bugs (
30160082|Unlike most nonhibernating small mammals, Siberian hamsters (
30161193|We investigated changes in the rate of oxygen consumption (
10.1086/597484|We measured the temperature sensitivity, adrenergic sensitivity, and dependence on sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca
30160550|The placenta provides a maternalfetal exchange interface that maximizes the diffusion of gases, nutrients, and wastes. However, the placenta also may permit diffusion of lipidsoluble steroid hormones that influence processes such as sexspecific fetal development and maternal pregnancy maintenance. In mammals, placental steroid metabolism contributes to regulation of maternal and fetal hormone levels. Such mechanisms may be less highly developed in species that have recently evolved placentation, such as many reptiles. We therefore chose to investigate placental metabolism of steroids in the viviparous lizard
10.1086/589950|Extremely specialized and long tongues used for prey capture have evolved independently in plethodontid salamanders and chameleons. In both systems, the demands on tongue projection are probably similar: to maximize projection velocity and distance. Consequently, many of the design features of the projection system in these two groups have converged to an astonishing degree. Both involve the use of power amplification systems based on helically wound muscle fibers that load internal connective tissue sheets as illustrated in previous studies. Demands imposed on tongue retraction, however, are different to some degree. Although in both groups there is a clear demand for retraction capacity (given the long projection distances), in chameleons there is an added demand for force because they eat large and heavy prey. As indicated by our data, plethodontid salamanders have extremely long tongue retractors with normal striated muscle. Chameleons, on the other hand, evolved long retractors of the supercontracting type. Interestingly, our data show that at least in chameleons, the extreme design of the tongue in function of prey capture appears to have consequences on prey transport, resulting in an increased dependence on the hyoid. In turn, this has lead to an increase in transportcycle duration and an increase in the number of cycles needed to transport prey in comparison with closely related agamid lizards. Clearly, extreme morphological specializations are tuned to functional and ecological demands and may induce a reduced performance in other functions performed by the same set of integrated structures.
30161115|We quantified the specific dynamic action (SDA) resulting from the ingestion of various meal types in Burmese pythons (
30160115|Differences in growth conditions during early ontogeny have been suggested to cause permanent effects on the morphology and quality of birds. Yearly variation in growth conditions could thus result in morphological and quality differences between cohorts. In this study, we investigated the effect of small differences in the dietary protein content of captive ringnecked pheasants (
30161324|Frog jumping is an excellent model system for examining the structural basis of interindividual variation in burst locomotor performance. Some possible factors that affect jump performance, such as total body size, hindlimb length, muscle mass, and muscle mechanical and biochemical properties, were analysed at the interindividual (intraspecies) level in the tree frog
10.1086/666970|The study of phenotypic evolution should be an integrative endeavor that combines different approaches and crosses disciplinary and phylogenetic boundaries to consider complex traits and organisms that historically have been studied in isolation from each other. Analyses of individual variation within populations can act to bridge studies focused at the levels of morphology, physiology, biochemistry, organismal performance, behavior, and life history. For example, the study of individual variation recently facilitated the integration of behavior into the concept of a pace-of-life syndrome and effectively linked the field of energetics with research on animal personality. Here, we illustrate how studies on the pace-of-life syndrome and the energetics of personality can be integrated within a physiology-performance-behavior-fitness paradigm that includes consideration of ecological context. We first introduce key concepts and definitions and then review the rapidly expanding literature on the links between energy metabolism and personality traits commonly studied in nonhuman animals (activity, exploration, boldness, aggressiveness, sociability). We highlight some empirical literature involving mammals and squamates that demonstrates how emerging fields can develop in rather disparate ways because of historical accidents and/or particularities of different kinds of organisms. We then briefly discuss potentially interesting avenues for future conceptual and empirical research in relation to motivation, intraindividual variation, and mechanisms underlying trait correlations. The integration of performance traits within the pace-of-life-syndrome concept has the potential to fill a logical gap between the context dependency of selection and how energetics and personality are expected to interrelate. Studies of how performance abilities and/or aspects of Darwinian fitness relate to both metabolic rate and personality traits are particularly lacking.
30097053|In many oviparous vertebrates, hatchling phenotypes are influenced by egg incubation temperature. Many of those phenotypic traits can also acclimate to longterm thermal conditions of juveniles and adults, yet the interactive effects of prehatching and posthatching temperatures on phenotypes have not been studied. To address such interaction, we incubated eggs of wood frogs (
10.1086/605934|In female mate choice, a female chooses a reproductive partner based on direct or indirect benefits to the female. While sexual selection theory regarding female mate choice is well developed, there are few mechanistic studies of the process by which females evaluate reproductive partners. Using paternalcareproviding smallmouth bass (
30158310|Understanding the cost of immune function is essential for more accurate characterization of energy budgets of animals and better understanding of the role of immunity in the evolution of lifehistory strategies. We examined the energetic cost of maintaining a normally functioning immune system and mounting a mild immune response in wild male whitefooted mice (
30158111|The South American lungfish (
30158309|Most birds are uricotelic. An exception to this rule may be nectarfeeding birds, which excrete significant amounts of ammonia under certain conditions. Although ammonia is toxic, because it is highly water soluble its excretion may be facilitated in animals that ingest and excrete large amounts of water. Birdpollinated plants secrete carbohydrate and waterrich floral nectars that contain exceedingly little protein. Thus, nectarfeeding birds are faced with the dual challenge of meeting nitrogen requirements while disposing of large amounts of water. The peculiar diet of nectarfeeding birds suggests two hypotheses: (1) these birds must have low protein requirements, and (2) when they ingest large quantities of water their primary nitrogen excretion product may be ammonia. To test these hypotheses, we measured maintenance nitrogen requirements (MNR) and total endogenous nitrogen losses (TENL) in three hummingbird species (
10.1086/588305|An expanding body of literature has demonstrated that global climate change continues to adversely affect many populations, species, and ecosystems. However, lifehistory theory also predicts possible benefits from longer growing seasons and less severe winters, particularly for ectotherms. To test the idea that climate change will have benefits as well as costs, I studied the impacts of growingseason length on growth and overwintering conditions on survival time using sideblotched lizards (
30158737|Because deserts are characterized by low food availability, high ambient temperature extremes, and absence of drinking water, one might expect that birds that live in these conditions exhibit a lower basal metabolic rate (BMR), reduced total evaporative water loss (TEWL), and greater ability to cope with high air temperatures than their mesic counterparts. To minimize confounding effects of phylogeny, we compared the physiological performance of four species of larks at ambient temperatures (
10.1086/658291|Biogeographic analyses of passerine birds demonstrate that suboscines are numerically dominant in South America, whereas oscines are dominant elsewhere. This suggests that oscines generally outcompete suboscines and that suboscine dominance likely persists in South America because of its long isolation from other continents, where oscines have diversified. One hypothesis for oscine competitive superiority is that oscines possess higher metabolic capacities than suboscines, and this favors oscines in most habitats. We tested this hypothesis by comparing summit metabolic rates (
PBZ10164|The ciliated epithelium of amphibian embryos produces a current within the perivitelline fluid of the egg that is important in the convective transfer of oxygen to the embryos surface. The effects of convection on oxygen uptake and the immediate oxygen environment of the embryo were investigated in
30161319|Shrews (genus
PBZ10118|In a previous paper comparing 155 species of snakes, we showed that the position of the heart relative to the head is statistically related to both habitat usage and phylogenetic position (Phylogeny, ecology, and heart position in snakes,
10.1086/589901|Freshwater sponges produce gemmules during the fall as an adaptation to survive cold winters. Most gemmules are produced in a state of diapause and must undergo a vernalization period before diapause is broken and they enter the quiescence state. Quiescent gemmules will germinate if placed at room temperature. We examined the mechanism of germination in two species of freshwater sponges,
30161057|We monitored oxygen consumption (
10.1086/659769|We examined physiological and morphological parameters associated with saline tolerance in the larvae of 11 species of mosquito in the genus
30157990|Condensation of water vapor in the exhaled air stream as it passes over previously cooled membranes of the nasopharynx is thought to be a mechanism that reduces respiratory water loss in mammals and birds. Such a mechanism could be important in the overall water economy of these vertebrates, especially those species occupying desert habitats. However, this hypothesis was originally based on measurements of the temperature of exhaled air (
10.1086/663867|Understanding carbon incorporation rates and diet-to-tissue discrimination (
30158394|We measured ingested energy (
10.1086/605361|The evolution of metabolic ratetemperature (MRT) reaction norms is of fundamental importance to physiological ecology. Metabolic cold adaptation (MCA) predicts that populations or species from cooler environments will have either a higher metabolic rate at a common temperature or steeper MRT relationships, indicating greater sensitivity of respiratory metabolism to temperature. Support for MCA has been found in some insect species by comparing species or populations differing in latitude. However, the generality of these findings are contentious, with most studies either unable to account for phenotypic plasticity or the evolutionary relatedness of species or populations. Hence, the importance of MCA is vigorously debated from both evolutionary and ecological perspectives. Furthermore, few species, particularly from tropical environments, have been shown to differ in MRT sensitivity along altitudinal temperature gradients. Here, using four populations of tsetse flies (
30158422|Gray seals (
30158393|It is well established that forming a cocoon, for frog species capable of doing so, markedly reduces evaporative water loss; however, the capacity of cocooned frogs to maintain hydration during extended estivation is not well understood. The combined effects of longterm estivation and water loss were examined in the cocoonforming species
30161122|We examined branchial Na
30160060|Most reptiles maintain their body temperatures within normal functional ranges through behavioral thermoregulation. Under some circumstances, thermoregulation may be a timeconsuming activity, and thermoregulatory needs may impose significant constraints on the activities of ectotherms. A necessary (but not sufficient) condition for demonstrating thermoregulation is a difference between observed body temperature distributions and available operative temperature distributions. We examined operative and body temperature distributions of the timber rattlesnake (
30160973|Unlike the NaClsecreting salt glands of many birds and reptiles, the nasal salt glands of lizards can secrete potassium as well as sodium, with either chloride or bicarbonate as the accompanying anion. The factors responsible for initiating secretion by the gland and the rates of cation and anion secretion were studied in the desert iguana,
30161113|Intermittent activity, alternating bouts of activity and rest, can extend endurance relative to continuous locomotion. Utilizing a rapid fatiguing activity intensity (1.08 m s
30158674|The airbreathing fishes have heuristic importance as possible models for the Paleozoic evolution of vertebrate air breathing and the transition to land. A recent hypothesis about this transition suggests that the diverse assemblage of marine amphibious fishes occurring primarily in tropical, high intertidal zone habitats are analogs of early tetrapods and that the intertidal zone, not tropical freshwater lowlands, was the springboard habitat for the Devonian land transition by vertebrates. Here we argue that selection pressures imposed by life in the intertidal zone are insufficient to have resulted in the requisite aerial respiratory capacity or the degree of separation from water required for the vertebrate land transition. The extant marine amphibious fishes, which occur mainly on rocky shores or mudflats, have reached the limit of their niche expansion onto land and remain tied to water by respiratory structures that are less efficient in air and more vulnerable to desiccation than lungs. We further argue that evolutionary contingencies actuated by the Devonian origin of the tetrapods marked a critical point of divergence for a way of life in which selection pressures would operate on the physiology, morphology, and natural history of the different vertebrate groups. While chronically hypoxic and shallow water conditions in the habitats of some primitive bony fishes and some amphibians appear similar to the conditions that prevailed in the Devonian, markedly different selection pressures have operated on other amphibians and bony fishes over the 300 million years since the vertebrate land transition. For example, both egg development and larval metamorphosis in extant amphibians are geared mainly toward compensating for the uncertainty of habitat water quality or even the absence of water by minimizing the time required to develop there. In contrast, reproduction by most intertidal (and amphibious) fishes, all of which are teleosts, remains dependent on a planktonic larval phase and is characterized by specializations (brooding) that minimize overdispersal and maximize recruitment back to the littoral habitat.
10.1086/592027|Climate influences the distribution of organisms because of the thermal sensitivity of biochemical processes. Animals may compensate for the effects of variable temperatures, and plastic responses may facilitate radiation into different climates. The tropical fish
10.1086/671191|The locomotor capacity of amphibians depends strongly on temperature and hydration. Understanding the potential interactions between these variables remains an important challenge because temperature and water availability covary strongly in natural environments. We explored the effects of temperature and hydration on the hopping speeds of
10.1086/648434|Studies that have found a positive influence of moderate, nonexhaustive exercise on life expectancy contradict the rateofliving theory, which predicts that high energy expenditure in exercising animals should shorten life. We investigated effects of exercise on energy metabolism and life span in male mice from lines that had been selectively bred for high voluntary wheelrunning activity and from the nonselected control lines. Mice were divided into the following three groups (
10.1086/682239|Interactions at all levels of ecology are influenced by the rate at which energy is obtained, converted, and allocated. Trade-offs in energy allocation within individuals in turn form the basis for life-history theory. Here we describe tests of the influences of temperature, developmental environment, and genetic background on measures of growth efficiency and resting metabolic rate in an ectothermic vertebrate, the western terrestrial garter snake (
30158092|Northern populations of
30162244|In some species of ectotherms, temperature has little or no effect on the amount of energy expended during embryonic development. This phenomenon can result from either of two mechanisms: (1) a shorter incubation period at higher temperatures, which offsets the expected increase in metabolic rate, or (2) a compensatory decrease in the rate at which embryos expend energy for maintenance. To distinguish the relative importance of these two mechanisms, we quantified the acute and chronic effects of temperature on embryonic metabolism in the eastern fence lizard (
10.1086/652245|Many lineages of parthenogenetic organisms have persisted through significant environmental change despite the constraints imposed by their fixed genotype and limited evolutionary potential. The ability of parthenogens to occur sympatrically with sexual relatives may in part be due to phenotypic plasticity in their responses to their environment, especially with respect to incubation temperaturea maternally selected trait. Here we measured the incubation temperatures selected by two lineages of triploid parthenogenic geckos in the
30160622|Epithelial cells of the gut, antennal glands, integument, and gills of crustaceans regulate the movements of ions into and across these structures and thereby influence the concentrations of ions in the hemolymph. Specific transport proteins serving cations and anions are found on apical and basolateral cell membranes of epithelia in these tissues. In recent years, a considerable research effort has been directed at elucidating their physiological and molecular properties and relating these characteristics to the overall biology of the organisms. Efforts to describe ion transport in crustaceans have focused on the membrane transfer properties of Na
30158407|Exercise increases metabolic rate and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) but also elevates protein turnover. ROS cause damage to macromolecules (e.g., proteins) and thereby contribute to aging. Protein turnover removes and replaces damaged proteins. The balance between these two responses may underlie beneficial effects of physical activity on aging. Effects of lifelong exercise on antioxidant enzyme activities and fractional synthesis rate of protein (FSRP) were examined at various ages (226 mo) in heart, liver, and muscle of mice that had been selectively bred for high wheelrunning activity, housed with (S+) or without (S) a running wheel, and their randombred controls (C+) housed with running wheels. FSRP decreased with age and increased in muscle of young, but not old, activityselected mice. Enzyme activity of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase decreased with age and showed a peak at 10 mo of age in liver. Selection for wheelrunning activity did not affect antioxidant enzyme activity. Daily energy expenditure correlated positively with antioxidant levels in liver. This might indicate that oxidative stress (ROS production) increases with metabolic rate, driving upregulation of antioxidant enzymes. Alternatively, the elevated energy expenditure may reflect the energetic cost of elevated protection, consistent with the disposablesoma hypothesis and with other studies showing positive links between energy expenditure and life span. Longterm elevations in voluntary exercise did not result in elevations in antioxidant enzyme activities or protein synthesis rates.
10.1086/681992|Vertebrates cannot synthesize carotenoid pigments de novo, so to produce carotenoid-based coloration they must ingest carotenoids. Most songbirds that deposit red carotenoids in feathers, bills, eyes, or skin ingest only yellow or orange dietary pigments, which they oxidize to red pigments via a ketolation reaction. It has been hypothesized that carotenoid ketolation occurs in the liver of vertebrates, but this hypothesis remains to be confirmed. To better understand the role of hepatocytes in the production of ketolated carotenoids in songbirds, we measured the carotenoid content of subcellular components of hepatocytes from wild male house finches (
10.1086/661749|Recent research in birds has demonstrated that incubation temperature influences a suite of traits important for hatchling development and survival. We explored a possible mechanism for the effects on hatchling quality by determining whether incubation temperature influences embryonic energy expenditure of wood ducks (
30158001|The sugar preferences of 10 Namaqua rock mice,
30160046|Studies of wintering birds have demonstrated a correlation between social rank and energy expenditures. It is assumed that dominance is energetically costly because of increased activity, possibly caused by elevated androgen levels. As winter acclimatization leads to an increase in metabolic rate, maintaining dominance status in a cold climate can be a substantial challenge. We measured resting metabolic rates in dominant and subordinate darkeyed juncos (
30160027|The roles of ultimate and proximate factors in regulating basal and summit metabolic rates of passerine birds during winter have received little study, and the extent to which winter temperatures affect these variables is unknown. To address this question, we measured basal and summit (maximum coldinduced) metabolic rates in blackcapped chickadees (
PBZ9159|The euryhaline, amphibious mangrove killifish
10.1086/662680|In the future, marine organisms will face the challenge of coping with multiple environmental changes associated with increased levels of atmospheric P
10.1086/681019|Small body size, large lungs, and dense pelage contribute to the unique challenges faced by diving sea otters (
10.1086/679602|The reproductive success of precocial birds depends on investments in clutch formation and incubation. Egg quality strongly affects the phenotypic traits correlated with survival of the hatchling, but parental ability to maintain incubation temperature can also influence hatchling outcomes. The effect of incubation temperature on hatchling phenotype has been widely studied in reptiles but not in birds. The aim of this study was to explore the effects of egg mass and incubation temperature on the incubation period, hatchability, and hatchling phenotype of the mallard (
PBZ10029|The responses of free-swimming adult coho salmon (
10.1086/679519|Anthropogenic climate change is linked to food web and salinity fluctuations in estuarine environments. Both decreased nutritional status and environmental salinity influence the physiological tolerance and health of fish populations; however, limited information on the interaction of these two factors and their physiological consequences is available. The green sturgeon (
10.1086/663770|Some Pacific salmon populations have been experiencing increasingly warmer river temperatures during their once-in-a-lifetime spawning migration, which has been associated with en route and prespawn mortality. The mechanisms underlying such temperature-mediated mortality are poorly understood. Wild adult pink (
30161076|The aerobic capacity model postulates that high basal metabolic rates (BMR) associated with endothermy evolved as a correlated response to the selection on maximum, peak metabolic rate
10.1086/683039|Endothermy, high basal metabolic rates (BMRs), and high locomotor-related metabolism were important steps in the evolution of mammals. It has been proposed that the composition of membrane phospholipid fatty acids plays an important role in energy metabolism and exercise muscle physiology. In particular, the membrane pacemaker theory of metabolism suggests that an increase in cell membrane fatty acid unsaturation would result in an increase in BMR. We aimed to determine whether membrane phospholipid fatty acid composition of heart, liver, and gastrocnemius muscles differed between lines of bank voles selected for high swim-induced aerobic metabolismwhich also evolved an increased BMRand unselected control lines. Proportions of fatty acids significantly differed among the organs: liver was the least unsaturated, whereas the gastrocnemius muscles were most unsaturated. However, fatty acid proportions of the heart and liver did not differ significantly between selected and control lines. In gastrocnemius muscles, significant differences between selection directions were found: compared to control lines, membranes of selected voles were richer in saturated C18:0 and unsaturated C18:2n-6 and C18:3n-3, whereas the pattern was reversed for saturated C16:0 and unsaturated C20:4n-6. Neither unsaturation index nor other combined indexes of fatty acid proportions differed between lines. Thus, our results do not support the membrane pacemaker hypothesis. However, the differences between selected and control lines in gastrocnemius muscles reflect chain lengths rather than number of double bonds and are probably related to differences in locomotor activity per se rather than to differences in the basal or routine metabolic rate.
30160132|Measurements of incubation energetics can vary depending on the method used to measure metabolism of an incubating bird. Therefore, we evaluated the energy expenditure of six male and four female wandering albatrosses (
30163964|Clutches of leatherback turtles,
30161328|Vertebrate hearts from fish to mammals secrete peptide hormones with profound natriuretic, diuretic, and vasodilatory activity; however, the specific role of these cardiac natriuretic peptides (NPs) in homeostasis is unclear. NPs have been suggested to be involved in salt excretion in saltwater teleosts, whereas they are proposed to be more important in volume regulation in mammals. In this review, we consider an alternative (or perhaps complementary) function of NPs to protect the heart. This hypothesis is based on a number of observations. First, evidence for NPs, or NPlike activity has been found in all vertebrate hearts thus far examined, from osmoconforming saltwater hagfish to euryhaline freshwater and saltwater teleosts to terrestrial mammals. Thus the presence of cardiac NPs appears to be independent of environmental conditions that may variously affect salt and water balance. Second, cardiac stretch is a universal, and one of the most powerful, NP secretagogues. Furthermore, stretchinduced NP release in euryhaline teleosts appears relatively independent of ambient salinity. Third, excessive cardiac stretch that increases enddiastolic volume (EDV) can compromise the mechanical ability of the heart by decreasing actinmyosin interaction (lengthtension) or through Laplace effects whereby as EDV increases, the wall tension necessary to maintain a constant pressure must also increase. Excessive cardiac stretch can be produced by factors that decrease cardiac emptying (i.e., increased arterial pressure), or by factors that increase cardiac filling (i.e., increased blood volume, increased venous tone, or decreased venous compliance). Fourth, the major physiological actions of cardiac NPs enhance cardiac emptying and decrease cardiac filling. In fish, NPs promote cardiac emptying by decreasing gill vascular resistance, thereby lowering ventral aortic pressure. In mammals a similar effect is achieved through pulmonary vasodilation. NPs also decrease cardiac filling by decreasing blood volume and increasing venous compliance, the latter producing a rapid fall in central venous pressure. Fifth, the presence of NP clearance receptors in the gill and lung (between the heart and systemic circulation) suggest that these tissues may be exposed to considerably higher NP titers than are systemic tissues. Thus, a decrease in outflow resistance immediately downstream from the heart may be the first response to increased cardiac distension. Because the physiology of cardiac NPs is basically the same in fish and mammals, we propose that the cardioprotective effects of NPs have been well preserved throughout the course of vertebrate evolution. It is also likely that the cardioprotective role of NPs was one of the most primordial homeostatic activities of these peptides in the earliest vertebrates.
10.1086/665568|Although intraspecific variation in metabolic rate is associated with variation in body size, similarly sized individuals nonetheless vary greatly. At similar masses, hovering bumblebee workers (
10.1086/682386|Developmental increases in dive capacity have been reported in numerous species of air-breathing marine vertebrates. Previous studies in juvenile phocid seals suggest that increases in physiological dive capacity during the postweaning fast (PWF) are critical to support independent aquatic foraging. Although there is a strong relationship between size at weaning and PWF duration and body reserves at weaning vary considerably, few studies have considered whether such variation in body reserve magnitude promotes phenotypic modulation of dive capacity development during the PWF. Phenotypic modulation, a form of developmental plasticity in which rates and degrees of expression of the developmental program are modulated by environmental factors, may enhance diving capacity in weanlings with reduced PWF durations due to smaller body reserves at weaning if reduced body reserves promote accelerated development of dive capacity. We longitudinally measured changes in blood and muscle oxygen stores and muscle metabolic enzymes over the first 8 wk of the PWF in northern elephant seals and determined whether rates of change in these parameters varied with body reserves at weaning. We assessed whether erythropoietin (EPO), thyroid hormones, serum nonesterified fatty acid levels, and iron status influenced blood and muscle oxygen store development or were influenced by body reserves at weaning. Although mass-specific plasma volume and blood volume were relatively stable across the fast, both were elevated in animals with reduced body reserves. Surprisingly, hemoglobin and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentrations declined over the PWF while hematocrit remained stable, and these variables were not associated with body reserves or EPO. Swimming muscle myoglobin and serum iron levels increased rapidly early in the PWF and were not related to body reserves. Patterns in maximal activities of muscle enzymes suggested a decline in total aerobic and anaerobic metabolic capacity over the PWF, despite maintenance of fat oxidation capacity. These results suggest that only development of blood volume is increased in smaller weanlings and that extended fasting durations in larger weanlings do not improve physiological dive capacity.
10.1086/597530|Stress responses play a critical role in the ecology and demography of wild animals, and the analysis of fecal hormone metabolites is a powerful noninvasive method to assess the role of stress. We characterized the metabolites of injected radiolabeled cortisol in the urine and feces of Columbian ground squirrels and validated an enzyme immunoassay for measuring fecal cortisol metabolites (FCM) with a 53,11diol structure by stimulation and suppression of adrenocortical activity and by evaluation of the circadian pattern of FCM excretion. In addition, we also evaluated the impact of capture, handling, and acclimation to the laboratory on FCM. Cortisol is highly metabolized, with virtually none being excreted, and of the radiolabeled cortisol injected, 31% was recovered in urine and 6.5% in feces. The lag time between cortisol injection and its appearance in urine and feces was
30097046|This study examined ontogenetic patterns of limb loading, bone strains, and relative changes in bone geometry to explore the relationship between in vivo mechanics and sizerelated changes in the limb skeleton of two vertebrate taxa. Despite maintaining similar relative limb loads during ontogeny, bone strain magnitudes in the goat radius and emu tibiotarsus generally increased. However, while the strain increases in the emu tibiotarsus were mostly insignificant, strains within the radii of adult goats were two to four times greater than in young goats. The disparity between ontogenetic strain increases in these taxa resulted from differences in ontogenetic scaling patterns of the crosssectional bone geometry. While the crosssectional and second moments of area scaled with negative allometry in the goat radius, these measures were not significantly different from isometry in the emu tibiotarsus. Although the juveniles of both taxa exhibited lower strains and higher safety factors than the adults, the radii of the young goats were more robust relative to the adult goats than were the tibiotarsi of the young compared with adult emu. Differences in ontogenetic growth and strain patterns in the limb bones examined likely result from different threat avoidance strategies and selection pressures in the juveniles of these two taxa.
30158303|To assess the role of noradrenaline (NA) as a possible regulator of brain energy metabolism in teleost fish, the impact of increased noradrenaline levels within the brain on several parameters of energy metabolism was assessed in rainbow trout brain. Accordingly, two different doses of noradrenaline, producing increases in brain NA levels comparable to those occurring in several physiological processes in nature, were selected. In a subsequent set of three different experiments, fish were intracerebroventricularly injected with 1 L 100 g
10.1086/649964|Converting food to chemical energy (ATP) that is usable by cells is a principal requirement to sustain life. The rate of ATP production has to be sufficient for housekeeping functions, such as protein synthesis and maintaining membrane potentials, as well as for growth and locomotion. Energy metabolism is temperature sensitive, and animals respond to environmental variability at different temporal levels, from withinindividual to evolutionary timescales. Here we review principal molecular mechanisms that underlie control of oxidative ATP production in response to climate variability. Nuclear transcription factors and coactivators control expression of mitochondrial proteins and abundance of mitochondria. Fatty acid and phospholipid concentrations of membranes influence the activity of membranebound proteins as well as the passive leak of protons across the mitochondrial membrane. Passive proton leak as well as proteinmediated proton leak across the inner mitochondrial membrane determine the efficacy of ATP production but are also instrumental in endothermic heat production and as a defense against reactive oxygen species. Both transcriptional mechanisms and membrane composition interact with environmental temperature and diet, and this interaction between diet and temperature in determining mitochondrial function links the two major environmental variables that are affected by changing climates. The limits to metabolic plasticity could be set by the production of reactive oxygen species leading to cellular damage, limits to substrate availability in mitochondria, and a disproportionally large increase in proton leak over ATP production.
10.1086/669932|Most natural environments experience fluctuating temperatures that acutely affect an organisms physiology and ultimately a species biogeographic distribution. Here we examine whether oxygen delivery to tissues becomes limiting as body temperature increases and eventually causes death at upper lethal temperatures. Because of the limited direct, experimental evidence supporting this possibility in terrestrial arthropods, we explored the effect of ambient oxygen availability on the thermotolerance of insects representing six species (
10.1086/670194|Permanent offspring modification through maternal hormone transfer is thought to be a tool for mothers to influence life-history trajectories of individual offspring. In birds, yolk hormones influence numerous aspects of the offsprings physiology, including antioxidant status, an important physiological measure that is linked to growth, reproductive effort, and survival. While it is evident that yolk hormones can affect antioxidant status of nestlings, it is not known whether their effect extends beyond the nestling stage. In this study, we use the zebra finch (
30160975|We measured the effects of a adrenergic agonist, isoproterenol, on chloride transport and volume regulation of lamprey (
10.1086/662551|Global climate change poses one of the greatest threats to biodiversity. Most analyses of the potential biological impacts have focused on changes in mean temperature, but changes in thermal variance will also impact organisms and populations. We assessed the combined effects of the mean and variance of temperature on thermal tolerances, organismal survival, and population growth in
30160995|Heliothermy (heat gain by radiation) has been given a prominent role in basking lizards. However, thigmothermy (heat gain by conduction) could be relevant for heating in small lizards. To ascertain the importance of the different heat transmission modes to the thermoregulatory processes, we conducted an experimental study where we analyzed the role of heat transmission modes on heating rates and on the selection of sites for heating in the Mediterranean lizard
30158062|For most species of birds, little is known about the pattern and significance of intraspecific variation in iris colour. In early winter, captive American kestrels could be subjectively placed into at least two age categories: 0.5yrold birds had allbrown irides, whereas those of older birds were redbrown. As part of a toxicological study on kestrels, we quantified iris colour objectively using a digital camera to examine potential variation due to age, sex, and exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Red, green, and blue values, plus an overall measure of colour using principal components analysis (PC1), were derived for breeding and nonbreeding kestrels 1.56.5 yr old (fed PCBs), plus offspring 0.5 yr old (exposed to PCBs only in ovo). Age category (0.5, 1.5, and 2.5+ yr) and PCB exposure consistently had an effect on colour, while sex was significant only for red and almost so for PC1. ANOVA with age as a covariate revealed that the amount of red continued to increase throughout life, but PCBs suppressed the development of that colour.
10.1086/675494|The green sturgeon (
10.1086/665981|In many birds, nestlings exhibit brightly colored traits that are pigmented by carotenoids. Carotenoids are diet limited and also serve important health-related physiological functions. The proximate mechanisms behind the expression of these carotenoid-pigmented traits are still poorly known, especially in nestlings with sexual size dimorphism. In these nestlings, intrabrood competition levels and growth strategies likely differ between sexes, and this may in turn influence carotenoid allocation rules. We used dietary carotenoid supplementation to test whether wild marsh harrier (
10.1086/676831|Chemical and molecular chaperones are organic compounds that protect and stabilize proteins from damage and aggregation as a result of cellular stress. Using the dogfish (
30161189|Populations of the common killifish
30158386|Carotenoidbased plumage coloration of birds has been hypothesized to honestly reflect individual quality, either because carotenoids are difficult to acquire via food or because of a tradeoff in allocation of carotenoids between maintenance and signaling functions. We tested whether differential foraging ability is a necessary precondition for maintaining individual differences in carotenoidbased plumage coloration in male greenfinches (
10.1086/605936|Synchronized air breathing may have evolved as a way of minimizing the predation risk known to be associated with air breathing in fish. Little is known about how the size of individuals affects synchronized air breathing and whether some individuals are required to surface earlier than necessary in support of conspecifics, while others delay air intake. Here, the airbreathing behavior of
10.1086/656217|Most animals experience fluctuations in temperature during development, but studies of energetics have ignored the potential influence of these thermal fluctuations. We measured the energetics of
30158699|Baseline concentrations of adrenal glucocorticoids often vary substantially in wild vertebrates in the field. In at least one ectotherm, females of the New Zealand common gecko,
30162155|We examined the effects of desiccation on eggs and firstinstar larvae of two species of Lepidoptera,
30158406|Previous studies on wild black bears (
30158058|Basking by ectothermic vertebrates is thought to have evolved for thermoregulation. However, another beneficial effect of sunlight exposure, specifically the ultraviolet B (UVB) component, includes endogenous production of vitamin D
30161028|Many fruits contain high levels of available energy but very low levels of protein and other nutrients. The discrepancy between available energy and protein creates a physiological paradox for many animals consuming highfruit diets, as they will be protein deficient if they eat to meet their minimum energy requirement. We fed young grizzly bears both highenergy pelleted and fruit diets containing from 1.6% to 15.4% protein to examine the role of dietinduced thermogenesis and fat synthesis in dealing with highenergylowprotein diets. Digestible energy intake at mass maintenance increased 2.1 times, and composition of the gain changed from primarily lean mass to entirely fat when the protein content of the diet decreased from 15.4% to 1.6%. Daily fat gain was up to three times higher in bears fed lowprotein diets ad lib., compared with bears consuming the higherprotein diet and gaining mass at the same rate. Thus, bears eating fruit can either consume other foods to increase dietary protein content and reduce energy expenditure, intake, and potentially foraging time or overeat highfruit diets and use dietinduced thermogenesis and fat synthesis to deal with their skewed energytoprotein ratio. These are not discrete options but a continuum that creates numerous solutions for balancing energy expenditure, intake, foraging time, fat accumulation, and ultimately fitness, depending on food availability, foraging efficiency, bear size, and body condition.
10.1086/682216|Animals develop in atmospheric hypoxia in a wide range of habitats, and tissues may experience O
30158055|Stenohaline freshwater stingrays (
10.1086/662382|Many vertebrates undergo large increases in body size over the course of a lifetime, and these increases are often accompanied by changes in morphological and physiological parameters. For instance, in most animals, increases in size with growth are accompanied by decreases in the maximum speed of shortening (
10.1086/679591|Hibernation in mammals is a physiological and behavioral adaptation to survive intervals of low resource availability through profound decreases in metabolic rate (MR), core body temperature (
10.1086/670156|Previous studies have related levels of plasma corticosterone (CORT) of seabirds to variation in foraging conditions during the breeding period, but it is unclear whether similar relationships between foraging conditions and baseline CORT exist during other life stages. We validated methods for identifying baseline CORT of lethally sampled birds and assessed variation in baseline CORT relative to winter habitat conditions. We collected free-living white-winged scoters (
30161200|We examined body composition in barnacle geese (
10.1086/605457|Numerous avian taxa use torpor, which involves pronounced reductions in body temperature (
30158056|Translationally active cellfree systems from gills of the Antarctic scallop
10.1086/663695|For amphibians to survive in environments that experience annual droughts, they must minimize evaporative water loss. One genus of Australian hylid frogs,
30160053|The European common lizard
30158298|In
10.1086/673181|Thermal conditions associated with winter can influence the distribution of a species. Because winter severity varies along latitudes, populations of temperate fish located along a latitudinal gradient may display variation in both sublethal and lethal responses to cold stressors. Sublethal physiological disturbances were quantified in age 1 largemouth bass (
30158423|Experimental metabolic alkalosis is known to stimulate wholeanimal urea production and active ion secretion by the rectal gland in the dogfish shark. Furthermore, recent evidence indicates that a marked alkaline tide (systemic metabolic alkalosis) follows feeding in this species and that the activities of the enzymes of the ornithineurea cycle (OUC) for urea synthesis in skeletal muscle and liver and of energy metabolism and ion transport in the rectal gland are increased at this time. We therefore evaluated whether alkalosis and/or NaCl/volume loading (which also occurs with feeding) could serve as a signal for activation of these enzymes independent of nutrient loading. Fasted dogfish were infused for 20 h with either 500 mmol L
30161048|A positive correlation between male social status and testosterone levels is expected and often found in social species with high rates of agonistic interactions or when social relationships among males are unstable. In contrast, in species with low rates of agonistic interactions or when social relationships are stable, testosterone levels should not correlate with social status. The challenge hypothesis predicts that androgen levels should rise during periods of courtship or mate guarding. We addressed these questions in freeranging spotted hyenas, a species with low rates and low intensities of aggression among males but where males spend extensive effort to court females. In males, we measured testosterone, its precursor androstenedione, and its metabolite 5dihydrotestosterone. As predicted, testosterone levels were significantly higher and androstenedione levels tended to be higher in males that, at the time of sampling, defended a female, compared with males that did not defend a female. Also, as predicted, there was no correlation between social status and androgen levels in male spotted hyenas.
30158396|Because fasting king penguins (
30158342|Armored catfish (
30158416|Wild waterfowl species often nest in conditions where high humidity and microbial contamination may influence egg survival and quality. Albumen is traditionally regarded as the major impediment to microbial contamination of eggs, and its composition and activity may be selected by environmental pressures. Egg white protein from the eggs of wood duck (
10.1086/597529|Hydrogen sulfide acts as an environmental toxin across a range of concentrations and as a cellular signaling molecule at very low concentrations. Despite its toxicity, many animals, including the mudflat polychaete
30162271|Fifteen populations of
30161102|We investigated whether Pekin ducklings (
30161183|Specific dynamic action (SDA), the increase in metabolic rate above resting levels that accompanies the processes of digestion and assimilation of food, can form a substantial part of the daily energy budget of freeranging animals. We measured heart rate (
30161064|Under laboratory conditions, rock elephant shrews,
30097058|Although the principal mechanisms of insect flight are well understood, knowledge about the influence of environmental factors on flight performance is scarce. We show that ambient temperature (
30160629|The energy cost of running and carrying a load were measured in the termitophagus ponerine ant
10.1086/667407|The inner egg capsule of embryos of the yellow-spotted salamander (
30160129|Selection may act on the weakest link in fitness to change how a species adapts to an environmental stress. For many species, this limitation may be reproduction. After adult
10.1086/676934|Temporally changing environmental conditions occur in most parts of the world and can exert strong pressure on the immune defense of organisms. Seasonality may result in changes in physiological traits over the year, and such changes may be essential for the optimization of defense against infections. Evidence from field and laboratory studies suggest the existence of links between environmental conditions, such as infection risk, and the ability of animals to mount an immune response or to overcome infections; however, the importance of parasites in mediating seasonal change in immune defense is still debated. In this study, we test the hypothesis that seasonal change in immune function and connected physiological traits is related to parasite infection. We sampled captive house sparrows (
30158130|To assess the effects of subordinate social status on digestive function, metabolism, and enzyme activity in salmonid fish, juvenile rainbow trout
30158114|In this study, we investigated the intracellular localization of heat shock proteins hsp90 and hsp70 in adult and juvenile rainbow trout (
30161060|The African sharptooth catfish
10.1086/648482|Hypoxia has significant effects on organisms, from metabolic reduction to death, and could be an important evolutionary force affecting the variation among populations within a species. To determine intraspecific variation in hypoxic metabolism and the effect of body mass, we examine rates of oxygen consumption (
30160634|Nile tilapia (
30158321|The nocturnality hypothesis of K. Autumn and coworkers states that nocturnal geckos have evolved a low energetic cost of locomotion (
30161074|The concept of basal metabolic rate (BMR) was developed to compare the metabolic rate of animals and initially was important in a clinical context as a means of determining thyroid status of humans. It was also important in defining the allometric relationship between body mass and metabolic rate of mammals. The BMR of mammals varies with body mass, with the same allometric exponent as field metabolic rate and with many physiological and biochemical rates. The membrane pacemaker theory proposes that the fatty acid composition of membrane bilayers is an important determinant of a species BMR. In both mammals and birds, membrane polyunsaturation decreases and monounsaturation increases with increasing body mass and a decrease in massspecific BMR. The secretion and production of thyroid hormones in mammals are related to body mass, with the allometric exponent similar to BMR; yet there is no body sizerelated variation in either total or free concentrations of thyroid hormones in plasma of mammals. It is suggested that in differentsized mammals, the secretion/production of thyroid hormones is a result of BMR differences rather than their cause. BMR is a useful concept in some situations but not in others.
PBZ10025|Immune defenses have been shown to be heavily involved in the evolution of physiological trade-offs. In this study, we compared the internal defense systems in two subspecies of the land snail
10.1086/676310|Hosts can manage parasitic infections using an array of tactics, which are likely to vary contingent on coevolutionary history between the host and the parasite. Here we asked whether coping ability of congeners that differ in host-parasite coevolutionary history differed in response to experimental infections with a coccidian parasite. House sparrows (
10.1086/683114|Rapid absorption and elimination of dietary water should be particularly important to flying species and were predicted to vary with the water content of the natural diet. Additionally, high water absorption capacity was predicted to be associated with high paracellular nutrient absorption due to solvent drag. We compared the water absorption rates of sanguivorous, nectarivorous, frugivorous, and insectivorous bats in intestinal luminal perfusions. High water absorption rates were associated with high expected dietary water load but were not highly correlated with previously measured rates of (paracellular) arabinose clearance. In conjunction with these tests, we measured water absorption and the paracellular absorption of nutrients in the intestine and stomach of vampire bats using luminal perfusions to test the hypothesis that the unique elongated vampire stomach is a critical site of water absorption. Vampire bats gastric water absorption was high compared to mice but not compared to their intestines. We therefore conclude that (1) dietary water content has influenced the evolution of intestinal water absorption capacity in bats, (2) solvent drag is not the only driver of paracellular nutrient absorption, and (3) the vampire stomach is a capable but not critical location for water absorption.
30158424|The study of correlated evolution can lead to new insights about the inheritance patterns of complex traits. In order to better understand the evolution of metabolic rate, we tested whether voluntary activity levels and basal metabolic rate are genetically correlated in 90wkold mice (
30161139|Evidence from a number of avian studies suggests that limitation of exogenous calcium (Ca) may reduce egg quality and retard nestling growth. However, it is poorly understood whether reduction in chick growth in Capoor areas is due to insufficient intake of dietary Ca or caused by maternal Ca limitation mediated through subtle changes in composition of eggs. In this study, we provide new evidence that Ca availability during egg formation may indeed affect egg composition and influence chick development of the great tit
30161105|Plasma metabolite profiling offers a potential means to assess stopover refueling performance of migratory birds from a single capture. However, this method has not previously been validated where site quality has been determined independently using analysis of capture data. We captured and blood sampled six passerine bird species refueling at known highquality (BASE) and lowquality (TIP) sites at Long Point, Ontario, Canada. Plasma triglyceride, an indicator of fat deposition, was higher at the BASE in three earlyseason species: the hermit thrush, the American robin, and the whitethroated sparrow. Plasma BOHbutyrate, an indicator of fasting and lipid utilization, was lower at the BASE in the same three species. Plasma glycerol was lower at the BASE in American robins, and plasma phospholipid did not differ between sites. No metabolite suggested better conditions at the TIP in any species. Regression of sizecorrected mass on time of day also indicated better refueling performance at the BASE in some species, but metabolite profiling was generally more sensitive to site differences. The relationship between plasma glycerol and triglyceride was Ushaped, indicating high glycerol production during both lipolysis (as was previously known) and rapid fat deposition. Our results confirm the validity of metabolite profiling to assess stopover habitat quality and individual performance in refueling migrants.
30161078|The locomotor performance (absolute maximum running speed [MRS]) of 120 mammals was analyzed for four different locomotor modes (plantigrade, digitigrade, unguligrade, and lagomorphlike) in terms of body size and basal metabolic rate (BMR). Analyses of conventional species data showed that the MRS of plantigrade and digitigrade mammals and lagomorphs increases with body mass, whereas that of unguligrade mammals decreases with body mass. These trends were confirmed in plantigrade mammals and lagomorphs using phylogenetically independent contrasts. Multiple regression analyses of MRS contrasts (dependent variable) as a function of body mass and BMR contrasts (predictor variables) revealed that BMR was a significant predictor of MRS in the complete data set, as well as in plantigrade and nonplantigrade mammals. However, there was severe multicollinearity in the nonplantigrade model that may influence the interpretation of these models. Although these data show massindependent correlation between BMR and MRS, they are not necessarily indicative of a causeeffect relationship. However, the analyses do identify a negligible role of body size associated with MRS once phylogenetic and BMR effects are controlled, suggesting that the body size increase in large mammals over time (i.e., Copes rule) can probably rule out MRS as a driving variable.
30160974|Do organisms make beneficial physiological adjustments in response to environmental change? We examined this question by measuring the effects of shortterm (1236 h) and longterm (larval lifetime) hydric stress on the tobacco hornworm,
30097043|Highperformance muscles such as the shaker muscles in the tails of western diamondbacked rattlesnakes (
30161292|The possible interactions between inhibitory vagal control of the heart and circulating levels of catecholamines in dogfish (
30160106|Striated muscle contraction is initiated when troponin C (TnC) binds Ca
10.1086/648469|Branchial artery vasoreactivity and nerve density were measured in teleosts of different phylogenetic relatedness from cold (1.86 to +1C) and temperate (13C) environments. Polar
30161151|Both technological and conceptual advances continue to enhance our ability to evaluate physiological mechanisms in freeliving animals. Although complex and uncontrolled natural environments may challenge our ability to define causal mechanistic relationships, they provide opportunities not available in more conventional laboratory settings. Among these opportunities are the ability to observe the interplay between physiology and behavior, the potential inspiration to physiological studies from novel observations in the field, and the ability to evaluate the extent to which particular physiological systems are challenged under natural conditions. As we accumulate information about physiological function in the field, we are often forced to reconsider established paradigms: hibernating bears may contract their muscles to maintain strength and tone, testosterone levels in male stonechats maintaining territories in winter are exceptionally low, wintering emperor penguins may risk overheating, and large desert mammals may eschew braincooling mechanisms. Measuring and quantifying the organismal response to a changing environment provides a link between mechanistic physiology and behavior, ecology, and evolution and gives us new tools to understand population, community, and ecosystemlevel processes.
30161150|Evolutionary physiology is the emerging physiological discipline. Unlike environmental physiology or ecophysiology, whose definitions have long been made quite clear, evolutionary physiology has a broader scope of objectives, and its definition lacks a concise treatise. This paper presents the argument that the lack of a common definition of evolutionary physiology is retarding the unification of the mechanistic and amechanistic physiological sciences, a multidisciplinary obligation crucial for a holistic understanding of a physiological basis of fitness. The divide between mechanistic how questions, devoted primarily to homeostasis, and evolutionary why questions, concerned with understanding phenotypic and genotypic physiological variation, remains broad and is currently not conducive to synergy in the physiological disciplines. Unification may be facilitated, however, by embracing a common currency of measurement and analysis. A likely candidate is the cascade of energy from the environment to offspring and the evolution of physiological form and function, including homeostasis, associated with power management. This currency approach seeks to identify an energetic basis of fitness, namely, whether or how the evolution of lifehistory traits is influenced by energetic constraints and/or tradeoffs.
10.1086/672013|Nectar-feeding birds generally demonstrate preference for hexose solutions at low sugar concentrations, switching to sucrose/no preference at higher concentrations. Species vary in the concentration at which the switch from hexose preference occurs; this could reflect physiological constraints that would also influence nectar selection when foraging. We recorded concentration-dependent sugar type preferences in three opportunistic/generalist Australian nectarivorous species:
10.1086/605458|The gill morphologies of six species of potamotrygonid freshwater stingrays from the Amazon basin were investigated using light and electron microscopy. Some unique features were found in the potamotrygonid gill: (1) fingerlike protuberances on the gill filament, (2) an Alcian blue/periodic acidSchiffpositive histochemical reaction for several cell layers in the gill epithelium (except the basal ones), (3) pavement cells with numerous subapical mucous vesicles, (4) very large mucous cells, and (5) follicular Na
30162264|Carotenoid pigments have become a central subject of research on animal signaling systems during the past decade. Thus, measurement of plasma carotenoid levels is widespread in the literature. Many plasma biochemical parameters tend to vary with the hour of sampling, which may be an important source of sampling error. However, little is known about this kind of variation for circulating carotenoids. With a sampling protocol that allowed us to separately analyze the effect of sampling hour and repeated blood extraction at the withinindividual level, we evaluated the effect of these two parameters on plasma carotenoid concentration in captive redlegged partridges (
30160627|I recorded body temperature and behaviour of eight
10.1086/676936|Group 3 late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins are highly hydrophilic, and their expression is associated with desiccation tolerance in both plants and animals. Here we show that two LEA proteins from embryos of
30158673|Recent discoveries of previously unknown fossil forms have dramatically transformed understanding of many aspects of the fishtetrapod transition. Newer paleobiological approaches have also contributed to changed views of which animals were involved and when, where, and how the transition occurred. This review summarizes major advances made and reevaluates alternative interpretations of important parts of the evidence. We begin with general issues and concepts, including limitations of the Paleozoic fossil record. We summarize important features of paleoclimates, paleoenvironments, paleobiogeography, and taphonomy. We then review the history of Devonian tetrapods and their closest stem group ancestors within the sarcopterygian fishes. It is now widely accepted that the first tetrapods arose from advanced tetrapodomorph stock (the elpistostegalids) in the Late Devonian, probably in Euramerica. However, truly terrestrial forms did not emerge until much later, in geographically farflung regions, in the Lower Carboniferous. The complete transition occurred over about 25 million years; definitive emergences onto land took place during the most recent 5 million years. The sequence of character acquisition during the transition can be seen as a fivestep process involving: (1) higher osteichthyan (tetrapodomorph) diversification in the Middle Devonian (beginning about 380 million years ago [mya]), (2) the emergence of prototetrapods (e.g.,
30158079|Previous studies have shown that wholeanimal thermal responses of ectotherms and heterotherms (e.g., hibernators), both of which experience a wide range of body temperatures, are related to the saturation level of somatic lipids, which in turn can be influenced by the ratio of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids in the diet. This study demonstrates that Djungarian hamsters held in long days display ambient temperaturedependent choice of dietary fats, increasing their preference for saturated fats when ambient temperature increases (to 27C) and later reversing this preference when ambient temperature is returned to its original value (8C). Changes in percent contribution of the unsaturated and saturated diets in response to temperature were accomplished almost solely by changes in the amount of unsaturated diet consumed. Temperaturedependent fatty acid choice occurs at a stage in the annual cycle when Djungarian hamsters do not enter spontaneous daily torpor and therefore experience only small changes in core body temperature. These results suggest that temperaturedependent fatty acid choice may occur in a wide range of animals, including nonheterothermic endotherms.
30160101|The ability of airbreathing marine predators to forage successfully depends on their ability to remain submerged. This is in turn related to their total O
10.1086/649966|Bile salts are the major end metabolites of cholesterol and are also important in lipid and protein digestion, as well as shaping of the gut microflora. Previous studies had demonstrated variation of bile salt structures across vertebrate species. We greatly extend prior surveys of bile salt variation in fish and amphibians, particularly in analysis of the biliary bile salts of Agnatha and Chondrichthyes. While there is significant structural variation of bile salts across all fish orders, bile salt profiles are generally stable within orders of fish and do not correlate with differences in diet. This large data set allowed us to infer evolutionary changes in the bile salt synthetic pathway. The hypothesized ancestral bile salt synthetic pathway, likely exemplified in extant hagfish, is simpler and much shorter than the pathway of most teleost fish and terrestrial vertebrates. Thus, the bile salt synthetic pathway has become longer and more complex throughout vertebrate evolution. Analysis of the evolution of bile salt synthetic pathways provides a rich model system for the molecular evolution of a complex biochemical pathway in vertebrates.
30160034|Chemical reactor theory under the premise of maximization of net rate of nutrient absorption has been used to predict throughput time, , of digesta in animals. Animals that feed on hexoses, such as many vertebrate fruit and nectar eaters, are of central interest in testing reactor theory because they use no hydrolysis before absorption and, hence, should provide valuable, simplified test cases. Graphical methods based on batch reactors and used to make such predictions in the past can give optimal gut throughput times (
30160630|Animals must match their foraging and digestion to seasonal changes in availability and quality of food. When these parameters decline, the animal's performance limits for extracting energy and nutrients may be challenged. In the laboratory, we investigated daily patterns of food processing on a lowquality (highfiber) diet of alfalfa in an herbivorous, dayactive rodent, the degu (
10.1086/680079|Little is known about the mechanisms that allow capital breeders to rapidly mobilize large amounts of body reserves. Northern elephant seals (
30158411|Lactation is the most energetically demanding period in the life cycle of female mammals, and its effects on digestive flexibility and the size of internal organs have been extensively studied in laboratory mice and rats since the early 1900s. However, there have been only two studies on this topic for wild rodent species. Here, we analyzed digestive flexibilitythat is, changes in gut content, activity of digestive enzymes, and gut morphologyduring lactation in the caviomorph rodent
PBZ10053|Metabolic variability across latitudinal populations of gammarid amphipods was examined in the summer by determining whole-animal rates of oxygen uptake (
30160033|Osmotic water uptake was measured gravimetrically in isolated, ligated gill arches from trout (acclimated to and incubated at 5 and 20C) and tilapia (21.5 and 33C). For both species, incubation of arches at the higher temperature led to 1.5 to 3fold greater measures of water weight gain. However, gills from warmeracclimated trout and tilapia had 1 to >3fold lower the initial rate and 1.5 to >2.5fold lower the extent of water uptake seen in colderacclimated conspecifics. Both the incubation temperature sensitivity and the acclimation effects are consistent with transmembrane water permeation. Calciumfree incubations (permitting paracellular water movement) also indicated that interfacial cell membranes contribute to gill permeability characteristics; without calcium, trout gill osmotic water uptake values increased 1.5 to 2fold, and the temperature dependence of water uptake decreased (initial rate) or was eliminated (extent). The specific contribution of cholesterol to restricting barrier membrane water permeability was indicated by concentrationdependent increases in water uptake in the presence of either nystatin (a cholesterolcomplexing, poreforming agent) or methylcyclodextrin (which selectively depletes membrane cholesterol). In addition, a cholesterolspecific cytochemical probe (filipin) intensely labeled the apical surface membranes of trout and tilapia gill epithelium. In summary, these studies implicate membrane cholesterol in determining water permeability in fish gills.
30162163|Although higher temperatures strongly stimulate ectothermic metabolic rates, they only slightly increase oxygen diffusion rates and decrease oxygen solubility. Consequently, we predicted that insect gas exchange systems would have more difficulty meeting tissue oxygen demands at higher temperatures. In this study,
30160061|During northward migration, blackcaps arrive at stopover sites in Israel's Negev Desert with reduced masses of organs that are important in food digestion and assimilation. Blackcaps that stay to refuel (largely on fruits) do not gain mass rapidly until after 3 d at the stopover site. We hypothesized that (1) it may take several days to rebuild these reduced organs, (2) during this recovery interval high feeding rates might not be possible, and (3) this could be the basis for the absence of immediate body mass gain in blackcaps at stopover sites. To test predictions from this hypothesis we used an established fasting protocol to create a group of blackcaps with reduced intestinal and liver mass compared with ad lib. fed controls. Migrants were captured and caged in the laboratory, where they were habituated to a fruit mash diet for 8 d. One experimental group was then fasted 2 d, one was fed at a restricted level (onethird ad lib. food intake) for 4 d, and one was held as ad lib.fed controls. The fasted and restricted birds were then allowed to feed again ad lib. Birds that were experimentally fasted progressively increased their daily assimilation rate and achieved the highest rate (onethird higher than controls) 3 d after the end of their fast. Birds that were restricted achieved high rates immediately once ad lib. food was provided. Increased assimilation rate was achieved via hyperphagia and not increased assimilation efficiency. The response of the fasted birds supports the hypothesis that there may be physiological constraints to the rate of refueling during migratory stopover.
30162174|Wholebody and 20 individualtissue
30161110|Crosstolerance, or the ability of one stressor to transiently increase tolerance to a second heterologous stressor, is thought to involve the induction of heat shock proteins (Hsp). We thus investigated the boundaries of crosstolerance in tidepool sculpins (
30163971|The consequences of nest ectoparasites, such as
10.1086/603630|Small mammals usually show physiological and behavioral adaptations to cope with seasonal changes in food quality and availability. To examine the adaptive strategy of small rodents responding to varying dietary quality, we acclimated Mongolian gerbils (
30162149|Hypothesizing that emperor penguins (
30160140|Marsupial development in terrestrial isopods subjects embryos to potential physiological stresses, including desiccation, osmotic variation, and high ammonia concentrations. In this study, we investigated tolerance of osmotic extremes, total ammonia, and pH in developmental stages of
30160136|The influence of chronic cortisol elevation on metabolism, body composition, and fuel use patterns was examined in juvenile rainbow trout (
30158392|Urbanization alters stream and watershed hydrology so that fish from urban stream systems are confronted with extreme flows during storms and runoff events. To test whether residence in urban streams is associated with altered swimming ability, we compared sprint and endurance swimming performances of eight populations of blacknose dace (
30157985|Energetic adaptation to fasting in the cold has been investigated in a nocturnal raptor, the barn owl (
30161124|Mathematical models and recordings of cloacal temperature suggest that leatherback turtles (
30161084|Regional endothermy, the conservation of metabolic heat by vascular countercurrent heat exchangers to elevate the temperature of the slowtwitch locomotor muscle, eyes and brain, or viscera, has evolved independently among several fish lineages, including lamnid sharks, billfishes, and tunas. All are large, active, pelagic species with high energy demands that undertake longdistance migrations and move vertically within the water column, thereby encountering a range of water temperatures. After summarizing the occurrence of endothermy among fishes, the evidence for two hypothesized advantages of endothermy in fishes, thermal niche expansion and enhancement of aerobic swimming performance, is analyzed using phylogenetic comparisons between endothermic fishes and their ectothermic relatives. Thermal niche expansion is supported by mapping endothermic characters onto phylogenies and by combining information about the thermal niche of extant species, the fossil record, and paleoceanographic conditions during the time that endothermic fishes radiated. However, it is difficult to show that endothermy was required for niche expansion, and adaptations other than endothermy are necessary for repeated diving below the thermocline. Although the convergent evolution of the ability to elevate slowtwitch, oxidative locomotor muscle temperatures suggests a selective advantage for that trait, comparisons of tunas and their ectothermic sister species (mackerels and bonitos) provide no direct support of the hypothesis that endothermy results in increased aerobic swimming speeds, slowoxidative muscle power, or energetic efficiency. Endothermy is associated with higher standard metabolic rates, which may result from high aerobic capacities required by these highperformance fishes to conduct many aerobic activities simultaneously. A high standard metabolic rate indicates that the benefits of endothermy may be offset by significant energetic costs.
10.1086/648394|Visual temporal resolution and scotopic spectral sensitivity of three coastal shark species (bonnethead
10.1086/664590|Insects are at high risk of desiccation because of their small size, high surface-area-to-volume ratio, and air-filled tracheal system that ramifies throughout their bodies to transport O
10.1086/683013|The doubly labeled water (DLW) method is commonly used to measure energy expenditure in free-living wildlife and humans. However, DLW studies involving animals typically require three blood samples, which can affect behavior and well-being. Moreover, measurement of H (
30161129|To successfully transition from nursing to foraging, phocid seal pups must develop adequate diving physiology within the limited time between birth and their first independent foraging trip to sea. We studied the postpartum development of oxygen stores in gray seals (
30161040|Oxygen consumption of gestating Aspic vipers,
30162172|Developing embryos of the spotted salamander,
30158042|Oxygen consumption (
PBZ10031|Grizzly bears (
10.1086/666657|Hypoxic stress can alter conspecific phenotype and additionally alter phenotypes of the filial generation, for example, via maternal or epigenetic processes. Lasting effects can also be seen across development and generations even after stressors have been removed. This study utilized the model of rapidly developing, parthenogenetic
30158076|One goal of this study was to determine the combination of hydration and temperature in the northern cricket frog
30158000|Populations of scavenging seabird species in the North Sea may fluctuate with an artificial food source: the availability of fishery waste. To document this impact, it is necessary to assess the birds' nutritional status during periods with decreased fishing activity. Reference data for this purpose was collected from 22 herring gulls investigated during laboratory fasting. After 6 d of food deprivation and body mass losses exceeding 15%, the first birds entered starvation phase 3. Comparatively, this is a rather weak fasting capacity. Plasma levels of total protein and thyroid hormones decreased and hydroxybutyrate increased with fasting duration. The leucocyte proportions were shifted from lymphocytes to heterophils. After 3 d of refeeding, most of the fasting changes were reversed. Plasma enzyme activities increased and hematocrit, hemoglobin, and erythrocyte numbers decreased in both fasting and control birds, most likely as a result of experimental stress and repeated blood sampling. Glucose, cholesterol, monocytes, basophils, and glycosylated hemoglobin remained fairly constant. Triglycerides, free fatty acids, uric acid, and urea varied significantly, but changes were not as clearly a result of fasting. Therefore, total protein, hydroxybutyrate, triiodothyronine, thyroxine, and lymphocyte and heterophil percentages may be the most reliable indicators of the nutritional status and the condition of freeliving herring gulls.
30161118|Urea synthesis via the hepatic ornithine urea cycle (OUC) has been well described in elasmobranchs, but it is unknown whether OUC enzymes are also present in extrahepatic tissues. Muscle and liver urea, trimethylamine oxide (TMAO), and other organic osmolytes, as well as selected OUC enzymes (carbamoyl phosphate synthetase III, ornithine transcarbamoylase, arginase, and the accessory enzyme glutamine synthetase), were measured in adult little skates (
30158682|The platypleurine cicadas have a wide distribution across Africa and southern Asia. We investigate endothermy as a thermoregulatory strategy in 11 South African species from five genera, with comparisons to the lone ectothermic platypleurine we found, in an attempt to ascertain any influence that habitat and/or body size have on the expression of endothermy in the platypleurine cicadas. Field measurements of body temperature (
30160628|Elephant seals resting on land show an irregular breathing pattern that combines periods of eupnea and apnea. In this article we describe ontogenetic changes in the breathing pattern and in the associated cardiac response in resting pups and weanlings of the southern elephant seal,
30160100|Metabolic acidosis can result when herbivores consume browse diets high in plant secondary compounds. One mechanism for buffering excess acid is the mobilization of calcium and other alkaline salts from the skeletal system. Whitetailed deer (
30161273|Amounts of wholebody metallothionein (MT) in tilapia (
10.1086/668915|Pythons are renowned for the profound phenotypical flexibility of their visceral organs in response to ingestion of large meals following prolonged fasting. Traditionally, the phenotypic changes are studied by determining organ mass of snakes killed at different times during digestion. Here we evaluate the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for in vivo measurements of the visceral organs in fasting and digesting snakes. Twelve snakes were MRI scanned immediately before the organs were removed and weighed to provide direct comparison of the two methods. Both methods provided similar estimates for the mass of liver, gallbladder, and pancreas, whereas MRI overestimated the size of the heart and small intestine, probably because blood and digesta contributed to the volume determined by MRI. The correlations were used to derive wet organ mass from MRI-based volumes to evaluate the mass development through repeated MRI scans of five digesting snakes. MRI was performed at fasting and 24, 48, 72, 132, and 500 h after eating a meal corresponding to 25% of body mass. This observation period revealed a reversible volume upregulation of the visceral organs, supporting the view that successive MRI facilitates in vivo investigations of structural changes accompanied by digestion.
10.1086/666606|The synthesis of melanins, which are the most common animal pigments, is influenced by glutathione (GSH), a key intracellular antioxidant. At high GSH levels, pheomelanin (the lightest melanin form) is produced, whereas production of eumelanin (the darkest melanin form) does not require GSH. Oxidative damage typically increases with age, and age-related decreases in GSH have accordingly been found in diverse organisms. Therefore, there should be positive associations between the capacity to produce eumelanic traits, GSH levels, and senescence, whereas there should be negative associations between the capacity to produce pheomelanic traits, GSH levels, and senescence. We explored this hypothesis in a free-ranging population of wild boars
30161026|We investigated the combined effect of meal size and temperature on the aerobic metabolism and energetics of digestion in
30163961|The swamp eel
30158014|In an eastern North American tree frog, the spring peeper (
30161301|Siberian hamsters (
10.1086/677570|Stressful conditions can affect resource allocation among different life-history traits. The effect of dietary restriction (DR) on longevity and reproduction has been studied in many species, but we know little about its effects on energetics, especially in flying animals that have high energy demand. We assessed the effects of DR on metabolic rate throughout the entire adult life span in two butterfly species,
10.1086/665406|Hemolymph metabolite composition in ectothermic species is mainly constrained by trophic and climatic habitat conditions. In temperate regions, ectothermic species have to face subzero temperatures in winter, to which they typically respond with a state of inactivity. With use of ultra-performance liquid chromatography and gas chromatographymass spectrometry techniques, we investigated the hemolymph metabolite composition of the land snail
30158122|Poor habitat quality or body condition often correlates with high responsiveness of the hypothalamopituitaryadrenal (HPA) axis rather than with elevated baseline levels of glucocorticoids. We hypothesized that, for egglaying vertebrates, high responsiveness of the HPA axis would correspond to high concentrations of corticosterone in yolk. We tested the prediction that Japanese quail (
30158305|Redeared slider turtles (
30158724|Physiological responses to nutritional and reproductive constraints were explored in a wild population of Eurasian badgers (
10.1086/666476|Stable hydrogen isotopes (
10.1086/648395|In endotherms, metabolic performance is associated with a wide array of ecological traits, including species distribution. Researchers have suggested that the northern boundaries of North American passerines are limited by their ability to sustain the high metabolic rates required for thermoregulation. Blackcapped chickadees (
10.1086/673875|Self-amputation (autotomy) of the tail is essential for the survival of many lizards. Accordingly, it has garnered the attention of scientists for more than 200 years. Several factors can influence the release of the tail, such as the size, sex, and age of the lizard; type of predator; ecology; and evolutionary history of the lineage. Once lost, the tail will writhe for seconds to minutes, and these movements likely depend on the size and physiology of the tail, habitat of the lizard, and predation pressure. Loss of the tail will, in turn, have impacts on the lizard, such as modified locomotor performance and mechanics, as well as escape behavior. However, the tail is almost always regenerated, and this involves wound healing, altered investment of resources, and tissue differentiation. The regenerated tail generally differs from the original in several ways, including size, shape, and function. Here we summarize recent findings of research pertaining to tail autotomy, and we propose a framework for future investigations.
30161114|Pairs of reproductively mature male threespined stickleback (
30160059|Many nectarfeeding bird species decrease food intake when sugar concentration in food is increased. This feeding response can be explained by two alternative hypotheses: compensatory feeding and physiological constraint. The compensatory feeding hypothesis predicts that if birds vary intake to maintain a constant energy intake to match energy expenditures, then they should increase intake when expenditures are increased. Broadtailed hummingbirds were presented with sucrose solutions at four concentrations (292, 584, 876, and 1,168 mmol L
30160564|Lifehistory tradeoffs of populations of
30160042|Insects often produce chemicals, such as defensive compounds, whose quantity and distribution can affect their fitness. For evolution to produce adaptations, chemical production must be genetically variable. Here we report the results of a study using highperformance liquid chromatography to quantify two important chemical secretions of the flour beetle
30161291|We describe for the first time changes in the rate of CO
30161159|Emerging technologies in genomics (e.g., cDNA library screening, DNA arrays), proteomics (e.g., twodimensional gel electrophoresis and massspectroscopy fingerprinting), and metabolic regulation (e.g., elucidating proteinprotein binding associations or signal transduction pathways) offer powerful tools for comparative biochemistry that will greatly increase our understanding of how animals adapt to environmental stress. The power of these new technologies and their potential application for physiological and ecophysiological research are illustrated with examples of recent advances in key fields. These include hypoxia/anoxiaresponsive gene expression, the actions and regulation of the hypoxiainducible transcription factor, the central role of the AMPdependent kinase in mediating cellular responses to changing energy status, mammalian target of rapamycin mediation of nutrient signals in the control of protein synthesis and growth, proteomics approaches to identifying the physiological substrates of protein kinases, and the interactions of biochemistry and physiology in determining a net organismal response to high hematocrit values stimulated by erythropoietin. In particular, gene and proteinscreening technologies will drive a fundamental shift in the way that environmental stress effects on metabolism are evaluated by providing a holistic overview of the responses of a huge range of cell functions to stress and allowing researchers to identify multiple new areas of metabolic response that contribute to biochemical and physiological adaptation.
30158307|The possibility of premigratory modulation in gastric digestive performance was investigated in a longdistance migrant, the eastern curlew (
10.1086/673376|Prolonged endurance exercise and fasting are two major metabolic challenges facing Pacific salmon during spawning migrations that often occur over 1,000 km. Because both prolonged exercise and fasting stimulate the oxidation of lipids, particularly in heavily recruited tissues such as muscle, we sought to investigate the regulatory mechanisms that establish and maintain the capacity for substrate oxidation at four separate locations during the final 750 km of nonfeeding migration in sockeye salmon
10.1086/679628|Although adult fish excrete their nitrogenous waste primarily as ammonia, larval fish may excrete a higher proportion as urea, an evolutionary strategy that lessens nitrogenous waste toxicity during early development. Previous studies firmly established that ammonia excretion is inhibited in adult fish acutely exposed to alkaline water. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that total nitrogen excretion is maintained in larval zebrafish raised in alkaline water (pH  10.0) as a result of compensatory adjustments to urea and/or ammonia transport pathways. Raising zebrafish in alkaline water from 0 to 4 d postfertilization (dpf) reduced ammonia excretion at 4 dpf, whereas urea excretion was elevated by 141%. The increase in urea excretion at 4 dpf served to maintain total nitrogen excretion constant, despite the persistent inhibition of ammonia excretion. Whole body ammonia and urea contents were not significantly altered by exposure to alkaline water. Protein and mRNA expression of Rhcg1, an apically expressed ammonia-conducting channel, were significantly elevated after 4-d exposure to alkaline water, whereas the mRNA expression of Rhag, Rhbg, and urea transporter were unaffected. The acute exposure to alkaline water of 4-dpf larvae reared in control water caused a rapid inhibition of ammonia excretion that had partially recovered within 6 h of continued exposure. The partial recovery of ammonia excretion despite continued exposure to alkaline water suggested an increased ammonia excretion capacity. In agreement with an increased capacity to excrete ammonia, the transfer of larvae back to the control (normal pH) water was accompanied by increased rates of ammonia excretion. Urea excretion was not stimulated during 6-h exposure to alkaline water. Following both chronic and acute exposure to alkaline water, the rate of uptake of methylamine (an ammonia analog) was significantly elevated, consistent with increased protein expression of the apical ammonia channel, Rhcg1. Taken together, this study demonstrates a complex interplay between ammonia and urea excretion in larval zebrafish exposed to alkaline water.
30158362|The effects of hypervolemia and graded increases in arginine vasotocin (AVT), angiotensin II (ANGII), and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) on lymph heart pressure (
30160096|Two wingbeat gaits, distinguished by the presence or absence of lift production during the upstroke, are currently used to describe avian flight. Vortexvisualization studies indicate that lift is produced only during the downstroke in the vortexring gait and that lift is produced continuously in the continuousvortex gait. Tipreversal and feathered upstrokes represent different forms of vortexring gait distinguished by wing kinematics. Useful aerodynamic forces may be produced during tipreversal upstroke in slow flight and during a feathered upstroke in fast flight, but it is probable that downstroke forces are much greater in magnitude. Uncertainty about the function of these types of upstroke may be resolved when more data are available on wake structure in different flight speeds and modes. Inferring from wing kinematics and available data on wake structure, birds with long wings or wings of high aspect ratio use a vortexring gait with tipreversal upstroke at slow speeds, a vortexring gait with a feathered upstroke at intermediate speeds, and a continuousvortex gait at fast speeds. Birds with short wings or wings of low aspect ratio use a vortexring gait with a feathered upstroke at all speeds. Regardless of wing shape, species tend to use a vortexring gait for acceleration and a continuousvortex gait for deceleration. Some correlations may exist between gait selection and the function of the muscular and respiratory system. However, overall variation in wing kinematics, muscle activity, and respiratory activity is continuous rather than categorical. To further our understanding of gait selection in flying birds, it is important to test whether upstroke function varies in a similar manner. Transitions between lifting and nonlifting upstrokes may be more subtle and gradual than implied by a binomial scheme of classification.
30161092|The differences in physical properties of air and water pose unique behavioural and physiological demands on semiaquatic animals. The aim of this study was to describe the diving behaviour of the freshwater crocodile
30161082|Largescale climate oscillations in earths history have influenced the directions of evolution, last but not least, through mass extinction events. This analysis tries to identify some unifying forces behind the course of evolution that favored an increase in organismic complexity and performance, paralleled by an increase in energy turnover, and finally led to endothermy. The analysis builds on the recent concept of oxygenlimited thermal tolerance and on the hypothesis that unifying principles exist in the temperaturedependent biochemical design of the eukaryotic cell in animals. The comparison of extant waterbreathing and airbreathing animal species from various climates provides a causeandeffect understanding of the tradeoffs and constraints in thermal adaptation and their energetic consequences. It is hypothesized that the high costs of functional adaptation to fluctuating temperatures, especially in the cold (cold eurythermy), cause an increase in energy turnover and, at the same time, mobility and agility. These costs are associated with elevated mitochondrial capacities at minimized levels of activation enthalpies for proton leakage. Cold eurythermy is seen as a precondition for the survival of evolutionary crises elicited by repeated cooling events during extreme climate fluctuations. The costs of cold eurythermy appear as the single most important reason why metazoan evolution led to life forms with high energy turnover. They also explain why dinosaurs were able to live in subpolar climates. Finally, they give insight into the pathways, benefits, and tradeoffs involved in the evolution of constant, elevated body temperature maintained by endothermy. Eurythermy, which encompasses cold tolerance, is thus hypothesized to be the missing link between ectothermy and endothermy. Body temperatures between 32 and 42C in mammals and birds then result from tradeoffs between the limiting capacities of ventilation and circulation and the evolutionary trend to maximize performance at the warm end of the thermal tolerance window.
30160062|The relationship between thermal and reproductive biology is complex and poorly understood. We measured selected body temperatures (
30161340|We measured basal metabolic rate (BMR) of nonreproductive and of breeding (pregnant and lactating) female brown longeared bats (
30162251|The objective of this study was to examine whether 12 h of light exposure would lead to an increase in the pH of and a decrease in the concentration of total ammonia in the extrapallial fluid of the giant clam
30160080|The effect of oxygen partial pressure (P
30158361|Hibernating mammals present many unexplored opportunities for the study of muscle biology. The hindlimb muscles of a small rodent hibernator (
30162232|We analyzed body temperature (
30158031|Mainly due to their utilisation of relatively lowfiber diets compared to herbivorous mammals, omnivores are expected to have correspondingly low maintenance nitrogen requirements (MNRs). The limited studies examining nitrogen requirements of omnivorous mammals to date have shown this to be the case. In this article, we determine the dietary MNR of greater bilbies (
30158382|The specific objectives of this study were to determine whether sprint performance in juvenile rainbow trout is correlated with either voluntary swimming activity or aggressive behaviors and to determine the reciprocal: the effect of swimming activity and aggression on sprint performance. Sprint performance was assessed by rapidly accelerating trout (57cm fork length) to a fixed velocity (40, 42, or 45 cm s
10.1086/672372|Energy expenditure is a key mechanism underlying animal ecology, yet why individuals often differ in metabolic rate even under identical conditions remains largely unexplained. Individual variation in metabolism might be explained by correlations with other behavioral and physiological traits, with individual syndromes having environment- or state-dependent costs and benefits to fitness. We tested whether social rank within herds of female red deer is associated with individual differences in resting heart rate, an index of metabolic rate, and energetic response to monthly periods of food restriction during winter in a large outdoor enclosure near Vienna, Austria. Social rank had a strong positive effect on average daily heart rate, independent of the effects of food intake, air temperature, body temperature, and body mass. Subordinate individuals had lower heart rates than dominants, and consequently they suffered lower rates of body mass loss during periods of restricted pellet food supply. A greater capacity to minimize energy requirements might benefit the survival of subdominant female red deer during periods of negative energy balance in winter. Our study provides empirical support in a large mammal for linkages in behavior and metabolism within individuals that have environment-dependent consequences to the energy budget.
10.1086/681671|The Cape gannet
10.1086/681053|Variation in energy availability or maintenance costs in extreme environments can exert selection for efficient energy use, and reductions in organismal energy demand can be achieved in two ways: reducing body mass or metabolic suppression. Whether long-term exposure to extreme environmental conditions drives adaptive shifts in body mass or metabolic rates remains an open question. We studied body size variation and variation in routine metabolic rates in locally adapted populations of extremophile fish (
30161153|Food intakes of wild animals may not match their requirements for nutrients and energy but may vary between periods of nutritional excess (hyperphagia) and nutritional deficit (hypophagia) at timescales that vary from days to months. We present a simple model of feeding patterns and requirements of vertebrates. Frequent fasts and high intakes are typical of endothermic predators and migratory birds, whereas slow cycles and long deficits typify feeding patterns of ectothermic predators and ungulates in seasonal environments. We propose that hyperphagia is constrained by the ability to increase processes of digestion, absorption, intermediary metabolism, net deposition in tissue, and excretion to match loads of digesta and metabolites. Hyperphagia on highquality diets is limited by the clearance of metabolites, whereas digestive tract capacity and flow limit consumption of lowquality diets. Of all digestive strategies, small omnivores with simple digestive systems may be the most tolerant of frequent hyperphagia. Tolerance of hypophagia favors large endogenous stores or low massspecific rates of metabolism and reproductive output. Large animals may be most able to sustain reproduction during prolonged deficits in seasonal environments. Responses to excessive and deficient intakes of food are constrained by the length of the feeding cycle. Animals adapted to short feeding cycles may be best suited to unpredictable food supplies but at the energetic cost of maintaining spare capacity for digestion and absorption. Predictions of the response to food disruption are best evaluated in the context of body size, nutritional physiology, and life history of the species and the time for internal response.
30161133|Phenotypic traits (e.g., size, strength, speed) of hatchlings in many reptile species are influenced by hydric conditions in the nest. Previous experiments have focused on comparisons between eggs maintained under constant (but different) conditions, but eggs in natural nests frequently experience strong temporal shifts in soil water content during incubation. Keelback snakes (
30158022|The doubly labeled water (DLW) method was validated against respiration gas analysis in growing precocial chicks of the blacktailed godwit (
30161120|Nectarfeeding birds have remarkably low nitrogen requirements. These may be due either to adaptation to a lowprotein diet or simply to feeding on a fluid diet that minimizes metabolic fecal nitrogen losses. We measured minimal nitrogen requirements (MNR) and total endogenous nitrogen loss (TENL) in the omnivorous European starling
10.1086/649894|Immunological measures are increasingly being applied to ecological and evolutionary studies of wild vertebrates, yet frequently it is not clear how condition and environmental factors correlate with various immune parameters. We used mixedmodel ANOVA to examine the effects of several measures of condition (both morphological and physiological) and environmental factors on two measures of immune responsiveness in nestling house wrens (
PBZ10013|Here we comment on a recent article (Gartner et al.
10.1086/653477|Aerodynamic theory predicts that the mechanical costs of flight are lowest at intermediate flight speeds; metabolic costs of flight should trend similarly if muscle efficiency is constant. We measured metabolic rates for nine Annas hummingbirds (
30160587|Exercise and digestive processes are known to elevate the metabolic rate of organisms independently. In this study, the effects of simultaneous exercise and digestion were examined in the graceful crab
10.1086/671811|Buoyancy is an important consideration for diving marine animals, resulting in specific ecologically relevant adaptations. Marine mammals use blubber as an energy reserve, but because this tissue is also positively buoyant, nutritional demands have the potential to cause considerable variation in buoyancy. North Atlantic right whales
30163969|Migrating songbirds interrupt their feeding to fly between stopover sites that may vary appreciably in diet quality. We studied the effects of fasting and food restriction on body composition and digestive organs in a migratory songbird and how these effects interacted with diet quality to influence the rate of recovery of nutrient reserves. Food limitation caused whitethroated sparrows to reduce both lean and fat reserves, with about 20% of the decline in lean mass represented by a decline in stomach, small intestine, and liver. During refeeding on diets similar in nutrient composition to either grain or fruit, foodlimited grainfed birds ate 40% more than did control birds, and they regained body mass, with on average 60% of the increase in body mass composed of lean mass including digestive organs. In contrast, foodlimited fruitfed birds did not eat more than did control birds and did not regain body mass, suggesting that a digestive constraint limited their food intake. The interacting effects of food limitation and diet quality on the dynamics of body composition and digestive organs in sparrows suggest that the adequacy of the diet at stopover sites can directly influence the rate of recovery of body reserves in migrating songbirds and hence the pace of their migration.
30161333|We investigated the effects of a change from a highfat diet to a lowfat diet of differing fatty acid (FA) composition on the body composition and blubber FA of five captive juvenile harp seals. Seals that had been maintained for 1 yr on a diet of Atlantic herring (9% fat) were switched to a diet of Atlantic pollock (1.7% fat) for 30 d. On days 0, 14, and 30, mass and body composition (using isotope dilution) were measured, and blubber biopsies (5
30158078|In the estuarine amphipod
30158090|Selection studies are useful if they can provide us with insights into the patterns and processes of evolution in populations under controlled conditions. In this context it is particularly valuable to be able to analyze the limitations of and constraints on evolutionary responses to allow predictions concerning evolutionary change. The concept of a selection pathway is presented as a means of visualizing this predictive process and the constraints that help define the populations response to selection. As pointed out by Gould and Lewontin, history and chance are confounding forces that can mask or distort the adaptive response. Students of the evolutionary responses of organisms are very interested in the effects of these confounding forces, since they play a critical role not only in the laboratory but also in natural selection in the field. In this article, we describe some methods that are a bit different from those used in most studies for examining data from laboratory selection studies. These analytical methods are intended to provide insights into the physiological mechanisms by which evolutionary responses to the environment proceed. Interestingly, selection studies often exhibit disparate responses in replicate populations. We offer methods for analyzing these disparate responses in replicate populations to better understand this very important source of variability in the evolutionary response. We review the techniques of Travisano et al. and show that these approaches can be used to investigate the relative roles of adaptation, history, and chance in the evolutionary responses of populations of
30161083|Many elements of mammalian and avian thermoregulatory mechanisms are present in reptiles, and the changes involved in the transition to endothermy are more quantitative than qualitative. Drawing on our experience with reptiles and echidnas, we comment on that transition and on current theories about how it occurred. The theories divide into two categories, depending on whether selection pressures operated directly or indirectly on mechanisms producing heat. Both categories of theories focus on explaining the evolution of homeothermic endothermy but ignore heterothermy. However, noting that hibernation and torpor are almost certainly plesiomorphic (=ancestral, primitive), and that heterothermy is very common among endotherms, we propose that homeothermic endothermy evolved via heterothermy, with the earliest protoendotherms being facultatively endothermic and retaining their ectothermic capacity for constitutional eurythermy. Thus, unlike current models for the evolution of endothermy that assume that hibernation and torpor are specialisations arising from homeothermic ancestry, and therefore irrelevant, we consider that they are central. We note the sophistication of thermoregulatory behavior and control in reptiles, including precise control over conductance, and argue that brooding endothermy seen in some otherwise ectothermic Boidae suggests an incipient capacity for facultative endothermy in reptiles. We suggest that the earliest insulation in protoendotherms may have been internal, arising from redistribution of the fat bodies that are typical of reptiles. We note that shortbeaked echidnas provide a useful living model of what an (advanced) protoendotherm may have been like. Echidnas have the advantages of endothermy, including the capacity for homeothermic endothermy during incubation, but are very relaxed in their thermoregulatory precision and minimise energetic costs by using ectothermy facultatively when entering short or longterm torpor. They also have a substantial layer of internal dorsal insulation. We favor theories about the evolution of endothermy that invoke direct selection for the benefits conferred by warmth, such as expanding daily activity into the night, higher capacities for sustained activity, higher digestion rates, climatic range expansion, and, not unrelated, control over incubation temperature and the benefits for parental care. We present an indicative, stepwise schema in which observed patterns of body temperature are a consequence of selection pressures, the underlying mechanisms, and energy optimization, and in which homeothermy results when it is energetically desirable rather than as the logical endpoint.
30158032|We measured microclimate, field metabolic rates (FMRs), water flux, and activity patterns of telemetered box turtles (
10.1086/661236|Many long-lived avian species defer reproduction for several years, often displaying a floating behavior characterized by the lack of mates and exclusive territories. Understanding the proximate mechanisms regulating floating behavior is a relevant topic of research for physiologists, behavioral ecologists, and population biologists because a prolonged period of nonbreeding can negatively affect lifetime fitness and change population dynamics. Here we tested two hypotheses linking endocrine function to floating status: (
30161029|The fasting metabolism of 71 to 235dold subantarctic fur seal (
30162240|During fall migration many songbirds switch from consuming primarily insects to consuming mostly fruit. Fruits with more carbohydrates and less protein may be sufficient to rebuild expended fat stores, but such fruits may be inadequate to replace catabolized protein. We manipulated the concentrations and isotopic signatures of macronutrients in diets fed to birds to study the effects of diet quality on metabolic routing of dietary nutrients. We estimated that approximately 45% and 75%, respectively, of the carbon in proteinaceous tissue of birds switched to high or lowprotein diets came from nonprotein dietary sources. In contrast, we estimated that approximately 100% and 20%80%, respectively, of the nitrogen in proteinaceous tissues of birds switched to high or lowprotein diets was attributable to dietary protein. Thus, the routing and assimilation of dietary carbon and nitrogen differed depending on diet composition. As a result, 
30158100|We report on a novel Djungarian hamster mutant lineage that exhibits a loss of uncoupling protein (UCP) 3 mRNA and protein in brown adipose tissue (BAT), whereas UCP3 expression in skeletal muscle is only mildly diminished. In response to 2 d of cold exposure, UCP3 mRNA was 4.5fold elevated in BAT of wildtype hamsters but remained undetectable in mutant hamsters. Notably, in BAT of warm and coldexposed mutant hamsters, UCP1 and UCP2 mRNA levels were increased. The tissue specificity of UCP3 deficiency suggests that the underlying unknown mutation impairs a factor controlling UCP3 gene expression selectively in brown adipocytes. In wildtype but not mutant primary brown adipocytes, UCP3 gene expression was stimulated by treatment with peroxisome proliferator activated receptor (PPAR) ligands. This implies that the underlying mutation causing UCP3 deficiency is expressed within brown adipocytes and disrupts PPARdependant transactivation of the UCP3 gene. On the functional level, we found no direct phenotypic consequences of altered UCP expression in BAT. The absence of UCP3 in BAT of coldacclimated mutant hamsters affected neither maximal nonshivering thermogenesis elicited by noradrenaline nor the uncoupled respiration of isolated mitochondria in the presence of oligomycin and in response to palmitate.
30161007|Specific dynamic action (SDA), the accumulated energy expended on all physiological processes associated with meal digestion, is strongly influenced by features of both the meal and the organism. We assessed the effects of meal size, meal type, body temperature, and body size on the postprandial metabolic response and calculated SDA of the marine toad,
10.1086/590220|Under temperaturedependent sex determination (TSD), temperatures experienced by embryos during development determine the sex of the offspring. Consequently, populations of organisms with TSD have the potential to be strongly impacted by climatic warming that could bias offspring sex ratio, a fundamental demographic parameter involved in population dynamics. Moreover, many taxa with TSD are imperiled, so research on this phenomenon, particularly longterm field study, has assumed great urgency. Recently, turtles with TSD have joined the diverse list of taxa that have demonstrated populationlevel changes in breeding phenology in response to recent climate change. This raises the possibility that any adverse impacts of climate change on populations may be alleviated by individual plasticity in nesting phenology. Here, we examine data from a longterm study on a population of painted turtles (
30160093|The energetic costs of swimming at the surface (swimming) and swimming underwater (diving) are compared in tufted ducks (
10.1086/605932|Behavioral responses to progressive hypoxia exposure were assessed in several species of fish from the family Cottidae (sculpins), which are distributed along the nearshore marine environment and differ in their hypoxia tolerance. The use of aquatic surface respiration (ASR) and aerial emergence as a response to progressive decreases in environmental O
10.1086/648470|Physiological processes are regulated by a diverse array of neuropeptides that coordinate organ systems. The neuropeptides, many of which act through G proteincoupled receptors, affect the levels of cyclic nucleotides (cAMP and cGMP) and Ca
30161289|Pulmonary surfactant is a mixture of lipids and proteins that is secreted by alveolar Type II cells. It reduces alveolar surface tension and hence the work of breathing. Despite the tremendous diversity of lung structures amongst the vertebrates, the composition of surfactant is highly conserved. Conserved elements of the surfactant system amongst distantly related species are likely to be crucial factors for successful lung development. Understanding the mechanisms by which the surfactant system becomes operational in animals with dramatically different birthing strategies and in distantly related species will provide important information about the role of the surfactant system in the commencement of air breathing and the processes regulating surfactant maturation and secretion. In mammals, the embryonic maturation of the surfactant system is controlled by a host of factors, including glucocorticoids, thyroid hormones, and autonomic neurotransmitters. Here we review the mechanisms controlling the maturation of surfactant production, including birthing strategy, phylogeny, lung structure, and posthatching environment. Using four species of egglaying amniote (chicken, dragon lizard, sea turtle, and crocodile) previously described in detail and the large amount of information available for mammals, we examine the hypothesis that the control of surfactant production is dependent on glucocorticoids (dexamethasone [Dex]), thyroid hormones (T
30160544|Transcription profiling (quantitative analysis of RNA abundance) can provide a genomewide picture of gene expression changes that accompany organismal adaptation to a new environment. Here, we used DNA microarrays to characterize genomewide changes in transcript abundance in three replicate lines of the bacterium
10.1086/679499|The bed bug (
PBZ11002|In marine osmoconformers, cells use organic osmolytes to maintain osmotic balance with seawater. High levels of urea are utilized in chondrichthyans (sharks, rays, skates, and chimaeras) for this purpose. Because of ureas perturbing nature, cells also accumulate counteracting methylamines, such as trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), at about a 21 ureamethylamine ratio, the most thermodynamically favorable mixture for protein stabilization, in shallow species. However, previous work on deep-sea teleosts (15 species) and chondrichthyans (three species) found an increase in muscle TMAO content and a decrease in urea content in chondrichthyans with depth. We hypothesized that TMAO counteracts protein destabilization resulting from hydrostatic pressure, as is demonstrated in vitro. Chondrichthyans are almost absent below 3,000 m, and we hypothesized that a limitation in urea excretion and/or TMAO retention might play a role. To test this, we measured the content of major organic osmolytes in white muscle of 13 chondrichthyan species caught with along-contour trawls at depths of 503,000 m; the deepest species caught was from 2,165 m. Urea and TMAO contents changed significantly with depth, with ureaTMAO declining from 2.96 in the shallowest (5090 m) groups to 0.67 in the deepest (1,9112,165 m) groups. Urea content was 291371 mmol/kg in the shallowest group and 170189 mmol/kg in the deepest group, declining linearly with depth and showing no plateau. TMAO content was 85168 mmol/kg in the shallowest group and 250289 mmol/kg in the deepest groups. With data from a previous study for a skate at 2,850 m included, a second-order polynomial fit suggested a plateau at the greatest depths. When data for skates (Rajidae) were analyzed separately, a sigmoidal fit was suggested. Thus, the deepest chondrichthyans may be unable to accumulate sufficient TMAO to counteract pressure; however, deeper-living specimens are needed to fully test this hypothesis.
30162277|Densitydependent population regulation is important in many natural populations, and in those populations, high population density is a likely stressor. In amphibians, previous laboratory studies with tadpoles suggest that corticosterone, the main glucocorticoid stress hormone, is one of the key regulators of densitydependent growth. To test this relationship in natural settings, we manipulated wood frog (
30160157|Fasting weaned northern elephant seal pups (
30157981|The purpose of this study is to provide biochemical evidence for the functions of the mitochondriarich cell (MR cell) in the yolksac epithelium of the developing larvae of tilapia
30160105|The Australian moss frog,
10.1086/671166|Fisheries and marine park management strategies for large predatory reef fish can mean that a large proportion of captured fish are released. Despite being released, these fish may experience high mortality while they traverse the water column to locate suitable refuge to avoid predators, all the while recovering from the stress of capture. The predatory reef fish Spanish flag snapper (
10.1086/596513|Investigators of wildlife populations often utilize demographic indicators to understand the relationship between habitat characteristics and population viability. Assessments of corticosterone may enable earlier detection of populations at risk of decline because physiological adjustments to habitat disturbance occur before reproductive diminutions. Noninvasive methods to accomplish these assesments are important in species of concern, such as the greater sage grouse (GRSG). Therefore, we validated a radioimmunoassay that measures immunoreactive corticosterone metabolites (ICM) in fecal samples and used it to characterize the adrenocortical response of 15 GRSG exposed to capture, intravenous injection of 50 IU/kg adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) or saline, and 22 h of confinement. Those animals injected with ACTH exhibited a more sustained (
10.1086/652244|Recent findings are reported about certain aspects of the structure and function of the mammalian and avian lungs that include (
30161027|Previous studies indicated that female
10.1086/652242|Although many studies have modeled the effects of climate change on future species distributions and extinctions, the theoretical approach most commonly usedclimate envelope modelingtypically ignores the potential physiological capacity of animals to respond to climate change. We explore the consequences of the phenotypic plasticity available to animals, by examining physiological responses of freeliving animals in their natural habitats and by applying integrative, mechanistic models of heat exchange in invertebrates and humans. Specifically, we explore how behavioral, autonomic, and morphological modifications such as nocturnal activity, selective brain cooling, and body color may potentially serve as buffers to the consequences of climate change. Although some species may adapt to climate change through phenotypic plasticity, there are significant limits to this strategy. Furthermore, predictions of the response of organisms to changes in climate can be erroneous when modeled at large scales using coarse spatial or temporal data. Environmental heterogeneity can provide habitats suitable for species even though largescale changes in the climate might predict a species extinction. A detailed understanding of physiology, combined with integrative biophysical modeling and ecological manipulation, provides a powerful tool for predicting future ecological patterns and managing their consequences.
10.1086/648509|The cardiovascular system of all animals is affected by gravitational pressure gradients, the intensity of which varies according to organismic features, behavior, and habitat occupied. A previous nonphylogenetic analysis of heart position in snakeswhich often assume vertical posturesfound the heart located 15%25% of total body length from the head in terrestrial and arboreal species but 25%45% in aquatic species. It was hypothesized that a more anterior heart in arboreal species served to reduce the hydrostatic blood pressure when these animals adopt vertical postures during climbing, whereas an anterior heart position would not be needed in aquatic habitats, where the effects of gravity are less pronounced. We analyzed a new data set of 155 species from five major families of Alethinophidia (one of the two major branches of snakes, the other being blind snakes, Scolecophidia) using both conventional and phylogenetically based statistical methods. General linear models regressing log
30161141|The objective of this study was to elucidate whether the marine bluespotted fantail ray,
10.1086/671812|Many animal species show ornaments with yellow-orange-red colors produced by carotenoid pigments. Such traits have evolved as reliable signals of individual quality because of the costs inherent to their production or maintenance. In animal tissues, carotenoids are often found combined with free fatty acids, as carotenoid esters, which may confer more stability to coloration than free carotenoids. Surprisingly, the potential relevance of carotenoid esterification in the expression of animal sexual signals has been virtually ignored. Moreover, the sources of variability of esterified carotenoid levels are barely known, because most studies have not quantified their concentrations. Here, carotenoids in the ornaments (bill, eye rings, and legs) of red-legged partridges
30158711|During 19971999, we collected serum samples from 156 common eider (
PBZ10073|Evolutionary shifts in diet composition are presumably accompanied by simultaneous changes in digestive physiology. The adaptive modulation hypothesis predicts that activities of digestive enzymes should match the relative levels of their substrates in an animals diet so that available membrane space and synthetic energy are not wasted on enzymes in excess of need. However, previous studies on captive passerine birds showed high intraspecific phenotypic flexibility only in proteases but not in carbohydrases in response to varying diet composition. In this study, we measured the activities of pancreatic, intestinal, and hepatic enzymes in six wild-caught passerine species. We predicted that if the adaptive modulation hypothesis holds during evolutionary shifts in diet composition in birds, then mass-specific activities of digestive enzymes should be correlated positively with the content of their relevant substrates in species diets. Whereas mass-specific activities of proteases (aminopeptidase-N, trypsin, chymotrypsin, alanine aminotransferase) were not correlated with estimated dietary protein content, mass-specific activities of all studied carbohydrases (amylase, maltase, sucrase) were positively correlated with estimated dietary starch content. We conclude that activities of carbohydrases but not proteases are evolutionarily matched to diet composition in passerine birds. We hypothesize that the need for nitrogen and essential amino acids can prevent the evolution of a low activity of proteases, even in species feeding on a low-protein diet.
30161005|The rate and magnitude of buccal expansion are thought to determine the pattern of water flow and the change in buccal pressure during suction feeding. Feeding events that generate higher flow rates should induce stronger suction pressure and allow predators to draw prey from further away. We tested these expectations by measuring the effects of prey capture kinematics on suction pressure and the effects of the latter on the distance from which prey were drawntermed suction distance. We simultaneously, but not synchronously, recorded 500Hz video and buccal pressure from 199 sequences of four largemouth bass,
30160024|Intracellular free amino acids were measured in the abdominal muscle of the three larval instars, postlarvae, and juveniles of the lobster
30160137|Seasonal changes of thermoregulation were studied in mole voles (
30162176|Six decades of studies have speculated that digestive capacity might limit avian growth rate or that developmental changes in the gut might determine developmental changes in digestive efficiency. However, there are no studies on digestive enzymes during avian development, except for studies on mainly domestic birds that exhibit the precocial mode of development. We studied alimentary organ masses, intestinal enzyme activities (sucrase, maltase, isomaltase, aminopeptidaseN), and pancreatic enzyme activities (amylase, trypsin, chymotrypsin) during development of a wild passerine bird exhibiting the altricial mode of development. Wild nestling house sparrows were studied immediately after removal from the nest (days 0, 3, 6 of age; day
30161054|Previous studies in marine ectotherms from a latitudinal cline have led to the hypothesis that eurythermal adaptation to low mean annual temperatures is energetically costly. To obtain more information on the tradeoffs and with that the constraints of thermal adaptation, mitochondrial functions were studied in subpolar lugworms (
10.1086/668484|Low temperatures in northern winters are energetically challenging for mammals, and a special energetic burden is expected for diminutive species like shrews, which are among the smallest of mammals. Surprisingly, shrews shrink their body size in winter and reduce body and brain mass, an effect known as Dehnels phenomenon, which is suggested to lower absolute energy intake requirements and thereby enhance survival when food availability is low. Yet reduced body size coupled with higher body-surface-to-mass ratio in these tiny mammals may result in thermoregulatory heat production at a given temperature constituting a larger proportion of the total energy expenditure. To evaluate energetic consequences of reduced body size in winter, we investigated common shrews
10.1086/649628|The application of stable isotope analysis to ecology requires estimating the contribution of different isotopic sources to the isotopic signatures of an animals tissues using mixing models. These models make the physiologically unrealistic assumption that assimilated nutrients are disassembled into their elemental components and that these atoms are then reassembled into biomolecules. We quantified the extent to which mixing models yield erroneous results with an experiment using Nile tilapia (
30097060|Body composition in birds was evaluated indirectly by
10.1086/649965|Many animals use carotenoid pigments derived from their diet for coloration and immunity. The carotenoid tradeoff hypothesis predicts that, under conditions of carotenoid scarcity, individuals may be forced to allocate limited carotenoids to either coloration or immunity. In polychromatic species, the pattern of allocation may differ among individuals. We tested the carotenoid tradeoff hypothesis in the Midas cichlid,
30161095|The African lungfish,
30161034|Despite more than 200 yr of recognition that some microscopic metazoans survive environmental conditions far beyond those experienced in nature while in a cryptobiotic state, this phenomenon has received little attention from evolutionary biologists. The excess environmental resistance exhibited by cryptobiotic organisms cannot be viewed as an adaptation within current evolutionary biology. Rather, excess resistance may have evolved as a byproduct of natural selection for tolerance to desiccation or other naturally occurring environmental agents. The combined effects of desiccation, metabolic arrest, effective stabilization of dry or frozen cells by protectant molecules, and efficient DNA repair mechanisms may have led to a protection of the organism against conditions far beyond those experienced in nature.
30161282|Pulmonary surfactant is a mixture of phospholipids, neutral lipids, and proteins that controls the surface tension of the fluid lining the lung. Surfactant amounts and composition are influenced by such physiological parameters as metabolic rate, activity, body temperature, and ventilation. Microchiropteran bats experience fluctuations in these parameters throughout their natural daily cycle of activity and torpor. The activity cycle of the microchiropteran bat
30158085|We explored the relationship between lipids of the stratum corneum (SC), the barrier to watervapor diffusion of the skin, and cutaneous water loss (CWL) of species of freeliving larks along a temperaturemoisture gradient. Our results showed that free fatty acids, cholesterol, and ceramides were the major constituents of SC in larks from different environments including the Netherlands, a mesic environment; Iran, a semiarid region; and several areas in Saudi Arabia, a hot dry desert. We found that CWL was reduced among larks inhabiting deserts, but our data did not support the hypothesis that birds from desert environments have larger quantities of lipids per unit dry mass of the SC than larks from more mesic environments. Instead, larks in arid environments had a higher proportion of ceramides, especially the more polar fractions 46, and a smaller proportion of free fatty acids in their SC, an adjustment that apparently reduced their CWL. Subtle changes in the ratios of lipid classes can apparently alter the movement of water vapor through the skin. We hypothesize that desert birds have higher proportions of ceramides in their SC and lower proportions of free fatty acids because this combination allows the lipid lamellae to exist in a more highly ordered crystalline phase and consequently creates a tighter barrier to watervapor diffusion.
30161191|We have taken advantage of the unique properties of nucleated rainbow trout (
10.1086/680015|In adult marine mammals, muscles can sustain aerobic metabolism during dives in part because they contain large oxygen (O
30158319|Because of the uncertainty in food resources in nature, all animals face the possibility of imposed periods of fasting (i.e., starvation) at some point in their lives. I investigated physiological and biochemical responses to starvation that occur in a species of rattlesnake known to tolerate successfully prolonged periods of starvation in the wild. Sixteen subadult
10.1086/588306|Dehydration and procurement of water are key problems for vertebrates that have secondarily invaded marine environments. Sea snakes and other marine reptiles are thought to remain in water balance without consuming freshwater, owing to the ability of extrarenal salt glands to excrete excess salts obtained either from prey or from drinking seawater directly. Contrary to this longstanding dogma, we report that three species of sea snake actually dehydrate in marine environments. We investigated dehydration and drinking behaviors in three species of amphibious sea kraits (
30160071|We measured food intake, digestive efficiency, body mass increments, resting metabolic rate (RMR), carcass fat content, size and histological structure of the gut, and the rate of intestinal brush border uptake of
30161022|Complete development of avian eggs requires external heat, inducing in most species an energetic cost of incubation for the parents. Triiodothyronine (T
10.1086/648737|Among snakes, the magnitude to which intestinal performance is regulated with feeding and fasting is adaptively linked to their natural feeding frequency. For infrequently feeding boas and pythons, gastrointestinal form and function are widely regulated with each feeding bout. In contrast, snakes that naturally feed more frequently modestly regulate intestinal function with each meal. To further explore the postprandial responses of a frequently feeding snake and assess whether such responses are matched in magnitude, we examined the postprandial metabolic, morphologic, and functional responses of the diamondback water snake (
PBZ10156|Evaporation through the skin contributes to more than half of the total water loss in birds. Therefore, we expect the regulation of cutaneous water loss (CWL) to be crucial for birds, especially those that live in deserts, to maintain a normal state of hydration. Previous studies in adult birds showed that modifications of the lipid composition of the stratum corneum (SC), the outer layer of the epidermis, were associated with changes in rates of CWL. However, few studies have examined the ontogeny of CWL and the lipids of the SC in nestling birds. In this study, we measured CWL and the lipid composition of the SC during development of nestlings from two populations of house sparrows, one from the deserts of Saudi Arabia and the other from mesic Ohio. We found that desert and mesic nestlings followed different developmental trajectories for CWL. Desert nestlings seemed to make a more frugal use of water than did mesic nestlings. To regulate CWL, nestlings appeared to modify the lipid composition of the SC during ontogeny. Our results also suggest a tighter regulation of CWL in desert nestlings, presumably as a result of the stronger selection pressures to which nestlings are exposed in deserts.
30163958|We tested the hypotheses that relative medullary thickness (RMT) and kidney mass are positively related to habitat aridity in rodents, after controlling for correlations with body mass. Body mass, masscorrected kidney mass, masscorrected RMT, masscorrected maximum urine concentration, and habitat (scored on a semiquantitative scale of 14 to indicate increasing aridity) all showed statistically significant phylogenetic signal. Body mass varied significantly among habitats, with the main difference being that aquatic species are larger than those from other habitats. Masscorrected RMT and urine concentration showed a significant positive correlation (
30162259|Most shallowwater teleosts have moderate levels of trimethylamine Noxide (TMAO; 50 mmol/kg wet mass), a common osmolyte in many other marine animals. Recently, muscle TMAO contents were found to increase linearly with depth in six families. In one hypothesis, this may be an adaptation to counteract the deleterious effects of pressure on protein function, which TMAO does in vitro. In another hypothesis, TMAO may be accumulated as a byproduct of acylglycerol (AG) production, increasing with depth because of elevated lipid metabolisms known to occur in some deepsea animals. Here we analyze muscle TMAO contents and total body AG (mainly triacyglycerol [TAG]) levels in 15 species of teleosts from a greater variety of depths than sampled previously, including eight individual species caught at two or more depths. Including data of previous studies (total of 17 species, nine families), there is an apparent sigmoidal increase in TMAO contents between 0 and 1.4km depths, from about 40 to 150 mmol/kg. From 1.4 to 4.8 km, the increase appears to be linear (
10.1086/590163|Physiological processes that set an organisms thermal limits are in part determining recent shifts in biogeographic distribution ranges due to global climate change. Several characteristics of the heatshock response (HSR), such as the onset, maximal, and upper limit of heatshock protein (Hsp) synthesis, contribute to setting the acute upper thermal limits of most organisms. Aquatic animals from stable, moderately variable, or highly variable thermal environments differ in their HSR. Some animals living in extremely stable thermal environments lack the response altogether. In contrast, rocky intertidal animals that experience highly variable thermal conditions start synthesizing Hsps, that is, the onset of synthesis, below the highest temperatures that they experience. Thus, these organisms experience thermal conditions in their environment that are close to the upper thermal limits in which they can defend themselves against cellular thermal insults by employing the HSR. Subtidal animals are characterized by moderately variable thermal environments, and their cells start synthesizing Hsps above the highest temperatures that they experience. The upper thermal limits against which they can defend themselves are thus much higher than the highest body temperatures they currently experience. Furthermore, the ability to acclimate to changing thermal conditions seems greatest among animals from moderately variable environments and limited in animals from stable and highly variable environments. Thus, these findings suggest that organisms with the narrowest (stenothermal) and the widest (highly eurythermal) temperature tolerance ranges live closest to their thermal limits and have a limited ability to acclimate, suggesting that they will be most affected by global climate change.
30158401|Nectarivorous bats include very dilute nectar in their natural diet, and recent work with Pallass longtongued bat
10.1086/681263|Invasive cane toads are colonizing southeastern Australia via a narrow coastal strip sandwiched between unsuitable areas (Pacific Ocean to the east, mountains to the west). Many of the available spawning sites exhibit abiotic conditions (e.g., temperature, salinity, and pH) more extreme than those encountered elsewhere in the toads native or already invaded range. Will that challenge impede toad expansion? To answer that question, we measured pH in 35 ponds in northeastern New South Wales and 8 ponds in the Sydney region, in both areas where toads occur (and breed) and adjacent areas where toads are likely to invade, and conducted laboratory experiments to quantify effects of pH on the survival and development of toad eggs and larvae. Our field surveys revealed wide variation in pH (3.99.8) among natural water bodies. In the laboratory, the hatching success of eggs was increased at low pH (down to pH 4), whereas the survival, growth, and developmental rates of tadpoles were enhanced by higher pH levels. We found that pH influenced metamorph size and shape (relative head width, relative leg length) but not locomotor performance. The broad tolerance range of these early life-history stages suggests that pH conditions in ponds will not significantly slow the toads expansion southward. Indeed, toads may benefit from transiently low pH conditions, and habitat where pH in wetlands is consistently low (such as coastal heath) may enhance rather than reduce toad reproductive success. A broad physiological tolerance during embryonic and larval life has contributed significantly to the cane toads success as a widespread colonizer.
10.1086/678080|Freshwater and marine fishes exhibit a dichotomy in biosynthesis of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) from shorter-chain precursors. Marine species generally lack this ability due to deficiencies in requisite desaturase or elongase enzymes. Gulf killifish
30160552|Oxygen preference of the planktonic crustacean
10.1086/661952|Colonies of
30160142|The population dynamics of red kangaroos (
30158013|Most duckling mortality occurs during the week following hatching and is often associated with cold, windy, wet weather and scattering of the brood. We estimated the thermoregulatory demands imposed by cold, windy weather on isolated 1dold mallard (
30158108|Late life is a distinct phase of life that occurs after the aging period and is now known to be general among aging organisms. While aging is characterized by a deterioration in survivorship and fertility, late life is characterized by the cessation of such agerelated deterioration. Thus, late life presents a new and interesting area of research not only for evolutionary biology but also for physiology. In this article, we present the theoretical and experimental background to late life, as developed by evolutionary biologists and demographers. We discuss the discovery of late life and the two main theories developed to explain this phase of life: lifelong demographic heterogeneity theory and evolutionary theory based on the force of natural selection. Finally, we suggest topics for future physiological research on late life.
30161132|Compliance of the subcutaneous lymph sacs of the hindlimbs increases from distal to proximal, as does limb segment mass (and presumably rate of lymph formation), for the semiaquatic bullfrog
30160054|Birds and reptiles have been important models for studying the energetics of embryonic development. Studies on these groups reveal three metabolic patterns: an exponential increase in metabolism with embryo age, a sigmoidal increase with age, or a sigmoidal increase followed by a decrease before hatching. Models developed to explain avian metabolic patterns and developmental costs partition total costs between growth and maintenance. To test the generality of these models, we examined embryonic energetics of the oviparous whitespotted bamboo shark
30158335|The tobacco hornworm
10.1086/590414|Reindeer (
30162146|North American turtles hatch in late summer and spend their first winter either on land or underwater. Adaptations for terrestrial overwintering of hatchlings in northern regions, where winter thermal and hydric regimes are harsh, have not been systematically investigated in many species. We measured intrinsic supercooling capacity, resistance to inoculative freezing, and desiccation resistance in hatchlings of terrestrial and aquatic turtles collected from northern (
30160023|Temperature acclimation of adult vertebrates typically induces changes in metabolic physiology. During early development, such metabolic compensation might have profound consequences, yet acclimation of metabolism is little studied in early life stages. We measured the effect of egg incubation temperature on resting metabolic rate (RMR) and blood thyroid hormone levels of hatchling snapping turtles (
10.1086/597525|Reptiles may bask for reasons other than thermoregulation. One alternative is to regulate homeostasis of vitamin D
30161019|Hibernation is widely regarded as an adaptation to seasonal energy shortage, but the actual influence of energy availability on hibernation patterns is rarely considered. Here we review literature on the costs and benefits of torpor expression to examine the influence that energy may have on hibernation patterns. We first establish that the dichotomy between food and fatstoring hibernators coincides with differences in diet rather than body size and show that small or large species pursuing either strategy have considerable potential scope in the amount of torpor needed to survive winter. Torpor expression provides substantial energy savings, which increase the chance of surviving a period of food shortage and emerging with residual energy for early spring reproduction. However, all hibernating mammals periodically arouse to normal body temperatures during hibernation. The function of these arousals has long been speculated to involve recovery from physiological costs accumulated during metabolic depression, and recent physiological studies indicate these costs may include oxidative stress, reduced immunocompetence, and perhaps neuronal tissue damage. Using an optimality approach, we suggest that tradeoffs between the benefits of energy conservation and the physiological costs of metabolic depression can explain both why hibernators periodically arouse from torpor and why they should use available energy to minimize the depth and duration of their torpor bouts. On the basis of these tradeoffs, we derive a series of testable predictions concerning the relationship between energy availability and torpor expression. We conclude by reviewing the empirical support for these predictions and suggesting new avenues for research on the role of energy availability in mammalian hibernation.
30161286|Nectarivorous birds are represented by three major radiations: honeyeaters and sunbirds in the Old World and hummingbirds in the New World. Costas hummingbirds and New Holland honeyeaters have unusually low nitrogen requirements, which have been related to the species lowprotein, highsugar diets. Therefore, we hypothesised that orangetufted sunbirds (
PBZ10047|Typically, eggshell water vapor conductance is measured on whole eggs, freshly collected at the commencement of a study. At times, however, it may not be possible to obtain whole fresh eggs but rather egg fragments or previously blown eggs. Here we evaluate and describe in detail a technique for modern laboratory analysis of eggshell conductance that uses fragments from fresh and museum eggs to determine eggshell water vapor conductance. We used fresh unincubated eggs of domesticated chickens (
30162242|In wild birds, relatively little is known about intra or interspecific variation in immunological capabilities, and even less is known about the effects of stress on immune function. Immunological assays adaptable to field settings and suitable for a wide variety of taxa will prove most useful for addressing these issues. We describe a novel application of an in vitro technique that measures the intrinsic bacteriakilling abilities of blood. We assessed the capacities of whole blood and plasma from freeliving individuals of five tropical bird species to kill a nonpathogenic strain of
10.1086/668203|We tested whether boldness is associated with attenuation of the physiological stress response in behaviorally selected lines of zebrafish
30158397|Resistance to watervapor diffusion through the skin is thought to be conferred by lipids in the stratum corneum (SC), the outer layer of the epidermis. We tested the effect of ambient humidity on cutaneous water loss (CWL) and lipid composition of the SC by acclimating house sparrows (
30161166|Animal populations exhibit wide ranges of divergence associated with both geographic and genetic distances. Here, we examined the role of crossing distance on the cardiovascular response to exhaustive exercise among differentiated stocks of largemouth bass
30161065|The use of heterothermy is well documented in the order Caprimulgiformes, but there is conflicting information regarding whether whippoorwills are heterothermic. Consequently, we sought to rigorously examine the thermoregulatory abilities of this species. Our study was conducted in southeast South Dakota (4247
30162261|The eggs of birds and reptiles contain detectable levels of several steroid hormones, and experimental application of such steroids can reverse genetically determined sex of the offspring. However, any causal influence of maternally derived yolk steroids on sex determination in birds and reptiles remains controversial. We measured yolk hormones (dihydrotestosterone, testosterone, and 17 estradiol) in newly laid eggs of the montane scincid lizard
30158723|We studied changes in body composition in great knots,
10.1086/674959|Temperature affects multiple aspects of an organisms biology and thus defines a major axis of the fundamental niche. For ectotherms, variation in the thermal environment is particularly important because most of these taxa have a limited capacity to thermoregulate via metabolic heat production. While temperature affects all life-history stages, stages can differ in their ability to respond to the thermal environment. For example, in oviparous organisms, free-living adults can behaviorally thermoregulate, whereas developing embryos are at the mercy of the nest environment. These differences in the realized thermal environment should select for life-history stages to have different thermal tolerances, although this has been rarely examined. I tested the hypothesis that stage-specific thermal reaction norms can evolve independently by using southern alligator lizards (
30161329|To determine the utility of fecal corticosteroid concentration as a measure of chronic stress under laboratory and field conditions, we biochemically and physiologically validated a radioimmunoassay for corticosteroids in three rodent species, house mice (
30160566|Metabolic scaling theory provides a framework for modeling the combined mass and temperature dependence of metabolic rate. The theory predicts that wholeorganism metabolic rate should scale with body mass raised to the 3/4 power as a consequence of the physical characteristics of internal distribution networks. Metabolic rate is predicted to vary with absolute body temperature,
10.1086/668893|Stress-induced increases in glucocorticoids (GCs) modulate behavior and are key in directing energy reserves. The capture-restraint protocol was developed to experimentally stimulate and quantify the magnitude of the acute stress response by comparing baseline GC levels with those collected after restraining a subject for a period of time, typically 30 min. This protocol has been used extensively in the field and lab, yet few studies have investigated whether it parallels hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activation under natural acute stressors. We examined the hypothesis that acute stress from the capture-restraint protocol accurately mimics the adrenocortical response induced by a natural acute stressor. Using wild-caught rock pigeons
10.1086/603654|We examined the time course for measurement of basal metabolic rate (BMR; measured as O
30158684|Longterm fasting is a component of northern elephant seal (
10.1086/589727|The proposition that increased energy expenditure shortens life has a long history. The rateofliving theory (Pearl
10.1086/675678|During the breeding season, dynamic changes in body coloration are regularly observed in the male brown tree frog
10.1086/670734|The carotenoid trade-off hypothesis states that diet-derived carotenoids are traded off among competing physiological demands, but this statement is rarely tested in ornamented females. In this study, reverse sexually dimorphic convict cichlids (
30163965|Hatchling painted turtles (
10.1086/678954|Hagfishes and lampreys (order Cyclostomata) are living representatives of an ancient group of jawless vertebrates (class Agnatha). Studies on cyclostome hearts may provide insights into the evolution of the vertebrate heart and thereby increase our understanding of cardiac function in higher vertebrates, including mammals. To this end, electrical excitability of the heart in a basal vertebrate, the European river lamprey (
30097059|There has been considerable recent interest in the development of the circulation in the zebrafish. Optical techniques typically used to visualize changes in heart size allow measurement of stroke volume during early vertebrate development, but this approach is complicated in zebrafish larvae because of the hearts irregular shape and its significant change in morphology during the first 6 d of development. By use of a threedimensional integration of the early zebrafish heart and vessels, we have greatly reduced measurement error of stroke volume and cardiac output and have determined the crosssectional growth of major vessels in the developing zebrafish larvae. A dramatic 500%600% increase in cardiac output (from 10 to 5060 nL min
10.1086/664584|Loss of aerobic scope at high and low temperatures is a physiological mechanism proposed to limit the thermal performance and tolerance of organisms, a theory known as oxygen- and capacity-limited thermal tolerance (OCLTT). Eurythermal organisms maintain aerobic scope over wide ranges of temperatures, but it is unknown whether acclimation is necessary to maintain this breadth. The objective of this study was to examine changes in aerobic scope in
10.1086/596579|Nongenetic maternal contributions, such as steroid hormones, have received much attention in recent years because they have the potential to influence offspring phenotype. Research in oviparous taxa has demonstrated that there is amongspecies variability in their response to these maternal contributions. However, studies in chelonians and crocodilians have been hampered by the fact that techniques involving egg manipulations that breach the eggshell routinely result in massive egg mortality. In this study, we present an improved yolk manipulation technique that resulted in increased egg survival (in excess of 70% survival) in the redeared slider turtle (
10.1086/591806|In this study, field biotelemetry and laboratory physiology approaches were coupled to allow understanding of the behavioral and physiological responses of fish to winter hypoxia. The biotelemetry study compared dissolved oxygen levels measured throughout the winter period with continually tracked locations of nine adult largemouth bass obtained from a wholelake submerged telemetry array. Fish habitat usage was compared with habitat availability to assess whether fish were selecting for specific dissolved oxygen concentrations. The laboratory study examined behavioral and physiological responses to progressive hypoxia in juvenile largemouth bass acclimated to winter temperatures. Results from the dissolved oxygen measurements made during the biotelemetry study showed high variance in underice dissolved oxygen levels. Avoidance of water with dissolved oxygen <2.0 mg/L by telemetered fish was demonstrated, but significant use of water with intermediate dissolved oxygen levels was also found. Results from the lab experiments showed marked changes in behavior (i.e., yawning and vertical movement) at <2.0 mg/L of dissolved oxygen but no change in tissue lactate, an indicator of anaerobic metabolism. Combined results of the biotelemetry and laboratory studies demonstrate that a dissolved oxygen content of 2.0 mg/L may be a critical threshold that induces behavioral responses by largemouth bass during the winter. In addition, the use by fish of areas with intermediate levels of dissolved oxygen suggests that there are multiple environmental factors influencing winter behavior.
10.1086/666057|In species with repeated bouts of reproduction, a females ability to retain sufficient tissue for self-maintenance is essential to her survival and capacity for future reproduction. Loss of bone mineral content results in bone fragility and the possibility of reduced survival, so females should guard against the overuse of their bone mineral during reproduction. Given these constraints, I predicted that bone mobilization would increase with litter size in mice but plateau before maximum litter size was reached. To test this idea, I manipulated the litter sizes of house mice on the day of parturition to 3, 8, 13, and 18 offspring. At weaning, I euthanized the females and calculated whole-body and bone mineral composition. The total mineral content of females femurs dropped as litter size increased to the average litter size for this strain of mouse (13) but surprisingly, femoral mineral content was higher for females assigned the largest litter sizes (18). Seven of the nine females assigned 18 young cannibalized some of their offspring. For females assigned to these larger litters, femoral ash content was not correlated with number of young consumed, suggesting that mineral recycling had little effect on final bone mineral content. However, nursing effort (accounting for young lost to cannibalism) was correlated with maternal femoral ash at weaning. These finding suggest that the high bone mineral content of females assigned the largest litters was associated with a reduction in endogenous mineral allocated to the litter.
30158701|In trout and salmon, the metabolic costs of exercise and feeding are additive, which would suggest that gastrointestinal blood flow during exercise is maintained to preserve digestive and absorptive processes related to the specific dynamic action (SDA) of food. However, in most published studies, gastrointestinal blood flow drops during swimming, hypoxia, and general stress. To test whether gastrointestinal blood flow is spared during exercise after feeding, sea bass were instrumented with flow probes to measure cardiac output and celiacomesenteric blood flow while swimming in a respirometer before and after feeding. Swimming at 2 body lengths per second (bl s
30162148|Weaning mass in southern elephant seals is highly variable, the heaviest pups being three times as heavy as the lightest ones. After weaning, pups undergo an extensive postweaning period in which they draw on their reserves. To quantify the energy expenditure during the postweaning period, changes in mass, body composition, and postweaning duration were measured in southern elephant seals at King George Island, South Shetland Islands, Antarctica. Overall, mean pup weaning mass was
10.1086/594380|The fangs of vipers are extremely long, rotating, hollow teeth. Analysis of video records of more than 750 strikes recorded at 60 or 250 frames per second for 285 individuals representing 86 species in 31 genera shows that vipers reposition fangs after initial contact with prey in more than a third of the strikes. Repositioning resulted when fangs missed prey entirely or hit prey regions that did not permit adequate penetration. The prevalence of repositioning, even among species that normally release prey, suggests strong selective pressure for rapid neuromotor response to fang placement error. The rapidity of repositioning suggests the existence of (a) finescale sensory detection of fang penetration depth, (b) rapid modulation of contraction of antagonistic muscles, and (c) possibly neurological modifications to shorten transmission time between sensory input and motor output. Extreme fang length has apparently coevolved with extreme functions.
30161175|Fish have a central respiratory pattern generator (CRPG) in the brain stem that initiates activity in a series of cranial nerves innervating respiratory muscles. These nerves burst sequentially in the order of their rostrocaudal distribution in the central nervous system. When respiratory drive is high, this activity spreads caudally to occipital and anterior spinal neurons that project via the hypobranchial nerves to stimulate hypaxial muscles, causing active jaw abduction. The CRPG may also recruit the heart. Fish, like mammals, show respiratory components in the intrinsic variability of heart rate (HRV). Cardiorespiratory synchrony in the dogfish is driven by bursting activity in the cardiac branches of the vagus nerve, which emanates from preganglionic neurons in the dorsal vagal motor nucleus. A respiratory component in HRV is difficult to discriminate in other species, requiring the use of power spectral analysis and the subsequent elimination of aliased components.
30158433|Recently, there has been considerable interest in the role of the immune system in shaping lifehistory evolution, sexual selection strategies, and indexes of individual quality. The most frequently used assay of immune function, particularly in avian field studies, is the phytohemagglunitin (PHA) skin test. PHA is injected subcutaneously into the wing web, and the magnitude of the resultant swelling has traditionally been interpreted as an index of an individuals cellmediated immunocompetence. The test follows one of two protocols: the traditional twowing injection protocol, with one wing web injected with PHA and the other with phosphatebuffered saline (PBS), or the simplified onewing protocol that omits the PBS injection. In this technical comment, we alert researchers to the importance of considering handling time when performing the PHA test. We show that zebra finches (
10.1086/663634|In capital breeders, individual differences in body size and condition can impact mating effort and success. In addition to the collateral advantages of large body size in competition, large nutrient reserves may offer advantages in endurance rivalry and enable the high rates of energy expenditure associated with mating success. We examined the impacts of body reserves and dominance rank on energy expenditure, water flux, mating success, and breeding tenure in the adult male northern elephant seal, a polygynous, capital breeder. Adult males expended energy at a rate of
10.1086/673546|The ability to shed an appendage occurs in both vertebrates and invertebrates, often as a tactic to avoid predation. The tails of lizards, unlike most autotomized body parts of animals, exhibit complex and vigorous movements once disconnected from the body. Despite the near ubiquity of autotomy across groups of lizards and the fact that this is an extraordinary event involving the self-severing of the spinal cord, our understanding of why and how tails move as they do following autotomy is sparse. We herein explore the histochemistry and physiology of the tail muscles of the leopard gecko (
PBZ10152|White sturgeon rank among the most CO
30161298|Carotenoids are important dietary constituents in birds. They serve as pigments and play numerous physiological roles in both the laying hen and developing embryo. However, factors determining the absorption of carotenoids and their allocation to different functions are numerous and complex, and causal relationships are generally poorly known. Our objective was to determine the degree to which carotenoid levels in egg yolks and the plasma of hens were influenced by differences in diet and reproductive output in captive redlegged partridges. Carotenoid concentrations were measured by high performance liquid chromatography in two feeds (high and low carotenoid content) and in yolks and plasma of hens near the start and end of laying. Early in the laying season, plasma and yolk carotenoids varied with diet and were correlated with one another. Late in the season, a dietary effect was evident only for yolks, and there was no relationship between plasma and egg levels of individual hens. However, plasma carotenoids at the end of laying were strongly correlated with the number of eggs that had been laid. Dietary availability, although important, could explain some variation in carotenoid levels in plasma and egg yolks only in the context of reproductive history.
30158091|We examined spontaneous locomotory behavior and respiratory pattern in replicate outbred populations of
30160558|The compartmentalization of body fluids was measured in three species of ducks that differ in saline tolerance. Half of the birds of each species drank freshwater, while the other half drank saline (300 mM NaCl). Among ducks that drank freshwater, total body water (TBW) was similar among all species, but Barrows goldeneyes (
30161006|We tested the hypothesis that the physiological strategy for acclimating to low body temperature is similar among closely related fish. Largemouth bass (
10.1086/676935|Heat shock proteins (HSPs) and antioxidants are key cellular defenses against stress. Seals routinely undergo protracted fasting, which is normally associated with physiological stress in other animals. We tested the hypotheses that (1) relative HSP70 protein abundance is higher in liver and blubber of fasting relative to suckling wild gray seal pups; (2) differences in HSP70 are mirrored in tissue superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activity, as well as glutathione levels; (3) extracellular HSP70 correlates with hepatic and blubber HSP70 abundance; and (4) protein carbonylation, an index of oxidative damage, is lower in tissues with higher levels of these cellular stress markers. In contrast to our expectation, suckling pups had higher relative HSP70 abundance and glutathione levels in liver and blubber and higher hepatic catalase activity. Plasma HSP70 did not correlate with liver or blubber abundance of the protein. Suckling pups did not experience greater protein carbonylation, suggesting that cellular protective mechanisms prevent protein damage despite an apparent increase in cellular stress. SOD activity was not affected by nutritional state, but in blubber tissue, it was positively correlated with blubber thickness. Greater requirements for antioxidants and HSPs in suckling pups or in animals with thicker blubber could arise from rapid protein synthesis, high metabolic fuel availability, and/or exposure to lipophilic toxins. Developmental and nutritional changes in cellular defenses have important implications for gray seals susceptibility to additional stress exposure.
30158101|Herbivorous lizards are potentially capable of high digestive efficiency, but the presence of an indigenous microbial population has been implied from measurements of activity rather than directly studied. This study is the first to provide direct biochemical and microbiological evidence for fermentative digestion in freeliving land iguanas (
30158034|Metabolic and ventilatory variables were measured in a large semifossorial marsupial, the hairynosed wombat (
30158363|This study demonstrates that shortterm behavioral and physiological responses may permit the sailfin molly
10.1086/652425|Parental care is taxonomically widespread because it improves developmental conditions and thus fitness of offspring. Although relatively simplistic compared with parental behaviors of other taxa, python eggbrooding behavior exemplifies parental care because it mediates a tradeoff between embryonic respiration and hydration. However, because egg brooding increases gasexchange resistance between embryonic and nest environments and because female pythons do not adjust their brooding behavior in response to the increasing metabolic requirements of developing offspring, python egg brooding imposes hypoxic costs on embryos during the late stages of incubation. We conducted a series of experiments to determine whether eggshells coadapted with brooding behavior to minimize the negative effects of developmental hypoxia. We tested the hypotheses that python eggshells (1) increase permeability over time to accommodate increasing embryonic respiration and (2) exhibit permeability plasticity in response to chronic hypoxia. Over incubation, we serially measured the atomic and structural components of Childrens python (
30160568|Elasmobranch fishes are an ancient group of vertebrates that have unusual lipid metabolism whereby storage lipids are mobilized from the liver for peripheral oxidation largely as ketone bodies rather than as nonesterified fatty acids under normal conditions. This reliance on ketones, even when feeding, implies that elasmobranchs are chronically ketogenic. Compared to specimens sampled within 2 d of capture (recently captured), spiny dogfish
10.1086/666509|In mammals, the circadian master clock generates daily rhythms of body temperature (
10.1086/605548|Stable isotopes are an important tool for physiological and behavioral ecologists, although their usefulness depends on a thorough understanding of the dynamics of isotope incorporation into tissue(s) over time. In contrast to hair, claws, and feathers, most animal tissues continuously incorporate carbon (and other elements), and so carbon isotope values may change over time, depending on resource use and tissuespecific metabolic rates. Here we report the carbon turnover rate for 12 tissues from a passerine bird, the zebra finch (
30160549|Overwintering habits of hatchling Blandings turtles (
30161073|Minimal metabolic rate represents the minimal cost of living and appears to have the same relative composition of adenosine triphosphate processes in all organisms. Minimal metabolic rate is influenced by temperature and defines the standard metabolic rate (SMR) of animals. Animals that achieve SMR only for a given temperature are strictly ectothermic. Endotherms, on the other hand, are characterized by leakier membranes and an associated increase in cellular metabolism for a given temperature. The increase in cellular metabolism is coupled with an increase in heat production (i.e., obligatory thermogenesis) that, together with SMR, defines the basal metabolic rate of an endotherm. Consideration of minimal metabolic rate must take into account ecological and physiological processes, environmental influences, evolutionary arguments, and body size.
10.1086/597483|Metabolic functions are generally optimized within a narrow range of body temperatures (
30158431|Immune activity is variable in many wild animals, despite presumed strong selection against immune incompetence. Much variation may be due to changes in prevalence and abundance of pathogens (and/or their vectors) in time and space, but the costs of immune defenses themselves may also be important. Induction of immune activity often increases energy and protein expenditure, sometimes to the point of compromising fitness. Whether immune defenses are expensive to maintain once they are generated, however, is less well appreciated. If so, organisms would face persistent challenges of allocating resources between immunity and other expensive physiological processes, which would mandate tradeoffs. Mild food restriction (70% ad lib. diet) reduces secondary antibody responses in deer mice (
30160048|The time course and magnitude of the heatshock response in relation to severity of thermal stress are important, yet poorly understood, aspects of thermotolerance. We examined patterns of protein synthesis in congeneric marine snails (genus
10.1086/668851|The abundance and success of widely distributed species across variable environments make them suitable models for exploring which traits will be important for resilience to climate change. Using a widespread mosquito species,
30161158|Although molecular physiology and ecology have drifted apart as a consequence of early separation in the questions posed and techniques used, there is a resurgence of interest in forging links between them. Here we explore the reasons for this renewed interest and provide four examples of how this is happening. Specifically, we examine links between molecular physiology and ecological realities in insect responses to thermal stress, vertebrate responses to anoxia, metabolic fuel use and torpor in mammals, and the recently developed metabolic theory of ecology. Several novel insights are emerging from integrated approaches to these problems that might not have come forward from any single perspective on them. Nonetheless, prospects for linking molecular physiology and ecological realities are likely to remain poor if greater focus is not given to developing these links. Mostly, this is a consequence of the differing approaches and languages adopted by these fields. We discuss approaches by which the prospects for synthetic work might be improved.
30160057|Individual variation in physiological traits may have important consequences for offspring survivorship and adult fitness. Variance in offspring phenotypes is due to interindividual differences in genotype, environment, and/or maternal effects. This study examined the contributions of incubation environment, maternal effects, and clutch identity to individual variation in metabolic rates in the common snapping turtle,
30161101|We examined how the glucocortical stress response in freeliving Magellanic penguin (
10.1086/656216|Questions about the adaptive importance of metabolic rate can be approached only when measurements of differences between individuals are repeatable. We made daily measurements of CO
30162272|Data from populations undergoing experimental evolution can be used to make comparisons between physiologically differentiated populations and to determine evolutionary trajectories. Comparisons of longestablished laboratory populations of
30161303|In phocid seals, the transition to nutritional independence is abrupt, with females abandoning their offspring after weaning and returning to sea. We hypothesized that body size at weaning may play an important role in the nature of this transition. We studied the changes in body composition and water flux of newly weaning harbour seals over the first 46 wk postweaning. Thirtythree pups were dosed with deuterium oxide to estimate total body water (TBW) and a subset of 24 was dosed twice to estimate changes in body composition and water flux. All pups lost body mass over the study period, but TBW increased during the period of mass loss, indicating continued lean tissue growth. Combined data from this and our early study indicated that heavy (>median mass) pups were relatively fatter (41.0% vs. 37.1%) and had significantly greater total body energy at weaning than did light ( median mass) pups. Percentage TBW declined linearly over time in light pups but was constant in heavy pups for the first 19 d postweaning and then declined linearly. Both the temporal pattern and composition of mass loss differed between light and heavy pups. Estimated food intake increased in the second 2 wk of study compared to the first 2 wk, in both light and heavy pups, reflecting increased foraging success but at levels still insufficient to meet daily expenditures of most individuals.
30161099|The immune system requires energetic and nutritional resources to optimally defend organisms against pathogens and parasites. Because resources are typically limited, immune function may require a tradeoff with other physiologically demanding activities. Here, we examined whether photoperiodically induced seasonal states (breeding, molting, or nonbreeding) affected the cutaneous immune response of captive male house sparrows (
30161284|Laboratory studies of temperature effects on shortterm feeding and growth rates were combined with field data on thermal environments to explore the consequences of temperature variation for growth of caterpillars of the cabbage white butterfly,
30161181|We performed an experiment at a field site in northcentral Nebraska to assess the role of the nest environment in inducing variation in bone mineral content in hatchling painted turtles
PBZ9164|Behavioral thermoregulation represents an important strategy for reducing energetic costs in thermally challenging environments, particularly among terrestrial vertebrates. Because of the cryptic lifestyle of aquatic species, the energetic benefits of such behaviors in marine endotherms have been much more difficult to demonstrate. In this study, I examined the importance of behavioral thermoregulation in the northern fur seal (
30161195|Baseline and stressinduced corticosterone (CORT), heart rate (
10.1086/678213|The information on the phenotypic and ecological factors that influence hemoglobin concentration in free-living birds is scarce. In order to recognize sources of variation in hemoglobin levels of migratory shorebirds, we measured whole-blood hemoglobin concentration in 553 juvenile and 166 adult common snipe
10.1086/670733|Despite host defense against parasites and pathogens being considered a costly life-history trait, relatively few studies have assessed the energetic cost of immune responsiveness. Knowledge of such energetic costs may help to understand the mechanisms by which trade-offs with other demanding activities occur. The time course and associated metabolic costs of mounting a primary and secondary humoral immune response was examined in little ringed plovers
10.1086/668850|The first enzyme in the oxidative phosphorylation pathway is Complex I (EC 1.6.5.3). Complex I is a large heteromeric enzyme complex with 45 protein subunits that translocates H
10.1086/666903|Acidic waters of New Zealands West Coast are hypothesized to be a refuge for native galaxiid fish, allowing them to escape predation from acid-sensitive invasive salmonid species. To determine the mechanisms by which galaxiids tolerate low pH, we investigated sodium metabolism in inanga
30160009|We investigated the extent to which exercisegenerated heat compensates for regulatory thermogenesis of Eastern house finches (
30158413|While benefits that explain the success of early breeders in many species have been identified and measured, the costs associated with these strategies, such as those linked to adverse climatic conditions, have often been neglected. In this study, we investigate the influence of a short freezing event on reproductive output in the common toad
30160981|The objective of this study is to test the hypothesis that morphologically different mitochondriarich (MR) cells may be responsible for the uptake of different ions in freshwateradapted fish. Tilapia (
10.1086/652411|A noninvasive biopsy protocol was used to sample plasma and gill tissue in individual sockeye salmon (
10.1086/673756|Lizards that undergo caudal autotomy experience a variety of consequences, including decreased locomotor performance in a number of cases. One mode of locomotion common to many arboreal lizard species is jumping, and yet little is known about the effects of autotomy on this locomotor mode. In this article we review recent literature demonstrating the importance of the lizard tail as an in-air stabilizer. First, we review work highlighting how a variety of lizards from diverse families can use their tails to control body position in midair. We then move on to cover recent work demonstrating how in at least one species,
30162147|Agerelated declines in physiological performance have been documented in a wide variety of organisms. However, it is unknown whether related species age in a similar manner or whether physiological differences associated with aging differ widely among species. Previous work has shown that the desiccation resistance of
10.1086/656181|There is an increasing need to assess the effects of climate and landuse change on habitat quality, ideally from a mechanistic basis. The symposium Molecules to Migration: Pressures of Life at the Fourth International Conference in Africa for Comparative Physiology and Biochemistry, Maasai Mara National Reserve, Kenya, 2008, illustrated how the principles of biophysical ecology can capture the mechanistic links between organisms, climate, and other habitat features. These principles provide spatially explicit assessments of habitat quality from a physiological perspective (i.e., animal landscapes) that can be validated independently of the data used to derive and parameterize them. The contents of this symposium showcased how the modeling of animal landscapes can be used to assess key issues in applied and theoretical ecology. The presentations included applications to amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. The rare Arabian oryx on the Arabian Peninsula is used as an example for energetic calculations and their implications for behavior on the landscape.
30158336|Few studies have examined the physiological and behavioral consequences of fisheriesinduced selection. We evaluated how four generations of artificial truncation selection for vulnerability to recreational angling (i.e., stocks selected for high and low vulnerability [HVF and LVF, respectively]) affected cardiovascular physiology and parental care behavior in the teleost fish largemouth bass
30162262|The challenge hypothesis posits that when established social orders are challenged, plasma testosterone (T) in socially monogamous breeding male birds will temporarily increase to facilitate aggressive responses. However, not all birds conform to predictions. To expand upon past findings, we examined effects of direct territorial challenge on T levels in the blue tit (
30160971|Time between meals can vary from multiple hours to days within and among species. We investigated the effects of time since feeding on lipid, protein, and carbohydrate oxidation in flying pigeons (
30160152|The fully grown but nonmetamorphosed (juvenile) axolotl
10.1086/588489|Mammals balance heat dissipation with heat production to maintain core body temperatures independent of their environment. Thermal balance is undoubtedly most challenging for mammals born in polar regions because small body size theoretically results in high surfaceareatovolume ratios (SA:V), which facilitate heat loss (HL). Thus, we examined the ontogeny of thermoregulatory characteristics of an icebreeding seal (Weddell seal
30097045|Ontogenetic changes in the absolute dimensions of the cranial system together with changes in kinematics during prey capture can cause differences in the spatiotemporal patterns of water flow generated during suction feeding. Because the velocity of this water flow determines the force that pulls prey toward and into the mouth cavity, this can affect suction feeding performance. In this study, sizerelated changes in the suctioninduced flow patterns are determined. To do so, a mathematical suction model is applied to video recordings of prey capturing
10.1086/666989|Total evaporative water loss is the sum of respiratory water loss (RWL) and cutaneous water loss (CWL) and constitutes the main avenue of water loss in bats. Because bats fly and have large surface-to-volume ratios, they potentially have high rates of RWL and CWL. Most species of small insectivorous bats have the ability to reduce their body temperature (
30158093|We measured maximal oxygen consumption (
30158341|The evolution of mammalian brain function depends in part on levels of natural, heritable variation in numbers, location, and function of neurons. However, the nature and amount of natural genetic variation in neural traits and their physiological link to variation in function or evolutionary change are unknown. We estimated the level of withinpopulation heritable variation in the number of gonadotropinreleasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, which play a major role in reproductive regulation, in an unselected outbred population recently derived (<10 generations) from a single natural population of whitefooted mice (
PBZ10033|Nitrogen excretion by the gulf toadfish (
10.1086/669917|Physiological tolerances play a key role in determining species distributions and abundance across a landscape, and understanding these tolerances can therefore be useful in predicting future changes in species distributions that might occur. Vertebrates possess several highly conserved physiological mechanisms for coping with environmental stressors, including the hormonal stress response that involves an endocrine cascade resulting in the increased production of glucocorticoids. We examined the function of this endocrine axis by assessing both baseline and acute stressinduced concentrations of corticosterone in larvae from eight natural breeding populations of Jeffersons salamander
30160156|To examine patterns of blubber loss accompanying a decline in body condition, blubber thickness of juvenile harbor porpoises in normal/robust body condition (
30158430|American crow
30161116|We compared the natural ultraviolet B (UVB) exposure, dietary vitamin D, and skingenerated vitamin D synthesis for adult males of two species of Jamaican anoles. The more shadetolerant and thermalconforming
30158044|The evolution of reptilian viviparity (live bearing) from oviparity (egg laying) is thought to require transitional stages of increasingly longer periods of embryonic development in utero, that is, longer periods of egg retention by the gravid female. Studies on sceloporine lizards demonstrate that embryonic responses to egg retention that is extended beyond the time of normal oviposition range from developmental arrest to normal development. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that O
30158081|Little is known about the use of heterothermy by wild bats during summer, especially for treeroosting species. Because thermal conditions within tree roosts can fluctuate widely with ambient temperature, which affects thermoregulatory energy expenditure during diurnal roosting, we measured skin temperatures of freeranging male
10.1086/674454|Environmental conditions that reproductive females experience can influence patterns of offspring provisioning and fitness. In particular, prey availability can influence maternal reproduction and, in turn, affect the viability of their offspring. Although such maternal effects are widespread, the mechanisms by which these effects operate are poorly understood. We manipulated the amount of prey available to female brown anole lizards (
30158427|Power produced by red myotomal muscles of fish during cruise swimming appears seldom maximized, so we sought to investigate whether economy may impact or dominate muscle function. We measured cost of transport (COT) using oxygen consumption and the strain trajectories and electromyographic activity of red muscle measured at anterior (ANT) and posterior (POST) locations while Atlantic cod (
30160092|A variety of mammalian lineages have secondarily invaded the water. To locomote and thermoregulate in the aqueous medium, mammals developed a range of morphological, physiological, and behavioral adaptations. A distinct difference in the suite of adaptations, which affects energetics, is apparent between semiaquatic and fully aquatic mammals. Semiaquatic mammals swim by paddling, which is inefficient compared to the use of oscillating hydrofoils of aquatic mammals. Semiaquatic mammals swim at the water surface and experience a greater resistive force augmented by wave drag than submerged aquatic mammals. A dense, nonwettable fur insulates semiaquatic mammals, whereas aquatic mammals use a layer of blubber. The fur, while providing insulation and positive buoyancy, incurs a high energy demand for maintenance and limits diving depth. Blubber contours the body to reduce drag, is an energy reserve, and suffers no loss in buoyancy with depth. Despite the high energetic costs of a semiaquatic existence, these animals represent modern analogs of evolutionary intermediates between ancestral terrestrial mammals and their fully aquatic descendants. It is these intermediate animals that indicate which potential selection factors and mechanical constraints may have directed the evolution of more derived aquatic forms.
30160121|Few data exist to test the hypothesis that elasmobranchs utilize ketone bodies rather than fatty acids for aerobic metabolism in muscle, especially in continuously swimming, pelagic sharks, which are expected to be more reliant on lipid fuel stores during periods between feeding bouts and due to their high aerobic metabolic rates. Therefore, to provide support for this hypothesis, biochemical indices of lipid metabolism were measured in the slowtwitch, oxidative (red) myotomal muscle, heart, and liver of several active shark species, including the endothermic shortfin mako,
30161316|Aquatic birds have access to limited amounts of usable oxygen when they forage (dive) underwater, so the major physiological constraint to their behaviour is the need to periodically visit the water surface to replenish these stores and remove accumulated carbon dioxide. The size of the oxygen stores and the rate at which they are used (
PBZ11007|We examined the relationship between thermal tolerance, measured as critical thermal maximum (CT
10.1086/674920|Physiological function in ectotherms is tightly linked to body temperature. As a result, the thermal sensitivity of physiological function may evolve to optimize fitness across different thermal environments. One hypothesis for the evolution of thermal sensitivity, coadaptation, predicts that optimal temperatures for performance should evolve to match the temperatures that an organism experiences in nature. Another hypothesis, countergradient variation, posits that genetic variation can compensate for decreased performance in cool environments, leading to physiological phenotypes that do not track environmental temperatures. On Moorea, French Polynesia, thermal ecology and physiology were studied in two morphologically similar skinks that differ in habitat use. Previous studies show that
30162263|In this study, we demonstrate that botulinum toxin can be used to chemically denervate muscles to test functional hypotheses. We injected researchgrade type A botulinum toxin complex into pectoral fin abductors (abductor superficialis) of green sunfish (
30160139|Many organisms exhibit developmental plasticity only in sensitive phases and cannot respond to environmental pertubations at other times. However, we know little about the physiological events that define plastic and canalized phases. During egg production in insects, vitellogenin (Vg) accumulates first in the hemolymph and then in the eggs. In addition, storage proteins may be important resources for egg production. Therefore, we tested hypotheses on the relationships of Vg and TP (total hemolymph protein minus Vg) titers to the transition from flexible to inflexible development during egg production. In lubber grasshoppers, 70% of TP is contained in three proteins that range from 68 to 83 kDa. We maintained females on food treatments that produced defined plastic and canalized periods, collected hemolymph every 4 d, and determined the ages at which oviposition and the maximum Vg and TP titers occurred. Both Vg
10.1086/603644|Previous experiments showed reduction of basal metabolic rate (BMR) in birds facing energetic challenges. We alternately exposed two groups of red knots (
10.1086/663353|Carotenoids are an essential and often limiting resource in animals and play important roles in immune system function. In birds, the period shortly after hatching is an energetically demanding stage characterized by rapid growth in body size and organ systems, including the immune system. Availability of carotenoids for the growing nestlings may be of particular importance and potentially limiting at this stage of development. We tested the hypothesis that the availability of carotenoids for the embryo in the egg and in the diet of nestlings limits the condition and immune responses of nestling house wrens (
30160583|The relationship between egg size and offspring phenotype is critical to our understanding of the selective pressures acting on the key reproductive lifehistory traits of egg size and number. Yet there is surprisingly little empirical evidence to support a strong, positive relationship between egg size and offspring quality (i.e., offspring growth, condition, and survival) in birds, in part because of confounding effects of parental quality and the lack of experimental techniques for directly manipulating avian egg size independently of maternal condition. Previously, we showed that treatment of laying female zebra finches (
30160076|We tested the hypothesis that birds in arid environments, where primary productivity is low and surface water is scarce, have reduced energy expenditure and water loss compared with their mesic counterparts. Using both conventional least squares regression and regression based on phylogenetically independent contrasts, we showed that birds from desert habitats have reduced basal and field metabolic rates compared with species from mesic areas. Previous work showed that desert birds have reduced rates of total evaporative water loss when exposed to moderate environmental temperatures in the laboratory. We tested whether reduced rates of total evaporative water loss translate into low field water fluxes. Conventional ANCOVA indicated that desert birds have reduced water fluxes, but an analysis based on phylogenetically independent contrasts did not support this finding, despite the wide array of taxonomic affiliations of species in the data set. We conclude that the high ambient temperatures, the low primary productivity, and the water scarcity in desert environments have selected for or resulted in reduced rates of energy expenditure and evaporative water loss in birds that live in these climes.
30161321|Tail autotomy, the selfinduced tail separation from the body, is a common and effective antipredator mechanism in lizards. In this study, we examine the muscle energetics of tail shedding in six lacertid lizard species (
30158429|Environmental conditions within the nest, notably temperature and moisture of substrate, exert a powerful influence during embryogenesis in oviparous reptiles. The influence of fluctuating nest temperatures has been experimentally examined in different reptile species; however, similar experiments using moisture as the key variable are lacking. In this article, we examine the effect of various substrate moisture regimes during incubation on different traits (egg mass, incubation length, and hatchling mass) in a chelonian species with flexibleshelled eggs, the redeared slider turtle (
10.1086/648487|For decades, researchers have documented significant skews in the production of male versus female offspring in many species. Because males and females are differentially susceptible to environmental challenges and also represent different fitness benefits, it may be beneficial to exert control over the offspring sex ratio when environmental conditions become challenging. Some of the most dramatic environmental challenges occur on a seasonal basis. Indeed, seasonal variation in offspring sex ratios has been documented in both mammalian and nonmammalian species. The seasonal environmental factor (or factors) that drives the skews in sex ratios is unknown; however, it is essential that such a cue be predictable and reliable and that it does not vary from year to year. We hypothesized that photoperiod, a stable cue of seasonal changes in temperature and resource availability, may underlie seasonal variation in offspring sex ratios of mammals. We predicted that short day lengths in particular, which signal impending winter conditions and related energetic demands, would stimulate an anticipatory skew in the offspring sex ratio. We used Siberian hamsters as models because they are phenotypically responsive to photoperiod but up to 60% of females continue to breed during the winter. The sexes of weanling hamsters conceived and raised in short, winterlike day lengths were significantly skewed toward males. Furthermore, these skews occurred before birth; embryos collected from pregnant females maintained in shortday conditions were also significantly male biased. Thus, photoperiod functions as an effective seasonal cue, stimulating sex ratio skews toward males when day lengths are short.
PBZ9178|Bat wings are important for thermoregulation, but their role in heat balance during flight is largely unknown. More than 80% of the energy consumed during flight generates heat as a by-product, and thus it is expected that bat wings should dissipate large amounts of heat to prevent hyperthermia. We measured rectal (
PBZ10080|The challenges posed by parasites and pathogens evoke behavioral as well as physiological responses. Such behavioral responses are poorly understood for most ectothermic species, including anuran amphibians. We quantified effects of simulated infection (via injection of bacterial lipopolysaccharide [LPS]) on feeding, activity, and thermoregulation of cane toads
10.1086/660809|We tested the adaptive stress hypothesis that male arctic ground squirrels (
30158377|Natural and sexual selection are crucial factors in the evolutionary process, yet recent reviews show that researchers have focused narrowly on this topic, with the majority of research centered on the morphological traits of single species. However, in the past several years, several bodies of work have emerged that have examined both selection on performance capacity and selection in a community context, and our goal is to highlight these two growing areas and point toward future directions. Recent studies of selection on performance capacity point toward directional selection favoring high levels of performance, and we detected less evidence for selection favoring intermediate (i.e., stabilizing) or bimodal (i.e., disruptive) kinds of performance levels. Studies of selection in a community context, using the paradigm of indirect genetic effects, show significant community heritability and strong capacity for evolution to occur in a community context via the force of natural selection. For future directions, we argue that researchers should shift toward longerterm studies of selection on both individual species and communities, and we also encourage researchers to publish negative selection results for both performance and community studies to act as balancing influences on published positive selection results.
10.1086/648565|Water exchange of squamate eggs is driven by the difference between the water potentials of eggs and of their nest environment. While osmotic potential is generally assumed to dominate the net water potential of eggs, resistance of the eggshell to stretching also affects egg water potential. We therefore determined osmotic potentials and pressure potentials (mechanical pressure) of eggs of the veiled chameleon
30158325|Although urea production and metabolism in lungfish have been thoroughly studied, we have little knowledge of how internal osmotic and electrolyte balance are controlled during estivation or in water. We tested the hypothesis that, compared with the body surface of teleosts, the slender African lungfish (
30160993|The rate of oxygen uptake (
10.1086/674789|Activation of the immune system to clear pathogens and mitigate infection is a costly process that might incur fitness costs. When vertebrates are exposed to pathogens, their first line of defense is the acute-phase response (APR), which consists of a suite of physiological and behavioral changes. The dynamics of the APR are relatively well investigated in mammals and domesticated birds but still rather unexplored in passerine birds. In this study, we injected male zebra finches (
30162243|In birds, it has been shown that reproductive effort may impair parental condition, while the relation of different condition indices to subsequent survival is still poorly understood. In this study, we measured body mass and various hematological condition indices in breeding great tits in relation to local survival. Number and quality of nestlings and the occurrence of second broods, potentially reflecting parents breeding effort, were also considered in analyses. The great tits, both male and female, that returned the following year had had a higher albumin/globulin ratio, lower plasma globulin concentration, and a lower heterophile/lymphocyte ratio during breeding in the preceding year, compared to those who did not return. Surviving males (but not females) also had had a higher level of circulating lymphocytes, compared to nonsurvivors. There was no correlation between breeding effort and survival. We conclude that better immunological state and lower stress in great tits during breeding were positively related to their survival probability.
10.1086/674974|Proper adjustments of physiology and behavior are required for small mammals to cope with seasonal climate change. The aim of this study was to examine the role of leptin in the regulation of body mass and energy budget in striped hamsters. We first investigated seasonal changes in body mass, energy budget, and serum leptin levels in hamsters acclimated to outdoor natural daylight and ambient temperature. Then we assessed the effect of leptin administration on energy budget, serum lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and hepatic lipase (HL) activities, and gene expression of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) in brown adipose tissue and of hypothalamic neuropeptides associated with the regulation of energy balance in hamsters maintained at 21 and 5C. Hamsters showed constant body mass throughout the four seasons but significantly increased food intake and thermogenesis in winter, compared to summer. Minimum body fat was observed in winter, and minimum serum leptin was found in autumn. Hamsters housed at 5C showed higher energy intake, upregulated gene expression of UCP1 and hormone-sensitive lipase, and lower fat content and LPL and HL activity than the animals maintained at 21C. Leptin administration had no effect on energy intake but increased maximal thermogenic capacity, as indicated by upregulated UCP1 gene expression at both 21 and 5C. Body fat and activity of LPL and HL were decreased in hamsters treated with leptin. The results suggest that leptin plays an important role in the seasonal regulation of thermogenic capacity and body composition in striped hamsters. Leptin may be involved in increasing maximal thermogenesis in the cold rather than acting as a starvation signal to increase energy intake.
10.1086/668852|Organisms that breed multiple times must trade off resources between current and future reproduction. In many species, sexual selection can lead to reduced levels of immune function in males because they invest heavily in current reproduction at the expense of self-maintenance. Much less is known about whether the same trend is seen in species such as the brood-parasitic brown-headed cowbird
30097047|Agespecific forced polymorphism is the presence of two or more distinct phenotypes (here we consider only males) that occur in separate sexually mature age groups (e.g., horns in older males but not younger males). The lifestage morph maturation hypothesis posits that all younger males that possess a particular structure can transform into older males with a different structure, most likely via the influence of hormones. The lifestage morph selection hypothesis posits that polymorphism is due to intense selection resulting in a highly nonrandom sample of younger males surviving to become older males, thus leading to different mean phenotypes in different age groups. We conducted an extensive review of literature from the past 20 years (19832003) for cases of agespecific forced polymorphism. Overall, we found only a few cases that fit our criteria of agespecific forced polymorphism, and we argue that most (e.g., orangutans, elephant seals) have likely arisen via the lifestage morph maturation mechanism, but we also present several examples (e.g., green anole lizards) that appear to be candidates for lifestage morph selection. However, none of the reviewed studies provided enough information (e.g., age of morphs, growth patterns of the morphological structure) to definitively invoke either of the two mechanisms. We suggest that agespecific forced polymorphism is more common than reflected in this review and that future studies should gather demographic and laboratory data that will directly compare the lifestage morph maturation and lifestage morph selection hypotheses.
10.1086/666988|Immune defense may vary as a result of trade-offs with other life-history traits or in parallel with variation in antigen levels in the environment. We studied lark species (Alaudidae) in the Arabian Desert and temperate Netherlands to test opposing predictions from these two hypotheses. Based on their slower pace of life, the trade-off hypothesis predicts relatively stronger immune defenses in desert larks compared with temperate larks. However, as predicted by the antigen exposure hypothesis, reduced microbial abundances in deserts should result in desert-living larks having relatively weaker immune defenses. We quantified host-independent and host-dependent microbial abundances of culturable microbes in ambient air and from the surfaces of birds. We measured components of immunity by quantifying concentrations of the acute-phase protein haptoglobin, natural antibody-mediated agglutination titers, complement-mediated lysis titers, and the microbicidal ability of whole blood. Desert-living larks were exposed to significantly lower concentrations of airborne microbes than temperate larks, and densities of some bird-associated microbes were also lower in desert species. Haptoglobin concentrations and lysis titers were also significantly lower in desert-living larks, but other immune indexes did not differ. Thus, contrary to the trade-off hypothesis, we found little evidence that a slow pace of life predicted increased immunological investment. In contrast, and in support of the antigen exposure hypothesis, associations between microbial exposure and some immune indexes were apparent. Measures of antigen exposure, including assessment of host-independent and host-dependent microbial assemblages, can provide novel insights into the mechanisms underlying immunological variation.
10.1086/682701|Air breathing has evolved repeatedly in fishes and may protect the heart during stress. We investigated myocardial performance in the air-breathing catfish
30161094|An increase in temperature, within bounds, will accelerate development of reptile embryos, and morphogenesis can be normal over a range of temperatures despite those varying rates of development. Less well understood is the form of the relationship that best describes variation in developmental rate with temperature. In this article, we apply a linear degree.hour model, an empirical curvilinear model, a biophysical model, and a polynomial model to data on rates of embryonic development and temperature in the pignosed turtle
30160155|Body fat stores may serve as an index of condition in mammals. Thus, techniques that measure fat content accurately are important for assessing the ecological correlates of condition in mammal populations. We compared the ability of two conductive techniques, bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) and total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC), to predict body composition with that of morphometric methods in three small mammal species: red squirrels (
30160979|This study investigated the postexercise metabolism of six species of freeliving, nightmigrating passerine birds (European robin, pied flycatcher, wheatear, redstart, blackcap, and garden warbler). The birds were caught during autumn migration out of their nocturnal flight, and their metabolism changed from a fasting, highly active state to a fasting, resting state. Concentrations of six plasma metabolites of the fat, carbohydrate, and protein metabolism were measured during up to 10 h of recovery time. The metabolic changes indicated a biphasic pattern: (
30161021|Because the yolk lipids of the king penguin (
30158140|Seasonal modulation of the adrenocortical response appears to be ubiquitous in mid to highlatitude vertebrates but has not been investigated in tropical vertebrates. Previous studies demonstrate that temperate passerines show seasonality in corticosterone secretion and corticosteroid binding globulin capacities. We examined seasonal and sex differences in the stress response in an equatorial population of
30097048|Selective breeding for over 35 generations has led to four replicate (S) lines of laboratory house mice (
10.1086/671329|Changes to an animals abiotic environmentand consequent changes in the allometry of metabolic rate in the whole animal and its constituent partshas considerable potential to reveal important patterns in both intraspecific and interindividual variation of metabolic rates. This study demonstrates that, after 6 wk of thermal acclimation at replicate treatments of 16, 21, and 25C, standard metabolic rate (SMR) scales allometrically in Leichhardtian river prawns
30158049|After a migratory flight of several thousand kilometers to their high arctic breeding grounds, red knots (
10.1086/656215|Immunocompetence of animals fluctuates seasonally, However, there is little consensus on the cause of these fluctuations. Some studies have suggested that these patterns are influenced by changes in reproductive condition, whereas others have suggested that differences result from seasonal variations in energy expenditures. The objective of our study was to examine these contrasting views of immunity by evaluating seasonal patterns of immune response and reproduction in wild populations of deer mice
10.1086/678050|Adaptive plasticity may shift phenotypic traits close to a new optimum for directional selection and probably facilitates adaptive evolution in new environments. However, such plasticity has rarely been reported in life-history evolution, despite overwhelming evidence of life-history variation both among and within species. In this study, the temperatures experienced by gravid females of
30158426|We acclimated two species of sculpin, the freshwater prickly sculpin (
10.1086/673868|The roles of testosterone (T) during reproduction are often complex and vary among and within vertebrate taxa and locations, making general hypotheses relating T to breeding behavior and success difficult to integrate. In birds, T is thought to influence degrees of territoriality and associated aggression in males to maximize breeding success. Importantly, most work supporting these ideas has been conducted in the Northern Hemisphere. However, accumulating work on tropical species has shown divergent patterns of T in association with breeding behavior. The compilation of work from northern temperate and tropical species suggests that the function of T in relation to breeding behavior varies across latitude and environmental conditions. We investigate the patterns of T in relation to breeding behavior in a subspecies of the rufous-collared sparrow
10.1086/648567|Despite decades of research on the evolution of thermal physiology, at least one fundamental issue remains unresolved: whether the maximal performance of a genotype depends on its optimal temperature. One school argues that warmadapted genotypes will outperform coldadapted genotypes because high temperatures inevitably accelerate chemical reactions. Yet another school holds that biochemical adaptation can compensate for thermodynamic effects on performance. Here, we briefly discuss this theoretical debate and then summarize empirical studies that address whether hotter is better. In general, comparative and experimental studies support the view that hotter is better. Furthermore, recent modeling has shown that thermodynamic constraints impose unique selective pressures on thermal sensitivity. Nevertheless, the thermodynamic effect on maximal performance varies greatly among traits and taxa, suggesting the need to develop a more sophisticated view of thermodynamic constraints.
10.1086/605336|Birds in the lowland tropical rain forest are expected to have low energy turnover. Here, we used heart rate telemetry to estimate nighttime resting metabolic rate (RMR), daily energy expenditure (DEE), and locomotor activity of a small, longlived tropical rain forestunderstory bird, the spotted antbird (
30160030|This study examined the seasonal and reproductive influences on individual plasma amino acid concentrations and nitrogen metabolites in a black bear population (Ontario, Canada). During hibernation, 11 of 23 plasma amino acids were significantly higher (13%108%) in lactating than in nonlactating females, without an alteration in plasma total protein or total essential or nonessential amino acid levels. The greatest changes were observed in glutamine, arginine, and glycine levels. Plasma urea, urea/creatinine, and ammonia levels were significantly lower in hibernating compared with active female bears, but lactation had no effect on these parameters. Taken together these results show that lactation during hibernation is an additional metabolic challenge that results in increased mobilization of individual plasma amino acids and no accumulation of nitrogen end products, underlining the remarkable efficiency of amino acid and urea recycling in denning female black bears.
30160103|A longheld assertion has been that nocturnality is an escape mechanism for many nocturnal desert rodents because of limited tolerances to heat. To test this claim, we used a treadmill to examine the tolerances to high ambient temperatures (
10.1086/677922|Tropical and temperate birds provide a unique system to examine mechanistic consequences of life-history trade-offs at opposing ends of the pace-of-life spectrum; tropical birds tend to have a slow pace of life whereas temperate birds the opposite. Birds in the tropics have a lower whole-animal basal metabolic rate and peak metabolic rate, lower rates of reproduction, and longer survival than birds in temperate regions. Although skeletal muscle has a relatively low tissue-specific metabolism at rest, it makes up the largest fraction of body mass and therefore contributes more to basal metabolism than any other tissue. A principal property of muscle cells that influences their rate of metabolism is fiber size. The optimal fiber size hypothesis attempts to link whole-animal basal metabolic rate to the cost of maintaining muscle mass by stating that larger fibers may be metabolically cheaper to maintain since the surface areavolume ratio (SAV) is reduced compared with smaller fibers and thus the amount of area to transport ions is also reduced. Because tropical birds have a reduced whole-organism metabolism, we hypothesized that they would have larger muscle fibers than temperate birds, given that larger muscle fibers have reduced energy demand from membrane Na
10.1086/667593|Bluegill sunfish
30158071|The coelom in the bipinnaria larva of
30158343|The heart rate technique is commonly used to estimate the rate of oxygen consumption (a proxy for energy expenditure) of freeranging animals. However, a major limitation of this technique is that interindividual variability in the relationship between heart rate (
30158072|We present the first detailed analysis of carotenoid pigmentation of the integument of guppies (
10.1086/664826|Little is known of the normal seasonal variation in redox state and biotransformation activities in birds. In long-distance migratory birds, in particular, seasonal changes could be expected to occur because of the demands of migration and reproduction. In this study, we measured several redox parameters in the barn swallow (
10.1086/678237|Decreases in sea ice have altered habitat use and activity patterns of female Pacific walruses
10.1086/668853|During bouts of torpor, mitochondrial metabolism is known to be suppressed in the liver and skeletal muscle of hibernating mammals. This suppression is rapidly reversed during interbout euthermic (IBE) phases, when whole-animal metabolic rate and body temperature (
30160556|Copepods may lack the capacity for de novo synthesis of cholesterol, while at the same time their dietary levels of sterol vary. We tested the hypothesis that copepods maintain the cholesterol contents of their biological membranes despite varying dietary levels of cholesterol.
10.1086/669973|Behavioral responses of elasmobranch fishes to weak electric fields have been well studied. These studies typically employ a stimulator that produces a dipole electric field intended to simulate the natural electric field of prey items. However, the characteristics of bioelectric fields have not been well described. The magnitude and frequency of the electric field produced by 11 families of marine organisms were quantified in this study. Invertebrate electric potentials ranged from 14 to 28 V and did not differ from those of elasmobranchs, which ranged from 18 to 30 V. Invertebrates and elasmobranchs produced electric potentials smaller than those of teleost fishes, which ranged from 39 to 319 V. All species produced electric fields within the frequency range that is detectable by elasmobranch predators (<16 Hz), with the highest frequencies produced by the penaeids (10.3 Hz) and the gerreids (4.6 Hz). Although voltage differed by family, there was no relationship between voltage and mass or length of prey. Differences in prey voltage may be related to osmoregulatory strategies; invertebrates and elasmobranchs are osmoconformers and have less ion exchange with the surrounding seawater than teleosts species, which are hyposmotic. As predicted, voltage production was greatest at the mucous membranelined mouth and gills, which are sites of direct ion exchange with the environment.
30163957|Embryonic physiology is often viewed as merely those processes understood for the adult but conducted on a smaller physical scale. Yet striking examples of the inaccuracy of this perspective can be identified in the embryonic cardiovascular system. For example, dogma holds that the embryonic heart begins to beat to pump blood for convective transport, just like that of the adult. This is the major assumption inherent in the hypothesis we have called convective synchronotropy; that is, the embryonic heart starts to beat synchronously with the need for convective blood flow. However, there is compelling evidence on many fronts that the convective flow of blood generated by the early embryonic vertebrate heart is simply not required for transport of oxygen, nutrients, metabolic wastes, or hormones, all of which can be achieved entirely by diffusion. In fact, fish, amphibian, and bird embryos lacking a functional heart (either through surgical intervention or mutation) or whose oxygenhemoglobin transport has been chemically eliminated nonetheless continue to function and grow in size for extended periods up to the point at which diffusion alone can no longer serve oxygen transport needs. We advocate the alternative hypothesis of prosynchronotropy (i.e., the heart starts to beat well before convective blood flow is needed for bulk transport). So, what is the purpose of the early embryonic heart beat? Evidence is presented herein in support of a morphogenic rationale for prosynchronotropy. Specifically, it appears that the initial rationale for the beat of the vertebrate embryonic heart may be twofold: to aid in subtle but significant aspects of cardiac growth, shaping, and maturation, and to facilitate cardiac maturation angiogenesisthe formation of new vessels by sprouting from vessel tips. Ultimately, the embryonic cardiovascular system provides a graphic demonstration of how adult physiological functions should not, without verification, be interpolated back to the embryo of that species.
30161162|The subject of ion regulation in invertebrates is discussed, using a variety of invertebrate model species and approaches that range from the wholeorganism level to tissue, subcellular, and molecular levels to illustrate the future direction of the field. These organisms inhabit a variety of aquatic, freshwater, and terrestrial environments, showing specific adaptations to each environment. This overview discusses mechanisms of metal detoxification and the presence of ClATPase in marine organisms to avoid excess intracellular Cl
30158045|The physiological role of the embryonic external gills in anurans is equivocal. In some species, diffusion alone is clearly sufficient to supply oxygen throughout the embryonic period. In others, morphological elaboration and environmental regulation of the external gills suggest functional importance. Since oxygen stress is a common trigger of hatching, I examined the relationships among hatching timing, oxygen stress, and external gill loss. I worked with the redeyed tree frog,
10.1086/675493|Carbohydrate-rich mistletoe fruits are consumed by a wide range of avian species. Small birds absorb a large portion of water-soluble nutrients, such as glucose, via the paracellular pathway.
30160117|The loach
PBZ10111|Over the past few years, acceleration-data loggers have been used to provide calibrated proxies of energy expenditure: the accelerometry technique. Relationships between rate of oxygen consumption and a derivation of acceleration data termed overall dynamic body acceleration (ODBA) have now been generated for a range of species, including birds, mammals, and amphibians. In this study, we examine the utility of the accelerometry technique for estimating the energy expended by double-crested cormorants
30162235|We compared liver and skeletal muscle mitochondrial function among activity states to characterize regulated reversible metabolic suppression in the mammalian hibernator
10.1086/605953|Many lizard species will shed their tail as a defensive response (e.g., to escape a putative predator or aggressive conspecific). This caudal autotomy incurs a number of costs as a result of loss of the tail itself, loss of resources (i.e., stored in the tail or due to the cost of regeneration), and altered behavior. Few studies have examined the metabolic costs of caudal autotomy. A previous study demonstrated that geckos can move faster after tail loss as a result of reduced weight or friction with the substrate; however, there are no data for the effects of caudal autotomy on locomotory energetics. We examined the effect of tail loss on locomotory costs in the Cape dwarf gecko
30158689|George A. Bartholomew was one of the most influential organismal biologists of the twentieth century. His insights and research were fundamental to the establishment and growth of physiological ecology and evolutionary physiology. In the process of fostering that area of science, he created a body of literature that is striking in the clarity of its thought and presentation. Here we present some of his most insightful and important quotations, group them thematically, and comment on their original context and their continuing relevance.
PBZ11014|Physiological studies often involve the repeated measurement of individuals over a range of ordered categorical conditions, for example, varying ambient temperature. We illustrate here the use of a priori contrasts for multivariate repeated-measures ANOVA by analyzing the thermal responses of various physiological variables for a small marsupial, the dibbler (
10.1086/670918|Current reproductive effort typically comes at a cost to future reproductive value by altering somatic function (e.g., growth or self-maintenance). Furthermore, effects of reproduction often depend on both fecundity and stage of reproduction, wherein allocation of resources into additional offspring and/or stages of reproduction results in increased costs. Despite these widely accepted generalities, interindividual variation in the effects of reproduction is commonyet the proximate basis that allows some individuals to mitigate these detrimental effects is unclear. We serially measured several variables of morphology (e.g., musculature) and physiology (e.g., antioxidant defenses) in female Childrens pythons (
30162237|We studied castrated adult muskoxen fed a standard diet of grass hay and supplement throughout the year to determine seasonal changes in digesta passage, fill, and fermentation without the confounding effects of reproductive demands or changes in food quality. Although food intake increased by 74% between spring and autumn, mean retention times of fluid and particulate digesta markers were maintained between seasons in both the rumen (913 h) and the intestines (2737 h). The rumen contained 84.5% of digesta and accounted for 79% of dry matter digestion in the whole digestive tract. Ruminal fluid space and wholegut digesta fill increased by 31%34%, while ruminal rates of in situ degradation increased by more than 100% between spring and autumn for cellulose and hemicellulose. Hyperphagia in autumn was accompanied by increased bacterial counts in ruminal fluid (30%), declines in ruminal pH, and increases in the concentration of fermentation acids (16%) when compared with spring hypophagia. Consumption of fresh hay and supplement increased the concentrations of acids most markedly during winter and spring when bacterial counts were low. Low food intakes in winter and spring may limit the microbial population, whereas hyperphagia in autumn may foster a much more active microflora that requires consistent supplies of substrate. Plasticity of fill and fermentation in muskoxen minimizes winter costs and maximizes nutrients and energy gained from coarse forages in small home ranges throughout the year.
30158378|Selective breeding produced four replicate lines of highrunner (HR) mice that run on wheels for approximately 2.7 times more revolutions per day than four unselected control lines. Previous studies found that HR mice of both sexes have lower body fat (isotope dilution at 15 wk of age) and that males (females not studied) have smaller retroperitoneal fat pads (17 wk). HR mice also exhibit elevated plasma corticosterone and insulinstimulated glucose uptake by some hindlimb muscles but apparently do not differ in circulating insulin or glucose levels (males at 18 wk). Given their lower body fat and higher activity levels, we hypothesized that HR mice would have lower circulating leptin levels than controls. Female mice were given wheel access for 6 d at 7 wk of age, as part of the routine wheel testing for the selective breeding protocol, and then were killed after one additional week without wheels to reduce possible acute effects of activity on leptin. As hypothesized, serum leptin levels were significantly lower in HR mice. ANCOVA indicated that leptin was strongly positively correlated with both total body fat (measured by ether extraction) and body mass change from weaning, but HR mice still had significantly lower adjusted leptin levels (ANCOVA). Within HR lines but not within control lines, individual variation in leptin levels was negatively correlated with amount or speed of wheel running measured a week before being killed. Growth from weaning to euthanasia and body dry mass were lower in HR mice than in controls, but absolute dry masses of the ventricles, liver, gut, and uterus plus ovaries did not significantly differ, nor did percentage of the total dry mass as fat. HR mice offer a novel model for studying the causes and consequences of physiologically relevant variations in serum leptin.
10.1086/667808|Diapause embryos were collected from ovigerous females of
10.1086/648486|Vitellogenin (VTG) is considered as a marker of endocrine disruption. A Western blot method for VTG quantification in
10.1086/679637|Poor diet quality frequently constrains the growth and reproduction of primary consumers, altering their population dynamics, interactions in food webs, and contributions to ecosystem services such as nutrient cycling. The identification and measurement of an animals nutritional state are thus central to studying the connections between diet and animal ecology. Here we show how the nutritional state of a freshwater invertebrate,
10.1086/674319|The Pancrustacea, which include crustaceans and hexapods, have successfully colonized marine, freshwater, and terrestrial habitats. While members of the class Malacostraca (e.g., crabs, shrimp) often display immense osmoregulatory capacities, more basally branching crustaceans (e.g., copepods, branchiopods) tend to possess less-specialized osmoregulatory structures that have been poorly characterized. Remarkably, some of these more basal taxa have also colonized diverse habitats. For instance, the copepod
30160559|The maintenance nitrogen (N) requirement of the northern brown bandicoot,
10.1086/653489|Winter cold hardiness of insects typically involves one of two major strategies for survival below 0C: freeze avoidance and freeze tolerance. The two strategies have some common features, including the accumulation of high concentrations of cryoprotectant polyols and the frequent occurrence of diapause. Entry into the hypometabolic state of diapause requires coordinated suppression of major ATPconsuming metabolic processes, and ion motive ATPases are important targets for regulation. This study documents the suppression of sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca
10.1086/667412|Understanding phenotypic differentiation among populations of wide-ranging species remains at the core of life-history research, because adaptation to local environmental conditions is expected. For example, when energy resources influence offspring fitness (as in oviparous ectotherms), the egg and hatchling environments are expected to influence selection by acting on the amount of energy allocated to offspring. Here we identify population variation in egg mass, length, width, and volume from diamondback terrapin
10.1086/680168|Food limitation is a common ecological scenario for nestling altricial birds, and reductions in growth and maintenance have been observed in resource-limited nestlings. Substantial development of the immune system occurs during the nestling period, yet the resource dependence of this immune development is understudied. We examined constitutive immune system development as well as acute-phase responses to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection after 48 h of food restriction in house sparrows at 7 and 13 d posthatch. We also examined nestlings that were restricted early (57 d) but refed and tested at 13 d posthatch to determine whether altered immune function and growth early in the nestling period were recovered upon return to adequate resource supply. Induced acute-phase protein response was reduced in food-restricted birds, yet no lasting reductions in acute-phase protein levels were observed in previously restricted nestlings that were challenged with LPS after refeeding. Food restriction did not significantly impact constitutive levels of complement-mediated lysis or circulating IgY antibodies. As a comparator to immune measures, we found that organ and tarsus size, as well as muscle size and citrate synthase enzyme activity (an index of muscle cellular aerobic capacity), were significantly reduced in food-restricted nestlings. Reductions in flight muscle mass and function persisted in birds refed after early food restriction, which may have contributed to persistent body temperature reductions observed in refed birds.
10.1086/605391|Survival and reproductive success are determined by the complex interplay between behavior, physiology, morphology, and performance. When optimal trait combinations along these various phenotypic axes differ between sexes or across seasons, regulatory mechanisms such as sex steroids can often facilitate sexspecific and/or seasonal trait expression. In this study, we used surgical castration and replacement of exogenous testosterone in adult male brown anoles (
10.1086/670811|Island organisms face a range of extrinsic threats to their characteristically small populations. Certain biological differences between island and continental organisms have the potential to exacerbate these threats. Understanding how island birds differ from their continental relatives may provide insight into population viability and serve as a predictive tool for conservation efforts. We compared an eastern bluebird population in Ohio with a threatened population in Bermuda in terms of the birds development, morphology, immunology, and reproduction. These comparisons revealed that island nestlings had shorter wings and island adults had longer wings than their continental analogs. Island nestlings also had shorter tarsi than continental nestlings at day 8 posthatch, but this difference was absent at day 15 and in adults. Adults weighed less in Bermuda than in Ohio, and both nestlings and adults in Bermuda exhibited higher levels of two immunological indexes (concentrations of an acute-phase protein and titers of nonspecific antibodies). Clutch sizes and hatch rates did not differ between the island and continental populations; however, as the breeding season progressed, brood sizes declined in Bermuda, whereas no such decline occurred in Ohio. Despite these differences and differences in nestling development, island and continental parents fed their nestlings at equal rates. Overall, our results suggest that the Bermuda phenotype may be adjusted to certain aspects of the island environment but not to others. Efforts to conserve the bluebirds of Bermuda may be improved by focusing on the intraseasonal patterns in nestling mortality and, more generally, the survival probabilities of different age classes.
30158304|Few physiological studies to date have focused on whether variation among sibling groups during development can account for often large, intraspecific physiological variation. In this study, we measured heart rate in the directdeveloping frog
10.1086/649561|Atlantic salmon (
30158712|Field metabolic rate (FMR), using the doubly labelled water (DLW) method, was measured in freeranging adult kittiwakes (
30160148|Redband trout (
10.1086/670260|Visual temporal resolution and spectral sensitivity of three coastal teleost species (common snook [
30161275|Recently, much interest has been expressed in understanding how animals use phenotypic plasticity of tissue size and function to meet increased metabolic demands. We set out to learn (i) whether female deer mice (
30161062|Water salinity represents an environmental stress for many species. Amphibians are particularly sensitive because they are generally poor osmoregulators, and most species are completely absent from brackish and saline environments. We experimentally examined the effect of different salinity levels on larvae of the toad
30160123|The wingpolymorphic cricket,
10.1086/660191|The West Antarctic Peninsula region is experiencing some of the most rapid elevations in temperature of any marine environment. We assessed thermal tolerance of white- and red-blooded Antarctic notothenioid fishes inhabiting these waters, using a modified critical thermal maximum (CT
30158672|The origin of tetrapods and their invasion of the land during the Devonian period was one of the most significant events in vertebrate evolutionary history. Understanding the environmental circumstances and the morphological and functional changes underlying the fishtetrapod transition have been goals of comparative biologists for many decades. Although the fossil record of this transition remains far from complete, new discoveries in the past two decades have increased the resolution of the morphological sequence, documented the relative rapidity and geographic distribution of the tetrapod appearance, and fueled new controversy over the environmental and biological factors involved. Biologists have also searched for insights into the vertebrate land invasion through comparative studies of the living amphibious and airbreathing fishes. Such investigations include a wide range of environmental and functional topics, including habitat conditions, biochemistry, functional morphology, physiology, behavior, ecology, and biogeography. The seven articles in this volume are stateoftheart assessments of topics ranging from the fishtetrapod fossil record to diverse aspects of the behavior, physiology, biochemistry, and ecology of the extant fish species that use either or both terrestriality and air breathing.
30161168|Red kangaroos (
10.1086/675439|Survival of small birds in fluctuating environments is facilitated by seasonal metabolic and morphological flexibility. Chinese bulbuls
30158409|Oxygen consumption rate was measured continuously in young tegu lizards
PBZ10006|Temperature influences almost all life-history traits. For a period of 3 mo, we placed four groups of snakes under four contrasted thermal treatments: (1) a natural regime (NR), based on daily variations (24-h cycle); (2) an accelerated regime (AR), where the thermoperiod fluctuated rapidly (12-h cycle); (3) a slow regime (SR; 48-h cycle); and (4) a cool stable regime (ZR; no fluctuation). The mean temperature, set at 23C, was identical for the four groups. For the first three groups (NR, AR, SR), ambient temperature fluctuated between 18C and 28C. Relative humidity and photoperiod were constant. We recorded feeding success, digestion efficiency, growth rate, activity, and ecdysis events. Differences between groups were expected because of varied exposure to the optimal temperatures, most notably in the ZR group, where the preferred body temperature for digestion (30C) would not be reached. Surprisingly, there was no significant effect of the experimental treatment on feeding rate, digestion, body mass increase, and growth rate. Our results do not conform to the paradigm stipulating that maximal body temperature selected by ectotherms necessarily corresponds to the most efficient for resource assimilation and that temperature fluctuations are essential. We propose that increasing the digestive tracts performance through body-temperature elevation trades off against elevated (parasite) energy expenditure from the rest of the body. The main advantage of high body temperatures would be to reduce the amount of time necessary to assimilate prey rather than to improve the net mass gain during digestion.
10.1086/664619|Metabolism, growth, and the assimilation of energy and materials are essential processes that are intricately related and depend heavily on animal size. However, models that relate the ontogenetic scaling of energy assimilation and metabolism to growth rely on assumptions that have yet to be rigorously tested. Based on detailed daily measurements of metabolism, growth, and assimilation in tobacco hornworms,
30161276|I examined the effects of development, hatching, and oxygen availability on external gill loss in redeyed tree frogs,
30158395|The stress response is initially adaptive, operating to maintain homeostasis. However, chronic longterm exposure to stressors may have detrimental effects. We proposed that chronic stress may be a major factor in demographic vole cycles, inducing decline in highdensity populations. We monitored four populations of the fossorial water vole
10.1086/605954|Survival in microhabitats that experience extreme fluctuations in water availability and temperature requires special adaptations. To withstand such environmental conditions, tardigrades, as well as some nematodes and rotifers, enter a completely desiccated state known as anhydrobiosis. We examined the effects of high temperatures on fully desiccated (anhydrobiotic) tardigrades. Nine species from the classes Heterotardigrada and Eutardigrada were exposed to temperatures of up to 110C for 1 h. Exposure to temperatures of up to 80C resulted in a moderate decrease in survival. Exposure to temperatures above this resulted in a sharp decrease in survival, with no animals of the families Macrobiotidae and Echiniscidae surviving 100C. However,
30158075|The purpose of this study was to investigate how the endogenous catecholamine adrenaline protects sarcolemmal Ca
10.1086/605914|Male largemouth bass (
30158027|Milk ingested by mammalian offspring, coupled with offsprings utilization of this energetic investment, influences survival and growth. A number of studies have examined milk intake in otariids, but few have examined milk intake over the entire lactation period, and none has independently measured energy expenditure concurrent with milk intake. We concurrently examined milk intake, field metabolic rate (FMR), and body composition of 41 pups over the entire lactation interval in 1995 and 1996 on St. Paul Island, Alaska. One hundred two metabolic measurements were obtained with isotope dilution methods. Mean milk intake did not differ annually but increased with age and mass, ranging from
30163966|Aerobic performance is affected by numerous endogenous and exogenous factors. We investigated the effects of ambient temperature and parasite infection on resting metabolism and maximal exerciseinduced oxygen consumption in wildderived house mice (
30158119|Theory predicts that in longlived organisms females should invest less energy in reproduction and more in growth and selfmaintenance early in life, with this balance shifting as females age and the relative value of each reproductive event increases. We investigated this potential tradeoff by characterizing withinpopulation variation in resource allocation to eggs by female painted turtles (
10.1086/678965|Thermal acclimation responses in sheepshead minnow
10.1086/675939|In vitro brain stem preparations from goldfish (
30160065|We examined thermoregulation in red kangaroos (
30161281|The slow growth and large fat stores characteristic of many pelagic seabird chicks were generally assumed to reflect infrequent and unpredictable food provisioning by parents. Much less attention has been focused on the importance of intrinsic physiological processes in shaping patterns of development. In this study, we examined postnatal growth and changes in water content of different organs in fulmar chicks,
10.1086/674537|We have previously shown that ecological habit (e.g., arboreal, terrestrial, amphibious) correlates with thermoregulatory behaviors and water balance physiology among species of hylid frogs in northern Australia. We hypothesized that these frogs would be different with respect to their field hydration states because of the challenges associated with the different ecological habits. There are very few data on the hydration levels that frogs maintain in the field, and the existing data are from disparate species and locations and do not relate hydration state to habit or changes in seasonal water availability. We measured the hydration state of 15 species of frogs from tropical northern Australia to determine the influences of ecological habit and season on the hydration state that these frogs maintain. As predicted, frogs were significantly less hydrated in the dry season than they were in the wet season and showed significantly higher variation among individuals, suggesting that maintaining hydration is more challenging in the dry season. In the wet season, terrestrial species were significantly less hydrated than arboreal or amphibious species. During the dry season, amphibious species that sought refuge in cracking mud after the pond dried were significantly less hydrated than terrestrial or arboreal species. These data suggest that hydration behaviors and voluntary tolerance of dehydration vary with habitat use, even within closely related species in the same family or genus. Terrestrial and arboreal species might be expected to be the most vulnerable to changes in water availability, because they are somewhat removed from water sources, but the physiological characteristics of arboreal frogs that result in significant cutaneous resistance to water loss allow them to reduce the effects of their dehydrating microenvironment.
30158006|We studied the ontogeny of shivering thermogenesis in breast and leg muscles of precocial galliforms (domestic fowl, grey partridge, and Japanese quail) and the altricial domestic pigeon using electromyography (EMG) and indirect calorimetry. Galliforms were able to increase heat production by shivering in leg muscles at the youngest age studied (12 d). Pectorals contributed to heat production from days 710 onward, but in the partridge and especially in the fowl, shivering by the pectorals was weaker than in the quail. In the pigeon, shivering began in pectorals and legs at 2 and 4 d of age, respectively, and pectorals had clearly the predominant role in thermogenesis. Despite the early beginning of electrical signs of shivering, significant thermogenesis did not appear in the pigeon before the age of 6 d. All galliforms shivered in bursts, like pigeons aged 24 d. From the age of 6 d onward, continuous shivering became predominant in the pigeon. In pectorals of 26dold pigeons, shivering did not increase linearly during decreasing ambient temperature, as in other muscles and species, but started abruptly, at full intensity. Furthermore, in 24dold pigeons, cooling induced movement activity in legs. The median frequency of shivering EMGs varied (1) with maturation of the muscle, (2) with size of the adult bird, and (3) between altricials and precocials.
10.1086/588491|Stress experienced by a reproducing female can substantially affect the morphology, behavior, and physiology (and hence fitness) of her offspring. In addition, recent studies demonstrate that stress hormones (corticosterone) influence sex determination of embryos. To explore these issues, we manipulated corticosterone levels in eggs of two Australian lizard species (
30158143|To test the hypothesis that desert ungulates adjust their physiology in response to longterm food and water restriction, we established three groups of sand gazelles (
10.1086/666840|Reproduction is energetically demanding, and how much an individual is able to invest in reproduction is often a function of its health state. An understanding of the relationship between oxidative balance and reproductive decisions, especially in free-living species, is still very limited. We evaluated the relationship between oxidative health and reproductive effort in a free-living population of the cooperatively breeding Florida scrub jay
10.1086/603634|Lifehistory theory predicts that individuals should adapt their parental investment to the costs and benefits of the current reproductive effort. This could be achieved by modulating the hormonal stress response, which may shift energy investment away from reproduction and redirect it toward survival. In birds, this stress response consists of a release of corticosterone that may be accompanied by a decrease in circulating prolactin, a hormone involved in the regulation of parental care. We lack data on the modulation of the prolactin stress response. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that individuals should modulate their prolactin stress response according to the fitness value of the current reproductive effort relative to the fitness value of future reproduction. Specifically, we examined the influence of breeding status (failed breeders vs. incubating birds) and body condition on prolactin and corticosterone stress responses in a longlived species, the snow petrel
30158683|The effects of sulfide on the energy metabolism of
30157992|Laboratory house mice (
30161009|In nectarivorous birds, specialization for feeding on nectar has led to a simple gut structure with high sugar digestive efficiencies and rapid gut passage rates. These features of the digestive system may make digestion of more complex, proteinrich food sources, such as pollen or insects, less efficient. In this light, we hypothesized that sugar metabolizability in nectarivorous Palestine sunbirds (
10.1086/666906|Variable clutch size is unambiguously an ancestral state in reptiles. Only several lizard lineages have evolved so-called invariant clutch size, where all females lay just one or two eggs per clutch. This mode of reproduction is characteristic for geckos. In some gecko lineages, decreased fecundity in a single clutch is compensated by conspicuous shortening of interclutch intervals. The proximate mechanism of high clutch frequency in these geckos is not known. Here, we document that three subsequently laid clutches develop simultaneously in females of the Madagascar ground gecko (
PBZ11063|Periods of fasting, in most animals, are fueled principally by fatty acids, and changes in the regulation of fatty acid oxidation must exist to meet this change in metabolic substrate use. We examined the regulation of carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT) I, to help explain changes in mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation with fasting. After fasting rainbow trout (
10.1086/663311|Understanding the relationships among immune components in free-living animals is a challenge in ecoimmunology, and it is important not only for selecting the immune assays to be used but also for more knowledgeable interpretation of results. In this study, we investigated the relationships among six immune defense indexes commonly used by ecoimmunologists and measured simultaneously in individual free-living tree swallows. Three main axes of variation in immune function were identified using a principal components analysis, representing variation in T-cell, B-cell, and innate immunity. Measures within each axis tended to be positively correlated among individuals, while measures in different axes were uncorrelated. A trade-off between T-cell function and B-cell function became apparent only when variation among individuals in body condition, age, and general quality was taken into account. Interestingly, the level of natural antibodies, a component of innate immunity, showed the strongest association with components of acquired B-cell function, possibly reflecting a common underlying genetic mechanism, as has been documented in poultry. Our results indicate that despite the complexity of the immune system, important insights can be gained by using the currently available assays but in a more comprehensive approach than has generally been used in the field of ecoimmunology.
30161036|Detailed analysis of animal energy budgets requires information on the cost of digestion (specific dynamic action [SDA]), which can represent a significant proportion of ingested energy (up to 30% in infrequent feeders). We studied the effects of snake mass, temperature (25 and 30C), fasting time (1 and 5 mo), and prey size (10%50% of snake mass) on SDA in 26 timber rattlesnakes (
30158308|Body composition in vertebrates is known to show phenotypic plasticity, and changes in organ masses are usually rapid and reversible. One of the most rapid and reversible changes is the transformation of the female avian reproductive organs before breeding. This provides an excellent system to investigate the effects of plasticity in organ size on basal metabolic rate (BMR) through relationships between organ masses and BMR. We compared body composition of female European starlings (
30162276|Otariids, like other wild mammals, contend with a wide variety of energetic demands across seasons. However, due to the cryptic behaviors of this marine group, few studies have been able to examine longitudinal energetic costs or the potential impact of these costs on seasonal or annual prey requirements. Here we evaluated the changes in energy demand and intake of female California sea lions (
PBZ10042|Gill mitochondrion-rich (MR) cells contain different molecules to carry out functionally distinct mechanisms. To date, the putative mechanism of Cl
10.1086/648396|Carotenoid pigments produce the bright yellow to red ornamental colors of many animals, especially birds, and must ultimately be derived from the diet. However, they are also valuable for many physiological functions (e.g., antioxidants, immunostimulants, photoprotection, visual tuning, yolk nourishment to embryos), and as a result they are present in numerous internal body tissues (e.g., liver, adipose tissue, retina) whose carotenoid types and amounts are rarely studied in the context of color acquisition. Because male and female animals typically place different priorities on fitnessenhancing activities (e.g., gametic investment in females, sexual attraction in males), carotenoid allocation may track such investment patterns in the two sexes, and we can test for such sexspecific priorities of carotenoids by assessing bodytissue distributions of these pigments. We used highperformance liquid chromatography to identify and quantify carotenoid pigments from the plasma, liver, adipose tissue, and retina as well as the beak and legs of male and female zebra finches (
30161299|We sought to determine the effect of variation in timeactivity budgets (TABs) and foraging behavior on energy expenditure rates of parent blacklegged kittiwakes (
10.1086/648736|There is little information on the phenotypic flexibility of hibernation characteristics within species. To address this issue, we observed differences in hibernation characteristics of three freeranging populations of woodchucks (
10.1086/603636|Hemoglobin (Hb) polymorphism in cod is associated with temperaturerelated differences in biogeographical distribution, and several authors have suggested that functional characteristics of the various hemoglobin isoforms (HbIs) directly influence phenotypic traits such as growth rate. However, no study has directly examined whether Hb genotype translates into physiological differences at the whole animal level. Thus, we generated a family of juvenile Atlantic cod consisting of all three main Hb genotypes (HbI1/1, HbI2/2, and HbI1/2) by crossing a single pair of heterozygous parents, and we compared their metabolic and cortisol responses to an acute thermal challenge (10C to their critical thermal maximum [CTM] or 22C, respectively) and tolerance of graded hypoxia. There were no differences in routine metabolism (at 10C), maximum metabolic rate, metabolic scope, CTM (overall mean
30158327|The functional role of corticosterone (CORT) in regulating migratory hyperphagia and lipogenesis was investigated in an annual migrant, the darkeyed junco (
10.1086/673545|Digestive efficiencies (
PBZ10055|Seasonal acclimation and thermoregulation represent major components of complex thermal strategies by which ectotherms cope with the heterogeneity of their thermal environment. Some ectotherms possess the acclimatory capacity to shift seasonally their thermoregulatory behavior, but the frequent use of constant acclimation temperatures during experiments and the lack of information about thermal heterogeneity in the field obscures the ecological relevance of this plastic response. We examined the experimentally induced seasonal acclimation of preferred body temperatures (
30161179|The dramatic escape response of some scallops is modified by reproductive investment and by acclimation temperature. Despite considerable knowledge of the physiology of the escape response, functional links between escape response performance, organismal rates of oxygen uptake, and tissue metabolic capacities are little known. We measured oxygen consumption rates (standard, maximal, and aerobic scope), escape behavior (initial and repeat performance), tissue mass, condition index, protein content, and tissue metabolic capacities in the Iceland scallop
10.1086/671165|Many animal populations are in decline as a result of human activity. Conservation practitioners are attempting to prevent further declines and loss of biodiversity as well as to facilitate recovery of endangered species, and they often rely on interdisciplinary approaches to generate conservation solutions. Two recent interfaces in conservation science involve animal behavior (i.e., conservation behavior) and physiology (i.e., conservation physiology). To date, these interfaces have been considered separate entities, but from both pragmatic and biological perspectives, there is merit in better integrating behavior and physiology to address applied conservation problems and to inform resource management. Although there are some institutional, conceptual, methodological, and communication-oriented challenges to integrating behavior and physiology to inform conservation actions, most of these barriers can be overcome. Through outlining several successful examples that integrate these disciplines, we conclude that physiology and behavior can together generate meaningful data to support animal conservation and management actions. Tangentially, applied conservation and management problems can, in turn, also help advance and reinvigorate the fundamental disciplines of animal physiology and behavior by providing advanced natural experiments that challenge traditional frameworks.
10.1086/673180|The gills of many fish, but in particular those of crucian carp (
30162241|Female birds deposit variable amounts of androgens, such as testosterone, into the yolks of their eggs. Evidence suggests that yolk androgens play an important role in the determination of offspring phenotype. While androgens are generally regarded as anabolic and immunosuppressive, studies of the behavioral and physiological effects of yolk androgens on offspring of several avian species have been conflicting, leaving the adaptive significance associated with deposition patterns of yolk androgens unclear. We injected either a physiological dose of testosterone or a control vehicle into house finch (
30162168|The effect of the administration of commercial diets supplemented with 9 mg kg
10.1086/656218|Studies of evaporative water loss using streams of dry air in the laboratory have demonstrated reduced rates in various taxa of cocooned frogs. However, because the cocoon is formed in subterranean burrows with humid microclimates and no air flow, loss of water by evaporation is likely to be negligible. In contrast, although potentially important, the influence of the cocoon on water exchange with the soil surface has not been characterized. In dry soils, there is a sizable water potential gradient between the frog and the soil; hence, we hypothesized that cocoons would play a role in reducing liquid water loss to dry substrates. Individuals of the burrowing frog
30162275|We examine herein the contribution of VATPase activity to the energy budget of aerobically developing embryos of
10.1086/678988|Nutritional conditions during development can affect both structural growth and body fat deposition. Body size and body fat each have significant consequences for fitness, yet few studies have investigated how young birds balance resource allocation between structural growth and fat reserves. We raised zebra finches (
30162154|Cedar waxwings (
30162162|Our experiments were designed to test the hypotheses that dietary lipids can affect wholeanimal physiological processes in a manner concordant with changes in the fluidity of cell membranes. We measured (1) the lipid composition of five tissues, (2) body temperatures selected in a thermal gradient (
30158731|Shortterm exposure of coho salmon smolts (
30162233|In the natural environment, hibernating sciurids generally remain dormant during winter and enter numerous deep torpor bouts from the time of first immergence in fall until emergence in spring. In contrast, blacktailed prairie dogs (
30161196|Antioxidants protect against freeradical damage, and free radicals, in turn, are thought to underlie aging. Thus, measuring antioxidants may aid field ecologists in understanding the physiological mechanisms that underlie lifehistory tradeoffs. Antioxidant levels are known to vary markedly in response to the stress of capture in many birds. These changes in antioxidants could result from regulation (e.g., by stressrelated hormones) or consumption (e.g., by an increase in free radicals due to increased metabolic rate). Here we experimentally test the effect of increased metabolic rate on circulating antioxidant and corticosterone concentrations in two wild passerine bird species, house sparrows (
30161334|Reduced reproductive success of birds nesting near power lines has been documented but never directly attributed to electromagnetic fields (EMFs). Laboratory studies have identified EMF effects on embryonic development, but reproductive success of wild birds is dependent on additional factors, including fertility, egg size, hatching, and fledging success. We tested whether EMFs affect reproductive success of birds. Captive American kestrels (
30158132|Ammonia criteria are established using data from standardized toxicity tests involving healthy animals. Both intrinsic and extrinsic environmental changes affect the immune system, but few toxicity studies consider the overall impact on this system and potential changes in resistance to infection. To investigate the effects of subacute levels of ammonia in coastal waters on physiological and immunological systems of fish, juvenile Chinook salmon were maintained in seawater (10C, pH 7.8) and exposed to two concentrations of ammonia, 2.5 and 10 mg/L total nitrogen. Both test levels resulted in increased internal levels of ammonia in the fish. Neither treatment level affected feeding rates. Over a time course of 10 d, numerous significant effects were observed. White blood cell counts changed significantly, as did respiratory burst activity, plasma lysozyme activity, and plasma glucose concentration in both treatments compared to controls. In an experimental infection with
30161134|In the eastern fence lizard,
30158007|Eastern painted turtles (
30158390|The excess postexercise oxygen consumption (EPOC), a measure of recovery costs, is known to be large in ectothermic vertebrates such as the desert iguana (
30158329|The hypothalamicpituitaryadrenal (HPA) axis is important in regulating energy metabolism and in mediating responses to stressors, including increasing energy availability during physical exercise. In addition, glucocorticoids act directly on the central nervous system and influence behavior, including locomotor activity. To explore potential changes in the HPA axis as animals evolve higher voluntary activity levels, we characterized plasma corticosterone (CORT) concentrations and adrenal mass in four replicate lines of house mice that had been selectively bred for high voluntary wheel running (HR lines) for 34 generations and in four nonselected control (C) lines. We determined CORT concentrations under baseline conditions and immediately after exposure to a novel stressor (40 min of physical restraint) in mice that were housed without access to wheels. Resting daytime CORT concentrations were approximately twice as high in HR as in C mice for both sexes. Physical restraint increased CORT to similar concentrations in HR and C mice; consequently, the proportional response to restraint was smaller in HR than in C animals. Adrenal mass did not significantly differ between HR and C mice. Females had significantly higher baseline and postrestraint CORT concentrations and significantly larger adrenal glands than males in both HR and C lines. Replicate lines showed significant variation in body mass, length, baseline CORT concentrations, and postrestraint CORT concentrations in one or both sexes. Among lines, both body mass and length were significantly negatively correlated with baseline CORT concentrations, suggesting that CORT suppresses growth. Our results suggest that selection for increased locomotor activity has caused correlated changes in the HPA axis, resulting in higher baseline CORT concentrations and, possibly, reduced stress responsiveness and a lower growth rate.
30161093|Harbour seals,
10.1086/673286|Metabolic rates and body mass of mammals vary seasonally along with ambient temperatures and food availability. At the population level, seasonal changes in metabolic rate and mass can be due to selective mortality or emigration of individuals whose metabolic rate or mass differs from the average for the population. Alternatively, the metabolic rates of individuals can change seasonally, such that the population average increases or decreases due to shifts in the physiology of the overall population. The latter implies that individuals respond in a similar manner to changing seasonal conditions. We studied seasonal changes in body mass (BM) and resting metabolic rate (RMR) in free-ranging male weasels (
10.1086/648483|Stressors encountered during avian development may affect an individuals phenotype, including immunocompetence, growth, and feather quality. We examined effects of simulated chronic lowlevel stress on American kestrel (
30158685|In this study, we examined the cardiorespiratory patterns of harbour seal pups under normoxic/normocarbic (air), hypoxic/normocarbic (15%, 12%, and 9% O
10.1086/605937|In groupliving species, dominant individuals are frequently aggressive toward subordinates, and such dominant aggression can lead to chronic stress, higher glucocorticoid levels, and decreased fitness for subordinates. However, in many cooperatively breeding species, it is surprisingly the dominants rather than the subordinates that exhibit higher levels of glucocorticoids, a possible consequence of the demands of maintaining high social rank and socially suppressing the reproduction of other group members. This study investigates the relationship between social status and circulating plasma cortisol in groups of the cooperatively breeding African cichlid
30161173|Despite all the efforts and technological advances during the last few decades, the cellular mechanisms for branchial chloride uptake in freshwater (FW) fish are still unclear. Although a tight 1:1 link with
30158109|The effects of ontogeny, diet, and phylogeny on glycogen storage levels and esterase and alkaline phosphatase activities in four related prickleback fishes were determined in situ using quantitative histochemistry. Of these species,
10.1086/644625|Most marine invertebrates and algae are osmoconformers whose cells accumulate organic osmolytes that provide half or more of cellular osmotic pressure. These solutes are primarily free amino acids and glycine betaine in most invertebrates and small carbohydrates and dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) in many algae. Corals with endosymbiotic dinoflagellates (
30158112|Experiments were conducted to determine the behavioral and physiological responses to acute hypoxic challenges in Atlantic (
30162270|Predicting evolutionary change is the central goal of evolutionary biology because it is the primary means by which we can test evolutionary hypotheses. In this article, we analyze the pattern of evolutionary change in a laboratory population of the wingdimorphic sand cricket
10.1086/677683|Environmental conditions fluctuate dramatically in some reptilian nests. However, critical windows of environmental sensitivity for cardiovascular development have not been identified. Continuous developmental hypoxia has been shown to alter cardiovascular form and function in embryonic snapping turtles (
30161185|The reninangiotensinaldosterone system (RAAS) appears to contribute significantly to osmoregulation of fasting northern elephant seal (
30162173|To investigate digestive tract performance in Mongolian gerbils (
30161096|Cutaneously absorbed water in anurans has two potential routes of movement from the skin interstitium into the body fluids, via the cutaneous capillaries and/or the lymphatic system. We investigated the lymphatic route at the pelvic patch skin under the influence of isoproterenol and arginine vasotocin in
30158681|The goal of our work was to understand the role of a novel thermal environment in shaping the phenotypic expression of thermogenic capacity and organ size. To examine this we compared two populations of the South American rodent
10.1086/669036|We propose that secretion of milk sugar has important consequences for the metabolic economies of lactating phocid seals and their pups. Milk was collected from 21 Weddell seals
10.1086/603635|In response to unbalanced energy budgets, animals must allocate resources among competing physiological systems to maximize fitness. Constraints can be imposed on energy availability or energy expenditure, and adjustments can be made via changes in metabolism or tradeoffs with competing demands such as bodymass maintenance and immune function. This study investigates changes in constitutive immune function and the acutephase response in shorebirds (red knots) faced with limited access time to food. We separated birds into two experimental groups receiving either 6 h or 22 h of food access and measured constitutive immune function. After 3 wk, we induced an acutephase response, and after 1 wk of recovery, we switched the groups to the opposite food treatment and measured constitutive immune function again. We found little effect of food treatment on constitutive immune function, which suggests that even under resource limitation, a baseline level of immune function is maintained. However, birds enduring limited access to food suppressed aspects of the acutephase response (decreased feeding and mass loss) to maintain energy intake, and they downregulated thermoregulatory adjustments to food treatment to maintain body temperature during simulated infection. Thus, under resourcelimited conditions, birds save energy on the most costly aspects of immune defense.
30158035|This study examined whether the snake lung possesses intravascular carbonic anhydrase (CA). Lungs were perfused with control salines and with salines containing CA inhibitors. Perfusion with control salines resulted in a stable CO
30163960|We studied whether oxygen uptake from the surrounding water might enhance survival in submerged third instar larvae of
10.1086/672157|Invasive species often encounter novel climatic conditions when they spread outside of their native ranges. Invading populations can respond to novel conditions by acclimation or adaptation of physiological capacities, which may facilitate their spread. We investigated differences in physiological traits among three populations of an invasive lizard, the brown anole (
30157980|The eastern pygmy possum,
30161295|A regulated decrease in internal body temperature (
10.1086/665831|California mice
10.1086/650473|Relatively little is known about the physiological response and mortality consequences of the return of anadromous fish to freshwater (FW). We explored the consequences of the return to FW by collecting maturing sockeye salmon from the marine waters off the mouth of the Fraser River and holding 50 sockeye in each of five treatments: saltwater (SW;
30160151|By switching great skuas
30161104|Using measurements of naturally occurring stable isotopes to reconstruct diets or source of feeding requires quantifying isotopic discrimination factors or the relationships between isotope ratios in food and in consumer tissues. Diettissue discrimination factors of carbon (
30158028|European hares selectively feed on plants with high fat and hence energy content. We hypothesized that these dietary requirements limit the ability of hares to adjust daily food intake during periods of high energy requirements, namely lactation. Our measurements in captive lactating females show that does kept on a lowfat diet increased food intake compared to does on a highfat diet but assimilated significantly lower amounts of energy. Further, does fed a lowfat diet showed a prolonged rise of food intake during lactation, reduced milk energy content and lower milk mass production at large litter sizes. We hypothesize that impaired milk production under suboptimal fat supply is due to the inability of females to increase the capacity of nutrientprocessing organs rapidly enough to meet the high energy demands of precocial juveniles with high metabolic costs. Thus, in hares, the production of precocial young may be viewed as a constraint, caused by their inability to dig thermally buffered burrows, rather than as an adaptive reproductive strategy. We suggest that the interaction of lactation energetics, dietary requirements, and reduced plant diversity in modern agricultural landscapes has facilitated the decline of hare populations across Europe over the last decades.
10.1086/662553|Leptin has been found to be a direct participant in the regulation of both energy intake and energy expenditure in small mammals showing seasonal declines in body mass (
10.1086/662068|The acute stress response involves the secretion of catabolic glucocorticoids, such as corticosterone (CORT) in birds, that mobilize intrinsic energy stores primarily through a gluconeogenic pathway involving fat breakdown, thus linking body condition and stress. We measured changes in CORT and gluconeogenic metabolites (triglycerides, free glycerols, glucose) during handling stress in curve-billed thrashers
30158099|This study investigated the expression of uncoupling proteins 2 and 3 (UCP2 and UCP3) in the carnivorous marsupial
30158116|Oxygen stress can slow development, induce hatching, and kill eggs. Terrestrial anamniote embryos face a potential conflict between oxygen uptake and water loss. We measured oxygen levels within eggs to characterize the respiratory environment for embryos of the redeyed treefrog,
30160052|Effects of energy intake on the estrous cycle of the desert gerbillid, Sundevall's jird (
10.1086/590223|Electrical activity of the heart is assumed to be one of the key factors that set thermal tolerance limits for ectothermic vertebrates. Therefore, we hypothesized that in thermal acclimationthe duration of cardiac action potential and the repolarizing K
30163972|Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is often predicted by allometric interpolation, but such predictions are critically dependent on the quality of the data used to derive allometric equations relating BMR to body mass (
10.1086/594378|Loricariidae, or suckermouth armored catfishes, possess upper and lower jaws that are ventrally oriented and that bear teeth that touch the substrate from which algae and other food items are scraped. The ventral orientation and the highly specialized morphology of the jaws, characterized by protrusible upper jaws and leftright decoupled lower jaws, are observed in
30161182|We sought to characterize the ability of hummingbirds to fuel their energetically expensive hovering flight using dietary sugar by a combination of respirometry and stable carbon isotope techniques. Broadtailed hummingbirds (
10.1086/656724|A major focus in the study of endothermic thermoregulation has been the description of thermoregulatory patterns used by various species and/or populations. Compared with ectotherms, relatively few attempts have been made to study the thermoregulation of endotherms in an adaptive framework. We believe that one of the main factors limiting this area of research has been the lack of an appropriate metric to directly compare body temperature (
10.1086/673869|Bioluminescence of the marine worm
30160058|Over a 2yr period, we investigated the annual cycles of plasma testosterone and corticosterone and the relationships between these hormones and body condition in a wild population of male redspotted garter snakes,
10.1086/665388|Among-population variation in insect thermal performance is important for understanding patterns and mechanisms of evolution and predicting insect responses to altered climate regimes in future or novel environments. Here we review and discuss several key examples of among-population variation in insect thermal performance, including latitudinal gradients in chill coma recovery time, variation in energy consumption and metabolic biochemistry, rapid changes in thermal biology with range expansion in invasive and introduced species, and potential constraints on variation in thermal performance traits. This review highlights that while there is substantial evidence for among-population variation that is generally correlated with local climate regimes, neither the underlying mechanisms nor the implications for whole-animal fitness in the field are well understood. We also discuss the potential limitations of interpreting evolved variation among populations and argue for a genes-to-environment approach to population-level variation in thermal biology of insects.
30162238|Altered body condition, increased incubation costs, and egg loss are important proximate factors modulating bird parental behavior, since they inform the adult about its remaining chances of survival or about the expected current reproductive success. Hormonal changes should reflect internal or external stimuli, since corticosterone levels (inducing nest abandonment) are known to increase while body condition deteriorates, and prolactin levels (stimulating incubation) decrease following egg predation. However, in a capital incubator that based its investment on available body reserves and naturally lost about half of its body mass during incubation, corticosterone should be maintained at a low threshold to avoid protein mobilization for energy supply. This study focused on the regulation of corticosterone and prolactin release in such birds during incubation, when facing egg manipulation (control, reduced, or increased) or a stressful event. Blood samples were taken before and after clutch manipulation and at hatching. Corticosterone levels were determined before and after 30 min of captivity. Female eiders exhibited a high hypothalamicpituitaryadrenal sensitivity, plasma concentration of corticosterone being increased by four to fivefold following 30 min of captivity. The adrenocortical response was not modified by body mass loss but was higher in birds for which clutch size was increased. In the same way, females did not show different prolactin levels among the experimental groups. However, when incubation started, prolactin levels were correlated to body mass, suggesting that nest attendance is programmed in relation to the female initial body condition. Moreover, due to an artifactual impact of bird manipulation, increased baseline corticosterone was associated with a prolactin decrease in the control group. These data suggest that, in eiders, body mass and clutch size modification can modulate prolactin and corticosterone levels, which crossregulate each other in order to finely control incubation behavior.
PBZ10048|Resting metabolic rate is a common way of quantifying the cost of living in endothermic animals. The trait often makes up a substantial part of an animals energy budget and can also be related to sustainable peak work rate as well as to daily energy expenditure. Studies have shown that metabolic rates are often heritable, but much of the variation seems to be caused by other factors (e.g., environmental and maternal effects). In a previous study, in ovo exposure to increased levels of testosterone induced metabolic costs early in life. It is, however, unknown whether in ovo androgens also have long-term effects on individual metabolic rates. In this study, we show that experimentally increased levels of in ovo testosterone in zebra finches (
10.1086/682576|Stable isotope analysis is an increasingly useful ecological tool, but its accuracy depends on quantifying the tissue-specific trophic discrimination factors (TDFs) and isotopic incorporation rates for focal taxa. Despite the techniques ubiquity, most laboratory experiments determining TDFs and incorporation rates have focused on birds, mammals, and fish; we know little about terrestrial ectotherms, and amphibians in particular are understudied. In this study we used two controlled feeding experiments to determine carbon (
10.1086/590221|Urine movement from the ureters to the bladder was accomplished by a combination of gravity and pressures resulting from lung inflation, buccal pumping, and smoothmuscle contraction. Urine movement from the cloaca to the urinary bladder was the result of pressure generated by cloacal smoothmuscle contraction and opposed by urinary bladder pressure, resulting from compliance, lung inflation, and buccal movements. The frequency of cloacal smoothmuscle contraction measured in
30161081|On the basis of the comparative approach and three models of metabolism (endothermic and ectothermic vertebrates, body mass, and mammalian development), we suggest that a few common cellular processes, linked either directly or indirectly to membranes, consume the majority of energy used by most organisms; that membranes act as pacemakers of metabolism through changes in lipid composition, altering membrane characteristics and the working environment of membrane proteinsspecifically, that changes in the membrane environment similarly affect the molecular activities (specific rates of activity) of membranebound proteins; and that polyunsaturation of membranes increases whereas monounsaturation decreases the activity of membrane proteins. Experiments designed to test this theory using the sodium pump support this supposition. Potential mechanisms considered include fluidity, electrical fields, and related surface area requirements of lipids. In considering the evolution of endothermy in mammals, for example, if the first mammals were small, possibly nocturnal and active organisms, all these factors would favour increased polyunsaturation of membranes. Such changes (from monounsaturated to polyunsaturated membranes) would allow membranes to set the pace of metabolism in the evolution of endothermy.
30158057|The mammalian brain undergoes rapid cell death during anoxia that is characterized by uncontrolled Ca
PBZ10095|The femoral lymph sac volumes and lymph mobilization capacity were compared in three anuran species that span a range of environments, dehydration tolerance, ability to maintain blood volume with dehydration, and degrees of development of skeletal muscles putatively involved in moving lymph vertically to the posterior lymph hearts. The femoral lymph sac volume determined by Evans blue injection and dilution in the femoral lymph sac varied interspecifically. The semiaquatic species,
30158412|We investigated determinants of the physiological stress response mediated by stress proteins in blue tit
30157988|Heart rate of the Mediterranean limpet
30158696|Small mammals that are active all year must develop ways to survive the cold winters. Endotherms that experience prolonged cold exposure often increase their thermogenic capacity. Thermogenic capacity incorporates basal metabolic rate (BMR), nonshivering thermogenesis (NST), and shivering thermogenesis (ST). Increasing the capacity of any of these components will result in increased thermogenic capacity. It is often thought that NST should be the most plastic component of thermogenic capacity and as such is the most likely to increase with cold acclimation. We used deer mice to test this hypothesis by acclimating 27 animals to one of two temperatures (5 or 22C) for 8 wk. We then measured and compared values for thermogenic capacityBMR, ST, and NSTbetween the two groups. Thermogenic capacity and NST increased by 21% and 42%, respectively, after cold acclimation. Neither BMR nor ST showed any change after acclimation. Therefore, it appears that deer mice raise their thermogenic capacity in response to prolonged cold by altering NST only.
30158301|The behaviour of
30160990|To test whether expression of the inducible heatshock protein Hsp70 increases under selection for inducible thermotolerance in
10.1086/676651|It is common in evolutionary ecology to interpret body-condition indices as indicators of individual quality, but this hypothesized relationship has been questioned and remains poorly validated. Here, we test one of the fundamental predictions of this condition-quality hypothesis, that relative-condition indices are repeatable within individuals, that is, that the index score of an individual relative to others is consistent over time. We sampled crimson finches (
30158679|The giant mudskipper,
10.1086/661541|Nectar-feeding animals increase their food intake when nectar sugar concentration decreases. However, some species present physiological constraints that limit their energy intake when nectar is diluted. We hypothesized that gut capacities of bats affect the ability of these animals to acquire and store energy, modifying how they use food resources in the field. We measured the food intake and changes in body mass of the members of an assemblage of nectar-feeding bats (
10.1086/683259|The interaction between prenatal environments and postnatal environments is an important source of phenotypic variability. We examined the ability of prenatal steroid exposure and postnatal energy restriction to explain adrenocortical function and fledging age in captive seabird chicks. We proposed and tested two hypotheses: (1) the strength of prenatal effects is attenuated by challenging postnatal environments (postnatal override) and (2) the strength of prenatal effects increases with the severity of postnatal challenges (postnatal reveal). We reared common murre (
30158391|Since DeNiro and Epsteins discovery that the
PBZ10104|While theories explaining the evolution and maintenance of sex are abundant, empirical data on the costs and benefits of asexual relative to sexual reproduction are less common. Asexually reproducing vertebrates, while few, provide a rare opportunity to measure differences in fitness between asexual and sexual species. All known asexually reproducing vertebrates are of hybrid origin, and hybrid disadvantage (i.e., reduced hybrid fitness) is thought to facilitate long-term coexistence between asexual and sexual species. We used repeat swimming performance as a proxy for fitness to compare the fitness of asexual hybrid dace (Pisces:
30161336|The mayfly larvae
30161067|The aims of this study were to validate a radioimmunoassay (RIA) for quantifying glucocorticoid metabolite concentrations in the feces of Alaskan brown bears (
30162164|Our study was designed to see whether corticosterone (B) rises abruptly in the blood of nestling pied flycatchers (
30097049|We present the first data on the differences in routine and active metabolic rates for sexually maturing migratory adult sockeye salmon (
10.1086/675259|Cold-water fishes are becoming increasingly vulnerable as changing thermal conditions threaten their future sustainability. Thermal stress and habitat loss from increasing water temperatures are expected to impact population viability, particularly for inland populations with limited adaptive resources. Although the long-term persistence of cold-adapted species will depend on their ability to cope with and adapt to changing thermal conditions, very little is known about the scope and variation of thermal tolerance within and among conspecific populations and evolutionary lineages. We studied the upper thermal tolerance and capacity for acclimation in three captive populations of brook trout (
10.1086/661953|Critical oxygen pressure (P
30158334|An intensive study of longevity, female fecundity, and male reproductive behavior in
30161131|Although musth in male African elephants (
PBZ10024|Stress can have sublethal effects that are manifested either immediately or at spatial or temporal scales that are removed from the stress event (i.e., carryover effects). We tested whether a short-term elevation of plasma cortisol would result in seasonal carryover effects in wild largemouth bass
PBZ12080|The benthic macroinvertebrate
30160569|The relationship between whole bloodoxygen affinity (P
30158735|Kinosternid mud turtles, a primarily aquatic group, exhibit variable degrees of terrestrial activity in the Sonoran and Chihuahuan Deserts. We compared behavioral and physiological responses to dry conditions in four populations representing three species,
30161163|Africa can stir wild and fanciful notions in the casual visitor; one of these is the tale of inebriated wild elephants. The suggestion that the African elephant (
30160631|A number of authors have suggested that hyperthermia, the elevation of body temperature (
30161278|Most herbivorous rodents consume a variety of plants and, when available, select ones low in fiber content. In contrast, the fat sand rat (
30158322|The naked carp is an endangered cyprinid that migrates annually between freshwater rivers, where it spawns, and Lake Qinghai, where it feeds and grows. Lake Qinghai is a highaltitude lake (3,200 m) in western China that currently exhibits the following composition (in mmol L
30160982|Previous studies have demonstrated that the ventral aorta of the dogfish shark,
10.1086/591949|Levels of ultraviolet B radiation (UVBR) reaching the Earths surface have increased since the 1970s as a result of stratospheric ozone depletion caused by the emission of ozonedepleting substances (ODSs) such as chlorofluorocarbons. Despite international agreements to phase out harmful ODSs, these substances are persistent, and even under the most optimistic scenarios, stratospheric ozone levels will not return to pre1980 levels for several decades. Furthermore, climate change may enhance chemical stratospheric ozone depletion. Global phenomena such as climate change, ozone depletion, and acidification of aquatic ecosystems interact to modify dissolved organic carbon levels in aquatic systems, thereby increasing the penetration of UVBR. Since amphibians inhabit both aquatic and terrestrial habitats and have unshelled eggs and permeable skin, they are vulnerable to changes in environmental conditions and habitat quality. Increased exposure of amphibians to UVBR can produce lethal and sublethal effects, especially in individuals that do not possess adequate defense mechanisms to protect themselves. In this article, we discuss worldwide increases in UVBR and the adverse effects of UVBR exposure on amphibians. Specifically, studies on the effects of UVBR on amphibian development and metamorphosis are summarized, and possible mechanisms of thyroid system disruption caused by UVBR exposure are considered.
10.1086/589839|The cardiovascularstress response has been studied extensively in laboratory animals but has been poorly studied in naturally selected species. We determined the relative roles of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and the parasympathetic nervous system (PNS) in regulating stressinduced changes in heart rate (HR) in wildcaught European starlings (
30160010|Sensitivity to acid water was assessed in three species of Amazonian fish that encounter naturally acidic blackwaters to differing degrees in the wild: tambaqui (
30160022|Blood flow in systemic (
10.1086/605392|Whitethroated sparrows (
30161045|The distribution of watersoluble phosphodiesters (WSPDEs) visible by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) in some intact tissues of rainbow trout (
10.1086/597526|Subterranean mammals show lower massindependent basal metabolic rates (BMRs). Several competing hypotheses were suggested to explain how microenvironmental conditions and underground life affect subterranean mammalian energetics. Two of these are the thermal stress and the costofburrowing hypotheses. The thermal stress hypothesis posits that a lower massindependent BMR reduces overheating in burrows where convective and evaporative heat loss is low, whereas the costofburrowing hypothesis states that a lower massindependent BMR may compensate for the high energy expenditure of digging. In this article, we assessed the relationship between BMR of
30160015|Cardiac responses (heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output) to cholinergic and adrenergic receptor stimulation were investigated in developing larvae of
30160069|Maximum left ventricular wall stress is calculated at enddiastolic volume and systemic arterial diastolic blood pressure, according to a thickwalled model for the principle of Laplace. Stress is independent of body mass and averages 13.9 kPa (2.3; 95% confidence interval) in 24 species of mammals weighing 0.0254,000 kg and 15.5 kPa (4.7) in 12 birds weighing 0.014110 kg. Birds have higher arterial blood pressures and larger hearts than mammals. Systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressures increase with body mass according to
30158385|Aerobic physiology at high altitudes has been studied in many animals. Prior work on laboratorybred deer mice (a species with a wide altitudinal range) showed depression of aerobic capacity at high altitude, even after acclimation. However, wild deer mice show no reduction in thermogenic performance at high altitude, and performance limits seem to be due to physiological and anatomical adjustments to environmental temperature and not to oxygen availability. We asked whether acrossaltitude performance differences exist in deer mice after accounting for temperature acclimation (5 and 2025C) and prenatal and neonatal development altitude (340 vs. 3,800 m). We measured maximal thermogenic oxygen consumption (
30158384|Field studies of use of torpor by heterothermic endotherms suffer from the lack of a standardized threshold differentiating torpid body temperatures (
30161138|Passerines that overwinter in temperate climates undergo seasonal acclimatization that is characterized by metabolic adjustments that may include increased basal metabolic rate (BMR) and coldinduced summit metabolism (
10.1086/648485|We investigated the ability of European sea bass (
30158003|Egg production in passerines and other birds requires rapid synthesis of proteins and lipids. We hypothesized that these biosynthetic demands would necessitate hypertrophy of the liver, which produces the yolk precursors vitellogenin and very lowdensity lipoprotein (VLDL), and of the metabolic machinery that supports the liver's biosynthetic activity (e.g., heart, kidneys, lungs, and digestive organs). To test this hypothesis, freeliving female European starlings (
10.1086/590165|Understanding how climate change impacts natural systems requires investigations of the effects of environmental variation on vulnerable species and documentation of how populations respond to change. The willow beetle
30158299|In vivo
10.1086/669538|The cunner is a marine teleost that exhibits winter dormancy (i.e., becomes inactive and stops feeding) when seawater temperatures fall below 5C. To examine whether this dormant state is also associated with active metabolic depression, the effect of season on routine metabolic rate (MR
30161339|Stenohaline common carp (
10.1086/682238|An organisms physiological processes form the link between its life-history traits and the prevailing environmental conditions, especially in species with complex life cycles. Understanding how these processes respond to changing environmental conditions, thereby affecting organismal development, is critical if we are to predict the biological implications of current and future global climate change. However, much of our knowledge is derived from adults or single developmental stages. Consequently, we investigated the metabolic rate, organic content, carapace mineralization, growth, and survival across each larval stage of the European lobster
10.1086/664948|Little is known about how variation in the pattern and magnitude of parental effort influences allocation decisions in offspring. We determined the energy budget of Antarctic fur seal pups and examined the relative importance of timing of provisioning, pup traits (mass, condition, sex), and weather (wind chill and solar radiation) on allocation of energy obtained in milk by measuring milk energy intake, field metabolic rate (FMR), and growth rate in 48 Antarctic fur seal pups over three developmental stages (perinatal, premolt, and molt). The relative amount of milk energy used for growth was
10.1086/605933|In desert species, seasonal peaks in animal activity often correspond with times of higher rainfall. However, the underlying reason for such seasonality can be hard to discern because the rainy season is often associated with shifts in temperature as well as water and food availability. We used a combination of the natural climate pattern of the Sonoran Desert and periodic water supplementation to determine the extent to which water intake influenced both the behavioral ecology and the physiological ecology of a longlived desert lizard, the Gila monster (
30158019|The effects of water availability during incubation on the water contents of neonatal snapping turtles at hatching were examined, along with the influence of hatchling water content on desiccation tolerance and terrestrial locomotor performance. The water contents of hatchlings from eggs incubated on wet substrates were both absolutely and proportionally greater than were those of hatchlings from eggs incubated on dry substrates. Hatchlings with greater water contents at hatching were able to survive longer and to lose more water before physiological performance was adversely affected by desiccation. Increased water contents in hatchlings with greater water availability during incubation may enhance survival by increasing the amount of water the animal can afford to lose before dehydration begins to adversely affect whole animal performance.
10.1086/667799|Sourcing energy for reproduction is a major driver of the life-history characteristics of animals. Unlike other molluscs, cephalopods do not appear to have significant glycogen stores, and energy is either sourced directly from ingested food or mobilized from protein stores in the muscle. Given the importance of protein to cephalopods, this study quantified changes in protein turnover in the muscle tissue in reproductively immature and maturing/mature individuals. Quantifying protein accretion and protein synthesis allowed an assessment of protein turnover in immature and maturing individuals of the southern dumpling squid (
10.1086/669482|Life history integration of the defense response was investigated at intra- and interspecific levels in land snails of the family
10.1086/658499|Several aquatic organisms are able to withstand extreme desiccation in at least one of their life stages. This is commonly known as anhydrobiosis. It was often thought that to tolerate such a desiccated state required high amounts of compatible solutes such as the nonreducing disaccharide trehalose, which protects cellular structures by water replacement and glass formation. Trehalose levels of dormant eggs and cysts of five freshwater crustaceans (
10.1086/603631|The organs and molecular mechanisms contributing to adaptive thermogenesis in marsupials are not known because some species apparently lack brown adipose tissue (BAT). The increased oxidative capacity and presence of uncoupling protein 3 (UCP3) in skeletal muscle led to speculations on whether uncoupled respiration sustains endothermy in the cold, as found for BAT. Here, we investigated the role of mitochondrial proton conductance in the small Australian marsupial
10.1086/662630|Hagfish feed by immersing themselves in the body cavities of decaying animals. This ensures a rich nutrient source for absorption via the gills, skin, and gut, but it may also subject hagfish to reduced levels of dissolved oxygen and elevated levels of the products of biological degradation. This study investigated the impacts of hypoxia and ammonia on the assimilation and metabolism of selected nutrients (glycine,
30158405|All amniotes except birds and mammals have the ability to shunt blood past the lungs, but the physiological function of this ability is poorly understood. We studied the role of the shunt in digestion in juvenile American alligators in the following ways. First, we characterized the shunt in fasting and postprandial animals and found that blood was shunted past the lungs during digestion. Second, we disabled the shunt by surgically sealing the left aortic orifice in one group of animals, and we performed a sham surgery in another. We then compared postprandial rates of gastric acid secretion at body temperatures of 19 and 27C and rates of digestion of bone at 27C. Twelve hours after eating, maximal rates of gastric acid secretion when measured at 19 and 27C were significantly less in the disabled group than in shamoperated animals. Twentyfour hours postprandial, a significant decrease was found at 27C but not at 19C. For the first half of digestion, dissolution of cortical bone was significantly slower in the disabled animals. These data suggest the righttoleft shunt serves to retain carbon dioxide in the body so that it can be used by the gastrointestinal system. We hypothesize that the foramen of Panizza functions to enrich with oxygen blood that is destined for the gastrointestinal system to power proton pumps and other energydemanding processes of digestion and that the righttoleft shunt serves to provide carbon dioxide to gastrointestinal organs besides the stomach, such as the pancreas, spleen, upper small intestine, and liver.
30158698|In a laboratory colony of a wild rodent, the bank vole
30161156|Over the last 50 yr, thermal biology has shifted from a largely physiological science to a more integrated science of behavior, physiology, ecology, and evolution. Today, the mechanisms that underlie responses to environmental temperature are being scrutinized at levels ranging from genes to organisms. From these investigations, a theory of thermal adaptation has emerged that describes the evolution of thermoregulation, thermal sensitivity, and thermal acclimation. We review and integrate current models to form a conceptual model of coadaptation. We argue that major advances will require a quantitative theory of coadaptation that predicts which strategies should evolve in specific thermal environments. Simply combining current models, however, is insufficient to understand the responses of organisms to thermal heterogeneity; a theory of coadaptation must also consider the biotic interactions that influence the net benefits of behavioral and physiological strategies. Such a theory will be challenging to develop because each organisms perception of and response to thermal heterogeneity depends on its size, mobility, and life span. Despite the challenges facing thermal biologists, we have never been more pressed to explain the diversity of strategies that organisms use to cope with thermal heterogeneity and to predict the consequences of thermal change for the diversity of communities.
30160072|I quantified the movement patterns of eight morphologically and ecologically diverse Caribbean
30160153|The objective of this study was to evaluate the maternal costs of reproduction and pup development in the subterranean rodent
30160122|Many species of hibernating mammals rely on hoarded food rather than body fat to support winter energy requirements. Here, we evaluate whether the associated ingestive and digestive requirements reduce the benefits that foodstoring hibernators can accrue from torpor. Using a simple model, we predict (1) that digestive efficiency could either increase or decrease with increased use of torpor, depending on the Q
10.1086/666058|Hybridization has the potential to exert pleiotropic effects on metabolism. Effects on mitochondrial enzymes may arise through incompatibilities in nuclear- and mitochondrial-encoded subunits of the enzyme complexes of oxidative phosphorylation. We explored the metabolic phenotype of bluegill (
30160038|When placed in a temperature gradient, most ectotherms have a strict thermal preference that is lowered on exposure to hypoxia. Branchiopods, small aquatic crustaceans, are known to synthesise haemoglobin (Hb) when exposed to hypoxia; hypoxia can occur diurnally and seasonally in ponds. The effect of Hb on behavioural thermoregulation in the branchiopod
30161143|The African sharptooth catfish
30158144|Cetoleic acid (22:1n11) is a good indicator of diet in marine predators and has proven to be an important fatty acid (FA) when using adipose tissue FA composition to study diet in marine mammals and seabirds. Feeding studies have shown that 22:1 isomers are predictably underrepresented in adipose tissue relative to diet, implying that metabolism within the predator strongly influences the relationship between the level of these FAs in diet and adipose tissue. Fully understanding such metabolic processes for individual FAs is important for the quantitative estimation of predator diets. We employed a duallabel radioisotope tracer technique to investigate the potential modification of 22:1n11 and its recovery in the blubber of gray seals (
10.1086/667990|In response to stressful stimuli, animals activate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, which can result in transition to the emergency life history stage. A key adaptive characteristic of this life history stage is the mobilization of energy stores. However, few data are available on the metabolic response to acute stress in wild-caught, free-ranging birds. We quantified the effect of acute capture and restraint stress on plasma glucose, free fatty acid, and uric acid in free-ranging Aberts towhees
30158002|For many insect herbivores, variation in protein availability is a pervasive part of the environment. I explore how variable protein availability affects growth rates of fifthinstar
30161140|Metabolic scope for activity (MSA) and critical swimming velocity (
30158714|A procedure is described for the accurate determination of the maintenance nitrogen requirement (MNR) of small granivorous birds. When used with the zebra finch (
10.1086/671128|Recent research in birds suggests that investing in incubation is one mechanism by which parents can enhance the phenotype of their offspring. Posthatch environmental conditions can also shape an individuals phenotype, and it is thus possible for pre- and posthatch conditions to have interactive effects on an individuals phenotype. In this study, we examined the individual and interactive effects of prehatch incubation temperature and posthatch food availability on growth, food consumption, and thermoregulatory ability in wood duck (
10.1086/597519|Plasma lipid metabolites can provide information about fat metabolism and storage in migrating birds, yet little is known about the influence of diet and nutrition or how they relate to intraindividual differences in body composition of songbirds. We investigated how dietary macronutrient composition affects plasma lipid concentrations and subsequent changes in fat accumulation in whitethroated sparrows (
30160104|It had been suggested that the activity of anaerobic enzymes in the white muscle of fish increases exponentially with body size to meet the increasing hydrodynamic costs of burst swimming. We tested whether this relationship holds across a very large size range of striped bass, spanning a nearly 3,000fold range in body mass. We examined the scaling of marker enzymes of anaerobic (lactate dehydrogenase and pyruvate kinase) and aerobic (citrate synthase and malate dehydrogenase) metabolism in the red and white locomotor muscles. In white muscle, we found positive scaling of anaerobic enzymes only in smaller fishes. Positive scaling of anaerobic enzymes was not found among the samples that included fishes >1,000 g despite having a sufficiently large sample size to detect such scaling. The absence of positive scaling in the white muscles of large bass suggests that they are unable to generate sufficient power to sustain relative burst swimming performance. Enzymes from aerobic pathways had activities that were mass independent in both red and white muscle. Red and white muscles were metabolically distinct except among the smallest fishes. Among young of the year, the anaerobic capacity of red muscle approached that of white muscle and also showed positive scaling. This unusual pattern suggests that red muscle might augment white muscle during burst swimming and add to the total power generated by these small fish. Maximizing burst swimming performance may be critical for small fishes vulnerable to predation but unimportant for large fishes.
30160632|Several species of freshwater turtles in the family Emydidae undergo an ontogenetic dietary shift; as juvenile turtles mature, they change from a primarily carnivorous to a primarily herbivorous diet. It has been hypothesized that this shift results from an unfavorable ratio of gut capacity to metabolic rate that prevents small reptiles from processing adequate volumes of plant material to meet their energetic demands. Effects of dietary dilution on intake were evaluated in two size classes of redeared sliders (
30158080|Siberian hamsters as young as 16 and 28 d displayed torpor in response to treatment with 2,500 mg/kg 2deoxyDglucose and reduced food availability, respectively. In addition, most foodrestricted hamsters displayed increased locomotor activity and elevated body temperatures in the 3 h immediately preceding daily food delivery. This anticipatory activity disappeared within a few days of reimposition of ad lib. feeding. Torpor first appeared spontaneously at 13 wk of age in hamsters fed ad lib. and maintained in short day lengths. The onset of this spontaneous torpor was unaffected by the hamsters history of food restriction before age 2 mo. Siberian hamsters born late in the breeding season can conserve energy by undergoing torpor immediately after weaning when they contend with food shortages and concurrent energetic challenges imposed by growth requirements and low ambient temperatures.
30158059|The jelly around amphibian eggs presents a formidable barrier to oxygen diffusion. Therefore, egg capsules must be thin enough, and the dimensions of globular egg masses small enough, to avoid oxygen limitation leading to developmental retardation or death. The eggs of the Australian moss frog,
PBZ10017|We studied the effect of food supplementation during summer and winter in seminatural field conditions on thermoregulation of a desert rodent, the golden spiny mouse
30157989|First instars of
30160074|Changes in protein and mRNA expression of Na
30161068|The viscacha (
30161058|Strenuous activity is associated with acidosis, increased extracellular potassium concentration ([K
10.1086/669265|Temperature affects processes at all levels of biological organization, but it is unclear whether processes at different levels have similar thermal optima (
10.1086/681025|Exurban development (low-density development in rural areas) can significantly alter wildlife community composition, but it is largely unknown whether it also affects wildlife at the individual level. We investigated individual-level impacts of exurban development in New York States Adirondack Park by comparing the physiological condition of 62 male ovenbirds (
30158124|Studies of basal metabolic rate (BMR), the minimum metabolic rate of postabsorptive, inactive endotherms while in their rest phase and thermal neutral zone, have contributed significantly to our understanding of animal energetics. Besides body mass, the main determinant of BMR, researchers have invoked diet and phylogenetic history as important factors that influence BMR, although their relative importance has been controversial. For 58 species within the Carnivora, we tested the hypothesis that BMR is correlated with home range size, a proxy for level of activity, and diet, using conventional least squares regression (CLSR) and regression based on phylogenetic independent contrasts (PIC). Results showed that BMR of Carnivora was positively correlated with home range size after controlling for body mass, regardless of the statistical method employed. We also found that diet and massadjusted home range size were correlated. When we simultaneously tested the effect of diet and massadjusted home range on massadjusted BMR, home range size was insignificant because of its colinearity with diet. Then we eliminated home range size from our model, and diet proved to be significant with both CLSR and PIC. We concluded that species that eat meat have larger home ranges and higher BMR than species that eat vegetable matter. To advance our understanding of the potential mechanisms that might explain our results, we propose the muscle performance hypothesis, which suggests that selection for different muscle fiber types can account for the differences in BMR observed between meat eaters and vegetarian species within the Carnivora.
30160047|Evolutionary hypotheses suggest that higher rates of postembryonic development in birds should either lower the resting metabolic rate (RMR) in a tradeoff between the costs of growth and maintenance or increase RMR because of a buildup of metabolic machinery. Furthermore, some suggest that higher rates of postembryonic development in birds should reduce peak metabolic rate (PMR) through delayed tissue maturation and/or an increased energy allocation to organ growth. We studied this by comparing metabolic rates and organ sizes of fastgrowing meattype chickens (broilers) with those of birds from a laying strain, which grow much slower. During the first week of life, despite growing six times faster, the RMR of the broiler chickens was lower than that of birds of the laying strain. The difference between strains in RMR disappeared thereafter, even though broilers continued to grow twice as fast as layers. The differences between strains in growth rate during the first week after hatching were not reflected in similar differences in the relative masses of the heart, liver, and small intestine. However, broilers had heavier intestines once they reached a body mass of 80 g. In contrast, broilers had relatively smaller brains than did layers. There was a positive correlation, over both strains, between RMR and the masses of leg muscles, intestine, and liver. Furthermore, despite delayed maturation of muscle tissue, broilers exhibited significantly higher PMR. We hypothesize that a balance between the larger relative muscle mass but lower muscle maturation level explains this high PMR. Another correlation, between leg muscle mass and PMR, partly explained the positive correlation between RMR and PMR.
30160557|We examined seasonal and agerelated variation in digestive organ sizes and enzyme activities in female western sandpipers (
10.1086/677951|Turtle embryos pause development before oviposition in a process known as preovipositional arrest. Embryonic development arrests due to hypoxia (low oxygen) in the maternal oviducts and resumes only after exposure to normoxia when eggs are laid. Recently, several studies have hypothesized that the prolonged periods of preovipositional arrest may have a detrimental effect on embryo survival and development after eggs are laid. We tested this hypothesis by comparing embryo survival (determined by white spot formation and hatching success) and hatchling fitness (measured by self-righting, crawling, and swimming ability) of flatback sea turtle (
30158371|Radioisotopes are commonly used to study the in vivo metabolism and deposition of dietary fatty acids in adipose tissue. The application of this approach to pinnipeds is problematic because of their large mass and blubber fat content. We have developed a method where labelled lipids can be fed to seals at financially feasible levels, with the radioactivity in individual fatty acids isolated from blubber detected with standard laboratory equipment. A combination of techniques including argentation thin layer chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection, and independent liquid scintillation counting were employed. Juvenile gray seals (
30158691|Watersoluble nutrients can be absorbed across the intestinal epithelium by transcellular and paracellular processes. Recent studies suggest that small birds (<180 g) have more extensive paracellular absorption of glucose than nonflying mammals. This may be a feature that compensates for a reduced small intestine size because small birds have smaller masscorrected intestinal length than do nonflying mammals, but the difference diminishes in larger birds. We hypothesized that if this explanation were correct, there would be a negative correlation between paracellular absorption and body mass in birds and that larger birds would have paracellular absorption comparable to that of nonflying mammals. We tested this hypothesis, using consistent methodology, by measuring the extent of absorption of a series of inert carbohydrate probes in heavier bird species (>300 g) selected from diverse taxa: American coots, mallards, pheasants, and pigeons. Absorption of carbohydrate probes was inversely related to body mass in birds, and absorption of these probes in large birds (>500 g) was comparable to absorption measurements in nonflying mammals. Higher paracellular uptake in the smaller avian species may offer a physiologically inexpensive means of nutrient absorption to compensate for a reduced small intestine size but may make those species more vulnerable to toxicant absorption.
10.1086/665275|Studies of locomotor performance often link variation in morphology with ecology. While maximum sprint speed is a commonly used performance variable, the absolute limits for this performance trait are not completely understood. Absolute maximal speed has often been shown to increase linearly with body size, but several comparative studies covering a large range of body sizes suggest that maximal speed does not increase indefinitely with body mass but rather reaches an optimum after which speed declines. Because of the comparative nature of these studies, it is difficult to determine whether this decrease is due to biomechanical constraints on maximal speed or is a consequence of phylogenetic inertia or perhaps relaxed selection for lower maximal speed at large body size. To explore this issue, we have examined intraspecific variations in morphology, maximal sprint speed, and kinematics for the yellow-spotted monitor lizard
30158029|Some freshwater (FW) teleosts are capable of acclimating to seawater (SW) when challenged; however, the related energetic and physiological consequences are still unclear. This study was conducted to examine the changes in expression of gill Na
30161056|The aerobic capacity model, as well as other models for the evolution of aerobic metabolism and the origin of endothermy, requires a mechanistic link between rates of resting and activity oxygen consumption (
30162156|Most cells are bathed by interstitial fluid, but extracellular pH measurements are mostly for arterial plasma. Wholebody mean pH differences between the two fluids have been estimated in terms of a simple model. This relates to the diffusive exchange of carbon dioxide and oxygen and utilizes literature data, for 22 vertebrate species, on arterial and mixedvenous tensions of both gases. Uncertainties arise because the carbon dioxide reaction in blood may sometimes be in disequilibrium and because carbon dioxide diffusion is facilitated to unknown degrees in the presence of buffers. Nevertheless, the model suggests that the pH difference should tend to vary inversely with arterial carbon dioxide tension. In some species, this may aid interstitial pH homeostasis, but a clearer implication is that the difference should be generally greater in water breathers than in air breathers. It has previously been found that arterial pH in waterbreathing teleosts also tends to be higher than in airbreathing tetrapods (when allowance is made for temperature and plasma sodium concentration) and to a comparable extent. Thus, mean interstitial pH may be more nearly similar in the two groups than is arterial pH. Direct measurements of interstitial pH do not yet suffice to test the model.
30161161|Chemical communication is virtually universal among terrestrial and aquatic organisms. Chemical signals control the interactions of cells and organs (hormones) as well as the intra (pheromones) and interspecific (allelochemicals) relationships between animals. The review considers three examples for chemical communication in insects and other arthropods on different hierarchic levels of biological organization, from the intraindividual level, where hormones control development and reproduction of the animals, to the interspecific level, where semiochemicals function as defense agents against predators or may be used for finding and recognizing food resources. Knowledge of the function of these systems and of the molecular structures of the chemical compounds involved may provide the basis for highly selective techniques of pest control.
30158713|We investigated the quantitative matching of plasma yolk precursor supply (the plasma pool) to follicle demand during yolk formation in European starlings (
30160575|Effects of varying dietary protein intake on serum free amino acid (FAA) concentrations were studied in harbor seals (
30161046|Secretion of the steroid hormone corticosterone (CORT) in response to perturbations results in behavior patterns that can maximize survival. Three commonly cited hypotheses suggest that during breeding, there are advantages associated with suppressed (CORT) secretion in (1) the sex that is most important for parental care, (2) individuals in good body condition, and (3) species with a short breeding season and limited renesting opportunities. We addressed these hypotheses in two midlatitude breeders, chestnutcollared and McCowns longspurs, by assessing CORT secretion over a 1h period of handling. These species have congeners that are exclusively arctic breeders, and this provides a unique opportunity to assess adrenocortical responsiveness both within a phylogenetic framework and across environmental variables. In both species, males and females showed similar CORT secretion patterns in response to handling, and body condition was unrelated to CORT secretion. Additionally, although these midlatitude breeders have more opportunities to attempt a renest than their arctic congeners, their hormonal response to stress was similar to that reported for their arctic congeners. We suggest that an attenuated stress response may relate to the severity of the breeding environment and a low likelihood of successful renesting, since these variables are common to both arctic and grassland habitats.
30161180|Several species of arboreal frogs secrete lipids from cutaneous glands and wipe these secretions over the body surfaces to reduce evaporative water losses. Following wiping, frogs become immobile in waterconserving postures, and some have suggested they are torpid. Here we report wiping behaviors and the physiological correlates of immobile postures in the arboreal monkey frog
10.1086/668892|Fatty acids are not mobilized from adipocyte triacylglycerols uniformly but rather some are preferentially mobilized while others are preferentially retained. In many vertebrate species, the pattern of differential mobilization is determined by the physical and chemical properties of each fatty acid. Fatty acids with shorter chains and more double bonds tend to be more readily mobilized than others, a pattern observed both in whole-animal studies and in isolated adipocytes. Several hibernating species seem to break this pattern, however, and retain 18:26 (linoleic acid) while mobilizing saturated fatty acids such as 18:0. We sought to confirm this pattern in adipocytes of a hibernator, the 13-lined ground squirrel
10.1086/648581|Many invertebrates and ectothermic vertebrates successfully cope with a fluctuating supply of ambient oxygenand consequently, a highly variable tissue oxygenationthrough increasing their antioxidant barriers. During chronic deprivation of oxygen, however, the hypometabolic defense mode of the fruit fly
PBZ10091|Our recent article (Roberts et al.
30158398|Skin is an important avenue of water loss in terrestrial birds, so environmental conditions that necessitate water conservation should favor physiological mechanisms that reduce cutaneous water loss (CWL). Skin resistance to CWL is conferred by a barrier of lipid molecules located in the stratum corneum (SC), the outer layer of the epidermis. In mammals, SC barrier function depends on the conversion of cerebrosides to ceramides by the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (GlcCerase). Avian SC contains both cerebrosides and ceramides, suggesting that observed plasticity in CWL may be mediated by changes in GlcCerase activity and resultant SC lipid composition. We tested the hypothesis that changes in ambient humidity would alter GlcCerase activity by acclimating house sparrows (
30158065|Two competing but nonexclusive hypotheses to explain the reduced basal metabolic rate (BMR) of mammals that live and forage underground (fossorial species) are examined by comparing this group with burrowing mammals that forage on the surface (semifossorial species). These hypotheses suggest that the low BMR of fossorial species either compensates for the enormous energetic demands of subterranean foraging (the costofburrowing hypothesis) or prevents overheating in closed burrow systems (the thermalstress hypothesis). Because phylogentically informed allometric analysis showed that arid burrowing mammals have a significantly lower BMR than mesic ones, fossorial and semifossorial species were compared within these groups. The BMRs of mesic fossorial and semifossorial mammals could not be reliably distinguished, nor could the BMRs of large (>77 g) arid fossorial and semifossorial mammals. This finding favours the thermalstress hypothesis, because the groups appear to have similar BMRs despite differences in foraging costs. However, in support of the costofburrowing hypothesis, small (<77 g) arid fossorial mammals were found to have a significantly lower BMR than semifossorial mammals of the similar size. Given the high massspecific metabolic rates of small animals, they are expected to be under severe energy and water stress in arid environments. Under such conditions, the greatly reduced BMR of small fossorial species may compensate for the enormous energetic demands of subterranean foraging.
30097057|We examined the cardiovascular responses to acute and chronic changes in blood volume (BV) in the land crab
10.1086/670383|Testosterone has been implicated as a developmental mechanism involved in the organization and expression of sexually dimorphic traits, such as plumage coloration, in birds. Although research findings relating testosterone levels to plumage expression is equivocal, few studies have investigated how testosterone may influence the expression of structurally based plumage coloration. Here, we use experimental and correlational evidence to test the hypothesis that testosterone influences the development and maintenance of structurally based plumage coloration in a wild-breeding population of eastern bluebirds (
30158339|The resource allocation hypothesis predicts that reproductive activity suppresses immunocompetence; however, this has never been tested in an endemic disease system with freeranging mammals. We tested the resource allocation hypothesis in wild deer mice (
30161053|Amphibians are a vertebrate group transitional between aquatic and terrestrial environments. Consequently, both increases and decreases in blood volume are a natural biological stress associated with aquatic and terrestrial environments. In comparison with other vertebrate classes, anuran amphibians have the most rapid compensation and greatest capacity to compensate for changes in blood volume and survive dehydration. Unlike in mammals, a Starling transcapillary uptake mechanism does not account for this fluid mobilization because lymph flow is a substantial and important additional factor. The role of the lymphatic system in flux of fluids back into the circulation varies interspecifically in anurans and is an order of magnitude greater in anurans than in mammals. Current models of lymph movement in anurans are centered on the role of lymph hearts, but we suggest that these models are untenable. We present a new hypothesis for lymph movement involving (1) pressure differences created by compartmentalization of the hind limb lymph spaces into sacs of serially graded compliance to move lymph horizontally and (2) both negative and positive pressure differences created by contraction of skeletal muscles to move lymph vertically. The primary function of some of these skeletal muscles may be solely for lymph movement, but some may also be involved with other functions such as pulmonary ventilation.
10.1086/597548|Basal metabolic rate (BMR) in animals is interpreted as reflecting the size and metabolic intensity of energyconsuming tissues. However, studies investigating relationships between the mass of specific organs and interindividual variation in BMR have produced inconsistent patterns with regard to which organs have the largest impact on BMR variation. Because of the known flexibility in organ mass and metabolic intensity within individual organs, relationships between BMR and bodycomposition variables are bound to be context specific. Altricial nestlings are excellent models to illustrate this phenomenon because of the extreme variation in body composition occurring during growth. Using European starlings at three age classes, we studied changes in body composition together with its effect on variation in resting metabolic rate (RMR) in order to highlight the contextspecific nature of these relationships. Our data suggest a transition in metabolic costs during growth in starling nestlings. During the linear phase of growth, energy is mainly consumed by tissuesynthesis processes, with fastgrowing organs having a large influence on RMR. In the plateau phase of growth, the energy expenditure is transferred to functional costs, with highintensity organs having a predominant effect on RMR variation. Our data illustrates the contextspecific nature of organ massmetabolic rate correlations, which complicates inter and intraspecific comparisons of BMR. In the future, such comparisons must be done while taking the physiological state of the study animal into account.
30158372|Given the importance of heat in most biological processes, studies on thermoregulation have played a major role in understanding the ecology of ectothermic vertebrates. It is, however, difficult to assess whether body temperature is actually regulated, and several techniques have been developed that allow an objective assessment of thermoregulation. Almost all recent studies on reptiles follow a single methodology that, when used correctly, facilitates comparisons between species, climates, and so on. However, the use of operative temperatures in this methodology assumes zero heat capacity of the study animals and is, therefore, appropriate for small animals only. Operative temperatures represent potentially available body temperatures accurately for small animals but can substantially overestimate the ranges of body temperature available to larger animals whose slower rates of heating and cooling mean that they cannot reach equilibrium if they encounter operative temperatures that change rapidly through either space or time. This error may lead to serious misinterpretations of field data. We derive correction factors specific for body mass and rate of movement that can be used to estimate body temperature null distributions of larger reptiles, thereby overcoming this methodological problem.
10.1086/671563|Understanding physiological limits and environmental optima is critical to developing protection strategies for endangered and threatened species. One theory to explain the decline in endangered Indiana bat
10.1086/605478|Recently it has been recognized that reproduction itself, or the regulatory processes controlling reproduction, might contribute to physiological costs of reproduction. Reproductive anemia, a decrease in hematocrit and hemoglobin concentration, might provide one such mechanism underlying the costs of egg production in birds. In this study, we investigated the effect of repeated cycles of egg production in response to experimental nest predation (egg removal) on hematological traits in female zebra finches (
10.1086/671900|Our understanding of biological criteria to inform fish passage design is limited, partially due to the lack of understanding of biological motivators, cues, and constraints, as well as a lack of biological performance evaluations of structures once they are built. The Vianney-Legendre vertical slot fishway on the Richelieu River, Quebec, Canada, passes large numbers of migrating redhorse (
10.1086/597528|Nine Steller sea lions (
10.1086/673260|Developmental conditions may influence many aspects of adult phenotype, including growth and immune function. Whether poor developmental environments impair both growth and immune function or induce a trade-off between the two processes is inconclusive, and the impact of the timing of stress in determining this relationship has so far been overlooked. We tested the hypothesis that the long-term effects of nutritional stress on growth, body composition, and immune function in zebra finches (
30162170|To determine whether metabolic rate is suppressed in a temperatureindependent fashion in the goldenmantled ground squirrel during steady state hibernation, we measured body temperature and metabolic rate in ground squirrels during hibernation at different
30097056|Decapod crustaceans commonly forage in estuarine environments. The osmoregulatory mechanisms that allow them to cope with periodic episodes of low salinity have been well documented. There is less information on how ventilatory and cardiovascular mechanisms aid survival in low salinity. Prior experiments have shown that most species exhibit a tachycardia coupled with an increase in ventilation rate and oxygen uptake. However, these previous experiments were conducted on animals that were starved before experimentation in order to avoid increases in metabolism associated with digestive processes. This study investigated how the Dungeness crab
10.1086/590919|Maternal nutrition during pregnancy and postnatal offspring nutrition may influence offspring traits. We investigated the effects of maternal and postweaning offspring dietary nitrogen on immune function and hematology in two species of rodent: the hispid cotton rat (
10.1086/680362|Knowledge of melanin chemistry has important implications for the study of the evolutionary ecology of animal pigmentation, but the actual chemical diversity of these widely expressed biological pigments has been largely overlooked. Considering all melanin forms and the different conditions of endogenous oxidative stress during their synthesis provides information about physiological costs and benefits of different pigmentation patterns and opens a new perspective to understanding the evolution of color phenotypes in animals.
30160091|Murray shortnecked turtles were trained to walk on a motorised treadmill and to swim in a recirculating flume. Through filmed records, the frequency of limb movement and the time that thrust was directed against the substrate were measured. The animals wore masks when walking and accessed air when swimming from a ventilated capsule placed on top of the water surface. Measurement of the exhalant O
10.1086/673889|Caudal autotomythe ability to self-detach the tailis a dramatic adaptation common to many structural-grade lizards. For most species, tail loss is followed by the equally dramatic phenomenon of tail regeneration. Here we review the anatomy and histology of caudal autotomy and regeneration in lizards, drawing heavily from research published over the past 2 decades. The autotomous tail is characterized by various structural adaptations, which act to minimize blood loss and trauma to adjacent tissues. The early phase of wound healing involves a leukocytic response but limited inflammation. Reepithelialization via a specialized wound epithelium is not only critical for scar-free healing but also necessary for subsequent tissue patterning and regenerative outgrowth. Regeneration begins with the formation of the blastema, a mass of proliferating mesenchymal-like cells. As the blastema expands, it is invaded by blood vessels and the spinal cord. Whereas the replacement tail outwardly resembles the original appendage, it differs in several notable respects, including the tissue composition and organization of the skeleton, muscular system, and spinal cord. Increasingly, the lizard tail is being recognized among biomedical scientists as an important model for the study of wound healing and multitissue restoration.
10.1086/680599|Multiple components of the immune system are modulated by environmental factors, including exposure to stressors. In particular, chronic stressors can impair development of the immune system, leading to alterations in immune function in adulthood. While these effects have been well established in mammals, less is known about how developmental stress modulates immunity in nonmammalian species. We determined the long-term effects of exposure to early-life stressors on immunity in song sparrows including the swelling response to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and several measures of constitutive innate immunity. Song sparrows were reared in captivity from 3 d of age and exposed to control conditions, food restriction, or corticosterone (CORT) treatment. Males exposed to food restriction or CORT treatment had less swelling of the wing web in response to PHA than control males; however, neither treatment affected the swelling response to PHA in females. The treatments also had sex-specific effects on constitutive innate immune function. Specifically, CORT-treated males had lower antimicrobial capacity toward a strain of the bacterium
30161190|Male Atlantic salmon follow a conditional strategy, becoming either combatants that undertake a seaward migration and spend at least a year at sea or sneakers that remain in freshwater and mature as parr. A variety of physiological indices showed significant but small differences between the offspring of males that use these two reproductive tactics. Offspring fathered by anadromous male Atlantic salmon (
10.1086/651583|The thinwalled, lecithotrophic eggs of land isopods (suborder Oniscidea) are brooded in a fluidfilled maternal marsupium until a few days following the second embryonic molt. Eggs of
10.1086/670732|To date, relatively few studies have tried to determine the practicality of using physiological information to help answer complex ecological questions and assist in conservation actions aimed at improving conditions for fish populations. In this study, the physiological stress responses of fish were evaluated in-stream between agricultural and forested stream reaches to determine whether differences in these responses can be used as tools to evaluate conservation actions. Creek chub
30162161|Locomotor performance of lizards and its relationship to the ecology and morphology of the forms concerned has been well studied recently. Asymmetry of limbs might make the body unstable and make performance less effective. However, their effects on terrestrial locomotion remain almost unexplored. In this article, the escape performance of the lizard
30161100|We report the results of the first field study examining seasonal changes in corticosterone responses of typically longlived birds of the order Procellariiformes. In particular, we examined whether greyfaced petrels
PBZ10032|This study is the first to examine the underlying process of growth in a cephalopod, the southern dumpling squid (
30162153|In toads, angiotensin II (ANG II) induces the water absorption response (WR) during which the seat patch (
10.1086/666089|Previous studies aimed at detecting costs of sexually selected traits have yielded mixed results partly because of variable methods. We present a novel approach: a repeated-measures design to examine individual variation in locomotor performance of male
30157986|Oxygen available to amphibian embryos fluctuates widely and is often very low. We investigated the effects of oxygen partial pressure (1.316.9 kPa) on embryonic development and hatching of two salamander (
30158043|Mitochondria in cells isolated from the hepatopancreas of aestivating land snails (
30160044|The nitrogen requirements for tissue maintenance, moulting, and oogenesis were determined experimentally for the herbivorous land crab
30160555|During copulation, male
10.1086/606030|Behavioral thermoregulation can allow ectotherms to buffer the effects of changes in environmental temperature, and thus an organisms preferred temperature is thought to be under strong selection. However, this contention has seldom been tested. We used common killifish
30160111|Euryhaline tilapia larvae are capable of adapting to environmental salinity changes even when transferred from freshwater (FW) to seawater (SW) or vice versa. In this study, the water balance of developing tilapia larvae (
30158297|The chloride shift is the movement of Cl
10.1086/679475|Some sexually selected signals are thought to convey information about the current condition and genetic/epigenetic quality of the individual signaling, including the ability to resist parasites. However, it is unclear whether semistatic sexual signals that develop periodically and remain stable over protracted periods, such as avian breeding plumage, can relate to measures of current condition and health. We examined a semistatic signal (wing epaulet size) in male red-winged blackbirds (
10.1086/671127|Organisms compensate for reproduction costs through two major strategies: capital breeders store body reserves before reproduction and do not feed during the breeding season, whereas income breeders adjust their food intake depending on concurrent reproductive needs. Sea turtles are commonly considered capital breeders. Yet recent biometric and behavioral studies have suggested that sea turtles may in fact feed during reproduction. We tested this hypothesis in the leatherback turtle
10.1086/677219|Wild riverine fishes are known to rely on burst swimming to traverse hydraulically challenging reaches, and yet there has been little investigation as to whether swimming anaerobically in areas of high flow can lead to delayed mortality. Using acoustic accelerometer transmitters, we estimated the anaerobic activity of anadromous adult sockeye salmon (
30160997|Mountain chickadees and juniper titmice from northern Utah were examined to determine metabolic and bodycomposition characteristics associated with seasonal acclimatization. These species use behavioral adaptations and nocturnal hypothermia, which reduce energetic costs. These adjustments could reduce the need for extensive metabolic adjustments typically found in small passerines that overwinter in cold regions. In addition, these species live at higher altitudes, which may also decrease metabolic acclimatization found in birds. Winter birds tolerated colder test temperatures than summer birds. This improved cold tolerance was associated with an increase in maximal thermogenic capacity or summit metabolism (
30158421|Little research has examined individual variation in migration speeds of Pacific salmon (
30158338|We measured resting and peak metabolic rates (RMR and PMR, respectively) during development of chicks of seven species of shorebirds: least sandpiper (
10.1086/673864|Caudal autotomy is a common defense mechanism in lizards, where the animal may lose part or all of its tail to escape entrapment. Lizards show an immense variety in the degree of investment in a tail (i.e., length) across species, with tails of some species up to three or four times body length (snout-vent length [SVL]). Additionally, body size and form also vary dramatically, including variation in leg development and robustness and length of the body and tail. Autotomy is therefore likely to have fundamentally different effects on the overall body form and function in different species, which may be reflected directly in the incidence of lost/regenerating tails within populations or, over a longer period, in terms of relative tail length for different species. We recorded data (literature, museum specimens, field data) for relative tail length (
10.1086/605612|Strict criteria have been established for measurement of basal metabolic rate and standard evaporative water loss to ensure that data can be compared intra and interspecifically. However, datasampling regimes vary, from essentially continuous sampling to interrupted (switching) systems with data recorded periodically at more widely spaced intervals. Here we compare one continuous and three interrupted sampling regimes to determine whether sampling regime has a significant effect on estimation of basal metabolic rate or standard evaporative water loss. Compared to continuous 20s sampling averaged over 20 min, sampling every 6 min and averaging over 60 min overestimated basal metabolic rate and evaporative water loss, sampling every 3 min and averaging over 21 min underestimated basal metabolic rate, and sampling every 12 min and averaging over 36 min showed no difference in estimates. Increasing the period over which the minimum mean was calculated significantly increased estimates of physiological variables. Reducing the frequency of sampling from 20 s to a longer interval of 3, 6, or 12 min underestimated basal metabolic rate but not evaporative water loss. This indicates that sampling frequency per se influences estimates of basal metabolic rate and that differences are not just an artifact of differences in the period over which the mean is calculated. Sampling regime can have a highly significant influence on estimation of standard physiological variables, although the actual differences between sampling regimes were generally small (usually <5%). Although continuous sampling is the preferred sampling regime for openflow respirometry studies, if time and cost are prohibitive, then use of an appropriate switching system will result in smaller errors than measuring individuals continuously for shorter periods.
30158364|We tested the hypothesis that juvenile rainbow trout (
30161137|Female birds allocate androgens differentially within and among clutches, and it has been suggested that this is a strategy to maximize reproductive success. Only a few studies, however, have examined the effects of yolk testosterone (T) on the growth and development of nestlings, and none have reported on the immunological effects of yolk T nor have they examined several different effects in the same nestlings. To examine the effects of yolk T on nestling eastern bluebirds, we administered two doses of exogenous T to bluebird eggs and measured the growth and immunological responsiveness in the resulting nestlings. We found that yolk T is detrimental to developing embryos, with hatching success decreasing with increasing doses of yolk T. Moderate doses of yolk T stimulated skeletal growth during the embryonic period, while high doses of yolk T resulted in nestlings that weighed more and were more mature at fledging but had a compromised Tcell immune response to phytohemagglutinin. These data suggest that the alteration of reproductive success through the allocation of yolk T is a complicated phenomenon that involves the integration of several physiological effects.
10.1086/667989|Many birds exhibit seasonal phenotypic flexibility in basal metabolic rate (BMR) and summit metabolism (
10.1086/605916|To evaluate whether decreases in muscle metabolic capacities and increases in plasma cortisol explain the effects of neighboring conspecifics on male threespine sticklebacks
30158117|During metamorphosis, most amphibians undergo rapid shifts in their morphology that allow them to move from an aquatic to a more terrestrial existence. Two important challenges associated with this shift in habitat are the necessity to switch from an aquatic to terrestrial mode of locomotion and changes in the thermal environment. In this study, I investigated the consequences of metamorphosis to the burst swimming and running performance of the European newt
PBZ10133|Daily torpor results in an 70% decrease in metabolic rate (MR) and a 20%70% decrease in state 3 (phosphorylating) respiration rate of isolated liver mitochondria in both dwarf Siberian hamsters and mice even when measured at 37C. This study investigated whether mitochondrial metabolic suppression also occurs in these species during euthermic fasting, when MR decreases significantly but torpor is not observed. State 3 respiration rate measured at 37C was 20%30% lower in euthermic fasted animals when glutamate but not succinate was used as a substrate. This suggests that electron transport chain complex I is inhibited during fasting. We also investigated whether mitochondrial metabolic suppression alters mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. In both torpor and euthermic fasting, ROS production (measured as H
10.1086/676933|Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is one of the most widely used metabolic variables in endotherm ecological and evolutionary physiology. Surprisingly few studies have investigated how BMR is influenced by experimental and analytical variables over and above the standardized conditions required for minimum normothermic resting metabolism. We tested whether avian BMR is affected by habituation to the conditions experienced during laboratory gas exchange measurements by measuring BMR five times in succession in budgerigars (
10.1086/662664|Gill remodeling can be extensive in crucian carp, where up to a 7.5-fold increase in gill surface area has been observed during exposure to hypoxia through a reduction in the interlamellar cell mass (ILCM) and increased lamellar protrusion that has been hypothesized to be signaled by the need to maximize oxygen uptake under a given condition. Sustained aerobic exercise may have the greatest influence on oxygen demand in fish; however, its effect on gill remodeling in crucian carp has not been investigated. The specific objectives of this study were to determine (i) whether sustained aerobic exercise induces gill remodeling in the crucian carp, (ii) whether gill remodeling following sustained exercise affects the maximum critical swimming speed (
30160099|North American porcupines (
30158094|Blood cell flux (BCF) in ventral pelvic skin capillaries was measured in conscious unrestrained
30161307|Comparative physiology has traditionally focused on the physiological responses of animals to their physicochemical environment. In recent years, awareness has increased among physiologists of the potential for behavioural factors, such as the social environment of the animal, to affect physiological condition and responses. This recognition has led to an emerging trend within the field toward using multidisciplinary approaches that incorporate both behavioural and physiological techniques. Research areas in which the integrated study of behaviour and physiology has been particularly fruitful include the physiology of the social environment, sensory physiology and behaviour, and physiological constraints on behavioural ecology. The manner in which incorporating behavioural considerations has informed the physiological data collected is discussed for each of these areas using specific examples.
10.1086/665276|Mammalian immunology has been studied in great detail in laboratory animals, but few of the tools and less of the insight derived from these studies have been placed in the context of natural, outbred wildlife populations subject to variable environments. We investigated patterns of innate immunity in free-ranging African buffalo in relation to host traits (age, reproductive status, body condition, white blood cell counts) and disease status (bovine tuberculosis [BTB], gastrointestinal nematodes, coccidia, ticks). We evaluated and used an in vitro assay measuring bactericidal competence of blood to assess a component of innate immunity in 200 female buffalo captured at Kruger National Park, South Africa, in June/July and October 2008. Animals with BTB had higher bactericidal competence of blood. Animals with higher neutrophil counts had higher bactericidal competence, whereas animals with lower lymphocyte counts had higher bactericidal competence. This pattern was driven by animals captured at the end of the dry season (October) and may be evidence of immune polarization, whereby individuals are unable to upregulate multiple components of immunity simultaneously. Bactericidal competence did not vary with host pregnancy status, body condition, age, lactation, tick infestation, nematode egg count, or coccidia oocyst count. Overall, we demonstrate that the bactericidal competence assay is practical and informative for field-based studies in wild bovids. Our results also show a correlation between bactericidal competence and bovine tuberculosis infection and reveal possible functional polarizations between different types of immune response in a free-ranging mammal.
10.1086/605915|In most male birds that exhibit paternal care, elevation in testosterone above the breeding baseline reduces nestling provisioning, which can be detrimental to offspring survival. Mechanisms that may allow some males to avoid this detrimental effect of elevated testosterone include (1) decreased sensitivity to testosterones effects on behavior and (2) uncoupling of testosterone secretion from territorial challenges (thus reducing the number of transient elevations in testosterone above the breeding baseline). Both of these costavoidance mechanisms have been documented, but whether selection for these mechanisms is correlated or independent is unknown. We investigated the relationship between elevated testosterone and paternal care in a tropical bird, the rufouscollared sparrow (
30160114|The uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), a mitochondrial transmembrane protein, is responsible for adaptive thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue (BAT). Two UCP1 homologues, UCP2 and UCP3, were recently discovered, but it is controversial whether they also play a role in energy homeostasis. Djungarian hamster UCPs were found to exhibit high similarity with homologues known in other species. UCP1 mRNA was restricted to BAT, UCP2 mRNA was expressed in multiple tissues, and UCP3 mRNA was detected mainly in BAT and skeletal muscles. We examined the coldinduced regulation of hamster UCP mRNA levels and tested their correlation with serum free fatty acid (FFA) concentrations. In BAT UCP1, UCP2, and UCP3 expression was upregulated in the cold, but the increase and time course of increase differed. In skeletal muscle, UCP2 and UCP3 mRNA levels were not altered. Coldinduced changes of serum FFA levels correlated with the stimulation of UCP1 mRNA in BAT but not with UCP2 and UCP3.
PBZ10145|Using differential scanning calorimetry, we demonstrated the presence of biological glasses and measured the transition temperatures in dry encysted embryos (cysts) of the brine shrimp,
30162278|Several competing hypotheses attempt to explain how environmental conditions affect massindependent basal metabolic rate (BMR) in mammals. One of the most inclusive and yet debatable hypotheses is the one that associates BMR with food habits, including habitat productivity. These effects have been widely investigated at the interspecific level under the assumption that for any given species all traits are fixed. Consequently, the variation among individuals is largely ignored. Intraspecific analysis of physiological traits has the potential to compensate for many of the pitfalls associated with interspecific analyses and, thus, to be a useful approach for evaluating hypotheses regarding metabolic adaptation. In this study, we investigated the effects of food quality, availability, and predictability on the BMR of the leafeared mouse
10.1086/666508|Four male and four female zebra fish were crossed in all possible combinations, resulting in 389 offspring. These offspring were divided among four treatments: normoxia for 90 d, hypoxia for 90 d, normoxia for 30 d followed by hypoxia for 60 d, and hypoxia for 30 d followed by normoxia for 60 d. The effects of early oxygen environment, later oxygen environment, and genotype were then assessed with respect to zebra fish behavior, size, and blood glucose. Fish were tested in an arena where they could shoal with conspecifics before, during, and after the introduction of a novel stimulus. Blood glucose and size were also measured. Early oxygen environment influenced fish size, time spent swimming, and reactivity to a novel stimulus. Environmentally induced plasticity was predominate, with little evidence of among-sire variation for any of the measured parameters.
30158677|The evolution of airbreathing organs (ABOs) is associated not only with hypoxic environments but also with activity. This investigation examines the effects of hypoxia and exercise on the partitioning of aquatic and aerial oxygen uptake in the Pacific tarpon. The twospecies cosmopolitan genus
30161337|Semiterrestrial and terrestrial crabs have evolved multiple strategies for aerial respiration. An uncommon strategy for aerial respiration is seen in porcelain crabs, genus
10.1086/661080|We investigated the effects of ecological context (by comparing data from two consecutive years) and experimentally manipulated nestling developmental conditions (large vs. small brood size) on immune function (immunoglobulin Y [IgY]) and oxidative stress in nestling European starlings
30162269|Adaptation to novel environments is a crucial theme in evolutionary biology, particularly because
30158323|This study was intended to discover whether forcing largemouth bass (
30160138|After approximately 10 wk of exposure to decreasing day lengths, Siberian hamsters (
10.1086/595967|We present the first complete study of basic laboratorymeasured physiological variables (metabolism, thermoregulation, evaporative water loss, and ventilation) for a South American marsupial, the gracile mouse opossum (
30160079|Natriuretic peptides (NPs) have been implicated in cardiovascular regulation in rainbow trout (
30160089|The world's oceans are threedimensional habitats that support high diversity and biomass. Because the densities of most of the constituents of life are greater than that of seawater, planktonic and pelagic organisms had to evolve a host of mechanisms to occupy the third dimension. Some microscopic organisms survive at the surface by dividing rapidly in vertically well mixed zones, but most organisms, small and large, have antisinking strategies and structures that maintain vertical position and mobility. All of these mechanisms have energetic costs, ranging from the foregone metabolic benefits and increased drag of storing highenergy, lowdensity lipids to direct energy consumption for dynamic lift. Defining the niches in the mesopelagic zone, understanding evolution, and applying such ecological concepts as optimal foraging require good estimates of these costs. The extreme cases above are reasonably well quantified in fishes, but the energetic costs of dynamic physiological mechanisms like swim bladders are not; nor are the costs of maintaining vertical position for the chief invertebrate competitors, the cephalopods. This article evaluates a matrix of buoyancy mechanisms in different circumstances, including vacuum systems and ammonium storage, based on new data on the metabolic cost of creating buoyancy in
30158328|We assessed patterns and energetic consequences of different overwintering strategies, torpor, and social thermoregulation in the striped skunk (
30161145|The doubly labeled water (DLW) method is an isotopebased technique for the estimation of the CO
30161123|We measured the effects of exposure to hypoxia (15% and 11% oxygen) and hypercapnia (up to 4.5% carbon dioxide) on rates of respiratory gas exchange both between and during dives in tufted ducks,
30161308|Serotonin is widely believed to exert inhibitory control over aggressive behavior and intent. In addition, a number of studies of fish, reptiles, and mammals, including the lizard
10.1086/667809|The glucocorticoid hormones corticosterone (CORT) and cortisol influence numerous physiological, morphological, and behavioral functions. However, few studies have addressed possible relationships between individual differences in glucocorticoid concentrations and whole-animal performance or metabolism. Because CORT is important in glucose regulation and energy metabolism and can influence activity levels, we hypothesized that individual variation in baseline circulating CORT levels would correlate with individual differences in energy expenditure (routine and maximal), aerobic physiology, voluntary exercise on wheels, and organ masses. We tested this hypothesis in the California mouse (
30161023|Experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of alkaline environmental pH on urea and ammonia excretion rates and on tissue urea, ammonia, and free amino acid concentrations in two mudskippers,
10.1086/663696|To study whether dietary restriction (DR; 70% of ad lib. feeding)elicited immunosuppression results from the trade-off between the costs of mounting an immune response and the metabolic costs of maintenance, we subjected mice from two divergent lines selected for high basal metabolic rate (H-BMR) and low BMR (L-BMR) to 4 wk of DR and then challenged them with keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) antigen. Those line types differ genetically with respect to BMR and to the mass of metabolically expensive internal organs, which are larger in H-BMR mice. In mice of both line types, DR resulted in a significant reduction of body mass, an immune response, and the downsizing of spleen, lymph nodes, thymus, heart, and kidneys but not small intestines. DR resulted in a greater reduction of the spleen and lymph nodes in mice of the H-BMR line type, whereas the thymus was more affected in L-BMR line type. In contrast, immunization resulted in an increase of liver mass in DR mice of both line types. A comparison of the results of current and earlier studies on the same mouse line types suggests that metabolic trade-offs involving the costs of an immune response are more apparent when animals are forced to increase energy demands (e.g., by cold exposure) compared to when energy demands are decreased through DR. Our findings also suggest that divelrgent selection on BMR resulted in between-line-type differences in T-cell- and B-cell-mediated types of an immune response. More generally, our results indicate that production of a wide repertoire of antibodies is not correlated with high BMR.
10.1086/673890|The effect of tail autotomy on locomotor performance has been studied in a number of lizard species. Most of these studies (65%) show that tail autotomy has a negative effect on sprint speed, some studies (26%) show no effect of autotomy on sprint speed, and a few (9%) show a positive effect of autotomy on sprint speed. A variety of hypotheses have been proposed to explain the variation across these studies, but none has been tested. We synthesize these data using meta-analysis and then test whether any of four variables explain the variation in how tail autotomy impacts sprint speed: (1) differences in methodology in previous studies, (2) phylogeny, (3) relative tail size, and (4) habitat use. We find little evidence that methodology or habitat use influences how sprint speed changes following tail autotomy. Although the sampling is phylogenetically sparse, phylogeny appears to play a role, with skinks and iguanids showing fairly consistent decreases in speeds after autotomy and with lacertids and geckos showing large variation in how autotomy impacts speed. After removing two outlying species with unusually large and long tails (
10.1086/648510|We constructed a phylogeny for 10 minnow species (family Cyprinidae) previously revealed to be members of sister genera with different dietary affinities and used the phylogeny to examine whether the evolution of digestive tract size and physiology is correlated with the evolution of diet in these fishes. We studied a total of 11 taxa: four herbivorous species in the genus
30161018|In terms of their diversity and longevity, dinosaurs and birds were/are surely among the most successful of terrestrial vertebrates. Unfortunately, interpreting many aspects of the biology of dinosaurs and the earliest of the birds presents formidable challenges because they are known only from fossils. Nevertheless, a variety of attributes of these taxa can be inferred by identification of shared anatomical structures whose presence is causally linked to specialized functions in living reptiles, birds, and mammals. Studies such as these demonstrate that although dinosaurs and early birds were likely to have been homeothermic, the absence of nasal respiratory turbinates in these animals indicates that they were likely to have maintained reptilelike (ectothermic) metabolic rates during periods of rest or routine activity. Nevertheless, given the metabolic capacities of some extant reptiles during periods of elevated activity, early birds were probably capable of powered flight. Similarly, had, for example, theropod dinosaurs possessed aerobic metabolic capacities and habits equivalent to those of some large, modern tropical latitude lizards (e.g.,
30158368|In response to cold exposure, some mammals, including the ninebanded armadillo (
30162152|Winters in interior Alaska (64N) are characterized by short photoperiod (5L:19D) and chronic subfreezing temperatures. To determine if seasonal acclimatization of blackcapped chickadees (
30158096|Canadian northern leopard frogs (
30162246|The diurnal tegu lizard
10.1086/668295|Stable isotope analysis has become a standard ecological tool for elucidating feeding relationships of organisms and determining food web structure and connectivity. There remain important questions concerning rates at which stable isotope values are incorporated into tissues (turnover rates) and the change in isotope value between a tissue and a food source (discrimination values). These gaps in our understanding necessitate experimental studies to adequately interpret field data. Tissue turnover rates and discrimination values vary among species and have been investigated in a broad array of taxa. However, little attention has been paid to ectothermic top predators in this regard. We quantified the turnover rates and discrimination values for three tissues (scutes, red blood cells, and plasma) in American alligators (
30158146|Water influx rates (WIR) measured with tritiated water dilution were compared with direct measures of water and energy intake in glaucous gulls (
30161030|The aim of this article was to evaluate the physiological significance of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) in seasonal accumulation of adipose tissue, hyperinsulinemia, and anovulation in
30161024|Respiration and ion regulation are the two principal functions of teleostean gills. Mainly found in the gill filaments of fish, mitochondriarich cells (MRCs) proliferate to increase the ionoregulatory capacity of the gill in response to osmotic challenges. Gill lamellae consist mostly of pavement cells, which are the major site of gas exchange. Although lamellar MRCs have been reported in some fish species, there has been little discussion of which fish species are likely to have lamellar MRCs. In this study, we first compared the number of filament and lamellar MRCs in airbreathing and nonairbreathing fish species acclimated to freshwater and 5 g NaCl L
30158048|Winter acclimatization among passerine birds involves metabolic adjustments that allow for high rates of thermogenesis. In previous studies, we observed geographic variation in the basal metabolic rate (BMR) of overwintering cardinals along a latitudinal gradient at two different longitudinal transects. Because thyroid hormones (THs) are important for metabolic adjustments in endotherms, we determined whether geographic variation in BMR can be explained by variation in thyroid status. We measured total plasma TH (thyroxine [T
PBZ10084|Hummingbirds (family Trochilidae) represent an extreme outcome in vertebrate physiological design and are the only birds capable of sustained hovering. The giant hummingbird (
10.1086/589726|We characterized dynamics of the plasma yolk precursors vitellogenin (VTG), verylowdensity lipoprotein (total VLDLTG), and VLDL particle size distribution during egg production by female greater scaup (order: Anseriformes,
10.1086/589838|Syngnathid fishes (seahorses, pipefish, and sea dragons) possess a highly modified cranium characterized by a long and tubular snout with minute jaws at its end. Previous studies indicated that these species are extremely fast suction feeders with their feeding strike characterized by a rapid elevation of the head accompanied by rotation of the hyoid. A planar fourbar model is proposed to explain the coupled motion of the neurocranium and the hyoid. Because neurocranial elevation as well as hyoid rotation are crucial for the feeding mechanism in previously studied Syngnathidae, a detailed evaluation of this model is needed. In this study, we present kinematic data of the feeding strike in the seahorse
30162239|We have examined Na
30161314|In hypoxia, gray mullet surface to ventilate welloxygenated water in contact with air, an adaptive response known as aquatic surface respiration (ASR). Reflex control of ASR and its behavioral modulation by perceived threat of aerial predation and turbid water were studied on mullet in a partly sheltered aquarium with free surface access. Injections of sodium cyanide (NaCN) into either the bloodstream (internal) or ventilatory water stream (external) revealed that ASR, hypoxic bradycardia, and branchial hyperventilation were stimulated by chemoreceptors sensitive to both systemic and water O
30162142|Similar to those of the gills of adults, three types of mitochondriarich (MR) cells with different morphologies of apical surfaces (wavy convex, shallow basin, and deep hole) were identified on the integument of freshwateracclimated tilapia larvae (
30162143|In Pacific spiny dogfish (
30161160|Many adult and diapausing pupal insects exchange respiratory gases discontinuously in a threephase discontinuous gas exchange cycle (DGC). We summarize the known biophysical characteristics of the DGC and describe current research on the role of convection and diffusion in the DGC, emphasizing control of respiratory water loss. We summarize the main theories for the evolutionary genesis (or, alternatively, nonadaptive genesis) of the DGC: reduction in respiratory water loss (the hygric hypothesis), optimizing gas exchange in hypoxic and hypercapnic environments (the chthonic hypothesis), the hybrid of these two (the chthonichygric hypothesis), reducing the toxic properties of oxygen (the oxidative damage hypothesis), the outcome of interactions between O
PBZ9129|Resource-allocation decisions vary with life-history strategy, and growing evidence suggests that long-lived endothermic vertebrates direct resources toward growth and self-maintenance when young, increasing allocation toward reproductive effort over time. Few studies have tracked the ontogeny of resource allocation (energy, steroid hormones, etc.) in long-lived ectothermic vertebrates, limiting our understanding of the generality of life-history strategies among vertebrates. We investigated how reproductively mature female painted turtles (
30161296|Regulation of body temperature may increase fitness of animals by ensuring that biochemical and physiological processes proceed at an optimal rate. The validity of current methods of testing whether or not thermoregulation in reptiles occurs is often limited to very small species that have near zero heat capacity. The aim of this study was to develop a method that allows estimation of body temperature null distributions of large reptiles and to investigate seasonal thermoregulation in the American alligator (
30158697|We examined the relationship among seasonal characteristics of climate, food, and population demography (social structure) and fecal corticosterone (CORT) concentrations over 6 yr in adult males of an aridadapted species, the great gerbil (
30158414|Carotenoids perform important biological actions in animal tissues, including contributing antioxidant protection. However, the function of transmission of maternal carotenoids to bird eggs is still largely unknown. We made a yolk biopsy of yellowlegged gull (
10.1086/660970|The climatic variability hypothesis (CVH) states that species are geographically more widespread at higher latitudes because individuals have a broader range of physiological tolerance or phenotypic flexibility as latitude and climatic variability increase. However, it remains unclear to what extent climatic variability or latitude, acting on the phenotype, account for any observed geographical gradient in mean range size. In this study, we analyzed the physiological flexibility within the CVH framework by using an intraspecific population experimental approach. We tested for a positive relationship between digestive-tract flexibility (i.e., morphology and enzyme activities) and latitude and climatic and natural diet variability in populations of rufous-collared sparrows (
30158077|In an attempt to understand the ecological correlates of immunocompetence in
30160998|Endotherms maintain constant body temperature through physiological and behavioral adjustments. Behavioral thermoregulation is an important factor influencing energy balance. We exposed the leafeared mouse,
10.1086/599320|Numerous studies indicate interspecies variation in the ontogeny of the adrenocortical response in birds; however, little is known about the extent of interindividual variation in avian young. Toward this end, we examined the ontogeny and interindividual variation in the adrenocortical response in zebra finch (
10.1086/667617|Oceanic CO
30157998|The adaptive value of size changes in different organ and muscle groups was studied in red knots (
30161044|The purpose of the present article is to examine the relationships between ion uptakes and morphologies of gill mitochondriarich (MR) cells in freshwater tilapia. Tilapia were acclimated to three different artificial freshwaters (high Na [10 mM], high Cl [7.5 mM]; high Na, low Cl [0.020.07 mM], and low Na [0.5 mM], low Cl) for 1 wk, and then morphological measurements of gill MR cells were made and ion influxes were determined. The number and the apical size of wavyconvex MR cells positively associated with the level of Cl
30158408|This study examined how the standard metabolic rate of tegu lizards, a species that undergoes large ontogenetic changes in body weight with associated changes in lifehistory traits, is affected by changes in body mass, body temperature, season, and lifehistory traits. We measured rates of oxygen consumption (
30160130|Several small caprimulgiform birds (<80 g) are known to enter torpor, apparently to cope with a fluctuating supply of insect prey. Since the large Australian tawny frogmouth (
PBZ11046|Critical thermal minimum (CT
30158012|Relatively few squamate reptiles oviposit eggs with embryos at developmental stages greater than stage 30. To investigate potential proximate and ultimate bases of this phenomenon, we experimentally induced females of the lizard
10.1086/683321|The general reproductive effort model attempts to predict the resources that will be allocated to a current reproductive bout or to future survival by aborting the current reproductive attempt. Life-history theory predicts that short-lived species should devote more resources toward a reproductive event because brood value is far greater compared with that of long-lived species that have multiple breeding opportunities. Previous bird studies have used patterns of hormone secretion to understand the regulation of parental investment in response to environmental challenges, such as stress. The two key hormones investigated have been prolactin, which promotes parental investment, and corticosterone, which can reduce parental investment. Research on long-lived seabirds showed that prolactin levels decrease in response to a stressor, but the magnitude of the decline was positively correlated with future reproductive potential. However, little is known about the role of prolactin in short-lived species. Here we present prolactin and corticosterone data from a short-lived Arctic breeding, migratory songbirdthe white-crowned sparrow,
30158139|Many vertebrates show seasonality in immune defenses, perhaps because of tradeoffs with other physiological processes. Tradeoffs between reproduction and immune function have been well studied, but how other life cycle events such as molt affect immune function remains unclear. Here, we hypothesize that one possible explanation is that accumulative dissociated processes (e.g., resource deficits generated over the long term by physiological processes) can have delayed effects on immune activity. To test this hypothesis, we compared cutaneous immune responses in groups of captive female house sparrows (
30158718|The objective of this study was to compare the capacity of adult (more than 3 yr old) and young (less than 1 yr old) true parrots to digest seeds that are normally included in their diet in captivity, particularly soybean, sunflower, and corn. All the seeds were offered for 5 d with an interval of 15 d between different diets. The seeds of soybean and corn were boiled for 15 min and soaked in water at ambient temperature for 12 h before being fed to the birds. There were no differences in the digestibilities of crude protein and fats (ether extract) among animals, but the digestibilities of dry matter and crude fiber by the adult animals were higher than those of the young ones. The digestibility of carbohydrate (nitrogenfree extract) by adult birds was higher only for sunflower seeds. It is concluded that the capacity of parrots to digest fiber may change according to the age of the animal. Since the digestion of fiber depends on the action of microorganisms, these results suggest that the colonization of the gastrointestinal tract is delayed or very slow in young parrots.
10.1086/664698|In diving birds and mammals, bradycardia and peripheral vasoconstriction potentially isolate muscle from the circulation. During complete ischemia, ATP production is dependent on the size of the myoglobin oxygen (O
30160623|We tested two alternative hypotheses: (1) that energy costs of egg production in a small, shortlived passerine, the zebra finch (
10.1086/594379|Phenotypic variation is channeled by adaptation to local environments and phylogenetic constraints. The morphology of the obligatorily subterranean African molerats of the genus
30158719|The aim of this study was to examine the effect of prolonged acclimation to cold on the acidbase status of extra and intracellular fluids in the land snail
30158061|We investigated the flexibility of body composition in relation to seasonally variable demands for endurance flight capacity and hyperphagia in a migratory shorebird. Migrating western sandpipers were sampled in spring and fall while refueling at a north temperate stopover and were compared with nonmigrating birds captured at a tropical wintering area in Panama. Sandpipers weighed 25% more at stopover, and nearly 40% of migratory mass increase consisted of lean body components. Most organs and flight muscles were 10%100% larger during migration, and the greatest relative size increases occurred in the digestive system (including liver). Birds preparing to initiate spring migration from Panama deposited only fat, suggesting that changes in lean body components take place after migration has begun, possibly through training effects. Sex did not influence body composition. Juveniles making their first southward migration were similar to adults in structural size and body mass but had substantially enlarged alimentary tracts. Sandpipers appeared to deposit lean mass during stopover in fall but not in spring. The dramatic enlargement of the digestive system in this small species that makes short flights and fuels frequently contrasts with the reduction of digestive components in larger species that fuel only once or twice by making one or two very long flights to their destination.
10.1086/672212|An in vivo assay using the cytochrome P450 (P450) suicide inhibitor 1-aminobenzotriazole (ABT) and 24-h food intake was developed to determine the relative importance of P450s in two populations of
30161085|Avian and mammalian endothermy results from elevated rates of resting, or routine, metabolism and enables these animals to maintain high and stable body temperatures in the face of variable ambient temperatures. Endothermy is also associated with enhanced stamina and elevated capacity for aerobic metabolism during periods of prolonged activity. These attributes of birds and mammals have greatly contributed to their widespread distribution and ecological success. Unfortunately, since few anatomical/physiological attributes linked to endothermy are preserved in fossils, the origin of endothermy among the ancestors of mammals and birds has long remained obscure. Two recent approaches provide new insight into the metabolic physiology of extinct forms. One addresses chronic (resting) metabolic rates and emphasizes the presence of nasal respiratory turbinates in virtually all extant endotherms. These structures are associated with recovery of respiratory heat and moisture in animals with high resting metabolic rates. The fossil record of nonmammalian synapsids suggests that at least two Late Permian lineages possessed incipient respiratory turbinates. In contrast, these structures appear to have been absent in dinosaurs and nonornithurine birds. Instead, nasal morphology suggests that in the avian lineage, respiratory turbinates first appeared in Cretaceous ornithurines. The other approach addresses the capacity for maximal aerobic activity and examines lung structure and ventilatory mechanisms. There is no positive evidence to support the reconstruction of a derived, avianlike parabronchial lung/air sac system in dinosaurs or nonornithurine birds. Dinosaur lungs were likely heterogenous, multicameral septate lungs with conventional, tidal ventilation, although evidence from some theropods suggests that at least this group may have had a hepatic piston mechanism of supplementary lung ventilation. This suggests that dinosaurs and nonornithurine birds generally lacked the capacity for high, avianlike levels of sustained activity, although the aerobic capacity of theropods may have exceeded that of extant ectotherms. The avian parabronchial lung/air sac system appears to be an attribute limited to ornithurine birds.
30160070|Elevated Mg
30158021|Nocturnal geckos can actively forage at low temperatures. A low minimum cost of locomotion allows greater sustainable speeds by partially offsetting the decrease in maximal oxygen consumption (
10.1086/667406|Increasing research has attempted to clarify the links between animal personality and physiology. However, the mechanisms driving this association remain largely unknown, and knowledge of how ecological factors may affect its direction and strength is scant. In this study, we quantified variation in the association between exploratory behavior, basal metabolic rate (BMR), and total evaporative water loss (TEWL) in rufous-collared sparrows (
30161037|Digestion and physical activity are associated with large and sometimes opposite changes in several physiological parameters. Gastric acid secretion during digestion causes increased levels of plasma bicarbonate ([
10.1086/666902|We examine inherent variation in carbon and nitrogen stable isotope values of multiple soft tissues from a population of captive green turtles
10.1086/670594|An increase in both vascular circumferential tension and shear stress in the developing vasculature of the chicken embryo has been hypothesized to stimulate angiogenesis in the developing peripheral circulation chorioallantoic membrane (CAM). To test this hypothesis, angiogenesis in the CAM, development, and growth were measured in the early chicken embryo, following acute and chronic topical application of the purely bradycardic drug ZD7288. At hour 56, ZD7288 reduced heart rate (
10.1086/671800|Polystyrene multiwell plates with integrated optodes act as multiple closed-system respirometers that enable the simultaneous measurement of oxygen consumption in small animals. However, the diffusion of oxygen through polystyrene needs to be taken into consideration. Here we provide an equation that accounts for the empirically determined rate of oxygen through a polystyrene well when calculating the instantaneous rate of oxygen consumption. Furthermore, we describe a novel method of calibrating a small respirometer for accuracy using micro-osmotic pumps containing an oxygen scavenger, which is delivered at a constant rate and therefore yields a constant rate of oxygen consumption in an airtight system.
30158380|Virtually no published information exists on insect endocrine traits in natural populations, which limits our understanding of endocrine microevolution. We characterized the hemolymph titers of juvenile hormone (JH) and ecdysteroids (ECDs), two key insect hormones, in fieldcollected shortwinged, flightless (SW) and longwinged, flightcapable (LW(f)) morphs of the cricket
PBZ9133|Development of adequate diving capabilities is crucial for survival of seal pups and may depend on age and body size. We tracked the diving behavior of 20 gray seal pups during their first 3 mo at sea using satellite relay data loggers. We employed quantile analysis to track upper limits of dive duration and percentage time spent diving, and lower limits of surface intervals. When pups first left the breeding colony, extreme (ninety-fifth percentile) dive duration and percentage time spent diving were positively correlated with age, but not mass, at departure. Extreme dive durations and percentage time spent diving peaked at
30160567|The jawless fish, the sea lamprey (
30158046|We measured oxygen consumption (
PBZ9126|Sharp environmental gradients encountered within the intertidal zone have driven the evolution of physiological adaptations that allow its inhabitants to maintain cellular function in the presence of fluctuating abiotic factors. These adaptations are mediated by gene-regulatory networks that, despite their inherent complexity, must remain evolvable and capable of responding to different selection pressures associated with specific ecological niches. Phosphorylation events catalyzed by cell-signaling enzymes represent a parsimonious mechanism to integrate new functional or regulatory properties into these gene-regulatory networks. In this study, proteins phosphorylated on consensus sequences for protein kinases A, B, and C; cyclin-dependent kinases; and mitogen-activated protein kinases, as well as the abundance of phosphorylated stress-activated protein kinase (phospho-SAPK/JNK), were quantified in order to ascertain whether phosphorylation events are divergent among native (
10.1086/679656|Understanding the complex interactions that regulate growth and form is a central question in developmental physiology. We used experimental crosses of pedigreed lines of the Pacific oyster,
30158365|We compared the physiological responses of latitudinal pairings of painted turtles submerged in normoxic and anoxic water at 3C: western painted turtles (
10.1086/681265|In the traditional osmorespiratory compromise, as seen in the hypoxia-intolerant freshwater rainbow trout (
30161174|Because the increase in metabolic rate related to locomotor activity places demands on the cardiorespiratory apparatus, it is not surprising that the evolution of breathing and of locomotion are coupled. As the respiratory faculty becomes more refined, increasingly aerobic life strategies can be explored, and this activity is in turn expedited by a higherperformance respiratory apparatus. This apparent leapfrogging of respiratory and locomotor faculties begins in noncraniate chordates and continues in waterbreathing and airbreathing vertebrates. Because both locomotor and cardiorespiratory activities are coordinated in the brain, neurological as well as biochemical coupling is evident. In spite of very different breathing mechanisms in various vertebrate groups, the basic respiratory control mechanisms appear to have been conserved, and respiratorylocomotor coupling is evident in all classes of vertebrates. Hypaxial body wall muscles that were strictly locomotor in fish have respiratory function in amniotes, but some locomotor function remains in all groups.
30161283|With the exception of some data for common poorwills (
30160073|The impact of relatively small externally attached time series recorders on some foraging parameters of seabirds was investigated during the austral summer of 1995 by monitoring the diving behaviour of 10 freeranging king penguins (
30160141|Variation in plasma urea and creatinine concentration and plasma urea:creatinine ratio (U:C) were studied in semidomestic freeranging reindeer (
10.1086/590219|Recent studies have shown that exposure to warm water can trigger gonadal degeneration and germ cell loss in fish of both sexes, but the mechanism behind this pathology is still not understood. This study was designed to characterize this process histologically and determine whether apoptosis plays any role during high temperatureinduced gonadal cell degeneration in subadult pejerrey (
10.1086/680167|Artificial selection experiments are an effective tool for testing evolutionary hypotheses, because they allow one to separate genetic and environmental variances of the phenotype. However, it is unclear whether trait divergence typically selected early in life persists over an animals life and altered physiological states, such as reproduction. Here we analyzed the long-term consistency of the betweenline type divergence in basal metabolic rate (BMR) selected at 12 wk of age in laboratory mice. We measured BMR in nonreproducing and reproducing females at the age of 22 wk and then at 27 wk of age. Our results show that within both the reproducing group and the control group, the betweenline type separation in BMR is consistently retained over time and reproductive status. Metabolically active internal organs (heart, liver, kidneys, and small intestine) also consistently differed in size between the two line types with no significant long-term effect of reproduction. The observed consistency of the betweenline type divergence in BMR suggests the existence of the persistent effect of the selection on metabolic traits applied early in life. Moreover, BMR variation achieved by means of artificial selection is considerably higher than that found in natural/unmanipulated populations. The latter may therefore be characterized by insufficient variance to statistically resolve correlations involving BMR.
PBZ10135|Rainbow smelt (
30158015|Phocid seals are one of the few groups of mammals capable of sustaining the energetic demands of lactation entirely through body nutrient stores while fasting. Lactation performance of the female in turn influences the rate and pattern of pup growth. We examined variation in and patterns of milk composition and production, maternal energy output, and pup growth and energy deposition over the entire lactation period in 18 grey seal motherpup pairs using hydrogen isotope (
PBZ12081|We sought to improve the understanding of delayed mortality in migrating sockeye salmon (
10.1086/648568|Soon after hatching, the osteoglossid fish
30158126|Fecal hormone assays provide a powerful tool for noninvasive monitoring of endocrine status in wild animals. In this study we validated a protocol for extracting and measuring glucocorticoids in freeliving and captive Beldings ground squirrels (
10.1086/671376|Studies of the relationship of performance and behavioral traits with environmental factors have tended to neglect interindividual variation even though quantification of this variation is fundamental to understanding how phenotypic traits can evolve. In ectotherms, functional integration of locomotor performance, thermal behavior, and energy metabolism is of special interest because of the potential for coadaptation among these traits. For this reason, we analyzed interindividual variation, covariation, and repeatability of the thermal sensitivity of maximal sprint speed, preferred body temperature, thermal precision, and resting metabolic rate measured in ca. 200 common lizards (
30161149|The articles in this volume are a product of the enthusiasm shown by delegates to meet in a remote corner of southern Africa and to discuss comparative physiology and biochemistry in their wider interpretation and future course. This collection reflects a small but longstanding commitment to fostering the engagement of biological research with African issues and colleagues. Comparative physiology and biochemistry are evolving, but in this we must guard against fractionation of effort and purpose. Increasingly available molecular methods are seductive in encouraging work on model species and in employing these species in place of more appropriate comparative models. Concomitantly, the comparative approach is reaching out beyond the individual organism and organismorganism interactions to establish underlying principles at ecosystem and landscape levels. The integration of molecular methods into comparative studies will require judicious selection and use of such skills if it is to be achieved without abandoning nonmodel species. The physiological and metabolic bases of ecosystem and evolutionary approaches must be underpinned by relevant data, requiring comparative researchers to accommodate colleagues contributing this specialist knowledge. These articles report distinct symposia, prefaced by a plenary paper. While each paper is itself a review of an entire symposium, they all exhibit a common theme, that comparative physiology and biochemistry are about interactions. It is our hope that the Comparative Physiology and Biology in Africa meetings will continue to facilitate special interactions between the people who make this happen.
30162248|Little is known of the cardiorespiratory control mechanisms utilized by hypoxiatolerant teleost fish to tolerate prolonged periods (h) of near anoxic exposure. Here, we report on the cardiorespiratory control mechanisms of the common carp
10.1086/669539|Fatty acid (FA) analysis is a tool for dietary investigation that complements traditional stomach content analyses. Controlled feeding experiments were used to determine the extent to which the FA composition of diet is reflected in the liver and muscle tissue of the Port Jackson shark
30161135|In light of the relationship of lungfish to the origin of tetrapods, information on the respiratory biology of lungfish can give insight into the functional morphological and physiological prerequisites for the conquest of land by the first tetrapods. Stereological methods were employed in order to determine the respiratory surface area and thickness of the waterblood barrier or airblood of the gills, lungs, and skin, respectively, of the South American lungfish
30158063|The bodysize scaling pattern of enzymes that are important in energy metabolism was examined in gills of the blue crab as a function of acclimation salinity. We hypothesized that the higher surfaceareatovolume ratio of small crabs would impose a greater metabolic cost for hyperosmoregulation, leading to an increase in the capacity for ATP production in gills. Postmetamorphic crabs spanning a 2,500fold range in body mass were examined following a 7d exposure to a salinity of 35, 17, or 5 ppt. The posterior gills, which are the principal site of osmoregulatory ion pumping, generally had higher activities than the anterior gills, which are primarily used for gas exchange, and this discrepancy was greatest in small crabs. A significant effect of salinity was found only for the enzyme citrate synthase, where the activity was highest at the lowest salinity. Although most enzymes scaled negatively with body mass, the activity was independent of size over a 250fold size range that encompassed the body masses of juvenile crabs but decreased abruptly in the adult crabs. These data suggest that ion pumping associated with osmoregulation may represent a greater energetic challenge in smaller crabs, and this is reflected in the relatively higher metabolic potential of the posterior gills. However, acclimation to different salinity regimes does not lead to dramatic global changes in the capacity for energy metabolism.
30158131|Following a relatively large meal (2% body mass of dry pellets), intestinal blood flow in chinook salmon (
30163959|In response to cues signifying the approach of winter, adult
30158700|A major source of energy during lactation in mammals is provided through the mobilization of blubber fatty acids (FAs). We investigated the extent to which FAs were mobilized to support both maternal metabolic requirements and milk production in the Weddell seal and how this was reflected in the FA composition of the pups blubber at the end of lactation (EL). FA composition of postpartum female blubber was similar in the 2 yr of study (2002 and 2003) but differed markedly by EL. Pup blubber FAs (at EL) were also different between years and did not match that of the mothers milk or blubber. Milk FA composition changed during lactation, which may have been a reflection of an increase in pup energy demands at different stages of development. In addition, there was evidence of feeding by some females during lactation, with higher levels of some FAs in the milk than in the blubber. Our results indicate that differential mobilization of FAs occurred in lactating Weddell seals and that this was related to total body lipid stores at postpartum. Furthermore, growing pups did not store FAs unmodified, providing evidence that selective use does occur and also that using FA composition to elucidate dietary sources may be problematic in growing individuals.
10.1086/682680|Home range is defined as the area traversed during normal daily activities, such as foraging, avoiding predators, and social or antagonistic behaviors. All else being equal, larger home ranges should be associated with longer daily movement distances and/or higher average movement speeds. The maximal rate of oxygen consumption (
30161164|This study examined glucose and lactate metabolism in an iguanid lizard,
30160013|Endosymbiotic dinoflagellates resident within cnidarian hosts are extremely productive primary producers. This high productivity may be due in part to an inorganic carbon transport system, present in host tissue, that accelerates carbon delivery to the algae. The enzyme carbonic anhydrase (CA; EC 4.2.1.1) has been shown to be important in this transport system in a variety of tropical symbiotic cnidarians. This study extends the examination of CA to a temperate anemone,
10.1086/651515|The allocation of important but environmentally limited nutrients, such as carotenoids, often represents a tradeoff between homeostasis and reproduction. However, key questions remain about how diet and species traits influence carotenoid allocation. We studied yolk carotenoid profiles and yolk color in relation to trophic level (based on 
30160586|Environmental factors play an important role in the seasonal adaptation of body mass and thermogenesis in wild small mammals. In this study, we performed a factorial experiment (
30161302|Semelparity, which is multiplying once in a lifetime, is a rare reproductive strategy among mammals. Several species of the marsupial family Dasyuridae experience 100% male mortality following an intense mating period. We investigated seasonal physiological changes that may be associated with early mortality in the male Virginia opossum (
30160081|Thermoregulatory behavior is an important component of daily activities for many reptiles, especially for small heliothermic (sunbasking) species that inhabit cold climates. However, the relative costs and benefits of thermoregulation depend on numerous factors, such that reptiles may sometimes accord a low priority to precise control of body temperatures. We observed and radio tracked garter snakes (
PBZ10136|During arousal from hibernation, body temperature (
10.1086/675697|This study explored the metabolic adjustments prompted by a switch between the rainy and dry season conditions in the African malaria mosquitoes
10.1086/597517|Prolonged abnormal vomiting causes metabolic alkalosis. Many seabirds are known to feed their chicks by regurgitation. We hypothesized that metabolic alkalosis occurs in seabirds even under natural conditions during the breeding season. Adlie penguins
30158083|We investigated mechanisms of energy conservation during hibernation. The amount of time torpid was significantly less for groups of three young marmots than for marmots hibernating singly. Mean daily mass loss (DML; as mg d
30158415|Thirdinstar larvae of the goldenrod gall fly
PBZ10046|Small mammals in the temperate area often face fluctuations in food availability. Changes in food availability may have a great influence on an animals immunity, which is important to their survival. We tested the hypothesis that cellular and humoral immunity would be suppressed by food restriction and restored to control levels by refeeding in Mongolian gerbils
30158134|The past decade has witnessed a dramatic increase in studies of amphibian and reptile specific dynamic action (SDA). These studies have demonstrated that SDA, the summed energy expended on meal digestion and assimilation, is affected significantly by meal size, meal type, and body size and to some extent by body temperature. While much of this attention has been directed at anuran and reptile SDA, we investigated the effects of meal size, meal type, and body temperature on the postprandial metabolic responses and the SDA of the tiger salamander (
30161318|We studied postexercise physiology and behaviour of smallmouth bass (
10.1086/605400|Muskoxen (
30161049|Studies comparing lactation in wild mammals have shown that maternal weight scales with offspring weight, milk production, or its energy. However, no study appears to have scaled milk composition with maternal or offspring weight. Although diet affects milk composition and production, their effects in biological studies have almost never seemed to be controlled. In this study, we compare two subspecies of red deer, Scottish deer,
30160008|The biochemical mechanisms by which hibernators cool as they enter torpor are not fully understood. In order to examine whether rates of substrate oxidation vary as a function of hibernation, liver mitochondria were isolated from telemetered ground squirrels (
30158306|Judgement of exercise performance in birds has been hampered by a paucity of data on maximal aerobic capacity. We measured the maximal rate of oxygen consumption (
30161097|An association between metabolic rate and life history has been predicted but not demonstrated yet. To test this prediction, we measured the field metabolic rate (FMR) of a rodent,
30097050|In the field, Atlantic cod face seasonal changes in food availability that in turn lead to changes in condition. To examine the physiological consequences of these changes in condition, we measured routine metabolic rate (RMR) to estimate standard metabolic rate (SMR), active metabolic rate (AMR), aerobic scope, critical swimming speed (
30097042|Teleost fishes typically first encounter the environment as freeswimming embryos or larvae. Larvae are morphologically distinct from adults, and major anatomical structures are unformed. Thus, larvae undergo a series of dramatic morphological changes until they reach adult morphology (but are reproductively immature) and are considered juveniles. Freeswimming embryos and larvae are able to perform a Cstart, an effective escape response that is used evade predators. However, escape response performance improves during early development: as young fish grow, they swim faster (lengthspecific maximum velocity increases) and perform the escape more rapidly (time to complete the behavior decreases). These improvements cease when fish become juveniles, although absolute swimming velocity (m s
30161313|The ability of various vertebrates to perceive visual information in the ultraviolet region of the electromagnetic spectrum (300400 nm) is receiving increasing interest. To date, many of these studies have concentrated on the role of ultraviolet perception in mate choice, yet there are several ways in which the ability to perceive ultraviolet information may affect other behaviours. Until now, it has been widely assumed that colour in the threespined stickleback can be quantified by methods appropriate to the human visual system. However, evidence does exist that suggests that, in some populations, sticklebacks are capable of perceiving ultraviolet wavelengths. Using a behavioural technique, we tested the ability of the stickleback to perceive ultraviolet light under fullspectrum conditions to establish whether such wavelengths are utilised within their normal behavioural repertoire. We tested this ability by assessing whether subjects could locate hidden food in a foraging task where food position was indicated by the position of landmarks. These landmarks differed only in their ultraviolet content, appearing identical when viewed across the human visible region of the spectrum. We found that sticklebacks were able to use ultraviolet perception to locate a foraging patch under fullspectrum conditions.
30161176|The frog, with two distinct ventilatory acts, provides a useful model to investigate the prospective interaction of two oscillators in generating the respiratory rhythm. Building on evidence supporting the existence of separate oscillators generating buccal and lung ventilation, we have attempted to uncouple the two rhythms in the isolated brain stem preparation. Opioid preferentially inhibits the lung rhythm, suggesting an uncoupling of the lung from the buccal oscillator. Reduction of the superfusate chloride concentration alters both the buccal and the lung rhythms. Joint application of opioid and reducedchloride superfusate leads to an increase in the variability of the buccal bursttolung burst intervals. This increase in variability suggests that chloridemediated mechanisms are involved in coupling the buccal oscillator to the lung oscillator. Given the results from these interventions, we propose a simple schematic model of the frog respiratory rhythm generator, outlining the coupling of the lung and buccal oscillators.
30161042|Desert endotherms such as Merriams kangaroo rat (
10.1086/676664|The notothenioid fishes of the Southern Ocean possess some of the lowest upper thermal thresholds of any species and display a range of cardiovascular features that distinguish them from other fishes. Some species lack hemoglobin, and it has been posited that the inability to deliver sufficient oxygen at elevated temperature may in part determine upper thermal thresholds. Here, we provide an analysis of systemic O
30158722|We modify and apply a nonlethal technique for rapidly quantifying the cold tolerance of large numbers of
30161199|The standard approach to most allometric research is to gather data on a biological function and a measure of body size, convert the data to logarithms, display the new values in a bivariate plot, and then fit a straight line to the transformations by the method of least squares. The slope of the fitted line provides an estimate for the allometric (or scaling) exponent, which often is interpreted in the context of underlying principles of structural and functional design. However, interpretations of this sort are based on the implicit assumption that the original data conform with a power function having an intercept of 0 on a plot with arithmetic coordinates. Whenever this assumption is not satisfied, the resulting estimate for the allometric exponent may be seriously biased and misleading. The problem of identifying an appropriate function is compounded by the logarithmic transformations, which alter the relationship between the original variables and frequently conceal the presence of outliers having an undue influence on properties of the fitted equation, including the estimate for the allometric exponent. Much of the current controversy in allometric research probably can be traced to substantive biases introduced by investigators who followed standard practice. We illustrate such biases with examples taken from the literature and outline a general methodology by which the biases can be minimized in future research.
10.1086/589900|Transduction of environmental cues into endocrine signals that synchronize physiology and behavior with optimal environmental conditions is central to an animals timekeeping system. Using a common garden approach, we investigated possible geographic variation in timekeeping systems by comparing 24h melatonin and corticosterone rhythms and reproductive behavior among three populations of garter snakes with very different life histories: redsided garter snakes (
10.1086/590263|In the painted turtle (
10.1086/592057|Concern over global climate change is widespread, but quantifying relationships between temperature change and animal fitness has been a challenge for scientists. Our approach to this challenge was to study migratory Pacific salmon (
10.1086/597527|Phenotypic plasticity of the gastrointestinal tract is crucial for optimal food processing and nutrient balance in many vertebrate species. For mammalian herbivores, gut plasticity is typically correlated with the fiber content of forage; however, we show here that other factors such as ingesta particle size may effect profound phenotypic plasticity of the fermentative hindgut in a mediumsized (10kg body mass) marsupial herbivore, the rednecked wallaby (
30157982|Hovering and fast forward flapping represent two strenuous types of flight that differ in aerodynamic power requirement. Maximal capabilities of rubythroated hummingbirds (
30158004|I tested whether the ability of chicks to suspend growth and developmental processes in response to food shortages is greater among alcids with food resources that fluctuate over short time periods than it is among close relatives with food that is continuously available. I examined changes in chick resting metabolic rate (RMR) in response to shortterm food deprivation in horned and tufted puffins (intermittent food provisioning) and crested and parakeet auklets (continuous food provisioning). RMR was based on measurements of chick oxygen consumption rates (V
30158033|Despite substantial knowledge on thermoregulation in reptiles, the mechanisms involved in heat exchange of sea turtles have not been investigated in detail. We studied blood flow in the front flippers of two green turtles,
10.1086/676937|Physiological mechanisms underlying migration remain poorly understood, but recent attention has focused on the role of the glucocorticoid hormone corticosterone (CORT) as a key endocrine regulator of migration. The migration-modulation hypothesis (MMH) proposes that baseline plasma CORT levels are elevated in migratory birds to facilitate hyperphagia and lipogenesis and that further elevation of CORT in response to acute stress is suppressed. Consequently, CORT may be a poor indicator of individual condition or environmental variation in migratory birds. We tested the MMH by measuring baseline and stress-induced CORT in common yellowthroats (
30158300|Several environmental factors leading to sizedependent mortality influence insect body size. Few investigations have been concerned with the ways in which the mechanisms underlying variation in waterbalance characteristics evolve in response to changes in body size that occur independently of waterbalance requirements. Using an explicitly phylogenetic analysis, we show how body size has changed over time in the
30157983|To better understand how fish are able to inhabit dilute waters of low pH, we examined ionoregulation in exceptionally acidtolerant neon tetras (
30158018|Pacific oysters (
30160547|Several complementary studies were undertaken on a single species of deepsea fish (the eel
PBZ10005|Previous research has shown that hypoxia-acclimated Atlantic cod (
30158340|The responses of animals to seasonal food shortages can have important consequences for population dynamics and the structure and function of food webs. We investigated how an ambush foraging snake, the northern death adder
10.1086/674869|Partial migration is common in many animal taxa; however, the physiological variation underpinning migration strategies remains poorly understood. Among salmonid fishes, brown trout (
10.1086/605416|Although many studies of ectothermic vertebrates have documented compensatory changes in cold hardiness associated with changes of season, much less attention has been paid to adjustment of physiological functions and survival limits following more acute exposure to cold. We investigated the ability of hatchling painted turtles (
30160016|Previous studies showed that nocturnal geckos evolved a low energetic cost of locomotion (
30160116|Helox (79% helium and 21% oxygen) has often been used for thermobiological studies, primarily because helium is thought to be metabolically inert and to produce no adverse effects other than increasing heat loss. However, these assumptions have been questioned. As basal metabolic rate (BMR) represents maintenance energy requirements for vital body functions, potential physiological effects of helox should be reflected in changes of BMR. In this study, sugar gliders were subjected to both air and helox atmospheres over a wide range of
30160025|We analyzed variations in water flux rates on a large sample of meadow voles (
30160102|Rates of protein synthesis are substantially depressed in diapause II embryos of
30161335|Despite the potential for diet to affect organismal acidbase status, especially in herbivores, little is known about the effects of diet on acidbase loading and excretion. We tested the effects of diet on acidbase loading and excretion in grasshoppers by (
