23673761|The systematic relationships of Lactoridaceae are problematical, with alternative assignments to Magnoliales, Laurales, and Piperales. Phenetic analyses suggest that Lactoridaceae are best accomodated within Magnoliales and are most closely related to Annonaceae. Cladistic analyses indicate that the family is a relatively derived member of the Magnoliales, with affinities to Annonaceae, Eupomatiaceae, Himantandraceae, and Myristicaceae. These analyses together with fossil pollen data are used to interpret the phylogeny of Lactoridaceae and its relatives.
23674084|A Feulgen-densitometric comparison of nuclear DNA contents (C-values) was performed in various plant species (a fern, four gymnosperms, 16 woody and herbaceous angiosperms) after two types of fixation, additive (neutral formaldehyde) and non-additive (methanol-acetic acid, 3:1, MAA). Nuclei from tissues containing a significant amount of polyphenols (of the hydrolysable and non-hydrolysable tannin type) always showed reduced stainability and distorted spectral absorbance curves after MAA-fixation, while after formaldehyde-fixation no evidence for distorted staining was found. No fixation-dependent differences in Feulgen-DNA contents were stated in nuclei from tissues having no polyphenols. Distorted Feulgen-staining is a consequence of cellular self-tanning during fixation. Tanning is impaired by formaldehyde which binds to tannins and inactivates them. The rationale for using formaldehyde as a fixative in Feulgen-cytophotometry can be mainly seen in its capability of eliminating the "self-tanning error". Standardization in plant DNA cytophotometry, and recent reports on unorthodox nuclear DNA variation in conifers are critically discussed.
23655893|Allium section Cepa consists of 12 species most of which are used by humans as condiment, vegetable or medicinal plants. Common onion (Allium cepa) and bunching onion (A. fistulosum) are cultivated species while all others are locally collected from the wild. Although common onion is the most important crop within Allium, its wild progenitor and origin are still not clear. We analyzed the phylogeny of Allium section Cepa using sequences of the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of 36 accessions representing eleven species of section Cepa, together with eight outgroup species with phenetic, cladistic, and model-based algorithms. These analyses confirmed section Cepa to be monophyletic and revealed three species groups within the section. These are (i) A. altaicum/A. fistulosum, (ii) A. farctum/A. roylei/A. asarense/A. cepa/A. vavilovii, and (iii) A. galanthum/A. oschaninii/A. praemixtum/A. pskemense. While the first two groups were statistically well supported for the last group support was low, although it resulted in all phylogenetic analyses conducted. Tree and network-based analyses grouped A. cepa within A. vavilovii, indicating the latter to be progenitor of the common onion. However, also an origin of A. cepa through hybridization of A. vavilovii with A. galanthum or A. fistulosum seems possible. We argue that a subdivision of section Cepa in subsections Cepa and Phyllodolon, although possible from our data, as well as the formal description of alliances do not seem reasonable in a small group of species.
23674387|A taxonomic study of the largely Mexican genus Carminatia is rendered. It is comprised of three closely related species: C. tenuiflora, C. recondita and C. anomala spec. nova. Illustrations, dot maps, keys to species and complete synonymy are presented.
23674665|Evolutionary processes in Corticiaceae (wood-inhabiting basidiomycetes) are discussed on the basis of sibling species analysis, colonization strategies, and the known present distribution. It is proposed that the phylogenetical differentiation of basidiocarp structures may be very old and many species have remained unchanged. Subsequent evolution has to a great part been the effect of biological interaction with the environment, like colonization of new substrata, and the formation of species complexes may be a consequence of this. The amount of spores liberated from a single basidiocarp is regarded as an adaptive character for dispersal mainly in the immediate environment. The actual, wide distribution of many species is supposed to be associated with expansion of pertaining forest types in the past. When rapid expansion of a species occurs it is likely to be connected with occupation of a new ecological niche. Finally, the consequences for fungal communities in modern forestry are discussed.
23642999|Infraspecific genetic differentiation was analysed in two tetraploid annual bromegrasses, Bromus lanceolatus (from N Africa) and B. hordeaceus (from N Africa and France). Genetic analysis of populations was based on allozyme polymorphisms at 17 loci. Different fixed heterozygous phenotypes were scored in both species, according to their allopolyploid origin. In N Africa, more variation occurred among populations of B. lanceolatus than of B. hordeaceus. The variation was not randomly distributed among populations of both species. In B. lanceolatus, differentiation was correlated with climatic variables rather than with geographic distance between populations. Higher correlation of genetic differentiation with geographic distance occurred in B. hordeaceus, particularly at large geographic scale, between French and N African populations. Within each region, the populations appeared weakly genetically differentiated, even when belonging to different subspecies.
23655755|The high number, very small size and morphological similarity of the chromosomes, and low metaphasic indexes obtained in root meristems have hindered the progress in cytogenetic and evolutionary studies of Glycine max. In order to contribute to the solving of these problems, we have developed a method based on the use of DNA synthesis inhibiting and anti-microtubule solutions and enzymatic maceration and air-drying techniques. Besides, we have employed a digital image analysis system tool. This method provided prometaphasic and metaphasic chromosomes showing well-defined primary and secondary constrictions, which facilitated the pairing of homologues and assembly of the first karyogram for G. max. This species possesses twenty chromosome pairs, being six metacentric and fourteen submetacentric. The karyograms support its tetraploid nature (4 = 40), specifically for the presence of chromosomes with identical morphology, and suggest that chromosome rearrangements may have occurred during the speciation of G. max.
23644070|Phylogenetic relationships among all eight subgenera and 12 sections in Rhododendron as well as its related genera were inferred from matK and trnK intron sequences. The results of this study provided the following insights: (1) Rhododendron is paraphyletic because Menziesia is nested within Rhododendron. (2) Subgenus Therorhodion forms a basal lineage of tribe Rhodoreae. (3) Subgenera Hymenanthes and Tsutsusi are monophyletic. (4) Subgenera Azaleastrum and Pentanthera are polyphyletic. (5) Subgenus Rhododendron is monophyletic, if section Rhododendron subsection Ledum is excluded.
23642964|The inflorescences of Paspalum are composed of a main axis and 1 to more than 100 raceme-like lateral branches arranged along it. Each branch bears two rows of homogeneous subunits composed either of one or two consecutive-ordered axes, each one ending with a spikelet. In terms of Troll's descriptive and typological system, such lateral branches were regarded as long paracladia which bear homogeneous bi-axial short paracladia. The structural pattern of these long paracladia is considered to be a recapitulation of the distal main-axis structure which was lost by evolutionary truncation.  The occurrence of a main florescence (= terminal spikelet) and a short paracladia-bearing zone at the distal portion of the main axis in several species of the genus Paspalum, as it is exemplified by species belonging to the so-called 'Quadrifaria group', seems to support the hypothesis that the usual inflorescence of Paspalum actually derived from a paniculate structure by evolutionary homogenization and truncation processes. This 'Quadrifariatype inflorescences' would be regarded as an intermediate step in the evolutionary pathway. Nevertheless, the phylogenetic implications of this interpretation remains obscure because at the present time there is not any hypothesis about the phylogeny of the genus available.
23642582|Different growth forms and life forms of parasitic plants in Scrophulariaceae and Orobanchaceae were studied from a comparative point of view. The most primitive form of parasitism is found in small, annual root parasites. Small wart-haustoria in the hypocotylar region of larger root parasites point towards a tendency of these plants to form hypocotylar tubercles as primary haustoria. Wart-haustoria also can develop on scale leaves, demonstrating an evolutionary trend towards the most advanced form of parasitism in these two families the formation of large leaf haustoria.
43496786|Italian vascular flora is highly representative of the Euro-Mediterranean area, because the region includes high mountain territories, temperate areas, and regions dominated by the Mediterranean climate. Chromosome number information about the Italian flora stored in the online database Chrobase. it includes 6,756 records, referable to 3,539 cytotypes and 2,785 accepted species and subspecies (approx. 35% of the national flora). Appropriate queries to Chrobase. it enabled us to map chromosome numbers, at order rank, in a robust phylogenetic framework, derived from APGIII and other recent phylogenetic studies on vascular plants. Similar work was conducted for selected families and genera. Chromosome number data were available for 41 out of 80 vascular plant orders (51%) currently recognized world-wide and 107 out of 428 families (25%), represented by 661 genera (4.5%). The large number of records enabled us to compute the mean chromosome number for each taxon, and to highlight significant differences among all orders and among subsets of families and genera. For each taxon, we analysed the variability in chromosome number by use of common statistical methods, and computed the frequency of chromosome numbers, the coefficient of variation of chromosome number (CVCN) the frequency of B-chromosomes (fB), and that of odd chromosome numbers (fOCN). The phylogenetic relevance of our results is discussed and the usefulness of basic karyological data, often neglected in current phylogenetic studies, is stressed.
23673898|In Umbilicaria hirsuta and U. grisea the so-called soredia originate from structured plectenchyma of the upper thallus layer (thus contrasting with true soredia, which are pushed off from unstructured medullar plectenchyma), and, therefore, are termed parasoredia. Both species have been regarded to comprise (in western Europe) forms with relatively large thalli and a pale lower surface; rhizinomorphs may be present (with varying density) or absent; propagation is not by parasoredia, but by flattened diaspores (schizidia s. l.) These forms are united here and described as a separate species: U. freyi (syn. U. hirsuta var. pyrenaica Frey and U. grisea resp. murina f. subpapyria Frey). So far, the species is known to occur from the western Alps through C. France to the Pyrenees, C. Spain and Italy including Sardinia.
43558393|Previous systematic treatments of Menonvillea recognized a group of six morphologically related species, the 'M. scapigera group,' distinguished by having pinnately lobed leaves and united filaments of median staminal pairs. The number of recognized species ranged from six to two, one with three subspecies. In order to clarify the taxonomy of this group, multivariate and univariate analyses of qualitative and quantitative characters from herbarium specimens were performed. Additionally, to test the morphological results, the phylogenetic relationships and degree of exclusive ancestry were studied using ITS sequences and the genealogical sorting index. Our results support the recognition of three species (M. famatinensis, M. hirsuta, M. scapigera) delimited by a unique combination of qualitative characters. Quantitative characters support the division of the latter species into two subspecies: scapigera and longipes. The molecular data are congruent with the morphology and support the inclusion of M. hookeri within M. scapigera. A key to taxa of the M. scapigera group is presented.
23674685|Maize (Zea mays L. subsp. mays) has been identified in archaeological contexts by a high proportion of large cross-shaped phytoliths. Given the numerous races of maize, this study was undertaken to determine if differences below the species level could be noted. It was also designed to see if phytoliths differed in various plant parts at various stages of growth. Several races were grown under experimental conditions. No significant differences were found. Furthermore, few phytoliths alleged to be diagnostic of maize were discovered. Systemic studies of maize and analyses of prehistoric cultivation by means of phytoliths seem not to be as promising as some researchers have argued.
23669046|Ixeridium dentatum (I. dentatum; family Compositae) forms a complex species through intraspecific differentiation. In this study, intraspecific taxa of I. dentatum were analyzed by counting chromosome numbers, sequencing internal transcribed spacer (ITS), and detecting amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) to explore phylogenetic relationships within I. dentatum. Analysis of ploidy levels showed that I. dentatum subsp. kitayamense and subsp. nipponicum were diploid (2n = 2x = 14), I. dentatum subsp. kimuranum was tetraploid (2n = 4x = 28), and other intraspecific taxa of I. dentatum were triploid (2n = 3x = 21). The ITS sequences contained only 13 variable sites (2.7 %) among intraspecific taxa, suggesting that the I. dentatum complex originated by autoploidy. Our AFLP-based analysis separated these taxa into five groups: (1) I. dentatum subsp. kimuranum and subsp. kitayamense; (2) subsp. nipponicum and var. albiflorum; (3) two types of subsp. dentatum and f. atropurpureum; (4) f. amplifolium; (5) subsp. ozense and new taxa, which were discovered in this study. The identified clusters significantly differed from morphological classifications. For example, morphologically similar variety and forms of I. dentatum subsp. nipponicum were separated into different groups. Taken together with the ploidy data, this study proposes a possible evolutionary history generating the current taxonomic combinations of the I. dentatum complex. The proposed model suggests that diverse taxa recently emerged during migration to lowlands.
23674558|Information from the same restriction analysis of chloroplast DNA of 33 taxa of Rubiaceae was scored in four different ways, two of which were based on fragments, and two on restriction sites, and they were subsequently analysed with Wagner parsimony. The methods resulted in different phylogenetic trees. The inherent differences between the methods relate to the amount of non-homologous characters and dependent characters, but none of the methods will systematically bias the resulting cladograms. The fragment analyses are much less time-consuming, but probably less accurate, than the site analyses. The choice of method is dependent on a trade-off between accuracy and resources (time). One important recommendation is made: all phylogenetic analyses of chloroplast DNA data should be accompanied by a data matrix and contain information on how the matrix was compiled.
43558613|To better understand the taxonomy of Pulicaria, the pollen wall architecture of the six Iberian species were investigated using light (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The exine structure of Pulicaria odora was also investigated using transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Statistical analysis was performed to distinguish taxonomically significant morphometric information from all the measured parameters of pollen grains. It was found that the exine sculpture characters, with special importance paid to the spines, were the most useful of all characters to define Pulicaria pollen types and separate the species. Three pollen types distinguishable through the spines morphology and the inter-spinular sculpture are described: P. microcephala pollen type (incl. P. microcephala), P. vulgaris pollen type (incl. P. vulgaris), and P. dysenterica pollen type (incl. P. dysenterica, P. odora, P. paludosa and P. siculo). A dichotomous key to these Pulicaria pollen types is proposed. The distribution of P. dysenterica, P. odora, P. paludosa and P. sicula in more than one leaf node in the classification tree reveals that the pollen grains of these species are difficult to segregate. Therefore, the construction of a satisfactory dichotomous key to the P. dysenterica pollen type species is not feasible. Yet, the different spines apex morphology between P. microcephala and P. paludosa and the existence of significant differences in five of the eight studied quantitative pollen characters of these two taxa, supports the opinion that the Berlengas Islands endemic P. microcephala should be accepted as a separate species. In addition, the differences among the spines morphology of P. vulgaris, P. microcephala, and the other four Iberian (and European) species, strengthen the conclusion that the section Pulicaria is non-monophyletic.
23664372|A phylogenetic alignment differs from other forms of multiple sequence alignment because it must align homologous features. Therefore, the goal of the alignment procedure should be to identify the events associated with the homologies, so that the aligned sequences accurately reflect those events. That is, an alignment is a set of hypotheses about historical events rather than about residues, and any alignment algorithm must be designed to identify and align such events. Some events (e.g., substitution) involve single residues, and our current algorithms can successfully align those events when sequence similarity is great enough. However, the other common events (such as duplication, translocation, deletion, insertion and inversion) can create complex sequence patterns that defeat such algorithms. There is therefore currently no computerized algorithm that can successfully align molecular sequences for phylogenetic analysis, except under restricted circumstances. Manual re-alignment of a preliminary alignment is thus the only feasible contemporary methodology, although it should be possible to automate such a procedure.
23664350|The genus Litsea in America is a small group of species with high variability that has not been evaluated rigorously; authors recognize either three or as many as 11 species because of the unclear delimitation of taxa. Our focus in this study was to resolve the number, names, and distinguishing features of the American species of Litsea, based on strict morphological analyses, namely Population aggregation analysis and Multivariate analyses. Population aggregation analysis revealed a large number of polymorphisms in all populations; nevertheless, L. aestivalis was distinguished from the other species. Ordination of character variability by principal components analysis and non-metric multidimensional scaling supported the distinction of seven additional species. Finally, eight species of Litsea are recognized in America and a key for their identification is provided.
23662388|Dendrobium officinale (Orchidaceae) is used for traditional medicine and is critically endangered in China. To investigate the genetic structure of this species and to offer some advice on conservation strategies, 84 individuals from nine wild populations of D. officinale were analyzed using the method of sequence-related amplified polymorphism. A high level of genetic diversity was detected (PPB = 88.07%, HE = 0.2880) at the species level. However, the genetic diversity at the population level was lower (PPB = 51.68%, HE = 0.1878) in comparison with other species with similar life history characteristics. Based on analysis of molecular variation, there was moderate variation between pairs of populations with ST values ranging from 0.1327 to 0.4151 and on average 27.05% of the genetic variation occurred among populations. Two main clusters were shown in UPGMA using TFPGA, which is consistent with the result of principal coordinate analysis using NTSYS. In situ conservation is the first advocated and and ex situ should be proposed at the same time to protect the endangered plant and to preserve germplasm resources.
43558581|The objective of this study was to investigate anther wall and pollen development in Ophrys mammosa. Primary sporogen tissue resembles longitudinal cells with divided archeosporal cells. Thereafter these primary sporogen tissue cells re-divide anticlinally and periclinally forming secondary sporogen tissue. Microsporogenesis was successive type. Microgametogenesis occurred at the distal poles of the microspores. In addition, dense starch accumulation was detected in the pollen. Pollinia and massulae are separated from each other by dead cells filled with callose, according to histochemical preparations. The anther wall was a four-layered "monocotyledon" type. There was ring-like wall thickening in the endothecium.The tapetum is of the glandular type. When these two developmental processes are compared, it is seen that the anther wall has become mature by the sporogen tissue phase and is composed of only epidermis and endothecium at the beginning of microgametogenesis.
23674730|The restricted perennial diploid herb, Villarsia lasiosperma, of southwestern Western Australia has distylous flowers with dimorphism in style and stamen length, stigma morphology, and pollen size. In order to assess the presence and nature of an incompatibility system in this species, a crossing program was carried out using 17 plants grown from seeds collected in two field populations. Pollen stainabilities of these plants mostly exceeded 95%. Mean seed-set of Longs following intermorph pollinations was c. 24 seeds per pollination and for Shorts was c. 16 seeds per pollination. Approximately three-quarters of the Longs and Shorts produced no seeds after self-pollination; the remainder produced very few seeds following such pollinations. No Shorts produced seeds after intramorph cross-pollinations. However, about half the Longs exhibited various levels of weakened intramorph incompatibility, with mean seed-sets following intramorph cross-pollinations up to half the mean seed-sets following intermorph pollinations. In the behavior of Longs, the incompatibility system of V. lasiosperma differs from the idealized distylous breeding system, but resembles that of a purported close relative, V. exaltata of eastern and southeastern Australia.
23656017|A phylogenetic analysis of the Juncaceae was conducted to assess relationships among the genera Juncus, Luzula and five other small South American genera (Distichia, Marsippospermum, Oxychlo, Patosia and Rostkovia). We examined parallel datasets from organelles (mtDNA: atp1 gene, cpDNA: trnL intron, trnL-F intergenic spacer, rbcL gene) with respect to qualities relevant to the phylogenetic analysis of the Juncaceae. The main aim of our work was to produce a robust phylogeny of the Juncaceae validated by data from both organelles. Our data confirm the monophyly of the genus Luzula, but do not provide support for monophyly of the genus Juncus. The majority of taxa clustered within two subgenera, Agathryon and Juncus, morphologically supported by the presence or absence of bracteoles and cymose or racemose inflorescences, respectively. The subgenus Juncus is divided into two separate clades, the first closely related to the subgenus Agathryon and the second in the most basal part of the tree. Moreover, small South American genera clustered together with Juncus sect. Graminifolii and also with Juncus sect. Juncus. In fact, comparison of results from separate analyses of mitochondrial and plastome genes demonstrates that the general resolution of main topology of the atp1 tree is similar to the separate rbcL tree; the genus Juncus is better resolved, but the genus Luzula remains mainly polytomic.
23645119|Diverse forms of superficial sori are typologically analysed and their potential relations, especially those of submarginal to marginal sori, are discussed. Within the superficial sori, two main types are differentiated: the non-vein-related and the vein-related superficial sorus. The first type is defined as the combination of (a) a small-celled minute, cushion-, or ridge-shaped receptacle, (b) a mixed sequence of sporangial initiation, and (c) the absence of indusial formations. The second type is bound to the underside of a vein and comprises (a) a minute, lop-sided, ring-, cone-, or ridge-shaped receptacle, (b) a simultaneous, mixed, or basipetal sequence of sporangial initiation, and (c) a scale-like, peltate, cup-like, or long-extended indusium. Submarginal and marginal sori arise as the result of phase differentiation in leaf development and additional developmental processes. These take place in different combinations yielding several pathways for the evolution of submarginal and marginal sori: The state of superficial singly-arranged sporangia as seen in Pityrogramma may give rise to the Pteris type of the non-vein-related superficial sorus and the Pteridium type of the basipetal marginal sorus. The Pteridium type may also arise from the Pteris type. The Dicksonia type of the basipetal marginal sorus may evolve from the state of superficial singly-arranged sporangia as seen in Anogramma, from the Cyathea type of the vein-related superficial sorus, or from the Pteridium type. With regard to the phylogenetic relationships the present studies allow the following conclusions: (1) Although there are constructional relations between sori as in Pteridium and in Pteris, it is not advisable to regard Hypolepidaceae as Pteridaceae, since the construction of the rhizomes of the two families are very different. (2) Because a sorus as in Pteridium can be traced back to one like that in Pteris, and the latter to a state as seen in Pityrogramma, a placement of Pteridaceae after Hypolepidaceae is questionable. However, since a sorus as in Pteridium could also be directly derived from a state of superficial singlyarranged sporangia as occurs, e.g. in Pityrogramma, the similarity of the sori of Pteris and Pteridium may also be due to analogous convergence. Therefore, a relationship between these genera, if there is one at all, need not necessarily be close. (3) A basipetal marginal sorus as found in Dicksoniaceae shows constructional relations to a vein-related superficial sorus such as that in Cyatheaceae. But because a relationship between Dicksoniaceae and Dennstaedtiaceae cannot be excluded (Schlch 2000b), it can be questioned whether Dicksoniaceae and Cyatheaceae are related at all.
23674632|The chloroplast genomes of 44 accessions of Secale were surveyed for restriction site polymorphisms. The accessions were chosen to represent the geographic as well as taxonomic range of the genus. Using 12 restriction enzymes a total of 348 sites were detected. Twenty-nine mutation sites were phylogenetically informative and used in a cladistic analysis. Further, a 0.1 kb insertion separated Secale from the outgroup species. Only the annual species S. sylvestre was distinct from the rest of the taxa. Cultivated rye together with both wild annual and wild perennial accessions were mixed among each other. Sequence divergence (p) among taxa of Secale was low, varying from 0.000 to 0.005, suggesting a rather recent origin of the genus.
23674050|This paper presents physiological evidence for the existence as separate taxonomic entities of Chlorella saccharophila and C. ellipsoidea. C. saccharophila is able to utilize mannitol for growth in the dark, whereas C. ellipsoidea is unable to grow on mannitol. In addition, C. ellipsoidea is characterized by an extreme sensitivity towards cadmium.  Among the other Chlorella species, only C. luteoviridis is capable of growing on mannitol.
23642993|A taxonomic study of the genus Delilia is presented. Two species are recognized: D. biflora, a widespread weed of tropical and subtropical regions of the New World, extending from Mexico to northern Argentina and recently introduced in the Cape Verde Islands; and D. repens, endemic to the Galapagos islands. A key to the species, illustrations, distribution maps, and complete synonymy are presented.
23674425|The actinorhizal genus Alnus contains numerous taxa that have been morphologically classified into different subgenera, species and subspecies. The genetic divergence has been evaluated within subg. Alnobetula between the parapatric taxa Alnus sinuata and A. crispa, using diversity of allozyme markers at 15 structural loci among 20 populations. Evidence for introgressive hybridization at the overlap of their ranges was noted in three populations. However, the width of the hybrid zone appeared tenuous. The average genetic distance derived from the comparisons of conspecific populations was much smaller than the interspecific distance (D = 0.047). This allelic divergence was also paralleled with larger amounts of allelic and genotypic diversity within and among populations of A. sinuata, which are occupying a more heterogenous ecological niche. It is proposed that the repeated advances and retreats of the ice sheet during the Pleistocene may have promoted the divergence and allopatric evolution of these subspecies, and that secondary contact may have occurred repeatedly during the interglacial periods. The dynamic-equilibrium model would predict in such cases that narrow hybrid zones, formed at the contact of parapatric ranges, would impede gene exchange between parental taxa by selection against hybrids. The results obtained in this study seemed concordant with this hypothesis, as they were also in agreement with the existent taxonomical treatment of these taxa based on morphology.
23673925|Hypecoum sect. Hypecoum comprises 8 species, one with 2 additional subspecies, in the Mediterranean area and the Middle East. Five of these are recognized for the first time, viz. Hypecoum procumbens L. subsp. fragrantissimum . E. Dahl, H. procumbens L. subsp. atropunctatum . E. Dahl, H. trullatum . E. Dahl, H. angustilobum . E. Dahl and H. torulosum . E. Dahl. H. dimidiatum Delile and H. pseudograndiflorum Petr., which have generally been included in H. imberbe Sm., are reestablished as distinct species. Morphology and variation patterns are described and discussed with special reference to mating systems. Self-incompatibility is dominating but H. procumbens subsp. procumbens and H. torulosum are self-compatible. The broad variation ranges of the former taxon in traits presumably related to mating system (petal, anther and stigma sizes as well as pollen-ovule ratios) indicate varying rates of outcrossing. SEM micrographs are given of petal and stigma surfaces and of pollen grains. Chromosome counts are presented for seven taxa. All are diploid with 2n = 16.
23674674|Root and rhizome of four Helleborus species: H. viridis, H. odorus, H. niger, H. foetidus were examined throughout a two-year period in order to determine the variation of lipid content and fatty acid composition during the ontogenetic cycle. In the deciduous geophytes H. viridis and H. odorus subsp. laxus the lipid content reaches its maximum during the quiescent phase, whereas in the evergreen geophyte H. niger the lipid content is highest during the main growth period. In the chamaephyte H. foetidus lipid content is always very low and it does not show variation throughout the year. In all species the fatty acids detected in the neutral fraction are myristic, palmitic, stearic, oleic and linoleic acid. Palmitic and linoleic acid are always present in larger quantities. The pattern of the relative content of saturated/unsaturated fatty acids seems to be linked to the life form of these species.
23664358|Agriculture is the most intensive form of environmental exploitation performed by mankind. It involves replacing the natural ecosystem with an artificial plant community comprising one or more crop species, and weeds can invade the cleared land. Initially, the adoption of agriculture did not necessarily imply an improvement in standard of living (there is, in fact, evidence to the contrary), but as agricultural efficiency improved, surpluses were generated on top of mere subsistence levels. It may take many years of labor in order to obtain a crop that has all of the desired traits. It is not possible to control which genes are transferred from the parents to the offspring, and the results are often uncertain. In comparison, the utilization of genetic engineering to improve crops can be a faster and more precise approach. Unlike traditional breeding, genetic engineering makes it possible to select the specific traits desired and insert the genes that code for them into the plant.
23642350|Sclerorhachis rechingeri Iranshahr, sp. n., from N. Khorasan is closely related to the Afghanistan species S. caulescens (Aitch. & Hemsl.) Rech. f. and S. polysphaera Rech. f. It differs from both in the thicker and woolly collar and the much larger capitulum.
23642713|The sieve-element plastids of members of several genera in the Buxaceae (Buxus, Pachysandra and Sarcococca) were found to be of the specific subtype PVI, which contains a central globular protein crystal. Simmondsia (Simmondsiaceae) and Daphniphyllum (Daphniphyllaceae), on the other hand, were found to contain S-type sieve-element plastids. The occurrence of the highly restricted PVI plastids in the Buxaceae mitigates against a close relationship between the Buxaceae and Simmondsia, Daphniphyllum and Euphorbiaceae. Exine sculpturing of the Buxaceae and Simmondsiaceae also shows no close similarities. Both of these EM characters are discussed in connection with other available data and with respect to earlier systematic treatment of these families.
23643380|Photosynthetic pathways are reported for 305 species of Chenopodiaceae from Africa, Asia and Europe. Ecological characteristics, phytogeography and life forms of all species are given, and their correlation with relevant CO2-fixation types are discussed. 205 species (67.2%) exhibit the C4-pathway and 100 species (32.8%) the C3-pathway of CO2-fixation. Most of the C4 species are of Irano-Turanian origin. The diversity of C4 species of the Irano-Turanian phytochoria, with very harsh winters, are interpreted by the active period of Chenopods in summer. There is a close relationship between some special morphotypes and respective photosynthetic type. Halophytes and xerophytes with articulated stems and stem succulents of Anabasis-type are exclusively C4. Leaf succulent halophytes and xerohalophytes are predominantly C4. Hygrohalophytes with leaf or stem succulence are often C3. Probably many C4 Salsoleae have been evolved in the Afroasiatic arid zone after the climatic changes of the Miocene. Among them there is a high proportion of annuals that have a younger origin. There is some evidence that the present Chenopods of the subfamily "Salsoloideae" may have their ancient stock in NW Africa. We found close taxonomic relationships between photosynthetic pathways and infrageneric classification in genera with both types of C3 and C4, like Atriplex and Suaeda.
43558180|We carried out multivariate morphometric analysis of 23 floral characters in seven populations of a complex of four species of Acianthera (Orchidaceae) occurring in Brazilian campo rupestre (rocky field) vegetation (A. hamosa, A. limae, A. modestissima, and A. prolifera) that flower synchronously and are partially intercompatible, and one putative hybrid population between A. limae and A. prolifera. We also carried out cluster analysis involving these eight populations plus 21 populations of a previously published study belonging to another species complex of Acianthera occurring in campo rupestre, including 12 floral characters in the analysis. Allopatric species pollinated by the same group of Diptera showed higher floral similarity among themselves than to a sympatric species pollinated by another group of Diptera. Such patterns indicate the existence of floral convergence in allopatric species and/or radiation in sympatric species. The analysis also indicated that there is more floral similarity between species of different complexes but that share the same group of pollinators. Large overlap was observed between A. limae and the putative sympatric hybrids, indicating the occurrence of later generations of hybrids and/or individuals of A. limae with introgression. The results do not support A. hamosa and A. modestissima as distinct species. These taxa are geographically isolated, occurring in different environments, are recognized only by vegetative characters that show high phenotypic plasticity, and share the same pollinators, being interfertile.
23664072|A total of 28 fragments from five microsatellite loci containing simple to highly complex repeat motifs were amplified from a number of Capsicum accessions and subsequently cloned and sequenced. In addition to variation in the number of repeats, allelic differences were found, especially in the more complex microsatellites, that are the consequences of various mutations including base substitutions, insertions/deletions, and rearrangements resulting in 21 distinct alleles. A number of the observed allelic differences were in part not revealed by the use of standard DNA-sizing technologies. The possible mutation and evolution mechanisms and the consequences of using complex and/or compound microsatellite markers for evolutionary, diversity, and taxonomical studies are discussed.
23655638|Species within three families of basal angiosperms (Trimeniaceae, Winteraceae, Monimiaceae) illustrate differences and similarities in pollen within a species, between species and between genera. Trimenia papuana (Trimeniaceae) has dimorphic pollen (inaperturate, polyforate), each confined to different individual plants. Other species have either disulculate or polyforate pollen. Evolution seems to be from disculculate to inaperturate to polyforate. Present-day Winteraceae have pollen in permanent tetrads except four species of Zygogynum with monads. Why? Did such monads appear as fossils before tetrads in Winteraceae? Molecular studies of Takhtajania perrieri indicate it is basal but its unique bicarpellate unilocular gynoecium seems derived. Although Hedycarya arborea and Kibaropsis caledonica have near-identical permanent pollen tetrads, many other features are very different. Hedycarya species have permanent tetrads or inaperturate monads with spinulose, 'starry' or other sculpturing, and it is suggested this and recent molecular data indicate further studies are needed to determine generic limits.
23655562|A group of representative species of the genus Puya was studied to determine if there are allometric relationships between vegetative and floral parts, whether these relationships correlate with their pollination system and if plant size is correlated with elevation and latitude. Fifty-three species representing the morphological variation and distribution of the genus were studied. Total plant height, as well as leaf, inflorescence, petal and sepal length were measured and these data subjected to univariate and multivariate analyses. To test for correlation between plant size and altitudinal and latitudinal distribution, ANOVAs were performed. When the pollination system of a species is known, additional multivariate and univariate analyses were also performed. The results indicate that the characters studied are correlated with a size component, exhibiting positive allometry for sepal and petal length and negative allometry for leaf length. Inflorescence length is an isometric character. There was no significant correlation between plant size and altitudinal or latitudinal distribution. The ANOVAs show that the only character correlated to pollinator type was petal length. Small plants with small flowers are correlated to pollinators such as insects, while medium to large plants with medium to large-sized flowers are correlated with pollinators such as birds and bats. Large plants have small flowers, that are more evident and attract more pollinators.
23645372|Mulberry (Morus spp.), a deciduous tree, originated at the foothills of the Himalayas and is used in sericulture for its leaf to feed the silkworm Bombyx mori L. Species differentiation among the genotypes of the genus Morus has never been out of debate as inter-specific hybridization events are often fertile. In the present study attempts were made to elucidate the genetic relationships among 18 mulberry genotypes collected from India and Japan using 15 Inter Simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR) and 15 Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) primers. The ISSR primers generated 81.13% polymorphism while the RAPDs generated 71.78% polymorphism. The polymorphic index of the primers identified UBC-812, UBC-826, UBC827, UBC-881, OPA-01, OPA-02, OPA-04 and OPH-17 as informative primers in mulberry. The genetic similarity coefficients and the dendrograms showed considerable genetic similarity among the genotypes. However, using the DNA markers, these genotypes were discriminated into two major groups in accordance with their geographic origin and species status. Distribution of the genotypes on a two-dimensional figure on the basis of the ALSCAL algorithm using Euclidean distance further confirmed the genetic divergence between these two groups. From the study it can be concluded that though morphologically Japanese and Indian mulberry genotypes show little divergence, genetic analysis using DNA markers could unravel significant genetic variation between these two groups. Similarly, while the species status of Japanese mulberry genotypes agrees with the genetic analysis, the same does not apply to Indian genotypes, in agreement with many earlier reports. The information generated in this study is of much use for taxonomical grouping and also for utilization in breeding and conservation programs.
23644973|Nectaries differ in many aspects but a common feature is some kind of advantage for the plant conferred by foraging of consumers which may defend the plant from predators in the case of extrafloral nectaries, or be agents of pollination in the case of floral nectaries. This minireview is concerned mainly with floral nectaries and examines the following characteristics: position in flower; nectary structure; origin of carbohydrates, aminoacids and proteins; manner of exposure of nectar; site of nectar presentation; volume and production of nectar in time; sexual expression of flower and nectary morphology; nectar composition and floral sexual expression; variability of nectar composition; fate of nectar; energy cost of nectar production. The species of certain large families, such as Brassicaceae, Lamiaceae and Asteraceae, resemble each other in nectary organisation; other families, such as Cucurbitaceae and Ranunculaceae, have various types of organisation. A scheme is presented to illustrate factors influencing nectary and nectar biodiversity.
23669992|C-banding patterns of H. brevisubulatum subsp. brevisubulatum (2x) and subsp. turkestanicum (4x) had conspicuous telomeric C-bands in at least one chromosome arm with a minor difference in average band size between subspecies. Other conspicuous bands were few in number as in other taxa of the species complex. The C-banded area of the chromosomes was estimated to be 7 to 8 and 6 per cent, respectively. C-banding- and SAT-chromosome polymorphisms were observed in both subspecies. The latter and previous observations indicate that the number of SAT-chromosomes is a less reliable diagnostic character. Nucleolar organizer region polymorphisms were demonstrated through silver nitrate staining of nucleoli. C-banding patterns corroborated that tetra- and hexaploid cytotypes of subsp. turkestanicum form an autopolyploid series. Reliable identification of H. brevisubulatum taxa based on cytological criteria should include the simultaneous use of C-banding patterns, and number and morphology of marker chromosomes.
23673805|A new genus of Cruciferae, Dolichorhynchus Hedge & Kit Tan (D. arabicus Hedge & Kit Tan) and a new species Arabidopsis erysimoides Hedge & Kit Tan, both from northern Saudi Arabia, are described and illustrated. An addendum lists new Crucifer generic or species records for the Arabian peninsula.
23645370|ITS sequences of members of Peucedanum and its segregates (Cervaria, Holandrea, Imperatoria, Oreoselinum, Pteroselinum, Thysselinum, Tommasinia, and Xanthoselinum), as well as representatives of other members of the previously identified 'Angelica' and 'Arracacia' clades, were analysed using distance, maximum likelihood, and maximum parsimony methods in order to establish their phylogenetic relationships. The 'Angelica' and 'Arracacia' clades comprise a strongly supported monophyletic group that is formally recognised as tribe Selineae. The genus Holandrea, expanded to include Cervaria caucasica and Peucedanum achaicum, is distantly related to the other peucedanoid genera. The remaining segregates are closely related to one another and to Peucedanum sensu stricto. The genera Seseli and Selinum are polyphyletic. Members of the genus Angelica form a single clade that also includes representatives of Selinum and Sphenosciadium. New combinations in Holandrea (H. caucasica, H. achaica) and Angelica (A. capitellata) are proposed, and Selinum pyrenaeum is recognised in Angelica (A. pyrenaea).
43558243|Anthonotha noldeae (Rossberg) Exell et Hillc. Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae, an Afromontane forest canopy tree, produces a superabundance of flowers, but few (1.1%) initiate fruits, and even fewer (0.44%) reach maturity and disperse. Fifty-three percent of fruits are predated. A. noldeae is andromonoecious. Over all 20 trees for which we counted floral gender ratios (hermaphrodite vs. staminate flowers), the ratio was 2.1:1. There was significant (F, = 8.52; p < 0.001) variation in the proportion of the two flower types produced among individuals. Floral gender ratios did not predict the proportion of mature fruits produced on a tree (r = 0.066; p = 0.273), or its phenotypic gender (Gi)which is defined as the contribution of an individual tree to the next generation in terms of female function relative to all other individuals in the population (r = 0.069; p = 0.262). Gi varied among trees from 0 (functionally male) to 0.8.There was no correlation between tree size and phenotypic gender (r = 0.08; p = 0.74; n = 20). Open flowers initiated significantly more fruits than bagged or caged flowers (p = 0.0073), showing A. noldeae relies on birds to produce fruits. However, 80% of visits to flowers were made by insects, while only 20% of visits were from pollinating sunbirds. While low fruit initiation was the most restrictive reproductive step, low pollination rates combined with insect robbers, fungal attacks and high levels of predation of immature fruits may contribute to the extremely low fruit set in A. noldeae.
23643442|The neotropical genus Exostema comprises 25 species of trees and shrubs, ranging in distribution from Bolivia to Mexico and throughout the West Indies, with most species endemic to the Greater Antilles. Infrageneric relationships and species-level patterns of evolution were investigated in phylogenetic analyses using morphological, molecular, and combined data sets. All data sets resolved three main species groups which correspond to the three sections recognized by McDowell (1996). However, the analyses of ITS sequence data placed the two South American species basal to the three main clades. Otherwise, the morphological and molecular data are highly compatible, and produce a more robust yet consistent phylogeny in the combined data analysis. Morphological evolution in Exostema involves many specializations for xeric habitats, reflecting repeated ecological shifts from moist forest to exposed, seasonally dry environments during the diversification of the genus. Both moth and bee pollination syndromes are found in Exostema, and shifts in pollination ecology appear pivotal to the differentiation of the three sections. Biogeographically, Exostema likely originated in South America and migrated via Central America to the Greater Antilles, where the morphological diversification and speciation are most extensive.
23674225|The many-flowered, brush-like spikes of Encholirium glaziovii, a ground-dwelling pitcairnioid bromeliad of the "campo rupestre" formation of southeastern Brazil, was observed being pollinated by the glossophagine bat, Lonchophylla bokermanni, in the Serra do Cip (Minas Gerais). Nectar feeding was while hovering, and the pollen was preferentially transferred by the bat's snout. The floral pattern is chiropterophilous; unlike known tillandsioid bat flowers, stamens and style are protrusive beyond a small, persistent perigon, and anthesis, apparently protogynous, extends over several nights, with gradual onset and cease. Although various other flower-visiting Chiroptera are known to occur in the area and are not mechanically precluded from exploiting Encholirium glaziovii, no one seems to compete with Lonchophylla bokermanni. This species, a trap-liner, habitually forages in open habitats, a possible reason for its exclusiveness.  Flower details of two other species of Encholirium from the same locality including one with the bat pollination syndrome, are given.
23672719|The cytology of wild hybrids of Dryopteris from Pico, Azores has been examined. This has confirmed the parentage of the hybrids, and provided evidence to support the view that the tetraploid species D. crispifolia has evolved in the Azores from two diploid species, D. aemula and D. azorica, by hybridization and polyploidy.
23643342|Between March 1993 and May 1995 the floral biology and the phenology of Clusia nemorosa G. Mey. (Clusiaceae) were studied in two dioecious populations in Pernambuco State, and some observations were made in gynodioecious populations, that were encountered only in Bahia State. The species flowers from June to January/February. The flowers are bowl shaped, and last only one day. The floral reward is resin which is produced by staminodia in all types of flowers. The sex ratio was 1:1 for the studied populations. The pollen viability was approximately 98%. Apomixis was not observed. The rate of fruit set, in hermaphrodite individuals, under natural conditions and the sex ratio of the gynodioecious populations studied suggest that the hermaphrodite individuals may behave as males. Clusia nemorosa is melittophilous and was visited by 16 species of bees. The main pollinators were Euplusia mussitans, E. iopyhrra, Eulaema cingulata, E. nigrita, Euglossa cordata and Euglossa sp.
23643041|The nectary structure and chemical nectar composition of 15 species belonging to 12 genera of Bignoniaceae are analyzed. All taxa bear a conspicuous nuptial nectary surrounding the ovary base. The secretory tissue is mostly supplied by phloem branches. The stomata are located in the middle and upper part of the nectary epidermis with an homogeneous distribution. The nuptial nectary is proportionally large in relation to the ovary (1530%), disregarding the nectary volume. Most species have extranuptial nectaries in both inner and outer surfaces of the calyx. Both kinds of nectaries lack a vascular tissue that straightly supplies them. Nuptial nectar concentration (wt/wt) ranges from 19 to 68%. Sugars and amino acids are found in all species. Half of the species have hexose predominant nectars, the remaining sucrose predominant. Phenols are detected in only three species, whereas reducing acids exclusively in Tecoma stans. Alkaloids and lipids were never detected. Extranuptial nectar chemical composition is analyzed in two species: Dolichandra cynanchoides and Podranea ricasoliana. Bees constitute the main flower visitors of the species studied whereas hummingbirds were seen visiting three species. A correlation analysis is performed with the data obtained. There are a few significant correlations which indicate a parallel increase of three parameters: the longer the flower length, the more voluminous the nectary and the higher stomata number, independently of the floral biotype. Phenograms are obtained using 24 floral characters including nectary and nectar data. The clusters obtained do not reflect taxonomic relationships but are useful in the understanding of animal-plant interactions when the flower biotype is considered.
23673250|Cytological studies were carried out on two populations of Trigonobalanus verticillata in Yinggeling, Hainan Province, China (YGL), and Fraser's Hill, Malaysia (FH). In the two populations, the pattern of interphase nuclei was of the simple chromocentre type, the mitotic prophases were of the proximal interstitial type and chromosome numbers were 2n = 2x = 14 (YGL) and 2n = 6x = 42 (FH), representing diploid and hexaploid respectively. The basic chromosome number of the species was x = 7; this is a unique number in the Fagaceae and in the Fagales as well. The characteristic karyotype of the diploid population in China was 2n = 14 = 8m + 4sm + 2st. Based on the new finding of the chromosome number in this study, we clarify the previous dispute about the basic chromosome number and propose that the two Asian Trigonobalanus species have closer affinity.
23642594|The effects of chromosome doubling on macromolecular composition, i.e. DNA, RNA and protein, were examined in diploid Cochlearia pyrenaica DC., its established natural autotetraploid C. officinalis L., and their newly colchicine-induced autotetraploid and autooctoploid derivatives. DNA, RNA and protein contents increase from lower to higher ploidy levels (2x > 4x > 8x). The established natural autotetraploids and newly induced autotetraploids also differ, as DNA, RNA and protein have been reduced during the course of establishment. Net synthesis of RNA and protein per unit DNA does not change significantly neither from lower to higher ploidy levels nor between the autotetraploids of newly induced and established natural origins.
23673119|Ipheion Rafinesque is a small genus formed by I. uniflorum (2n = 12, 2SM + 10A), I. tweedieanum (2n = 14A), and I. recurvifolium (2n = 20, 4SM + 16A). Three species of Nothoscordum, N. felipponei, N. hirtellum, and N. vittatum (2n = 10, 6M + 4A), were also later transferred to Ipheion based on the common presence of unifloral inflorescence. Karyotype analysis of the five former species was performed in this work, aiming to evaluate the circumscription of the genus. This analysis was based on chromosome size and morphology, asymmetry index, staining with chromomycin A3 (CMA) and 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), and in situ hybridization with 5S and 45S rDNA probes. Tetraploid populations of I. uniflorum, probably autopolyploids of recent origin, with karyotype similar to the diploids, are described herein for the first time. Grouping analyses of the several sets of characters analyzed show the former three Ipheion species clearly separated from the Nothoscordum ones, which were more proximally related to other Nothoscordum species. Chromosome size, asymmetry indices, and number and position of 5S and 45S rDNA sites were the most important karyotype characters to define the genus Ipheion. These data indicate that the unifloral species of Nothoscordum belong to Nothoscordum and not to Ipheion, and the "unifloral inflorescence" should be a homoplasy common to both genera.
23643319|Based on field observations and a survey of the available literature, the functional and evolutionary significance of floral characters of Pelargonium is investigated in relation to a recent infrageneric re-classification. Most of the 208 Pelargonium taxa (recognized as species, subspecies or varieties) involved show bee and long-proboscid hovering fly pollination syndromes (about 60% and 25%, respectively), only 7% of the taxa are pollinated by butterflies, some 2 to 4% by hawkmoths and presumably 1% by birds. The heterogeneity of Pelargonium in terms of structural blossom types and pollination syndromes indicates an independent and repeated evolution of convergent flower morphs in the genus and even in sections.
23643387|The tetraploid Allium altyncolicum (2n = 4x = 32) is considered to be of hybrid origin, because most of its morphological characters are intermediate between those of its putative parents, A. schoenoprasum and A. ledebourianum. In the present work an attempt has been made to ascertain its parentage by several methods: Giemsa C-banding, genomic in situ hybridization (GISH), PCR-RFLP of cpDNA, restriction enzyme mapping of the rDNA, and RAPDs. C-banding and GISH indicates clearly that A. altyncolicum is a segmental allopolyploid. Allium schoenoprasum and A. ledebourianum are the most likely the parental species and the larger part of the genome of A. altyncolicum (26 chromosomes) is derived from A. schoenoprasum. The low genetic divergence between these three species was confirmed by the lack of sequence variation in the ITS sequences of nuclear rRNA genes and of the plastid rbcL-atpB intergenic spacer. Both parental species and A. altyncolicum could be distinguished by RFLP of the rDNA repeats. The geographic origin of the putative parental species was investigated using RAPDs.
23655717|We carried out a demographic study and evaluated the genetic and morphological variability in five populations of the endangered Sophronitis sincorana (Orchidaceae) endemic to Northeastern Brazil, based on allozyme and morphometric analyses. Plant density was approximately 0.5 plants/m2, and the projected total number of plants was approximately 50,000 individuals. However, fruit set and recruitment of individuals are rare. The genetic variability was very high in all populations (P = 100, A = 3.03.5, He = 0.330.48), and all populations presented similar values of morphological variability. Low genetic and morphological structuring were found in the species (FST = 0.053, AMRPP = 0.018). The elevated coefficient of endogamy encountered in populations of S. sincorana indicates the occurrence of structuring within the populations. The lack of correlation between morphological and genetic variation in this species indicates that none of the markers examined should be used separately for either conservation purposes.
23643105|New chloranthaceous floral structures from the Late Cretaceous (Late Santonian/Early Campanian) of Scania, southern Sweden, have provided important new information on the Chloranthistemon plants. The material includes well preserved fragments of inflorescence axes with flowers in situ documenting that Chloranthistemon flowers were bisexual and closely resembled those of extant Chloranthus (Chloranthaceae). An emended diagnosis is given for the type species of the genus, Chloranthistemon endressii, and a new species, C. alatus, is described. The flowers of Chloranthistemon are small, perianthless and strongly zygomorphic, consisting of a tripartite and broadened androecium borne in an abaxial to lateral position on the monocarpellate ovary, and arranged in the axils of decussate bracts. Stamens are either completely free (C. alatus), or free at the base and coherent at the apex (C. endressii). The apical connective is extensive in both species; elaborated into conspicuous wing-like structures in C. alatus, or into a massive and shield-like structure in C. endressii. Pollen grains of C. endressii are spheroidal, and reticulate and spiraperturate, while those of C. alatus are ellipsoidal, tectate and foveolate with a unique combination of a distal colpus and a proximal furrow (colpus?) perpendicular to each other. Ovaries observed in well preserved flowers of both species are small and undifferentiated. Larger, dispersed fruits of chloranthaceous affinity are abundant and distinct, and probably represent at least two or three species, but cannot be linked with certainty to any of the Chloranthistemon species described here.
23642759|Twenty species of shrubby Oxalis species native in South America were arranged in six groups according to their karyotype similarities. The first group includes more than half of the species studied, all with 2 n = 12 relatively small metacentric chromosomes. The rest of the species from the other groups has different basic chromosome numbers, and exhibits various degrees of chromosome asymmetry and size increase. These latter groups apparently have specialized to habitats with low light intensity such as the forest undergrowth in contrast to the frist group whose members live in open areas (i.e., grasslands, savannas etc.).
23642097|Veronica lycica Lehm. is a distinct, diploid member of the Veronica cymbalaria group, endemic in Lycia (S.W. Anatolia). Closely related is the new V. stamatiadae M. Fischer et W. Greuter which is also diploid and seems to be restricted to the small Greek island Ro close to the South coast of Lycia. The chromosome numbers for both species are reported for the first time (2 n = 18).
23656049|Plastid DNA sequences have been widely used by systematists for reconstructing plant phylogenies. The utility of any DNA region for phylogenetic analysis is determined by ease of amplification and sequencing, confidence of assessment in phylogenetic character alignment, and by variability across broad taxon sampling. Often, a compromise must be made between using relatively highly conserved coding regions or highly variable introns and intergenic spacers. Analyses of a combination of these types of DNA regions yield phylogenetic structure at various levels of a tree (i.e., along the spine and at the tips of the branches). Here, we demonstrate the phylogenetic utility of a heretofore unused portion of a plastid protein-coding gene, hypothetical chloroplast open reading frame 1 (ycf1), in orchids. All portions of ycf1 examined are highly variable, yet alignable across Orchidaceae, and are phylogenetically informative at the level of species. In Orchidaceae, ycf1 is more variable than matK both in total number of parsimony informative characters and in percent variability. The nrITS region is more variable than ycf1, but is more difficult to align. Although we only demonstrate the phylogenetic utility of ycf1 in orchids, it is likely to be similarly useful among other plant taxa.
23674880|A 5S rRNA gene (5S DNA) from the conifer Pinus radiata D. Don has been cloned and characterized at the nucleotide, genomic and chromosomal levels. Sequencing revealed a repeat unit of 524 base pairs which is present in approximately 3000 copies per diploid genome. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis indicated that these copies are organized in tandem arrays of various length. Using in situ hybridization techniques, the tandem arrays appear to be present on all of the chromosomes. This complexity of chromosomal organization contrasts markedly with the few sites of uniform length found in angiosperm plants such as wheat, pea, and maize.
23643192|Phylogenetic analysis of nrDNA ITS and trnL (UAA) 5 exon-trnF (GAA) chloroplast DNA sequences from 17 species of Pelargonium sect. Peristera, together with nine putative outgroups, suggests paraphyly for the section and a close relationship between the highly disjunct South African and Australian species of sect. Peristera. Representatives from Pelargonium sectt. Reniformia, Ligularia s. l. and Isopetalum (the St. Helena endemic P. cotyledonis) appear to be nested within the Peristera clade. The close relationship between the South African and Australian Peristera is interpreted as being caused by long-range dispersal to Australia, probably as recent as the late Pliocene.
23673112|Sequence data from the nuclear encoded ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were used to determine monophyly of tribes, tribal limits, and tribal relationships of 96 so far unassigned or tentatively assigned genera (represented by 101 taxa/accessions) within the Brassicaceae. Maximum-parsimony and maximum-likelihood analyses of 185 ITS Brassicaceae sequences, which also included representatives of each of the 34 currently recognized tribes, supported the separate phylogenetic distinctness of these tribes and permitted the tribal assignment of all but 12 of the unassigned genera into tribal clades. The data support the recognition of eight new, well-resolved, uni- or oligogeneric tribes recognized herein as the Alyssopsideae [96% bootstrap support (BS); including the central and southwestern Asian Alyssopsis and Calymmatium], Asteae (100% BS; including the Mexican Asta), Eudemeae (97% BS; South American Brayopsis, Eudema, and Xerodraba), Kernereae (96% BS; European Kernera and Rhizobotrya), Notothlaspideae (100% BS; New Zealandic Notothlaspi), Oreophytoneae (100% BS; eastern African Oreophyton and southern European Murbeckiella), and Yinshanieae (100% BS; Chinese Yinshania), as well as the moderately supported Microlepidieae (75% BS; Australian Microlepidium and Carinavalva). Furthermore, the results fully support the recent findings that the tribes Schizopetaleae and Thelypodieae ought to be recognized as two distinct tribes instead of a single tribe, as well as provide some support for the re-establishment of the tribe Cremolobeae, bringing the total number to 44 tribes in the family. Nearly 92% (308) of the 336 genera in the family have been assigned to a tribe. The earlier-published Anastaticeae is taken here to replace the Malcolmieae.
23655910|We investigated the genetic differentiation of Rosa canina at regional and continental scales to delineate provenance regions for seed collection. Using RAPD technique, we examined eight populations in Brandenburg (Germany) and 13 samples from Bavaria and Hungary. AMOVA and -statistics revealed a significant differentiation (RT = 0.23, P < 0.0001) between accessions from Brandenburg and the two other regions. The interpopulation differentiation in Brandenburg was low (PT = 0.13). We found the greatest interpopulation distance between Hungary and Brandenburg (Hoher Flming, PT = 0.47) and the lowest between Dahmeland and Hoher Flming (both Brandenburg, PT = 0.01). UPGMA dendrogram and PCA showed a clear disjunction between Brandenburg and other regions. Due to the out-crossing mating and seed dispersal system, the genetic variation within R. canina populations is moderately high (87% for Brandenburg, 76% for Bavaria and Hungary). The significant genetic differentiation at the continental scale suggests lower gene flow with increasing geographical distance and underlines the usefulness of regional provenances for planting.
23644337|Cohesive masses of pollen known as pollinia have evolved independently in two plant families  Orchidaceae and Asclepiadaceae. Yet, the bilateral symmetry of orchids has allowed a greater degree of specialization in pollination systems and a much greater diversity in the morphology of pollinaria  units comprising the pollinia(um) together with accessory structures for attachment to the pollinator. Pollinaria differ in the degree of cohesion of pollen in the pollinium, which may be soft, sectile (comprised of sub-units known as massulae) or hard. A single hard pollinium may contain more than a million pollen grains, yet pollen:ovule ratios in orchids are several orders of magnitude lower than in plants with powdery pollen due to the lack of wastage during transport to the stigma. Attachment of pollinia to the pollinator is usually achieved by means of a viscidium that adheres most effectively to smooth surfaces, such as the eyes and mouthparts of insects and beaks of birds. The stalk connecting a pollinium to the viscidium may be comprised of a caudicle (sporogenous in origin) and/or a stipe (derived from vegetative tissue), or be lacking altogether. Caudicles and stipes may undergo a gradual bending movement 20 s to several hours after withdrawal from the flower, the main function of which appears to be to reduce the possibility of geitonogamous pollination. Other mechanisms that promote outcrossing and pollen export in orchids include pollen carryover (achieved by sectile or soft pollinia), temporary retention of the anther cap, protandry and self-incompatibility (rare among orchids). Pollinaria ensure that large pollen loads are deposited on the stigma, thus enabling the fertilization of the large numbers of ovules in the flowers of Orchidaceae. Pollinaria also ensure efficient removal of pollen from the anther, minimal pollen wastage during transit, and a high probability of deposition on conspecific stigmas.
23674562|The genomic evolution of triploid plants with regular bivalent formation is discussed. The conclusion is reached that although all the progeny of an originally triploid individual will be triploid numerically, only part of the progeny will be triploid genomically. The consequences of this for triploid identification by means of chromosome morphology and isozyme numbers is discussed.
23674593|Use of molecular techniques to study plant systematics has been restricted to either largely temperate groups or groups from which seed is readily obtained. Dried material has advantages over other methods of preservation for molecular analyses; it is cheap, easily undertaken, overcomes the difficulties associated with seed recalcitrance and the absence of seeding plants in the field, and most taxonomists are familiar with the method. Three drying techniques were assessed using material collected in the tropics. No differences in either the quantity or the quality of DNA extracted from material dried by these methods was detected. The implications of using dried material in molecular analyses are discussed.
23674837|The taxonomic positions of Retzia, Desfontainia, and Nicodemia have been much discussed, and all three genera have been included in Loganiaceae (Gentianales). We have made a cladistic analysis of rbcL gene sequences to determine the relationships of these taxa to Gentianales. Four new rbcL sequences are presented; i.e., of Retzia, Desfontainia, Diervilla (Caprifoliaceae), and Euthystachys (Stilbaceae). Our results show that Retzia, Desfontainia, and Nicodemia are not closely related to Loganiaceae or the Gentianales. Retzia is most closely related to Euthystachys and is better included in Stilbaceae. The positions of Desfontainia and Nicodemia are not settled, but Desfontainia shows affinity for the Dipsacales s.l. and Nicodemia for the Lamiales s.l.
23643002|Nutlet sculpturing of 22 taxa of Scutellaria sect. Resinosa, representing 18 of its 19 species, and the monotypic genus Salazaria was studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The nutlets of sect. Resinosa, while remarkably variable among themselves, differed from hypothetically closely related sections in lacking circumferential banding and sessile glands. Species could be grouped by surface sculpturing into seemingly meaningful phenetic clusters. Scutellaria potosina var. platyphylla was sufficiently distinct micromorphically so as to be elevated to specific status as Scutellaria platyphylla comb. and stat. nov. The significance of nutlet microcharacters within sect. Resinosa is discussed, especially as compared to closely related sections. The genus Salazaria had nutlet sculpturing quite different from all taxa belonging to sect. Resinosa.
23671772|Eighteen earliness and morphological traits were examined in from 2 to 14 lines each of 10 diploid members of the wheat complex, Triticum-Aegilops, and 15 lines of the tetraploid species Triticum diccocoides. In general, earliness traits have the greatest relative between line vs. within line variation of all the traits examined. Within species, earliness traits are the principle set of characters around which evolve between line trait differences, one of the most important oich is leaf dimensions. At the genus level, earliness traits are independent of leaf dimensions and plant height characters. Thus, the pattern of evolution at the genus level is different from that exhibited in each of the species. Biological and evolutionary implications of these findings are discussed.
23674393|46 strains of Chlorella, identified by physiological and biochemical characters, were examined for their ability to form stable symbioses with aposymbiotic Hydra viridis. It was found to be a species-specific characteristic. Among the 15 taxa studied, only C. saccharophila var. ellipsoidea, C. saccharophila var. saccharophila, C. fusca var. vacuolata, C. kessleri, C. luteoviridis, and C. protothecoides formed stable symbioses with Hydra viridis. Among the 11 known physiological and biochemical characters of these Chlorella species, only acid tolerance seems to be correlated with symbiosis: All symbiotic species are capable of growing at or below pH 4.0.
23642219|A cytological analysis of 37 experimental interspecific hybrids within Epilobium sect. Epilobium, involving 23 taxa, has indicated that the CC chromosome arrangement differs from BB by a single reciprocal translocation and was probably, like AA and DD, derived from it. Preliminary results suggest that the CC arrangement may characterize the Asian E. cephalostigma and E. platystigmatosum, which do not closely resemble the species in which it had earlier been detected. The BB arrangement is shown to occur in all North American species of the E. palustre group, including E. oregonense. Direct evidence on chromosome arrangement is now available for some 85 of the approximately 185 species of the section, and may be inferred for at least 25 more.
23674631|The morphology, anatomy, and chemistry of five taxa belonging to the Lecanactis grumulosa group from several localities of the Mediterranean area have been analysed in detail. One new saxicolous species, L. subgrumulosa, is described from Spain and Morocco. The new combination L. farinosa is made. L. nothiza, L. monstrosa, L. ramosus, and Opegrapha alboatra are proposed as synonyms of L. grumulosa. L. werneri and L. farinosa are cited for the first time in Europe and northern Africa, respectively. Anthraquinones are reported as new for Lecanactis.
23674689|Collected material of rare and new Vicia spp. was investigated from a cytotaxonomic point of view. Nineteen species were examined in total. The study includes 14 novel chromosome counts and measurements of DNA amount, as well as a comparison of chromosome morphology between species. The results of the cytological study support to an extent a recent taxonomical revision of subgenus Vicia.
23674703|The structure of the stomata of the floating leaves of Salvinia herzogii has been analyzed with light and scanning electron microscopy. Peculiar extensions (cuticle?) of the outer and inner tangential sides of the walls of the guard-cells are described. Both extensions, partially joined at their ends, are encircling a pore. This structure is used to propose an alternative explanation for the risk of the occlusion of the ostioles, different from that given by Haberlandt. The conductivity of these stomata was checked with a porometer and the ostioles proved to be permanently open. Their type of stomatogenesis is discussed. The stomata of Salvinia are considered to be vestigial structures and their sunken position is taken as evidence in support of a xeric hypothetic ancestor of the genus.
23642877|After a critical evaluation of the concept of dichotomous branching in Cormophytes the shoot apical meristems of Psilotum triquetrum and Selaginella speciosa are described. In Psilotum only the terminal meristems of the cryptophilic shoots have a three sided apical cell. Those of the photophilic shoots lack a typical apical cell. Selaginella has a two sided apical cell. The process of branching is independent from apical cells. It is due to an equal or unequal fractionation of the initial zone of the shoot apex which embraces all tissues above the leaf producing zone of the apical meristem.
23674780|Investigation of the genetic system of six species of Plantago has revealed striking differences in their breeding and meiotic systems. Plantago patagonica is an inbreeder on account of preanthesis cleistogamy, whereas P. lanceolata is an obligate outbreeder, as it is self-incompatible. Plantago drummondii, P. lagopus, P. ovata, and P. major show mixed mating but in varying proportions. In terms of their energy budgets, outbreeding species invest more in floral advertisement and male function, while inbreeders invest more in female function. The contribution of the meiotic system to genetic variability, as revealed through recombination index, is more important in the inbreeding species.
43558622|In this study the exact chromosome number, detailed meiotic behavior in pollen mother cells and pollen viability were investigated, which can contribute to a better understanding of the cytological evolution of the species growing in the cold deserts of Lahaul-Spiti (Himachal Pradesh, India). This study is the first such comprehensive attempt to explore the region chromosomally. Chromosome number, meiotic behavior and pollen fertility were analyzed in 301 accessions of 140 species of Polypetalae. Chromosome counts in 14 species are the first ever records, viz., Aquilegia pubiflora (n = 7), Corydalis govaniana (n = 8), C. thyrsiflora (n = 8), Hedysarum astragaloides (n = 7), H. microcalyx (n = 7), Oxytropis thomsoni (n = 8), Rhodiola tibetica (n = 10), R. wallichianum (n = 16), Rosularia alpestris (n = 14), Epilobium chitralense in = 18), E. leiospermum (n = 18), Heracleum brunonis (2n = 33), H. thomsonii (n = 11) and Pleurospermum govanianum (n = 9). New intraspecific diploid or polyploid cytotypes have been recorded in 13 species. The species of these cold deserts are quite active in evolution, depicting heterogeneity in chromosome number involving polyploidy, 51 species (36.43%) and/or aneuploidy (37 species). Various meiotic abnormalities were observed in the majority of the species, causing pollen sterility and pollen grains of variable sizes. We are of the opinion that harsh climatic conditions have caused various meiotic abnormalities in the majority of the plants, which has affected the genetic constitution and viability of male gametes.
23644966|Paspalum simplex is a grass distributed throughout the phytogeographic Chaco region in South America from which sexual diploid and apomictic tetraploid races have been reported. We analysed native populations to determine their homogeneity of ploidy level, and the relationship between geographic distribution, ploidy levels, and reproductive systems. The ploidy level was established for 379 plants from 32 wild populations. Tetraploidy and apomixis constitute the most common combination for this species all over the Chaco region. Apomictic hexaploid plants were found associated with 4x populations. Diploids were confined to a small sector of the region. One sexual triploid plant arose from seed harvested in a pure 2x population, and one apomictic 3x plant was found in a mixed 2x-4x population. The results suggest that P. simplex is a core agamic complex characteristic of the Chaco region from which other apomictic polyploid species of the subgenus Anachyris could have evolved.
23655564|Data on pollen and pistil traits from 14 Argentinean Nyctaginaceae species with starch or lipids as pollen reserves are presented. We expect differences in the traits between these two groups of species, but the same pattern within each group for (a) the relationship between pollen size and pistil length assuming that pollen tube length is predetermined by provisions in the pollen independently of the pollen reserve type, and for (b) a trade-off between size and number because available resources for male function are not unlimited. In particular we expect that (a) species with longer pistils will have larger pollen grains, (b) pollen grain size and the number of pollen grains per flower will be negatively correlated. Significant differences in the mean pollen number per flower and mean pollen size were observed between species with different pollen reserve type but not for pistil length. Then, correlation analyses were performed for species with starchy pollen or with pollen with lipids separately. Pollen size - pistil length correlation was positive and significant for species with starchy pollen but not for species with pollen with lipids. On the other hand, pollen size number correlation was not significant for both starchy and oil-rich species. Results suggest that pollen reserve type would be a relevant factor that constraint pollen size in species of Nyctaginaceae, and that this pollen trait should be considered when studying pollen-pistil relationships, mainly between species of those families with mixed pollen reserves.
23673189|Documenting nonhermaphroditic sexual systems, a task of major interest for evolutionary biology, is particularly problematic in rare or remote species, for which field sampling is difficult or field specimens or herbarium material is scarce. In addition to hermaphroditism, monoecy and dioecy have been reported in the family Sapotaceae. Nevertheless, the sexual system of some New Caledonian taxa currently included in the genus Planchonella remains vaguely characterized as having "bisexual and female flowers." In the present study we investigate the significance of female flowers in Planchonella endlicheri, P. laetevirens, and P. latihila. We confirmed that P. endlicheri and P. laetevirens are gynomonoecious in nature, and that P. latihila is gynomonoecious at least when growing in a greenhouse. In addition, we found sexual dimorphism in floral size in P. endlicheri, namely a lower corolla length in female compared to bisexual flowers. Two kinds of position effects on floral sex were present in P. endlicheri. At the twig level, upper flowers had an increased probability of being female and at the inflorescence (fascicle) level, central flowers were predominantly female while lateral flowers were mainly bisexual. Our study illustrates how observational studies on rare or remote species can improve our knowledge of sexual systems in plants and document relevant evolutionary patterns in sexual dimorphism and position effects of floral sex.
23643767|The systematics of the Glaucescentes Carl, a poorly known neotropical section of the large genus Plagiochila, is revised based on a large set of gametophytic, sporophytic and chemical characters. Three species are recognized, P. buchtiniana Steph., P. longispina Lindenb. and Gottsche and P. diversifolia Lindenb. and Gottsche, the latter with two chemotypes. Twelve binomina are reduced to synonymy. The species occur in montane regions of tropical America, especially in the northern and central Andes. In addition, P. longispina is newly reported from the Azores, where it was previously known as P. allorgei Herzog and Perss. The Glaucescentes are excellently characterized by morphological and chemical features and are clearly separated from the Contiguae Carl, a group often confused with the Glaucescentes. Morphologically, the Glaucescentes stand apart by the brown oil bodies, thinwalled inner capsule wall cells and partly unequally bispiral elaters. Chemically, they are characterized by the accumulation of partially hydrogenated bibenzylderivatives (longispinone, longispinol), 3-benzylphthalides and various flavonoids, and by the low production of terpenoids.
23674559|Multivariate analysis tools are exploited on a data set composed of quantitative characteristics collected on 35 populations of plants of the Dactylorhiza maculata (L.) So group from Western-Europe. These samples lead to four well-defined clusters; this, together with qualitative, cytological and ecological arguments, allows for the recognition of four specific entities: D. maculata s.str., D. fuchsii (Druce) So, D. saccifera (Brongn.) So and D. caramulensis (Vermeulen) Tyteca. It is concluded that the floral characters play an essential role in the taxonomical distinction. It also appears that the set of characters measured, as well as the methods exploited, are especially well-suited and valuable tools for the morphological study of the genus Dactylorhiza.
23645294|Traditional classifications of Araliaceae have stressed a relatively small number of morphological characters in the circumscription of infrafamilial groups (usually recognized as tribes). These systems remain largely untested from a phylogenetic perspective, and only a single previous study has explicitly explored intergeneric relationships throughout this family. To test these infrafamilial classification systems, parsimony and Bayesian-inference analyses were conducted using a broad sampling of 107 taxa representing 37 (of the 41) genera currently recognized in core Araliaceae, plus five outgroup genera. Data were collected from two molecular markers, the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of the nuclear rRNA genes and the intron and intergenic spacer found in the trnL-trnF region of the chloroplast genome. The results suggest that there are three major lineages of Araliaceae, and that these lineages generally correspond with the centers of diversity for the family. The Aralia and Asian Palmate groups are centered primarily in eastern and southeastern Asia, whereas the Polyscias-Pseudopanax group is found throughout the Pacific and Indian Ocean basins. Several poorly resolved lineages are placed at the base of core Araliaceae, and the geographic distributions of these clades are consistent with a hypothesized rapid radiation of Araliaceae, possibly correlated with the breakup of Gondwanaland. Comparison of molecular results with the traditional systems of classification shows almost no congruence, indicating that they inadequately reflect phylogenetic relationships. Moreover, the morphological characters employed in these classifications appear to be highly homoplastic, and are thus of little utility at the infrafamilial level.
23644310|The phylogenetic position of Parasitaxus (Podocarpaceae) has been inferred from a cladistic analysis of molecular characters from chloroplast and nuclear genomes including all genera of Podocarpaceae. In all 24 most parsimonious trees, based on combined datasets, Phyllocladus resided outside Podocarpaceae s. str. while Lepidothamnus was basal to the latter. Most other genera were arranged in two major clades. The evidence confirms previous studies, which have suggested a relationship between Lagarostrobos, Manoao and Parasitaxus. Parasitaxus is not directly related to its host Falcatifolium taxoides. Instead it appears to be most closely related to Manoao and Lagarostrobos. No other members of this group now occur on New Caledonia. However, if the evolution of Parasitaxus were autochthonous, a free-living member of this group must once have occurred there. An accelerated evolutionary rate of the chloroplast sequence analysed was suggested, indicating that the plant behaves like a holoparasite.
23642585|Cytogenetic and electrophoretic analyses on 2 n = 28 strains of Asphodelus cerasiferus strongly suggest that the basic number x = 14 of the genus Asphodelus is of secondary polyploid origin from  = 7.
23673902|Didymocarpus geitleri spec. nov. is described from Sungai Pandan, Kuantan distr., Pahang, Peninsular Malaysia. Distinctive features include: leaden-grey leaves with long, erect hairs on the upper side and whitish, campanulate flowers with a long exserted, bright yellow style. The colouring of the latter is caused by densely arranged glands. Together with two yellow blotches in front of the filament insertion, the style apparently acts as an anther (pollen) dummy.
23643971|The flowers of Pavonia cancellata, a creeping ruderal half-shrub of northeastern Brazil, open synchronously at 6:00 h with all anthers already dehisced. The oligolectic bee Ptilothrix plumata was the most effective pollinator. During 90180 min, female bees make up to 40 brief pollen collection trips to provision their brood cells. The pollen of about 40 flowers of P. cancellata is needed to feed one bee larva. The most frequent flower visitors, however, are the specialized curculionid beetles Pristimerus calcaratus, which do not cross-pollinate the flowers. They perforate the epidermis with their mouthparts, provoking dehydration, and then actively close the loose petals with their legs. Two hours after opening, half of the flowers had already been closed by the beetles. We interpret the fast, uninterrupted pollen foraging of Ptilothrix plumata bees as a strategy adapted to synchronous pollen presentation of Pavonia and to competition with Pristimerus calcaratus: the female bees have to provision their brood cells before the beetles succeed in closing the flowers.
23674087|Earlier observations on synaptonemal complex (SC) formation in Allium are supplemented by data from diploid A. sphaerocephalon, pentaploid A. oleraceum and allotetraploid A. senescens. Accumulating information about structures like lateral element thickenings and -doublings allows to draw conclusions about their nature. The occurrence of discrete intercalary and terminal homologous associations prior to synapsis is confirmed for a range of Allium species and it is argued that they are a general phenomenon. Several hypotheses on homologous recognition and/or attraction are discussed in the light of the observations on homologous alignment in Allium.
23673768|Morphological and seed protein studies of selected species of Festuca were performed to elucidate the relationships between species of sect. Ovinae and their affinity with other fescues. Festuca rubra and F. heterophylla (extravaginale group) had higher phenetic affinity with taxa of sect. Scariosae, Montanae and Bovinae than with members of their own section. 5 species of the intravaginale group (F. ovina, F. capillata, F. valesiaca, F. sulcata, F. trachyphylla) were fairly uniform and well defined by protein and morphological data. This supports current systematic thinking and does not agree with Hackel's (1882) classification of this group.
23674404|Some results obtained in breeding experiments of homosporous ferns cannot be explained by genetic load alone. Simple models of epistasis or heterogenic unilateral incompatibility are discussed which may help to explain the exceptional observations. The need for further experiments is emphasized.
23642679|Ducellieria chodati Teiling is an organism rarely mentioned from plankton samples. Its propagation was unknown, and all earlier authors have failed to see that it is a colourless organism. Because of its structure and some chemical reactions, Ducellieria was thought to be a member of the Xanthophyceae. Many living coenobia of D. chodati from several Austrian lakes and some steps of their reproduction have been studied: Zoospores with two unequal flagella are released. After a mobile phase they settle on coniferous pollen grains drifting in water. Inside the pollen grain, a tube or flask is developed from which zoospores are released again after one or two days. These aggregate to form new Ducellieria coenobia. These observations suggest that Ducellieria chodati belongs to the Phycomycetes, perhaps to the Saprolegniales. Die Entwicklung von Ducellieria chodati war bisher unbekannt. Reiche Funde in mehreren sterreichischen Seen gestatteten die Beobachtung von Schwrmerbildung und von Entwicklungsstadien innerhalb von Pollenkrnern, die auf dem Wasser treiben. Auf Grund dieser Befunde mu die bisherige Einreihung bei den Xanthophyceen angezweifelt und eine Stellung unter den Phycomyceten erwogen werden.
23643352|The genotypic variation of 1180 progeny from 118 genitors belonging to five taxa of Pennisetum sect. Brevivalvula has been estimated by isoenzyme electrophoresis with observations on five enzymatic systems, in order to compare the type of reproduction in polyploid and diploid taxa. A total of 112 different isozyme genotypes has been found, over all taxa. Genotypic variation was found among all progeny of the diploid populations of P. polystachion and P. subangustum, as a consequence of their sexual reproduction system. At the polyploid level the type of reproduction appears to be predominantly agamic, but genotypic variation in the progeny was not rare: five tetraploid and one hexaploid P. pedicellatum, one pentaploid and one hexaploid P. polystachion and one hexaploid P. hordeoides, in a total of 90 genitors. Genetic relationships have been observed between the diploid sexual P. polystachion and P. subangustum, and, to a lesser extent, with the tetraploids of the same taxa as well. Tetraploid P. polystachion and P. pedicellatum share genotypes with most other chromosomal taxa.
23644306|In samples from 56 populations of Cardamine amara, representing four diploid subspecies (subspp. amara, opicii, balcanica, and pyrenaea) and two tetraploid subspecies (subspp. austriaca and olotensis) from different parts of the European distribution area, four enzyme systems with 23 alleles were studied. These data, together with previous morphological and karyological data, suggest that the distribution and variation pattern within the species was strongly influenced by the last glacial period and postglacial migrations. Cardamine amara subsp. pyrenaea is monomorphic for a unique allele, and subsp. balcanica has a unique allele, too which, however, is not fixed in all populations of the taxon. Both taxa seem to be relic ones, although otherwise subsp. balcanica in respect of allelic spectrum much resembles subsp. amara. The other two diploid subspecies, subsp. amara and subsp. opicii, are not characterised by presence of unique alleles but differ in allele frequencies. The two tetraploid subspecies have different evolutionary histories. C. amara subsp. austriaca seems to be an autopolyploid derivative of subsp. amara which colonised open space offered by retreating glaciers in the Eastern Alps. C. amara subsp. olotensis from the Iberian Peninsula represents most probably a polyploid of preglacial time.
23642945|Intergeneric hybridizations were made between T. elongatum, and two Psathyrostachys and five Leymus species. The seed set obtained on T. elongatum  Leymus hybrids ranged from 5.65% to 20.00%, depending on Leymus species. The seed set obtained on T. elongatum  Psathyrostachys hybrids ranged from 16.07% to 19.70%. Meiotic pairing at metaphase-I in JN diploid hybrids of T. elongatum  Psathyrostachys species revealed a very low level homology between the basic J and N genomes, and further demonstrated that the two genomes are quite diverged. Chromosome pairing in the T. elongatum  Leymus secalinus hybrid averaged 15.19 univalents + 2.62 rod bivalents + 0.26 ring bivalents + 0.02 trivalents, suggesting that the partial Je chromosomes of T. elongatum has homology with Leymus secalinus genomes. L. secalinus might have 34 chromosomes originating from Je genome.
23642081|The fine structure of Oloeomonas simulans Fott (1957) was studied electron microscopically to ascertain whether it belongs to the genus Chlamydomonas rather than to Oloeomonas. Most cytoplasmic elements and the cell wall do not differ from other Chlamydomonadaceae but its flagellar rootlet system is unique: Each of the two flagella has an accessory basal body; its basis is accompanied by two inner and two outer bands which are connected distally (one inner and one outer band on each side) resp. proximally (the two outer bands); the latter form a long (up to 35 p.m) connecting band between the two flagellar bases. The nucleus contains fibrillar bundels.The unique flagellar rootlet system seems to provide a letter basis for the generic classification of Gloeomonas than the position of the contractile vacuoles or the size of the apical papilla, and strongly suggests the exclusion of G. simulans from Chlamydomonas. Gloeomonas simulans Fott (1957), dessen Einordnung in die Gattungen Gloeomonas oder Chlamydomonas umstritten ist, hat, im Gegensatz zu Chlamydomonas, an den beiden Geieln je einen akzessorischen Basalkrper und ein anders geformtes Geielwurzelsystem, dessen Hauptteil aus einem langen (35 m) Verbindungsband besteht. Die Zellwand unterscheidet sich nicht von der anderer Chlamydomonaden. Im Zellkern treten fibrillre Einschlsse auf. Wegen des andersartigen Aufbaus des Geielwurzelsystems erscheint eine Zuordnung von G. simulans zu Chlamydomonas unberechtigt.
23659847|The pollen morphology of subtribe Menthinae sensu Harley et al. [In: The families and genera of vascular plants VII. Flowering plantsdicotyledons: Lamiales (except Acanthaceae including Avicenniaceae). Springer, Berlin, pp 167275, 2004] and two genera of uncertain subtribal affinities (Heterolamium and Melissa) are documented in order to complete our palynological overview of the tribe Mentheae. Menthinae pollen is small to medium in size (1343 m), oblate to prolate in shape and mostly hexacolpate (sometimes pentacolpate). Perforate, microreticulate or bireticulate exine ornamentation types were observed. The exine ornamentation of Menthinae is systematically highly informative particularly at generic level. The exine stratification in all taxa studied is characterized by unbranched columellae. Orbicules are consistently absent in Menthinae. Our palynological data are interpreted in a phylogenetic context at tribal level in order to assess the systematic value of pollen characters and to evaluate the existing molecular phylogenies for this group. Pollen morphology suggests Heterolamium as a close relative of subtribe Nepetinae and supports the molecular affinity of Melissa to subtribe Salviinae.
23643733|The A and B chromosomes of different karyotype variants (cytodemes A1, A2, A3 and A4) of Brachycome dichromosomatica were analysed by computer-aided chromosome image analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH). Ribosomal DNA and the B chromosome-specific sequence Bd49 were detected on all B chromosomes. In addition to minor size variation of the Bs, polymorphism of the rDNA and Bd49 position and copy number revealed two major types of B chromosomes. The B chromosomes of all the cytodemes were indistinguishable from each other in length, but that of A3 showed evidence of rearrangements consistent with its long-term geographic isolation. The results presented suggest a monophyletic origin of the B chromosomes of B. dichromosomatica.
23655608|Six different floral morphologies can be found among the ca. 146 species of Streptocarpus occurring in Africa and Madagascar. One of these, a simple, small pouch type, was found to be plesiomorphic for the genus after mapping these floral types onto a molecular phylogeny. The breeding systems and population structure of three species possessing the plesiomorphic small floral morphology, S. micranthus, S. ibityensis and S. lanatus, have been investigated using nuclear microsatellite markers. Significant deviations from panmixia were found both at the between and within population level (S. micranthus  = 0.708, f = 0.786; S. ibityensis,  = 0.173, f = 0.138; S. lanatus,  = 0.539, f = 0.646). As a florally diverse genus, Streptocarpus is unusual in having a predominantly selfing, mixed mating breeding system as a plesiomorphic condition.
23642960|Fruit-set and seed weight variation was studied in a population of Anthyllis vulneraria subsp. vulgaris (Fabaceae) in northwestern Spain. The plants produce several shoots, each bearing two to four inflorescences that open one at a time from bottom to top. Fruit-set, seed-pod weight and seed weight were found to be significantly higher in proximal inflorescences than in distal inflorescences of the same shoot; mean seed weight was up to three times higher in proximal than in distal inflorescences. By contrast, none of the three variables varied significantly among plants or among shoots of the same plant. Similarly, none of the three variables differed significantly between early- and late-flowering plants, or between plants monitored in 1993 and in 1994. These results are compatible with the view that shoots function as semiautonomous units as regards resource allocation, and that within the shoot resources are preferentially allocated to proximal (= early-opening) inflorescences. In the plants studied, the ratio of seed-pod weight to seed weight was fairly constant, suggesting that the pod is important for seed success.
23655715|The orchid genus Ophrys operates a system of sexual deception by which high specificity of pollination is attained. Reproductive isolation in Ophrys mainly rests upon prezygotic isolation mechanisms. The level of genetic separateness of Ophrys taxa with different pollinators is therefore likely determined by the fidelity of pollinators. The present study employs genetic fingerprinting to investigate this in the east Aegean Ophrys omegaifera s.l. complex, also including O. dyris, a west Mediterranean species of this complex. Ophrys fleischmannii, O. basilissa, and the west Mediterranean O. dyris, are found to be well-separated genetic entities whereas O. omegaifera s.str. and the putative hybrid taxon, O. sitiaca, are found to be genetically inseparable across their entire range of co-occurrence. This suggests that specific pollinators have high enough fidelity to act as effective isolating factors in east Aegean O. omegaifera s.l. as a whole, but that the situation in the species pair of O. sitiaca and O. omegaifera is likely to be more complex.
23642111|The order Centrospermae (Caryophyllales, Chenopodiales) as treated in A. Englers Syllabus, 12th edition (1964), is compared with several other modern and older systems with the result that no less than 1113 (and more) families are considered to be centrospermous in the strict sense; to these may be added the Polygonales and, doubtfully, the Plumbaginales and Batidales. As indicated by their name "Centrospermae" their main character is the central or basal placentation in combination with campylotropy (or amphitropy) of the ovules, seeds with perisperm, and coiled or curved embryos in peripheral position. Other outstanding features are found in the embryology; the ovules are bitegmic-crassinucellate, a nucellar cap is present, as well as an endostome and air spaces; the pollen is trinucleate. Anomalous secondary thickening in stems and roots often occurs. The pollen morphology, specific P-type sieve-element plastids, and the presence or absence of betalains are also important characters. Other floral features, especially the structure of the gynoecium, the androecium, the perianth and the receptacle, as well as the morphology of the inflorescences are of taxonomic importance. The putative relationships of the Caryophyllidae can perhaps best be resolved on the basis of more detailed morphological investigations (e.g. the so-called apocarpy, the development of the androecium, the pollen morphology, chromosome numbers, etc.).
23655748|The controversy over generic delimitation between Maianthemum and Smilacina has been unresolved for almost two centuries. Distributions of the two genera in the Northern Hemisphere also provide an excellent opportunity to further understand the disjunct distribution patterns of the North Temperate Flora. To test the generic delimitation and to investigate biogeographic patterns, we sequenced the partial 3 matK gene and trnK 3 intron of chloroplast DNA for 38 accessions, representing three species of Maianthemum, seven species of Smilacina, and four outgroup taxa. Maximum parsimony and neighbor-joining trees showed reciprocal monophyly of the two genera with very weak bootstrap support for each genus. Within each genus, relationships among species were poorly resolved. Despite its low resolution, this study shows that eastern Asian species of Smilacina and Maianthemum are generally more closely related to eastern North American taxa than to western ones. More detailed sampling of Smilacina from different geographic regions, especially from the two centers of diversity (southeastern Asia and Mexico/Central America), and additional sequences from cpDNA, as well as from nuclear DNA, are needed to test the reciprocal monophyly of the two genera and also to understand current distributions of disjunct taxa.
23644237|The floral morphology of seven Oxypetalum species and, in particular, the spatial relationship between the five stigmatic chambers and two separate ovaries of their flowers with respect to transmission of the pollen tube are studied. In all species, except O. banksii subsp. banksii, floral morphology is similar to that in other Asclepiadeae, and the flowers pollinated with one pollinium develop only one follicle, which means compitum absence. In O. banksii subsp. banksii flowers, the secretory interstaminal tissue lines the inner walls of the stigmatic chambers as in the other species studied, but it also reaches the upper part of the inner surface of the filament tube, where it surrounds the styles, an unprecedented feature for Asclepiadaceae. This tissue secretes nectar and mucilage; the latter acts as transmitting medium for the growth of pollen tubes from pollinia inserted and hydrated in stigmatic chambers ("hyperstigmas"). Mucilage also functions as an extragynoecial compitum: in flowers pollinated with one pollinium both carpels develop into a follicle.
23655170|Most species of the paleotropic fern genera Aglaomorpha and Drynaria, together constituting a monophyletic clade (drynarioid ferns), possess humus-collecting structures as an adaptation to their epiphytic life form. Humus-collectors are either present as a specialized foliar structure (external leaf dimorphism) or as a specialized leaf part (internal dimorphism). Apart from these basic patterns there are several forms of reduction and an internal fertile  sterile dimorphism in Aglaomorpha. We present a phylogeny of drynarioid ferns based on morphological and molecular (cpDNA) markers. The genus Aglaomorpha was found to be monophyletic, whereas Drynaria is likely to be a paraphyletic assemblage including a grade of Himalayan to Southern Chinese taxa basal to Aglaomorpha. The evolution of humus-collectors is reconstructed by plotting their character state changes onto the obtained phylogeny. Despite the complex morphological pattern across species, evolution of drynarioid humus-collecting structures can be reconstructed postulating a simple sequence of character state changes based on only a few elementary processes.
23674338|Twelve taxa of the Oxalis tuberosa alliance were analysed and found to share the same basic chromosome number x=8. The karyotypes are composed by small metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes. Different ploidy levels were found among the taxa: there were 9 diploids, 1 tetraploid, 1 hexaploid and 1 octoploid. The last ploidy level corresponds to O. tuberosa, the only tuber bearing taxon found so far in the alliance. Cytotaxonomic evidence and evolutionary considerations suggest to classify the O. tuberosa alliance in sect. Herrerea.
23642094|Rhabdodendron macrophyllum (Spruce ex Benth.) Huber and R. amazonicum (Spruce ex Benth.) Huber differ in several anatomical and morphological characters (secretory cavities, hypoderm, peltate hairs, internodal region and petiole). A position of the monotypic Rhabdodendronaceae in the Centrospermae as recently suggested is hardly supported: Peltate hairs, lysigenous secretory cavities and spicular cells in the leaves, multilacunar nodes, chromosome number (R. macrophyllum: n = 10; first count for the genus resp. family),  simultaneous (or slightly centripetal) development of the androeceum, anacrostyly and two ovules in the unicarpellate gynoeceum, apparent disc, monotelic racemes, and data available from literature (pollen, sieve tube plastids) clearly indicate a close affinity to Rutaceae, and even make the family rank of Rhabdodendron questionable. An Rhabdodendron macrophyllum (Spruce ex Benth.) Huber und R. amazonicum (Spruce ex Benth.) Huber wurden anatomische und morphologische Untersuchungen angestellt. Anatomische Befunde liefern neue Artunterscheidungsmerkmale: Die Bltter von R. macrophyllum besitzen ldrsen und keine Hypodermis; die schildfrmigen Haare sind klein und von kreisfrmigem Umri. Jene von R. amazonicum besitzen keine ldrsen, jedoch eine Hypodermis; die Schildhaare sind gro und sternfrmig. In der erstgenannten Art fehlen im Internodialbereich Kortikalbndel, in der zweiten sind mindestens zwei vorhanden. Weiterhin sind bei der ersten Art die Blattstielflgel horizontal ausgebreitet, bei der zweiten dagegen ber der Petiolus-Oberseite zusammengeschlagen. Morphologische Untersuchungen an Blttern, Infloreszenzen und im besonderen der Blten von R. macrophyllum korrigieren frhere Befunde und ergeben eine Vielzahl systematisch wichtiger Ergebnisse. Zusammen mit neuen anatomischen sowie karyologischen Befunden sprechen sie gegen die krzlich von Prance (1968, 1972) vertretene Stellung der monotypischen Rhabdodendronaceae in den Centrospermae (nahe Phytolaccaceae) und fr eine enge Verwandtschaft mit den Rutaceae: 1. Die bei Rhabdodendron vorkommenden schizo-lysigenen ldrsen sind typisch fr Rutaceae. Auch die peltaten Haare und Spicularzellen der Laubbltter kommen bei dieser Familie mehrfach vor. 2. Rhabdodendron besitzt wie die Rutaceae keine Stipeln, sondern lediglich Blattgrundleisten. 3. Der multilakunre Knotenbau von Rhabdodendron lt sich eher mit den fast ausschlielich trilakunren Knoten der Rutaceae als mit den durchwegs unilakunren Knoten der Phytolaccaceae in Verbindung bringen. 4. Die Chromosomenzahl von R. macrophyllum (n = 10; erste Zhlung fr die Gattung bzw. Familie) gibt zwar keine konkreten Aufschlsse ber die Stellung der Gattung, pat aber eher zu den Rutaceae als zu den Phytolaccaceae. 5. Der Kelch von Rhabdodendron ist nicht reduziert; lediglich die freien Zipfel des gamophyllen Kelchs stellen frhzeitig ihr Wachstum ein (gestutzter Kelch). Dies kommt bei mehreren Gattungen der Rutaceen vor. 6. Ein polyandrisches Androecum, wie es Rhabdodendron aufweist, ist auch von einigen Rutaceen bekannt. Seine Anlage erfolgt  simultan (bzw. leicht zentripetal); damit entfllt ein weiterer Hinweis auf eine Centrospermen-Stellung. 7. Abgesehen vielleicht von der Narbenform, lassen sich alle Struktureigentmlichkeiten des Gynoeceums gut mit den Verhltnissen bei den Rutaceae in Einklang bringen: Einkarpellige Gynoeceen wie bei Rhabdodendron sind auch in verschiedenen Verwandtschaftslinien der Rutaceen erreicht worden. Die Anacrostylie (bzw. Basistylie) bei Rhabdodendron stellt kein Trennungsmerkmal, sondern vielmehr eine kennzeichnende Baueigentmlichkeit des Rutaceen-Karpells dar! Im Normalfall werden bei Rhabdodendron nicht eine, sondern wie bei den Rutaceen zwei lateral an den Karpellrndern inserierte Samenanlagen gebildet, von denen nach dem Muster von Skimmia allerdings nur eine befruchtungsfhig ist. Das Gynoeceum etwa der Phytolaccaceae unterscheidet sich dagegen durch echte Einsamigkeit der Karpelle und centrosperme Plazentation sehr wesentlich von Rhabdodendron. 8. Der deutliche Karpellsockel an der Frucht von Rhabdodendron stellt vermutlich einen in Reduktion begriffenen Diskus dar. Da es aber auch Rutaceen ohne vollentwickelten bzw. mit fehlendem Diskus gibt, ergibt sich auch daraus kein scharfes Trennungsmerkmal. 10. Die Infloreszenzen von Rhabdodendron sind wie jene der Rutaceae geschlossen (Phytolaccaceae: meist offen). Auf Grund dieser Gegebenheiten und zustzlicher Angaben aus der Literatur (etwa Pollen, Siebrhrenplastiden!) mu Rhabdodendron aus den Centrospermae ausgeschlossen werden. Am nchsten steht diese Gattung sicherlich den Rutaceae, denen sie frher z. T. sogar zugeordnet worden ist. Ob der Familienrang gerechtfertigt ist, sei dahingestellt.
23642666|Gradations in cold resistance of plants with different latitudinal and altitudinal distribution, and the various categories of chilling and freezing resistance are hypothesized to be evolutionary steps of adaptive responses to increasing low temperature stress and annual seasonality. The gradual lowering of the critical phase transition temperature of biomembrane lipids, the capacity of persistent supercooling of tissues, and the development of a dormancy linked freezing-tolerance are considered to be essential mechanisms resulting in improved acclimatation to low temperature climates.
23664060|There are few reports of the patterns of polymorphism in the non-coding regions of plant genomes. In this study, we explored nucleotide diversity and linkage disequilibrium (LD) in 47 non-coding regions on chromosome 4 of wild and cultivated rice. The cultivated rice retained about 70% of the diversity of wild rice, which was verified by coalescent simulations with one population bottleneck for 198 combinations of duration and population sizes. Multi-locus likelihood analysis showed that the severity of the bottleneck ranged from 2.25 to 3.33, with an average value of 2.70; i.e., the diversity found in the cultivated rice could be explained by a founding population of 2,700 individuals if the initial domestication event occurred over a period of 1,000 years. LD decreased more rapidly in wild rice than in cultivated rice within 10 kb, and the LD observed in cultivated rice was increased at 100 140 kb by comparison with wild rice. The patterns of LD indicated the possibility of a haplotype block in cultivated rice but not in wild rice.
23643011|Results of pollenanalytical investigations in the Highlands of Mexico (area of Puebla  Tlaxcala) are presented together with a survey of the last 35 000 years of vegetation history. After 3 pine periods from 35 000 to about 7 000  8 000 B. P., according to high and late Pleistocene condition, the Holocene vegetation history becomes more diversified: periods of alder, pine, fir and mixed oak forests alternate and end in a period of cultivated landscape.
23643086|The widely distributed Allium ericetorum and the local endemic of the Steiner Alps (Slovenia), A. kermesinum, are two closely related species of sect. Rhizirideum, whose main distinguishing character is perianth colour. To obtain further evidence for species separation, karyotype morphology and C-banding patterns were examined in 10 populations. The chromosome number was 2n = 16. In some populations of A. ericetorum a B-chromosome occurred. Arm and satellite lengths and C-banding patterns were subjected to cluster analysis. Three different karyotype classes were observed and described. Karyotypes did not clearly discriminate between plants with different colours of perianth segments and therefore did not provide evidence for a taxonomic separation of A. ericetorum and A. kermesinum. There is polymorphism in number and patterns of C-bands within the populations. No correlation between B-chromosomes and particular banding patterns was observed.
23674753|104 populations of 15 Nordic species (2x16x) of the taxonomically complex genus Draba were investigated using enzyme electrophoresis. The polyploids were genetic alloploids showing high levels of fixed heterozygosity and electrophoretic variation; the diploids were homozygous and genetically depauperate. Thus, the data suggest that alloploidy in arctic-alpine Draba serves as an escape from genetic depauperation caused by inbreeding at the diploid level. Although some populations probably have local alloploid origins, electrophoretic data indicate that several polyploids have migrated repeatedly into the Nordic area. Draba crassifolia (2n = 40) is probably octoploid based on x = 5. A hypothesis on the evolutionary history of the polyploids based on x = 8 is presented. Diploids contributing to numerous polyploid genomes and multiple origins of polyploids have seriously blurred taxonomic relationships. Relationships inferred from genetic data do not always correspond to those based on morphology; two morphologically very similar polyploids, D. alpina and D. oxycarpa, were, for example, genetically distant and probably represent independent lineages.
23655804|The genus Bonatea is widely distributed throughout southern and eastern Africa. Considerable debate surrounds the generic status of Bonatea, but there have been neither previous studies of evolutionary relationships among Bonatea species, nor any tests of the monophyly of the genus in relation to its close relative Habenaria. We investigated phylogenetic relationships between Bonatea and selected Habenaria species using morphology, as well as sequences of the chloroplast gene matK and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA. A fully resolved cladogram was obtained using morphological data, but neither the ITS, matK, nor combined data sets yielded well-resolved and well-supported phylogenetic structure for Bonatea. There is poor congruence between ITS and matK data for interspecific relationships in Bonatea, whilst the morphological results are largely congruent with the ITS analysis. Relative to Habenaria, there is little sequence variation between Bonatea species, which could indicate a recent and rapid radiation of Bonatea. Although the sampled Bonatea species form a distinct clade, more extensive sampling of Habenaria would be required to establish unambiguously whether or not Bonatea is monophyletic.
23643021|The deciduous wood flora of southern Europe is characterized as a special "nemoral-Submediterranean element". The distribution patterns of some representatives (total ranges and local areas in Roumania) are described and explained by recent climatic conditions. The northern limits of Submediterranean and Submediterranean-middle European deciduous forest taxa exhibit a continuous gradation, but only a few species with a wide ecological amplitude extend into the temperate zone.
23672626|Microparacaryum (M. Pop. ex H. Riedl) Hilger & Podlech is described as a new genus of the Boraginaceae-Cynoglosseae. It comprises the annual species hitherto included in Paracaryum (DC.) Boiss. and Mattiastrum (Boiss.) Brand. Distribution maps are given for all 3 genera. Microparacaryum consists of two species, M. salsum (Boiss.) Hilger & Podlech (M. s.) and M. intermedium (Fresen.) Hilger & Podlech (M. i.). Particularly M. i. is a very variable species, and most of the species formerly recognized belong here. Scattered all over the range of the genus, plants occur with nutlets exhibiting flat or incurved marginal wings, often in mixed populations. This fruit polymorphism is taxonomically treated by recognizing "formae". In addition, the following new infraspecific taxa and combinations are described: M. i. var. intermedium forma paracaryoides Hilger & Podlech, M. i. var. stellatum (H. Riedl) Hilger & Podlech, M. i. var. stellatum forma mattiastroides Hilger & Podlech, M. s. forma mattiastroides Hilger & Podlech.
23662394|In Myrtaceae, reports regarding the nuclear DNA content are scarce. The aim of this study is to present genome size data for fleshy-fruited Myrteae, and to test their relation with chromosome number and ploidy, the available data for cytoevolutionary studies in Myrtaceae. Thirty species out of ten genera were investigated for chromosome number and genome size using flow cytometry. Twenty-eight species were diploid with 2n = 2x = 22 and two species were tetraploid with 2n = 4x = 44. All genome sizes measured are new. Among the diploid species, a gradual and small variation in 2C-values (0.486 pg in Gomidesia schaueriana to 0.636 pg in Eugenia multicostata) was observed, whereas the tetraploid genomes of Psidium acutangulum and P. cattleianum had about twice as much DNA (1.053 and 1.167 pg, respectively). The total interspecific variation of C-values was 2.45-fold. The fleshy-fruited Myrteae have smaller holoploid genomes than the capsular-fruited Eucalypteae and Melaleuceae.
23656028|Recent studies on Sorghum have attempted to determine the genetic relationships between the 17 Australian native Sorghum species and the cultivated species, with several studies contradictory in their findings. To resolve these issues within Sorghum, a detailed investigation of the phylogenetic relationships was made. The alcohol dehydrogenase 1 gene (Adh1) from 25 Sorghum species and Cleistachne sorghoides was sequenced. Independent analyses of the Adh1 data, and combined analyses of the Adh1, ITS1 and ndhF data were carried out. All Sorghum species were resolved to a distinct clade with 100% support. Within Sorghum, the Eu-sorghum species were resolved to a strongly supported lineage that included the Australian native species S. macrospermum and S. laxiflorum. All other Australian species were resolved to a second strongly supported lineage. Sorghum laxiflorum and S. macrospermum have again been identified as the Australian species most closely related to cultivated sorghum. Analysis based on three genes has shown that the 25 Sorghum species form a distinct monophyletic group, and that there is little evidence to support the recent taxonomic revision of these species into three separate genera.
23674682|In this paper cytogenetic studies on 64 specimens from 20 Iberian populations of Carex laevigata (Cyperaceae) are presented. Chromosome behaviour in meiosis suggests that the different chromosome numbers obtained (ranging from 2 n = 69 to 2 n = 80) were distributed according to an increasing geographic gradient of chromosome fission along the North  South direction. Four relatively stable areas were also delimited according to chromosome numbers displayed by this species, i.e. 2 n = c. 72, c. 74, c. 76, and 78.1 The meiotic behaviour of Carex  deserta (C. laevigata  C. binervis) was also studied.
23673109|Cytotaxonomic investigations of the autumn-flowering squills, Prospero autumnale (L.) Speta  Scilla autumnalis L., Prospero obtusifolium (Poir.) Speta  Scilla obtusifolia Poir., Barnardia numidica (Poir.) Speta  Scilla numidica Poir., and Hyacinthoides lingulata (Poir.) Rothm.  Scilla lingulata Poir. were performed in 20 populations from northern Algeria located between Tipasa and La Vieille Calle. Various chromosome numbers were found, including a new cytotype, 2n = 8, for the flora of Algeria, concerning plants identified as Prospero obtusifolium (Poir.) Speta [including P. fallax (Steinh.) Speta = S. autumnalis L. ssp. fallax (Steinh.) Batt.]. The numbers 2n = 14, 28, and 42 correspond, respectively, to diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid levels of P. autumnale s.l. [including P. pulchellum (Munby) Speta  Scilla pulchella Munby = S. autumnalis var. pulchella (Munby) Batt.], with x = 7. The cytotypes of Barnardia numidica (Poir.) Speta with 2n = 18 and Hyacinthoides lingulata (Poir.) Rothm. with 2n = 16 chromosomes were confirmed.
23655900|We carried out genetic and morphometric analyses in 33 populations belonging to all nine described and one putative taxa of Chamaecrista subsect. Baseophyllum. Genetic variability was low in all taxa. Morphological and genetic data are consistent with the status of C. depauperata and C. coriacea. However, divergence between C. cytisoides var. cytisoides and all the other six conspecific varieties is higher than the divergence between it and the other two species. Our data support the recognition of eight species in the subsection Baseophyllum. Chamaecrista coriacea and C. depauperata are supported in their original circumscription. However, the varieties ascribed to C. cytisoides are best treated as six different species. We propose five new combinations in order to raise varieties of C. cytisoides to specific rank: C. blanchetii, C. brachystachya, C. confertiformis, C. decora, C. unijuga. We also propose synonimization of one variety, C. cytisoides var. micrantha, under C. brachystachya.
23643075|The structure of the pollen wall as revealed by transmission electron microscopy is presented for 29 species Senecio including 19 aureoid and ten non-aureoid species. The previous report of a helianthoid wall structure (exine with internal foramina) is confirmed for all the aureoid species examined while all of the non-aureoid taxa showed a senecioid pattern. The data provide support for the treatment of the aureoid complex as a distinct taxon.
23673858|Scilla persica and 5 species of the so-called S. hohenackeri group, namely, S. furseorum, S. puschkinioides, S. vvedenskyi, S. hohenackeri, and S. greilhuberi, have been investigated embryologically with special reference to embryo sac and endosperm development. Polygonum-type embryo sac development was stated in S. puschkinioides and S. greilhuberi. 8-nucleate, normally structured embryo sacs, which could not be specified further due to sparse availability of the material, were stated in S. furseorum, S. vvedenskyi, and S. hohenackeri. In S. persica the embryo sac develops according to the bisporic Alliumtype. In most species endosperm development was stated to be nuclear, except S. hohenackeri, where the type could not be specified. Other traits of possible taxonomic significance are the number of layers in the outer integument, which is mostly 4, or 5  6 in S. furseorum, and the occurrence of polyploid versus haploid and early degenerating antipodal nuclei, the latter occurring only in S. persica and S. furseorum. These embryological characters may be useful for assessing taxonomic relationship of the present species with other allied groups within Scilla, in particular, the S. siberica alliance, S. messeniaca, and the S. bifolia alliance. The Allium-type embryo sac, which occurs in S. persica, is also characteristic for the S. siberica alliance, and may be a common derived character. Lack of antipodal polyploidization, as characteristic for S. persica and S. furseorum, occurs also in the S. siberica alliance, and is perhaps another common derived trait indicating phylogenetic relationship. Nuclear endosperm development is more frequent in spring-flowering squills than helobial development, which has previously been stated in S. messeniaca, some species of the S. siberica alliance, and in S. litardierei. While helobial endosperm may be primitive for Hyacinthaceae in general, it may, by reversal, also occur as a derived character, at least in some species of the S. siberica alliance.
23643643|ITS of the nrDNA were sequenced for 21 taxa in Ixoroideae and outgroups (Rubiaceae) and compared with sequences of the cp-gene rbcL. Separate and combined analyses were performed. ITS-variation was extensive and, because of alignment ambiguities, some sites were excluded from the analyses. Several topologies from the rbcL analysis that conflicted with earlier classifications are corroborated by the ITS data: 1) Posoqueria should be excluded from Gardenieae. 2) The disputed genus Bertiera, previously in Gardenieae, is basal in an extended Cojfeeae, including Tricalysia. 3) Ixora should be excluded from Pavetteae. 4) Vangueria, (Antirheoideae), belongs to Ixoroideae. This affiliation of Antirheoideae tribes with Ixoroideae is also shown by new ITS and rbcL data for Alberta. Incongruities found between the two data sets may be caused by density of taxon sampling, different evolutionary rates, phylogenetic sorting, homoplasy caused by functional constraints, or sampling of non-orthologous ITS types.
23642351|The genus Cirsium comprises both gynodioecious and dioecious species. The observation of microsporogenesis in female plants of C. montanum, C. oleraceum, C. palustre and C. spinosissimum shows that the male sterility is due to a degeneration of the tapetum. This degeneration occurs more or less early according to the species and, in the light of these results, a scheme of evolution in the male sterility mechanism is proposed. Furthermore, the male sterility mechanism in C. montanum is very similar to that previously found in female plants of the dioecious species C. arvense. This fact enhances the possibility of evolution of the dioecy of C. arvense from the gynodioecy found in other species. According to these results, a general scheme of evolution of sexes in the genus Cirsium is proposed.
23674480|Flower visitors on 12 species of New Caledonian Winteraceae were studied. The visitors were two species of ancestral moths (Sabatinca; Micropterigidae), three species of weevils (Palontus; Curculionidae), and a species of thrips. Behavior observations and pollen records suggest that the beetles and occasionally the moths serve as pollinators of Zygogynum and Exospermum, and Belliolum is pollinated primarily by thrips. The floral volatiles are simple in composition, usually dominated by short esters. Preliminary experiments showed that ethyl acetate elicited alighting, and a distinctive huddling behavior was elicited by artificially mixed fragrance. The host associations of other Sabatinca and Palontus spp. do not support the hypothesis that the Winteraceae have radiated in association with their pollinators. The available evidence supports the notion of opportunistic isolated host colonizations at some point in the radiation of the pollinator groups.
23673665|Insect pollination occurred in Thelymitra nuda R. Br. on sunny days when the ambient temperature exceeded 20 C. The flower buds on a raceme opened subsynchronously displaying the brightly-colored, actinomorphic perianth and exposed the contrastingly-colored, scented and ornamented column. In T. nuda the staminodes and the filament of the fertile stamen are fused to one another producing an inflated hood over the anther. This staminodal hood is terminated in two non-ornamental, but brightly-colored, central lobes and two terete lateral lobes bearing approximately 400 white trichomes. Each trichome bears a double chain of 3040 spherical, rugulose cells. Female bees, in the genus Lasioglossum (Halictidae), were observed to land directly on the hood and curled their bodies around the four lobed tip of the staminodal complex. The bees attempted to forage on the lobes as if they were collecting pollen from fertile, poricidal stamens. These bees applied thoracic vibration to the yellowish central lobes and actively scraped the trichome clusters (Pseudopollen) with their forelegs. Bees carried the pollinaria of T. nuda dorsally on their abdomens. Abdominal contact with the rostellum appeared to occur when the female bee disengaged herself from the staminodal hood. Observations made of bees on co-blooming flowers, and analyses of pollen loads collected by bees suggested that the orchid flower mimics the guild of blue-purple flowers that lack floral nectar but offer pollen in poricidal anthers. The models of T. nuda are co-blooming Liliaceae in the genera Dichopogon and Thysanotus. However, nectarless, buzz-pollinated flowers are also extensively distributed over the orchid's range. More than 30% of the flowers in the T. nuda population had their pollinaria removed, suggesting a high capacity for cross-pollination in an orchid genus usually considered to be self-pollinated via mechanical autogamy. This study confirmed previous predictions that column modifications represented a trend towards pseudanthery.
23674170|Representative specimens of the European Gladiolus species (excl. G. palustris) were used to study variability and relationships. 25 characters were measured for cluster, principal component and Wells hybrid analyses (Figs. 1  3). Three (with PCA) respective five (cluster analysis) main groups are revealed. Bulb characteristics appear to be very useful for indentification. The subspecific status of G. communis subsp. byzantinus is confirmed. Hybrids of four different parental combinations were detected in our collection. Most species include polyploid series. Partly 3x, 4x, 6x, 8x, 12x and aneuploid cytotypes but no diploids were found. Polyploids as pioneers and hybridization of sympatric species are apparently linked to migrations during the glacial periods.
23674396|Allozymes and morphological characters were used to test whether host race evolution  the genetic divergence of parasitic populations caused by adaptation to different host species  has occurred in desert mistletoe, Phoradendron californicum. Populations of Phoradendron californicum from two hosts, Acacia greggii and Prosopis glandulosa, were surveyed from the Mojave and Colorado deserts. Electrophoretic data indicated genetic differentiation of mistletoes occurring on these hosts. Three of four morphological characters (internode length, main shoot lateral shoot diameter ratio and berry color) also showed significant host-specific differentiation. These data support the hypothesis that host race formation has occurred or is occurring in this parasitic angiosperm.
23674768|Nine Swedish populations, 15 individuals/population, and one cultivated individual of the rare species Vicia pisiformis were investigated for genetic variation. In hybridizations with two rDNA probes using 8 restriction enzymes, only two individuals belonging to one population were polymorphic. A map of the rDNA gene cluster was constructed for four of the restriction enzymes used. Two of the polymorphic sites were mapped and were found to be located outside regions coding for rRNA, presumably caused by single point mutations or small deletions. The repeat length of the rDNA region was c. 10,000 bp, which corresponds well with the size found for other species belonging to Fabaceae. No length polymorphism was found in the intergenic spacer, contrary to the situation found for most other plant species investigated for rDNA variation. The haplotype diversity for the species (Hsp Shannon) was very low (0.055). Within-population values (Hpop) was 0 for all populations except the variable one, which had 0.301. PCR amplification with 6 random primers also revealed very low levels of genetic diversity. A polymorphism was observed in a limited number of individuals for four populations. Hsp was 0.065 and Hpop was 0.050. The average D value (Wetton) for the PCR haplotypes was 0.99.
23673762|Light and SEM observations on the pollen of Dyerophytum africanum and D. indicum have revealed marked differences in exine features. These distylous species also have dimorphic pollen. In the short-styled individuals of both species, the sexine and nexine are of equal thickness, and the clava-like sexinous processes are short without marked projections. In the long-styled individuals, the sexine is thicker than the nexine, the clavae are higher than broad with an apical spinule. Pollen size and apertures are identical in both morphs.  Palynological evidence is presented for relationships between Dyerophytum and Ceratostigma, Plumbago and Aegialitis. Moreover, the genus Dyerophytum exhibits pollen morphological similarities with some species of Linum (Linaceae).
23662393|Glandular trichomes of Labiatae are among the most investigated secretory structures. Most species studied belong to subfamily Nepetoidae, including plants with aromatic properties, while so far a few species of subfamily Lamioideae were examined. In this work, we studied the micromorphology, ultrastructure, type and release of secretion of the glandular trichomes present on leaves and flowers of several species belonging to subfamily Lamioideae, (Stachys alopecuros (L.) Bentham subsp. alopecuros, S. officinalis (L.) Trevisan subsp. officinalis, S. germanica L. subsp. germanica, S. germanica L. subsp. salviifolia (Ten.) Gams, S. sylvatica L., S. heraclea All., S. plumosa Griseb., S. annua L., Prasium majus L., Sideritis romana L.) and one to the sister group Scutellarioideae (Scutellaria galericulata L.). Besides the well-known peltate and small capitate trichomes, widely described in the literature, other types of glandular trichomes were encountered; stalked peltate hairs and large capitate hairs. In particular, a new type of capitate trichome, exclusive of calices and corollas, which presents a mode and release of secretion never described before, is reported.
23675277|Comparative investigations on the morphology, life-history, and reproduction of 3 cultivated strains of the atmophytic green alga Apatococcus lobatus are presented. Some ultrastructural features are added to the results of earlier investigations, and comments on the systematics and ecology are given. Morphology and cytology of each strain is variable and shows considerable overlapping. The results support the view that Apatococcus consists of a single variable species (A. lobatus) only. For the epiphytic algal association Pleurococcetum vulgaris the more significant term Apatococcetum lobati is proposed.
23642665|Hyphomorpha, a genus of the Stigonematales, is confirmed to be a phycobiont in two Spilonema species (Coccocarpiaceae). The morphology of the symbiotic algae in Spilonema dendroides and S. schmidtii is described. The phycobiont in S. dendroides is possibly Hyphomorpha antillarum, the alga in S. schmidtii might be a species related to H. perrieri. New localities for the rare lichens are reported: Alaska for S. dendroides and Ceylon for S. schmidtii.
23674814|The karyology of Centaurea sect. Acrocentron is surveyed. 19 chromosome counts on 8 species are reported; those on C. acaulis, C. crocata, C. galianoi, C. pubescens, and C. malinvaldiana are new. The basic chromosome numbers of the section are x = 11 and x = 10. Karyological arguments have been used to show that evolution was from x = 11 to x = 10. This is supported by biogeographical data. Two main centres of diversification of sect. Acrocentron were studied from that point of view: the East and the Southwest Mediterranean region.
43496759|Taxonomic arrangement of Hypnum species has been controversial since the beginning of the nineteenth century. The molecular pattern and phylogenetic relationships within the Hypnum cupressiforme complex, in relation to other pleurocarps species, were investigated by study of nuclear ribosomal ITS1/ITS2 and chloroplast fraLuAA intron sequences. Seven Hypnum species from different continents were sequenced and analysed, with a relatively large set of pleurocarpous mosses. Sequences indicate a low level of genetic differentiation within the complex. Both maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses indicate that Hypnum s.l. is distributed in several clades of pleurocarps; in addition, H. cupressiforme sensu strictu, and the complex, are not monophyletic. Our results clearly circumscribe only two species, H. jutlandicum and H. imponens; phylogenetic analyses, in particular, highlight the isolation of the latter from the complex. Genetic lineages with a clear geographic structure were found in Eurasia; these probably originated during the last glaciations. The presence of H. cupressiforme in some related clades flanking the other species examined supports the occurrence of an ongoing speciation within the complex.
43558161|We examined the floral development of Dichocarpum fargesii, Thalictrum fargesii, Thalictrum przewalskii, and Aquilegia yabeana in Thalictroideae, Ranunculaceae, by scanning electron microscope. The sepals are initiated spirally in D. fargesii and A. yabeana, and in two pairs (with four sepals) or spirally (with five sepals) in T. fargesii and T. przewalskii. The petals in D. fargesii and A. yabeana and the stamens and carpels are initiated in a whorled pattern in all three genera. The floral phyllotaxis is whorled in these genera. The primordia of sepals are lunular and truncate, but that of petals and/or stamens are hemispherical, rounded, and much smaller than the sepal primordia. A relatively long plastochron exists between the last sepal and the first petal in D. fargesii and A. yabeana or the first stamen in T. fargesii and T. przewalskii. The similarity between the primordia of petals and stamens may indicate an evolutionary relationship between petals and stamens. The petals develop slower than the stamens in D. fargesii, but faster than stamens in A. yabeana. The early developmental stages of the staminodes in A. yabeana are similar to that of stamens, so they may be phylogenetically homologous organs. The carpel primordia are initiated in a single whorl; are lunular in shape and plicate in A. yabeana and D. fargesii; and are initiated spirally and hemispheric in shape and ascidiate in T. fargesii and T. przewlaskii. The stigma is everted and decurrent with unicellular papillae in T. fargesii and T. przewalskii; the head has unicellular papillae in D. fargesii and is smooth in A. yabeana. The floral development features of Aquilegia are unique in Thalictroideae.
23642823|Data for chromosomal localization of the Arabidopsis-type of telomeric sequence repeats (TTTAGGG)n are compiled for 44 species belonging to 14 families of angiosperms, gymnosperms and bryophytes. For 23 species and seven families this is the first report. Species of all families, except the Alliaceae, revealed these sequences at their chromosome termini. This indicates that Arabidopsis-type telomeric repeats are highly conserved. It is inferred that they represent the basic telomere sequence of higher plant phyla. In the Alliaceae, a deviating sequence (and mechanism?) for the stabilization of chromosome termini has possibly evolved secondarily. Nine species revealed interstitial telomeric sequences in addition to the terminal ones, in three species (Vicia faba, Pinus elliottii, P. sylvestris) also at centromeric positions. Interstitial telomeric sequences may indicate karyotype reconstructions, in particular alterations of chromosome numbers by chromosome fusion  or inversions with one breakpoint within the terminal array of repeats. They may contribute to stabilization of chromosome breaks, especially centric fissions, and increase the frequency of meiotic and illegitimate recombination.
23655668|Floral ontogenetical data from all four genera of the Didiereaceae (s.str.) are presented for the first time. All Didiereaceae s.str. are dioecious, having unisexual flowers with organ rudiments of the opposite sex. Two median bracts followed by a tetramerous perianth (two alternating dimerous "whorls"), a slightly complex androecium with 612 stamens in a single row (on a common ring primordium), four of which mostly alternating with the perianth members, and one basal ovule connecting three free septa at their very base are flower characters in Didiereaceae, supporting phylogenetic analyses based on nucleotide sequence data. Closest relatives are the (formerly) portulacaceous genera Portulacaria (5 stamens alternating with the perianth), Ceraria (5 stamens alternating with the perianth), and Calyptrotheca (many stamens), all with pentamerous perianths, from which the tetramerous perianth in Didiereaceae can be derived. Applequist and Wallace (2003) included these three genera in an expanded family Didiereaceae (with three subfamilies).
23673681|The fertility relationships of Ornithogalum umbellatum, O. angustifolium and 9 related taxa were studied. O. umbellatum and O. angustifolium, which are not interfertile, are both recognized as a comparium. Pollination of five species belonging to the O. umbellatum/angustifolium polyploid complex, i.e. O. umbellatum, O. angustifolium, O. baeticum, O. monticolum and O. algeriense, resulted in a moderate seed set. However, the seeds obtained after these interspecific crosses did not germinate. Six related species, i.e. O. exscapum, O. nivale, O. comosum, O. collinum, O. gussonei and O. woronowii showed a very low seed set after being crossed. One exception occurs: O. nivale  O. exscapum. The seed set was also low after the complex species had been crossed with some related species, but there was one exception: both reciprocal crosses between O. monticolum and O. woronowii yielded some viable seeds. No other interspecific crosses gave rise to viable seeds. Bulbil-producing species have a lower seed set after self-pollination than species which do not produce bulbils.
23643106|A cladistic analysis of 44 species of the genera Cladina and Cladonia is presented. Pycnothelia papillaria, Cladia aggregata and C. retipora were used as outgroup taxa. The consensus of all equally parsimonious trees suggests a common ancestral origin for species in Cladonia and Cladina while the genera Pycnothelia and Cladia cluster outside this group. The results do not support distinction of Cladina at genus level although it is distinguished as a monophyletic group but within the genus Cladonia. The current sectional division of Cladonia is not supported. Sections Cocciferae and Helopodium are best supported but even these groups as currently delimited seem to in include elements that are more closely related to species of the other sections, e.g. C. cameola of sect. Cocciferae and C. pityrophylla of sect. Helopodium. Sections such as Unciales and Perviae seem to be artificial assemblages. In general the evolutionary scheme of the genus seems to be more complicated than revealed by the current sectional division.
23655888|Sophronitis sincorana and S. pfisteri (Orchidaceae) are endemic to the campo rupestre vegetation, northeastern Brazil, occurring sympatrically and flowering synchronously. In this work we studied the reproductive biology of both species and investigated reproductive barriers between them. Both species are partially self-compatible, pollinator dependent, and are pollinated by males and worker bees of Bombus brevivillus. Pollinaria are deposited on the anterior portion of the mesonotum of these insects in S. pfisteri, and on the scutellum in S. sincorana. The flowers of both species are deceptive, as they have a dry cuniculus. Morphological differences in the labellum and the gynostemium impede inter-specific pollination of S. pfisteri with pollen from S. sincorana. Very low fruiting results from inter-specific crosses of S. sincorana with pollen from S. pfisteri. Although viable seeds can be produced from experimental inter-specific crosses, no natural hybrids were found. Species integrity appears to be maintained by additive unidirectional reproductive barriers between them.
23643726|We have tested the hypothesis that reseeding is a plesiomorphic character state and that sprouting is a derived state in Aspalathus linearis, and that the latter is an adaptation to ensure fire-survival in a fireprone environment. Samples of five seeder and four sprouter populations of A. linearis were examined by horizontal starch gel electrophoresis to assess the amount of genetic differentiation within and between sprouting and seeding populations, and to determine the extent of gene flow between the populations. Leaf extracts were surveyed for ten enzymes and gene products revealed genetic variation at 13 (76%) of 17 protein coding loci. Allele frequency differences were found between sprouting and seeding populations and genetic distance values show that the sprouters are grouped separate from the seeders, thus providing support for the morphological data on which the above mentioned hypothesis is based. It is evident that evolution operates at the population level in A. linearis.
23673714|The DNA 2C and per chromosome values of 57 species belonging to 22 genera of gymnosperms have been analysed. The overall range is 12-fold with a modal value of about 30.0 pg. Cycadales exhibit a 2-fold difference. Among Coniferales with a 4-fold variation, the Pinaceae have higher mean DNA contents as well as a greater range and diversity than other families. Remarkable interspecific differences are found in Cycas, Picea, Larix, Pinus, Callitris, Cupressus, and Chamaecyparis. Despite this, there is a constancy of basikaryotypes within these genera. Gnetum shows a distinctly low DNA value.
23674316|Multivariate analysis of vegetative and reproductive characters was used to examine morphological relatedness among Antennaria alborosea A. E. Porsild, A. corymbosa E. Nels., A. marginata Greene, A. microphylla Rydb., A. parvifolia Nutt., A. rosea Greene, and A. umbrinella Rydb. Both pistillate and staminate plants were examined. Some of the characters examined were variable in one species, but stable in another (i.e., presence or absence of papillae on the achenes). Our analyses indicate that the seven species are morphologically distinct. It is hypothesized that the A. rosea agamic complex arose through hybridization among A. corymbosa, A. microphylla, A. umbrinella, and possibly A. dioica (L.) Gaertn. However, hybridization between the three former species and others, as well as their subsequent morphological responses to different environmental conditions causes confusion in recognizing the taxa. Antennaria angustifolia Rydb., A. arida E. Nels., A. confinis Greene, A. scariosa E. Nels., A. foliacea humilis Rydb., A. concinna E. Nels., and A. viscidula E. Nels. are considered to represent F1 hybrids.
23669048|The morphological study of the herbarium material representing Epistephium (Orchidaceae, Vanilloideae) led to the discovery of two groups of specimens that significantly differ from all known species of the genus. The results of literature data study and of comparative analysis of those and other specimens suggest that these collections represent new taxa that we describe as E. garayi and E. kubiyuense. The distinguishing features of the species are indicated. As both new species are reported from Colombia (E. garayi, also from Guyana), the key for the determination of all Colombian representatives of the genus is included. Information on the ecology and distribution of newly described taxa is presented.
23674658|Laminar hydathodes are known from only three dicot families. In Urticaceae they are associated with minor vein junctions in all five tribes, as surveyed from cleared leaves of 43 species in 30 genera. Only one species lacked hydathodes. Exclusively adaxial hydathodes were found in 28 genera. In tribe Elatostemeae, laminar hydathodes in Pilea and Pellionia species are abaxial, adaxial, or on both surfaces. Guttation was observed in four species. Urtica dioica (adaxial) and Pilea pumila (abaxial) were studied anatomically in detail. Hydathodes in the former have normal bundle structure but xylem gaps sometimes occur. In the latter, phloem is displaced in three previously undescribed ways: 1) ends abruptly near hydathode, 2) curves into connecting vein at adjacent junction, or 3) departs xylem, skirts hydathode independently, and rejoins adjacent xylem strand. Laminar hydathodes are a unifying character of the Urticaceae, and they also strengthen its close relationship to the Moraceae.
23655125|We examined the genetic variation of 12 isozyme loci in 14 populations of Matthiola (Brassicaceae) representing the geographic distribution of the species M. incana, M. fruticulosa ssp. fruticulosa and M. tricuspidata in the Sicilian insular system and the adjacent mainland areas to estimate the levels and distribution of genetic variation in the insular populations and to understand their population dynamics. The disparity in the distribution of polymorphism in populations of M. incana ssp. incana (low within populations but with high values of FST and GST) contrasts with the homogeneity in the inter-population distribution of the high genetic variation detected in M. tricuspidata and M. fruticulosa ssp. fruticulosa. While the low polymorphism found in M. incana ssp. incana is consistent with its origin through cultivation and the associated lack of gene flow, the Sicilian populations of the other two taxa probably derived from multiple founder events from nearby continental areas and, according to our estimates, have maintained high interpopulational gene flow. Unlike M. incana, the Sicilian populations of M. tricuspidata and M. fruticulosa ssp. fruticulosa could have survived the glaciations in refugia. This higher antiquity, together with the maintenance of abundant gene flow, largely explains their high values of genetic variation. In contrast, M. incana ssp. pulchella and M. incana ssp. rupestris have low indices of polymorphism and they are probably neo-endemics, as their distribution areas were severely affected by the Plio-Pleistocene glaciations.
23643073|Karyological observations on 7 species and 2 varieties of 4 genera belonging to the Chloranthaceae demonstrate the presence of three basic chromosome numbers within the family, i.e., x = 8 (Hedyosmum), 13 (Ascarina) and 15 (Chloranthus, Sarcandra). The karyomorphology of Chloranthus and Ascarina is similar, whereas Sarcandra and Hedyosmum display unique characteristics. Both karyological aspects, i.e., chromosome number and karyomorphology, demonstrate remarkable diversity of Chloranthaceae and complex relationships between its genera. A distant affinity between Chloranthaceae and Piperales is suggested.
43558193|Invasions of exotic species often involve a rapid evolutionary change in the introduced populations. Elodea canadensis is an invasive aquatic weed native to North America. Our aims were to reveal the evolutionary consequences of invasion to the population genetic structure of the presumably clonal E. canadensis in Finland and to test the hypothesis that the whole Finnish population originates from the first introduction of the species. We used ten polymorphic microsatellite markers to analyze the genetic characteristics of seven introduced E. canadensis populations in Finland. Despite the species' totally asexual mode of reproduction in Finland, two to five aleles per locus were detected in Finnish populations, and the expected heterozygosities varied between 0.19 and 0.37. The majority of variation was found within populations. Except for one, all pairwise values of population differentiation (FST) were significant, indicating restricted gene flow among the Finnish populations. In addition, a Bayesian analysis of population structure revealed the presence of regional population structuring. Genetic analyses indicate that E. canadensis could have been introduced to Finland multiple times. However, the amount of genetic variation and regional clustering detected could also be explained by post-establishment evolution, and based on this study it is not possible to exclude one introduction event followed by rapid evolution. We also tested the usability of the microsatellite markers for native North American samples in order to compare the within-population genetic characteristics of introduced and native populations. However, in native populations only four microsatellite markers amplified reliably, indicating sequence variation within primerbinding regions and, thus, genetic differentiation among populations of E. canadensis.
23655237|Sequences of chloroplast gene rbcL and partial nuclear 26S rDNA were used to evaluate phylogenetic relationships of Asteropyrum. Four primary clades were recognized in Ranunculaceae, corresponding to subfamilies Hydrastidoideae, Coptidoideae, Thalictroideae, and Ranunculoideae. Our results place Asteropyrum in Ranunculoideae, sister to the tribe Actaeeae, which includes Beesia, Cimicifuga, and Eranthis. This is supported by chromosome characters, including chromosome size and basic number, and the stainability of prophase chromosomes and interphase nuclei. Our results do not support previous placements of Asteropyrum in either Coptidoideae or Thalictroideae. Considering its uniqueness in a few characters (e.g. simple peltate leaves, accumulating benzylisoquinoline alkaloids, vessel elements with only typical scalariform perforation plates), we recognize Asteropyrum as a monotypic tribe of Ranunculoideae, Asteropyreae W. T. Wang et C. Y. Chang.
23673731|Growth form parameters of Capsella bursa-pastoris populations, including a wide range of different environments, have been analyzed from random block field and growth chamber experiments. Changes in one character are often correlated with changes in another. Of special interest are correlations detected with the onset of first flowering. Variation in each of the characters is clearly influenced by both phenotypic and genotypic components. However, genotype  environment interactions are also subject to variation. Therefore, the adaptive significance of a given parameter is not found to be constant over the entire geographical range of the genus. Alpine populations tend to shift from annual to biannual life cycles.
23673783|Nuclear DNA contents in 15 species of large tropical hardwood genus Ficus have been determined by cytophotometry. The 2 C-values are rather low and uniform, suggesting no appreciable changes during speciation. The small genome size is discussed in relation to woody habit.
23642941|Genetic differentiation at the morphological, isozyme, and DNA levels among seven Dasypyrum villosum (Poaceae, Triticeae, 2n = 14, VV genomes) populations from Italy was studied. A measure of the mating system was also obtained. Genetic diversity was mainly distributed within populations (90%) rather than among populations (10%), typical for most allogamous species. Interpopulation diversity, however, was greatest between the most geographically distant populations (about 750 km apart, 911 m altitude difference). The mating system was estimated to vary from 55 to 100% outcrossing. One population (I-16, Bomarzo) deviated from the others in its uniform early flowering habit and presence of isozyme alleles not found in other populations. It had genetic diversity similar to other populations for isozyme (Got-V2, Got-V3, and Est-VF) and ribosomal RNA (Nor-Vl) loci. This population is believed to be the product of a few migrant founder seeds and its unique characters point out that generalized population biology parameters of genetic diversity are not sufficient for describing species variation nor for developing conservation strategies.
23673188|Hybridization is relatively frequent in the pondweed genus Potamogeton. A total of five putative hybrids of broad-leaved Potamogeton in China were collected in our recent investigations. We used internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA and chloroplast rbcL gene sequences to confirm the origins of the putative hybrids. Using ITS sequence additivity, we confirmed that the five putative hybrids were P.  anguillanus Koidzumi (P. wrightii  P. perfoliatus), P.  malainoides Miki (P. distinctus  P. wrightii), P. distinctus  P. nodosus, P. nodosus  P. wrightii, and P. distinctus  P. gramineus. The latter four hybrids are new records for China, and P. distinctus  P. gramineus is a new hybrid combination in Potamogeton. We found a new genotype of P. perfoliatus in northeast China. Hybrids between the new and a common genotype of P. perfoliatus were found in Central China. The maternal parents of the six hybrids were confirmed by chloroplast rbcL gene sequence data. The hybrids P.  anguillanus and P. distinctus  P. gramineus are reciprocal hybrids. P.  anguillanus has multiple origins from different populations. P. distinctus  P. gramineus has multiple origins within a single population.
43496787|The genetic diversity of four new species related to southwestern Sichuan buckwheats was examined using karyotypes, allozymes and intersimple sequence repeats (ISSR). Karyotype analysis showed that Fagopyrum wenchuanense, F. qiangcai and F. pugense are diploid (2n = 2x = 16) while F. crispatofolium is tetraploid (2n = 4x = 32). The karyotype evolutionary trend of buckwheat indicated that F. crispatofolium, F. gracilipes var. odontopterum and F. gracilipes seemed to be more advanced than F. wenchuanense, F. qiangcai, F. pugense, F. esculentum, F. cymosum and F. tataricumare. Three polymorphic enzyme systems were used for the examination of variation, including peroxidase, esterase and superoxide dismutase. Consistent banding patterns were obtained for esterase and superoxide dismutase, while peroxidase produced a large number of sharp bands. A total of 18 ISSR primers were selected for the analysis and showed high variations among the species. Allozymes and ISSR markers were utilized to estimate the genetic distance among accessions and to draw phylogenetic trees. Our data provide evidence of a high degree of genetic diversity among southwestern Sichuan buckwheats. In addition, both cultivars and wild types showed a high degree of divergence suggesting a complex domestication process in this crop. This study provides a better understanding of evolutionary mechanisms and genetic relationships in four new species of buckwheat.
23673850|The mycological exploration of the Viennese nature preserve Lobau, resulted in the discovery of several new species of Basidiomycetes; of special interest is the genus Conocybe of which the authors present two new taxa: C. lobauensis and C. leporina var. tetraspora. Furthermore C. neoantipus, C. striatipes and C. caespitosa are discussed, and the new varieties C. neoantipus var. tucumana and var. carinthiaca as well as C. striatipes var. sejuncta are proposed.
43558267|We investigated the mechanism of antheridial dehiscence in ferns for the first time using fluorescence microscopy as well as scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The mechanism leading to antheridial dehiscence in Polystichum setiferum, Asplenium trichomanes and A. onopteris was found to depend on the different cellulose contents of the inner and outer walls of the ring cells detected with calcofluor white stain and the Thiry test. The extremely low cellulose content of the ring cell walls facing spermatozoids made them less mechanically resilient than external wall cells. When the ring cells absorbed water they expanded only into the antheridial cavity, pushing the gametes against the cap cell, which detached from the ring cell below and enabled spermatozoid release. The newly released spermatozoids were spherical bodies covered in cellulose fibrils. The significance of cellulose fibrils could be to isolate the gametes from each other, to reinforce the electron transparent material and to protect the gamete from pressure created by the ring cells during release.
23642746|Seed proteins from Cicer arietinum L., C. reticulatum Ladiz. and C. echinospermum Davis were extracted and separated into water soluble (albumin) and water insoluble (globulin) fractions. These were analysed using three polyacrylamide gel systems: uniform pore slab gels, gradient gels and SDS disc gels. For all three species, albumins constitute just over one-third of total protein. Minor differences in the composition of this fraction were observed. Within the globulin fraction, seven disulphide-linked polypeptides were found. Four of these resemble the major polypeptide of legumin, consisting of constant small subunit (21,000 daltons) linked to variable large subunit (46,000, 41,000, 39,000 or 36,000 daltons), forming polypeptides of 67,000(I), 62,000(II), 60,000(III) and 57,000(IV) daltons respectively. Polypeptide I was prominent in both wild species, but absent from C. arietinum. Polypeptides II and III were equally prominent in C. arietinum and C. reticulatum. Polypeptide IV was more prominent in C. echinospermum, which was deficient in polypeptide III. Polypeptides V (45,000 daltons) and VI (43,000 daltons), apparently composed of two equal subunits, were present in trace amounts in both wild species, but well represented in C. arietinum Polypeptide VII of 45,000 daltons (31,000 + 14,000) was present in all three species.
23656020|One of the pathways to dioecy is via heterodichogamy, a system including protandrous (flowering male first) and protogynous (female first) plants. Using a research crane the reproductive ecology of the heterodichogamous Acer pseudoplatanus was studied in 74 mature trees over 2 years. The synchronized flowering phenology of the trees resulted in reciprocal pollination between the two morphs. Protandrous trees were more numerous (3:1), had more female flowers (23:1), had much less pollen on their stigmas (1:15) and had a much lower seed to fruit ratio (1:34). The pollinators were probably breeding thrips. The heterodichogamy of A. pseudoplatanus is confirmed and underlined as a functioning ecological system. Depending on the way pollination efficiency changes in time, either of the morphs can be interpreted as "more female" or "more male". The evolution of heterodichogamy towards dioecy thus depends on more components of the reproductive ecology than have been assumed.
23657043|Using scanning electron microscopy, we present new morphological and developmental data on rhizomes and aerial flowering shoots of two Japanese Paris species, P. tetraphylla and P. verticillata. Differences in rhizome characters between the species were identified, including 2(3) annual nodes in P. tetraphylla versus 34 in P. verticillata, and thick and elastic rhizomes in the former versus thin and fragile ones in the latter. Numerous cauline leaves, commonly ranging from (4)5 to 8 in P. verticillata, are due to further separation and formation of abaxially situated leaf primordia on the shoot apex. This dorsiventral formation is unique among vegetative foliage leaf whorls. Paris tetraphylla is unusual among Paris in having apetaliferous flowers; this is due to the suppression of petal primordia formed early in development. The origin of the apetaliferous flower state differs between Paris and the closely related Trillium by the suppression of petal primordia in the former and homeosis or loss in the latter. As a result, four carpels with stylar branches have the same antesepalous position in both Paris species, whereas the organs are antesepalous in petaliferous T. camschatcense and alternate with sepals in apetaliferous T. apetalon.
23654214|20 Bupleurum L. taxa were investigated for micromorphological typology of the fruit surfaces with SEM. Considerably different types of sculpturing at species and subspecies level and similarities between related taxa were observed. A dichotomic key was prepared using the diagnostic surface patterns. Reticulate (sect. Bupleurum), rugose (sect. Aristata Godron subsect. Aristata) and rugulose-colliculate-verrucate (subsect. Juncea Briq.) types of surface structures were distinguished. Micromorphological characteristics may be valuable additional taxonomical criteria for the delimitation of infrageneric groups of species.
23674524|Seed oil composition (sterol esters and sterols) and seed protein profiles of Condalia microphylla were investigated. The chemical differences observed may be attributed to genotypic changes and could support the existence of infraspecific taxa.
23674339|In S. tuberosum subspp. tuberosum and nodosum, S. grandiflorum and S. ibericum the presence of the pyrrolizidine alkaloids lycopsamine, echimidine and symphytine could be demonstrated. The taxon S. tuberosum contains an unknown compound that seems to be specific for this taxon. This compound is not the pyrrolizidine alkaloid anadoline which has previously been reported for this species. It is possibly represented by a peak on GC/MS with a molecular ion peak at m/z 623 (as TMS derivative) and can be used as a chemotaxonomic marker for the species S. tuberosum. The pyrrolizidine alkaloid pattern of the two subspecies of S. tuberosum reinforces the close relationship. Fresh material of S. tuberosum contained the triterpene isobauerenol, but in herbarium material isobauerenol was lacking. In S. grandiflorum, neither fresh nor dried material contains isobauerenol. In herbarium material of S. ibericum also no isobauerenol could be found. More extensive chemotaxonomical research is necessary to support the view that S. abchasicum is more closely related to S. ibericum than to S. grandiflorum.
23655146|A survey of recent and fossil zona-aperturate pollen grains within the angiosperms was undertaken. Zona-aperturate pollen (with complete ring-like apertures) has been evolved independently in several genera of basal angiosperm families (Nymphaeaceae, Eupomatiaceae, Annonaceae, Monimiaceae, Atherospermataceae) and monocots (Araceae, Iridaceae, Laxmanniaceae, Arecaceae, and Rapateaceae). The special case of the eudicot Limnanthes (Limnanthaceae) is discussed. New examples of recent and fossil fully zonate pollen are presented; a noteworthy new example are Scrophulariaceae, with Pedicularis; our fossil examples show affinities either to Nymphaeaceae, or Araceae, or Iridaceae, or cannot be related to an extant taxon. The zona-aperturate pollen grains differ in ornamentation and stratification mostly in the respect of the aperture areas, but sometimes also outside the aperture. The question of polarity is settled only for some taxa because of the frequent lack of tetrad observations. A ring-like aperture may divide the pollen grains in symmetric halves, or if running asymmetrically, divides the pollen grain in two more or less unequal halves; the presence of clearly unequal halves gives a strong argument to assume an equatorial ring in such cases where tetrad configurations were not available. The zona-aperturate condition may be a functional benefit in wet environments: while in dry pollen the apertural ring is completely closed, in wet or very moist realm it expands greatly, and the pollen tube can be formed quickly and everywhere in this area.
23674628|Restriction site mapping of chloroplast DNA from 31 species representing 26 genera of the Ranunculaceae was performed using eleven restriction endonucleases. The chloroplast genome varies in length from approximately 152 to 160 kb. Length variants are frequent in the Ranunculaceae and range from usually less than 300 bp to rarely 1.5 kb. The inverted repeat is extended into the large single copy (LSC) region by 44.5 kb in Anemone, Clematis, Clematopsis, Hepatica, Knowltonia, and Pulsatilla. Several inversions are present in the LSC-region of the cpDNA in all these genera and in Adonis. The frequency of restriction site mutations varies within the chloroplast genome in the Ranunculaceae between 4 and 32 mutations per kilobase, and is lowest in the inverted repeat and the regions containing the ATPase-genes and the genes psaA, psaB, psbA, rpoB, and rbcL. A total of 547 phylogenetically informative restriction sites was utilized in cladistic analyses of the family using Wagner, Dollo, and weighted parsimony. These three parsimony analyses result in different tree topologies. Four, six, and one equally most parsimonious trees were obtained with Wagner, Dollo, and weighted parsimony, respectively. The amount of support for the monophyletic groups was evaluated using bootstrapping and decay analysis. All three parsimony methods suggest that Hydrastis is the sister group to the remainder of the Ranunculaceae, and that the Anemone-Clematis group, which shares several derived cpDNA rearrangements, is monophyletic. Only a few of the traditional groups in the Ranunculaceae are supported by cpDNA restriction side data. Only Dollo parsimony provides support for the hypothesis that Thalictroideae and Ranunculoideae are monophyletic.
43498298|The tribe Stipeae with an estimated number of ca. 600 species is part of the grass subfamily Pooideae and has near worldwide distribution. Its species are often dominant constituents of steppe vegetation and other grasslands, especially in Eurasia, the Americas and Australia. The taxonomy of Old World Stipeae has been studied to date primarily on the basis of morphology and anatomy, while existing molecular phylogenetic investigations have mainly dealt with New World or Australian taxa. We studied 109 new ingroup taxa with a focus on Old World Stipeae (in addition with an extensive outgroup sampling) using chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences (3trnK region, ITS1-5.8S gene-ITS2), and discuss taxonomic key characters. Five highly supported monophyletic lineages were identified, some of which were rather unexpected: (a) the narrowly defined Stipa core clade, which is primarily Eurasian but extends into Africa north of the Sahara Desert, (b) the majority of Old World Piptatherum, (c) a "Transcontinental Stipeae Clade" encompassing Eurasian, African, American and Australian lineages, (d) a Himalayan to E Asian clade and (e) the single species Achnatherum splendens. The large "Transcontinental Stipeae Clade" contained several lineages of Eurasian Stipeae different from the Stipa core (a), i.e., genera Aristella, Celtica, Oloptum gen. nov., Stipella stat. et. gen. nov., species of Achnatherum, and the species-rich lineages of Nassella/Jarava in America and of Austrostipa in Australia. In our circumscription Ptilagrostis was nested in (d), a clade (which included some species of Achnatherum and poorly studied Himalayan species ascribed to either Stipa or Orthoraphium) and whose internal structure remained unclear. Oloptum, gen. nov., is described, and the following combinations are made: Achnatherum pelliotii, comb. nov., Aristella keniensis, comb. nov., Oloptum miliaceum, comb. nov., Stipella, stat. et. gen. nov., S. capensis, comb. nov., S. nitens, comb. nov., S. parviflora, comb. nov., S. staintonii, comb. nov., and 5. tigrensis, comb. nov.
23645245|Genetic structure and genetic diversity in fourteen autochthonous populations of Pinus sylvestris L. from the Iberian peninsula and two populations from the Massif Central in France were studied at eleven isoenzymatic polymorphic loci. The studied populations formed two genetically similar but heterogeneous groups. The first group consist of populations localized in North-Eastern Spain with two genetically distinct populations. The second includes populations of the West-Central part of the Iberian peninsula. Populations from the Massif Central in France are diverse from those of Spain, but are similar to the group from North- part of the Iberian peninsula. The existence of significant numbers of private alleles in Spanish populations which were not observed in populations from the Massif Central, suggests that the Scots pine from the Iberian peninsula probably did not take part in the colonization of Europe after the last glaciations and represents original ancient tertiary gene pools.
43558157|The genus Pinus comprises more than 100 species, which are widely distributed in the Northern hemisphere. Cytogenetic information on North American pines is very limited despite their economic importance. In the present study, a detailed comparative cytogenetic analysis is presented for five pine species from North America, P. resinosa, P. monticola, P. contorta, P. banksiana, and P. strobus. Morphometric analysis and physical mapping of rDNA probes were performed. The karyotype of P. monticola was considered ancestral with small difference in relative chromosome lengths. P. banksiana, P. contorta, and P. strobus karyotypes were considered semi-asymmetrical and less ancestral type. P. banksiana showed five secondary constrictions, P. strobus six, and P. contorta eight P. resinosa karyotype was semi-asymmetrical and derived with 14 secondary constrictions identified on eight different chromosomes. Karyological data were consistent with molecular cytogenetic information. A significant association was observed between the number and locations of secondary constrictions and the 18S-5.8S-26S rDNA sites detected using fluorescence in situ hybridization. The two methods were used to establish a reliable comparative karyotype of the selected pines. In general, karyotype and chromosome evolution were not related to genetic relationships among pine species studied.
23674671|A restriction site map of the chloroplast genome of Caltha palustris L. (Ranunculaceae) has been constructed for 13 restriction endonucleases using filter hybridization with cloned tobacco chloroplast DNA fragments. A size of 153.8 kb has been estiamted for the Caltha chloroplast genome. Forty-six chloroplast genes and four open reading frames have been mapped using small tobacco chloroplast gene probes. Chloroplast DNA sequence divergence has been estimated for all pairs of five species of Ranunculaceae, Caltha palustris, Ranunculus bulbosus, R. fascicularis, R. recurvatus, and Trollius ledebourii, and ranges between 0.2% and 9.6% for the total genome. Divergence values are much higher in the small and large single copy regions than in the inverted repeat. Phylogenetic relationships between the five species have been hypothesized using chloroplast DNA restriction site mapping. One hundred and six informative restriction site mutations have been detected using eleven restriction endonucleases. Cladistic analyses of the restriction site mutations have been performed using Wagner and Dollo parsimony algorithms, and confidence intervals have been calculated for the resulting monophyletic groups using bootstrapping. It is demonstrated that restriction site comparisons are applicable to the Ranunculaceae on intergeneric level, with the exception of groups having extensive genomic rearrangements. Moreover, sequence divergence is low enough at the interspecific level to allow phylogenetic analyses within genera such as Ranunculus.
23664356|Trans-acting siRNAs (tasiRNAs) are a plantspecific class of 21-nt endogenous siRNAs that function as miRNA-like posttranscriptional negative regulators. Several tasiRNA loci (known as TAS genes) have been characterized to date in rice and Arabidopsis. The TAS3 family is distinguished from other TAS loci by the dual miR390 complementary sites flanking the tasiRNA region and its dependence on ARGONAUTE7. In this study, 55 putative TAS3 genes were identified by database mining and PCR amplification from the grass family. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that several genome/gene duplication events have been involved in the expansion of TAS3 genes while some TAS3 genes might have been lost during evolution of the grass family. The role of miR390 target genes in the origin of TAS3 genes are discussed.
23643186|A detailed description of ovule development and embryology of Hemiphylacus alatostylus is given, together with a chromosome count and karyotype. Comparative data are presented for Asparagus and Anemarrhena, since earlier analysis of rbcL sequence data indicated a relationship between them. Hemiphylacus should be included in Asparagaceae. A close relationship between them is strongly supported by rbcL analysis, and they are further linked by the shape and histology of the fertilised ovule. However, both morphological and molecular data indicate that Anemarrhena is a more isolated taxon.
23642473|Metaphloem sieve elements of Selaginella willdenowii are elongated cells with slightly oblique or transverse end walls. Pores are seen on both lateral and end walls, although they are more numerous on the latter. Parenchyma cells exhibiting strong enzyme activities (acid phosphatase, non specific esterase, succinate dehydrogenase, cytochrome oxidase, peroxidase) are present between sieve elements and tracheids in each vascular bundle. A functional association thus appears to exist between these parenchyma cells and the conducting elements.The occurrence of transverse to slightly oblique end walls in sieve elements seems to characterize the ligulate Lycopsids (as opposed to the aligulate Lycopodium where sieve elements possess slanting, very oblique, end walls).
23655544|Smilacaceae are a small family of dioecious, mostly climbing, net-veined monocotyledons with a cosmopolitan distribution. Relatively little is known about the variation of pollen morphology within the family. For this reason, and to investigate the systematic value of palynology in Smilacaceae, pollen from 125 species of Smilax, Heterosmilax, and Ripogonum was examined using light and scanning electron microscopy. Ten of these were examined further by transmission electron microscopy. Four distinct pollen types grouped into two major pollen classes were distinguished: Class 1, represented by the pollen of all Smilax and Heterosmilax species, is mostly spheroidal, inaperturate, and spinulate or microspinulate, with a thin, fragile exine of varied sculpturing; three pollen types are represented within this class. Class 2 is found only in Ripogonum and contains a single pollen type with prolate, monosulcate, reticulately-sculptured pollen. The unique pollen morphology of Ripogonum supports its removal from Smilacaceae. In contrast, the characteristics of Heterosmilax pollen intergrade with those seen in Smilax, suggesting that the former might be better reduced to synonymy with the latter. A key to the identification of these pollen types is presented along with a discussion of geographic and possible evolutionary trends among them.
43558195|Although polyphyly of Osmanthus has been suggested by different authors, the conclusions of previous studies have lacked robust support due to limited sampling or a paucity of phylogenetic characters. In this study, the phylogeny of Osmanthus was explored using sequences of three informative chloroplast regions (psbJ-petA, rpl32-trnL and rps16-trnQ), including all the five sections of the genus and eight closely related genera. The results confirm that Osmanthus, as presently circumscribed, is a polyphyletic group, containing three or four distinct lineages, i. e. sect. Leiolea (lineage I), sect. Notosmanthus (lineage III), sects. Osmanthus (excluding O. decorus), Siphosmanthus and Linocieroides (lineage IV), and an uncertain lineage including only O. decorus (lineage II). These results emphasize that the generic delimitation within subtribe Oleinae is in need of revision. In addition, this study found that the four cultivar groups of sweet osmanthus formed a paraphyletic clade, implying that cultivated sweet osmanthus might originate from several species.
23645001|The internal transcribed spacers (ITS1 and ITS2) of nuclear ribosomal DNA were amplified and sequenced from 19 samples representing all species of the genus Mercurialis and two outgroup species, Ricinus communis and Acalypha hispida. The length of ITS1 in the ingroups ranged from 223 to 246 bp and ITS2 from 210 to 218 bp. Sequence divergence between pairs of species ranged from 1.15% to 25.88% among the ingroup species in the combined data of ITS1 and ITS2. Heuristic phylogenetic analyses using Fitch parsimony on the combined data of ITS1 and ITS2 with gaps treated as missing generated 45 equally parsimonious trees. The strict consensus tree was principally concordant with morphological classification. Within the genus, the ITS sequences recognised two main infrageneric clades: the M. perennis complex including three Eurasian stoloniferous species (M. leiocarpa, M. ovata and M. perennis) and the western Mediterranean group including eight both annual and perennial species. Of the western Mediterranean clade, the annual and perennial species grouped respectively into two different groups, and the annual life form is revealed as a synapomorphic character derived from perennial, whereas in the Eurasian clade ITS phylogeny suggested M. leiocarpa as basal clade sister to M. perennis and M. ovata. ITS phylogeny failed to resolve the relationships among the different cytotypes of M. ovata and M. perennis. ITS phylogeny also suggested rapid karyotypic evolution for the genus. The karyotypic divergence among the perennial species of western Mediterranean region did not corroborate the nucleotide sequence divergence among the species. Optimisation of chromosome numbers onto the ITS phylogeny suggested x = 8 to be the ancestral basic chromosome number of the genus. ITS phylogeny confirmed that the androdioecy of M. ambigua is derived from dioecy. The nucleotide heterozygosity and additivity in ITS sequences clearly confirm the interspecific hybridisation in the genus Mercurialis.
23642918|The rbcL gene of 25 taxa was sequenced and analyzed cladistically in order to define more precisely the order Asterales s.l. and to reconstruct the phylogeny of Goodeniaceae. The cladistic analyses show that the Asterales comprise the families Abrophyllaceae, Alseuosmiaceae, Argophyllaceae, Asteraceae, Calyceraceae, Campanulaceae s.l., Donatiaceae, Goodeniaceae (including Brunoniaceae), Menyanthaceae, Pentaphragmataceae, and Stylidiaceae. Abrophyllaceae, Alseuosmiaceae, Brunoniaceae, and Donatiaceae have previously not been studied in this respect. Within the Goodeniaceae, four groups supported by the rbcL data can be distinguished: the genus Lechenaultia, the Anthotium-Dampiera-group, the genus Brunonia, and a group formed by the remaining genera, the Scaevola-Goodenia-group.
23673862|Eucharis candida and E. formosa are two often sympatric species of bulbous geophytes restricted to neotropical rain forest understory. The species are most common in eastern Ecuador, and are the only two east Ecuadorean species of the genus found north of the Pastaza valley. Data from phenetic, karyotypic, and preliminary isozyme electrophoretic analyses of both species are represented. The species are distinguishable phenetically and karyologically, but isozyme-based relationships are more complex. Phenetic resolution of the isozyme phenotypes supports recognition of two species in Ecuador. A Peruvian isolate of E. formosa, though not morphologically distinct, shows both allozyme and chromosomal divergence from Ecuadorean populations. Cladistic relationships based on overall allozyme data do not support species distinction, but a novel electrophoretic phenotype for glutathione reductase is shared only by individuals of E. candida. An apparent geographic component within the monophyletic groups resolved in the cladogram suggests that some degree of gene flow between these two species has been maintained without the complete loss of morpholgoical species identity. This may have been mediated either by artificial population structures due to a probable long history of cultivation, or via Pleistocene refugia effects. Both species may have originated in eastern Ecuador from a common ancestral population which has since radiated outward, perhaps several times.
23643742|Data on the distribution of the different genera of the stapeliads have been gathered for the main regions where they occur. A cladistic biogeographical analysis of the stapeliads is carried out and this suggests that the stapeliads radiated southwards and eastwards from a region of origin in the north-east of Africa. In terms of numbers of species and genera, maximal diversity is found in two areas of Africa: the north-eastern corner and in southern Africa. The highest diversity of genera and species is found in southern Africa. Four genera are common to both the north-east of Africa and southern Africa but no species is found in both these areas. For southern Africa the patterns of diversity within southern Africa are discussed in some detail. It is shown that the stapeliads achieve nowhere near the level of diversity found in other succulent groups such as the Crassulaceae and Mesembryanthemaceae but that the stapeliads are more evenly spread over the drier parts of the subcontinent.
23643401|A phylogenetic analysis was conducted on sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA in 23 species of Aveneae (Poaceae subfam. Pooideaae). These sequences of Helictotrichon spp., Arrhenatherum elatius, Avena spp., Trisetum spp., Koeleria spp., Holcus lanatus, Alopecurus vaginatus together with published ITS sequences of further Aveneae, Poeae, Triticeae, and Bromeae were analysed by the neighbor-joining distance method to assess the molecular phylogenetic relationship in perennial and annual Aveneae. The results suggest unexpectedly close affinities of the agronomically important genus Avena to comparatively small-flowered taxa of Aveneae. Genus Arrhenatherum and small-flowered subgenera of Helictotrichon are close extant relatives. The large genus Helictotrichon is para- if not polyphyletic, only its subgenera are monophyletic. Trisetum is clearly separated from Helictotrichon and forms together with Koeleria and perhaps others a monophyletic lineage which is characterised by a conspicuous 9-bp deletion in ITS1. The impact of the ITS data on the delineation of some genera and subtribes of Aveneae and on the recognition of their biogeographical and ecological patterns is outlined.
23642610|The leaves of five species of Flyriella were found to contain from one to four glycosides of quercetin and its 4- and 7,4-methyl ethers. These patterns are distinct from those observed for more than seventy species of Brickellia and support morphological and chromosomal data which indicate that Flyriella should not be treated as an element of Brickellia. Alternative treatments are briefly considered.
23663576|Oceanic archipelagos are considered hot-spots of biodiversity because they harbor unique biota with a high level of endemicity. However, the endemic biodiversity of oceanic islands is very vulnerable to extinction. In recent decades, intensive exploitation of these territories and human-mediated introduction of alien species have posed unprecedented threats to the long-term survival of the endemic contingent. The very limited population genetic information available until now for the 28 Canarian endemic Echium taxa has hindered the development of conservation strategies for the ca. 25% of them that are under threat. In this paper, we analyze the levels and distribution of genetic isozyme diversity in 23 natural populations of three endangered endemics of restricted distribution (E. acanthocarpum, CR; E. onosmifolium ssp. spectabile, EN; and E. callithyrsum, VU), and two endemics of wide distribution and in principle free of threat (E. decaisnei and E. onosmifolium). Our results reveal high levels of genetic variability in all these taxa that have plausibly been reached despite a predominance of selfing. They also point out a high incidence of inbreeding in the reproductive dynamics of populations and suggest the potential value of hybridisation processes in shaping the genetic makeup of these species. Among-population differentiation, as estimated by Gst, and genetic distances within taxa are low overall, but they do support the current taxonomic separation between the two subspecies of E. onosmifolium and do not furnish evidence that the current status of the endangered species may be attributed to genetic factors. We use the genetic parameters to suggest some guidelines to help implement a conservation strategy of these taxa.
23643229|A chemotaxonomic study of practically all the species of the genus Aloe showed that flavonoids occur as major compounds in 31 out of a total of 380 species investigated. Flavanones and dihydroflavonols are present in the exudate of species in Aloe ser. Rhodacanthae and Superpositae and also in a number of the endemic species from Madagascar. Flavones occur as the only major compound in the leaf extracts of the sects. Leptoaloe and Graminialoe. In ser. Macrifoliae and in Lomatophyllum, the sister genus of Aloe, isovitexin co-occurred with the C-glucosylanthrone aloin. The chemotaxonomic implication of these results are discussed together with the significance of the taxonomic and chemogeographical distribution of flavonoids in Aloe. With a few rare exceptions, the leaf compounds from two different biogenetic pathways (polyketide pathway and flavonoid pathway) are mutually exclusive. Since flavonoids are restricted to the basal groups in Aloe, we conclude that flavonoids are plesiomorphic characters in Aloe reflecting ancient phylogenetic and biogeographic links.
23673920|The life cycle of Cryptochlora perforans is described under culture conditions, including the following stages: Naked and walled amoebae, cysts, coccoid, palmelloid and flagellate stages. Phagotrophy of living diatoms, movement and reproduction are documented. Amoebae of Cryptochlora are chemotactically attracted by damaged algal filaments, perforate and penetrate such filaments, and subsequently engulf part of their contents. A comparison is made with a culture of Chlorarachnion reptans Geitler, according to earlier and own observations. Chloroplast structure as well as zoospore morphology confirm close affinities between Cryptochlora and Chlorarachnion. Generic characters as well as possible phylogenetic affinities with amoeboid Xanthophyta and Protozoa are discussed.
23642588|Chaenothecopsis consociata regularly is lichenized with Dictyochloropsis symbiontica, nova spec., a member of the Chlorococcales. During early development Chaenothecopsis consociata possibly parasitizes on Chaenotheca chrysocephala.Dictyochloropsis symbiontica is characterized by its hollow spherical chloroplast which consists of a complex threedimensional network, the absence of a pyrenoid, and the possession of one central nucleus. It reproduces by autospores as well as by zoo- and aplanospores. Chaenothecopsis consociata von vier Fundorten in sterreich ist mit der Chlorococcale Dictychloropsis symbiontica, nova sp., lichenisiert. Ihr Lager gleicht uerlich dem von Chaenotheca chrysocephala, welche aber Trebouxia als Phycobionten fhrt. In der Lageranatomie bestehen zwischen den beiden Arten leichte Unterschiede. Danach kann die bisherige Auffassung, Ch. consociata sei ein parasitischer oder parasym-biontisch lebender Pilz, nicht aufrecht erhalten werden. Das gemein-same Vorkommen der beiden Arten wird besttigt; es liegt ihm mglicherweise ein Jugendparasitismus von Ch. consociata auf Ch. chrysocephala zugrunde. Dictyochloropsis symbiontica ist durch einen hohlkugeligen, in meh-reren Schichten netzfrmig gegliederten Chloroplasten in den isoliert lebenden, kugeligen Zellen, das Fehlen eines Pyrenoides und Ein-kernigkeit gekennzeichnet. Sie unterscheidet sich von Dictyochloropsis splendida durch ihre geringere Zellgre und durch das Auftreten typischer Autosporen neben den Zoo- und Aplanosporen. Die Variett ellipsoidea hebt sich vom Typus durch ellipsoidische und etwas grere Zellen ab. Sie wurde in einem Lager aus der Steiermark und in dessen Bereich auch freilebend gefunden. Var. symbiontica kommt in Lagern von drei rtlichkeiten in Ober- und Niedersterreich vor.
23673139|Picea omorika (Pan.) Purk. is a relict from the Arcto-Tertiary flora with its entire current natural range confined to an area of only 10,000 km2 within the Balkans, a region well known as a Quaternary refugium. We have amplified the second intron of the mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase subunit1 gene in 200 trees originating from ten natural populations to assess the phylogeographic structure and history of this conifer. Five haplotypes harbouring different numbers of 34-bp minisatellites were detected, revealing haplotypic richness of 3.007 and gene diversities HS = 0.075 and HT = 0.225. More interestingly, despite the very small distribution range of P. omorika and its dispersal by wind, non-random distribution of haplotypes was observed, resulting in an unexpectedly high estimate of population differentiation (GST = 0.668), and 56.8% of molecular variation assigned to variation among populations. Those findings suggest substantial isolation of populations and their partitioning into two gene pools characterized by different history and levels of genetic diversity, and very limited seed flow in this species (Nm = 0.25). They support the hypothesised early arrival of P. omorika in the Balkan region, and residence within this refugium during several ice ages at least. We demonstrate that the assessment of genetic diversity and structuring are not straightforward in species confined to refugial regions, and that past microvicariance might bias formal phylogeographic (GST = NST = 0.668) and isolation-by-distance analysis (r = 0.028, P > 0.05).
23672611|Both diploid and tetraploid experimental interspecific hybrids between Renunculus silerifolius (2 x) and R. chinensis (2 x) exhibit normal bivalent pairing. However, microspores of diploid hybrids do not undergo mitosis and their pollen grains are highly sterile, whereas tetraploid hybrids form good pollen grains after microspore division. Evidence is forwarded for the assumption that R. cantoniensis (4 x) has originated by hybridization between these two diploid parental species and by polyploidization of the diploid hybrids. Parallelisms between the different karyotypes of R. cantoniensis (4 x) and R. silerifolius (2 x) suggest that the former is a species of polyphyletic origin.
23664366|The pollen morphology from 67 collections representing 52 species of Mutisia was analyzed by means of light, scanning electron and transmission electron microscopy. Pollen of Mutisia is comparable to that of the more widespread type found in Mutisiinae. The pollen grains of the genus are characterized by the spheroidal-subprolate to prolate shape, large size, tricolporate aperture, with mesoaperture, exine Mutisia type, with sculpturing microechinate to rugulate or microechinate-rugulate. This basic pollen type is very variable in size, endoaperture shape, and exine thickness of the pollen grains. A new type of arrangement of columellae was observed in pollen of Mutisia section Mutisia (e.g., M. stuebelli, M. microphylla, and M. sodiroi). It is suggested that it might have harmomegathic significance. The pollen morphology and polymorphism are discussed with regard to functional mechanisms and possible evolutionary significance.
23673212|Caragana is endemic to temperate Asia, with most species distributed on the QinghaiTibetan Plateau (QTP) and in Northwestern China. Consequently its biogeography should be hypothesized to have been affected by QTP uplift. To examine the biogeography of Caragana in relation to QTP uplift and consequent interior aridification, we conducted molecular dating analyses based on three genes (ITS, cpDNA trnS-trnG and rbcL). Results from relaxed Bayesian BEAST, relaxed Bayesian Multidivtime, and PL (penalized likelihood) indicate that QTP uplift, especially the onset of Himalayan motion at 2117 Ma, triggered the origin of Caragana (with estimated ages 1614 Ma). The subsequent QTP rapid uplift at 8 Ma is inferred to have driven the evolution and diversification of the three major clades of Caragana: section Caragana (northern China and the JunggarAltaiSayan region), section Frutescentes (Central Asia), and sections Bracteolatae and Jubatae, centered in the QTP. A rapid and active speciation process occurring in the QTP intense uplift at 3.41.8 Ma, is indicated by the chronogram.
23642763|Cytogenetic investigations have been made in the four Petrorhagia species and hybrids of the section Kohlrauschia. The three diploid species show close similarities in chromosome number, size and morphology, with the exception of P. velutina, where one pair of metacentric chromosomes is represented by a pair of telocentrics. Meiotic studies in hybrids indicate close genomic homology between the diploid species and also between the two floral forms of P. prolifera. The tetraploid P. nanteuilii behaves as an allotetraploid forming only bivalents at meiosis and results suggest that P. velutina and P. prolifera are the diploid progenitors of this species. Since meiosis in diploid and triploid hybrids results in extensive intergenomic pairing it is concluded that the natural tetraploid has a bivalent promoting mechanism that prevents pairing between the genomes of its diploid progenitors.
23655743|Biebersteiniaceae comprise a single genus with four species of perennial herbs occurring from central Asia to Greece. A previous molecular phylogenetic study placed one of the species in an isolated position in Sapindales, while morphological studies had placed Biebersteinia in or near Geraniaceae, albeit doubtfully. We tested the monophyly and placement of the family with data from the chloroplast genes rbcL and atpB obtained for all four species, other major clades of Sapindales and outgroups for a total of up to 114 taxa. Parsimony, Bayesian, and likelihood analyses place Biebersteinia in Sapindales, possibly as sister to the other eight families. Strict and relaxed molecular clocks constrained with fossils of Biebersteinia and up to eight other Sapindales suggest that the Biebersteinia crown group diversified in the Oligocene and Miocene, while the stem lineage dates back to the Late Paleocene. Ages for other sapindalean families are earlier than those obtained in more sparsely sampled analyses, although estimates for Burseraceae agree surprisingly well. Ancestral area analyses suggest that Biebersteinia expanded from the eastern part of its range (i.e. Tibet and Inner Mongolia) to the west, although analyses are hampered by the unclear sister group relationships.
23643117|The morphologically diverse flowers in the genus Satyrium reflect adaptations to a wide range of pollinators. Several recently discovered pollination systems in Satyrium are described and illustrated here; these include pollination by solitary bees, carrion flies, butterflies and moths. Two basic types of floral mechanism are recognised in Satyrium: (1) Species pollinated by lepidoptera and birds have long floral spurs and plate-like viscidia seated in lateral rostellum notches; these viscidia become attached to the proboscis or bill of the pollinator. (2) Species pollinated by flies and bees have relatively short floral spurs and globose viscidia seated in terminal rostellum notches; these viscidia become attached to the face, thorax or eyes of the pollinator.
23643779|Classification within the genus Rosa is problematic due to  continuous variation of morphological characters. The dogroses, (Rosa, section Caninae) are classified only by their unique meiotic system not by directly visible characters. The intrasectional structure remains insufficient, as the characters (glands, hairs and prickles) are known to exhibit great morphological divergence affected by both genetic plasticity and environmental influences. Taxonomy of dogroses follows a highly artificial system which allows us to identify morphospecies, which are not necessarily evolutionary species. However, SEM-studies in the Caninae revealed that all taxa of the subsection Rubiginosae are characterised by a granule type of epicuticular waxes, whereas members from the other subsections (with three exceptions) form triangular rodlets. Comparison with specimens grown under the same conditions confirmed these findings on natural populations and additionally revealed that following artificial hybridism, off-spring develop the maternal type of wax structure due to the matroclinal inheritance in this section.
23656069|Populational variations of Echium italicum were analysed based on RAPD, fatty acid and micromorphological patterns of the nutlets. Some minor differences in nutlet morphology and the surface sculpturing were detected. Total oil concentrations ranged from 19.3 [A2(E)] to 23.5 % (A1) among the populations. Significant variations between accessions were detected for fatty acid concentrations. Major unsaturated fatty acids were alphalinolenic, linoleic, oleic, stearidonic and gamma-linolenic acids respectively. The highest values for stearidonic (15.48 %) and gamma-linolenic acid (7.66 %) were obtained from A2(E) population. The total amplified products of 15 RAPD primers was 220 (average of 14.6 bands per primer), of which 156 bands were polymorphic, corresponding to nearly 70.9 % genetic diversity. The number of bands for each RAPD primer varied from 7 (OPD14) to 30 (OPC6). Percent of polymorphic bands ranged from 0.7 % (OPC19) to 100 % (OPC4 and OPD19). Examined traits showing high polymorphism seems to be useful for the taxonomical circumscription, infraspecific delineations and segregation of the populations of E. italicum. Based on the dendrograms of RAPD and fatty acid data, investigated accessions may be separated into subgroups A1, C2, and Irano-Turanian and Mediterranean. Obtained results may be also evaluated for characterization of E. italicum germplasm in selection of high yield genotypes for the production of long chain omega-3 PUFAs including SDA and GLA, and improvement of oil crops in the field.
23674490|Based on personal collections of Globba unifolia Ridl. and G. unifolia var. sessiliflora Holtt., the latter is recognized as a distinct species. As the name G. sessiliflora is already occupied, the nomen novum G. corneri is proposed in honour of Prof. Dr E. J. H. Corner, who was the first collector of the plant.
23643046|Plant samples collected from 17 populations of 9 taxa of the genera Dianthus, Minuartia, Scleranthus, and Silene (Caryophyllaceae), growing in 14 metalliferous sites of N Greece, and surface soil samples from their growth area were analysed for Cu, Pb, Zn, Cd, Ni, Cr, Fe, Mn, Ca, Mg. Metal uptake varies considerably between the populations. A resistance mechanism excluding Cu and Pb from the aerial parts of the plants over a wide range of the soil concentrations up to a critical soil level appeared to exist, whereas Zn concentrations in plants were analogously related to those of the soil. Scleranthus perennis subsp. perennis showed the highest Cu concentration (205 g/g), whereas Minuartia cf. bulgarica hyperaccumulated Pb (1175 g/g). Ca concentrations in plants were in most cases much higher than those in soil, whereas the contrary was true for Mg. As a result the Ca/Mg ratio, which was in almost all cases lower than 1 in the soil, was much increased in the plants.
23669763|Three species and two natural hybrids of Prosopis from the Entre Rios province of Argentina are compared morphologically, cytologically and chromatographically. It is possible to identify them by their chromatograms. There is a seasonal variation in about one third of the phenolic compounds analysed, a phenomenon that should be considered for chemosystematical conclusions. The results show many affinities between P. alba and P. nigra, whereas P. affinis apparently is more isolated. From the frequence of the hybrids, their fertility and their meiotic behaviour one can evaluate the isolation barriers between these species.
23645368|A recent study in a natural grassland in Argentina revealed that grazing strongly reduced the available pollinators for a population of Cypella herbertii. Comparing grazed and fenced areas (exclosures) we tested the hypothesis that self-incompatibility would be selected against in a pollinator-poor environment leading to changes in breeding system. No differences in breeding system were found between populations from inside and outside exclosures. However, we detected: (i) C. herbertii clearly exhibits a mixedmating system but has a remarkably low spontaneous fruit formation; (ii) this species though highly self-compatible expresses a significant decay at seed set stage when self-pollinated. We conclude that grazing impact on pollinators together with C. herbertii's high dependence on pollinators should be considered when assessing the risk of extinction of this species.
23642480|The valva of the diatom Attheya decora is formed within a silica deposition vesicle which enlarges centrifugally by the fusion of small vesicles. The silica deposition vesicle can already be seen when the spindle has not yet disappeared completely. Valva formation seems to begin with the shaping of an organic matrix within a silica deposition vesicle. Later, this material silicifies. The complicated shape of the labiate process is preformed by the silica deposition vesicle, the inner membrane of which is associated with electron dense material on both faces. The horns are formed when the expanding silica deposition vesicle has reached the cell corners. They are elaborated without participation of microtubules. Swelling of local depositions of polysaccharides seems to provide the forces that spread the silicified horns during daughter cell separation and to cause the local spontaneous plasmolyses under the valva and along the cell flanks in the region of the intercalary bands. The inner organic wall layers and the organic continuations of the intercalary bands are formed on the surface of the plasmalemma; each of the continuations is produced simultaneously with the intercalary band belonging to it and becomes attached to the latter when the silica deposition vesicle opens.
23642367|Vicia sativa L. s. l. is presented as a variable complex consisting of 7 subspecies, including wild types, weedy races and cultivated derivatives. The group is characterized by: (a) Decreasing aneuploid (dysploid) chromosome series (2n = 14 12 10,); (b) wide variation in karyotypes; (c) pronounced weediness and colonization of disturbed habitats; (d) cohabitation of several forms; (e) intergradations between the main morphological types; (f) predominance of self-pollination; (g) lack of full sterility between the main chromosome types. Plants with different chromosome numbers or different karyotypes are loosely interconnected by occasional hybridization, particularly in disturbed habitats. Colonization appears to be associated with reticulate evolution and the recombination of previously separated gene pools. The wide karyotypic polymorphism characteristic for this complex is interpreted as a result of such relatively recent processes.
23674421|The type specimens of P. malaianus Miquel collected by Teijsman are not identical with P. wrightii Morong, a species called P. "malaianus" in Japan and elsewhere; they belong to P. nodosus. As a possible candidate for the correct name, P. sumatranus Miquel was studied: its exact identity, however, cannot be proved beyond doubt, even though the name refers at least partly to P. wrightii. That is why Potamogeton wrightii Morong is proposed as the valid name of the species. A thorough description is provided including data on anatomy, morphology, life history, variability and ecology. A complete list of specimens, of synonyms and of misidentifications is given as well. The species shows a fuzzy structure with several special forms, intergrading hybrids; it is closely related with other taxa like P. sumatranus. Still a great number of specimens cannot be assigned with certainty to any taxon.
23642091|On the basis of symposium contributions on Chlorella, Hibbertia, Eucalyptus, Ambrosia and on numerical approaches some fundamental problems of (bio)systematics, evolution, and taxonomic categories are discussed: Methods available for analysing "affinities"; conflicting evidence from phenetic, biochemical, cytogenetic and other analyses; further classification problems in cases of "intermediacy", etc. While "sibs" of various levels and their "natural" hierarchy often can be objectively defined, this appears impossible for particular taxonomic levels itself (e. g. "species"). A single objective taxonomic system of organisms is unrealistic. Certain guiding lines for relative and practicable concepts of "species" and "genus" are proposed.
23643316|Electrophoretic examination of various Pinus species from both subgenera revealed that several taxa differ in the number of loci that control the enzyme system 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGDH). Based on inheritance analyses and published data, it was established that all species of subg. Pinus possess only two 6PGDH loci, whereas all stone pines of subg. Strobus exhibit four controlling loci. In order to trace the phylogenetic links at which one or two gene duplications occurred during pine evolution, several species of subsect. Strobi (section Strobus) and two species of sect. Parrya were additionally investigated. Based on conclusions about the uniqueness of gene duplications and the different numbers of 6PGDH loci, a phylogenetic tree of the pine taxa was constructed. This tree shows some new features not recognized in earlier studies and supports several novel assignments postulated in very recent pine classifications.
23642768|Valeriana officinalis s. l. is an extremely polymorphic polyploid complex. A multivariate morphometric study is the only adequate method to cope with the diversity largely based on quantitative differences. 50 morphological characters have been carefully chosen with regard to their expected taxonomic relevance. The use of program packages for (multivariate) statistical and taxometric evaluation of the data has been made possible by the development of a series of computer programs. They allow different manipulations of the data as well as the extraction of distance or similarity matrices from mixed-type data (i.e. data containing quantitative as well as binary characters). In addition, a computer-based study of the relationships between variables has been carried out by a grouping of variables into subsets according to their B-coefficients (being defined as the ratio of the average of the intercorrelations among the variables of a group to their average correlations with the remaining variables). This technique can also be applied in cases where parts of the material show extremely different correlation patterns, as in Valeriana officinalis s. l.
23643160|The two closely related species Lycopsis variegata and Anchusa cretica, formerly placed in Anchusa subg. Rivinia, were compared with the type species of Lycopsis and Anchusa, on the basis of a set of macro and microcharacters. The presence of only two fertile stamens as well as other peculiar characters in flower structure, androecium, gynoecium, pollen and fruit, supports the institution of the new genus Anchusella, consisting of A. variegata and A. cretica. Karyological and eco-chorological aspects are consistent with morphological data in pointing to the autonomy of this genus, which appears characterized by autapomorphic, advanced traits.
23643516|A broad comparative analysis reveals that the inflorescences of core Malvales, families Sterculiaceae, Tiliaceae, Bombacaceae and Malvaceae, include characteristic repeating units. The basic repeating unit is called bicolor unit (after Theobroma bicolor, where it was first observed). It is determinate and bears three bracts, one of which is invariably sterile, whereas the others subtend lateral cymes or single flowers. Through the demonstration of intermediate steps in closely related taxa the triad of bracts within a bicolor unit and the trimerous malvalean epicalyx are shown to be homologous. Various possibilities for an origin of the bicolor unit are discussed. Bicolor units are variously arranged to form complete inflorescences. In many taxa they are terminal on modules that comprise two (or fewer) prophylls. These modules may be arranged in elongated anthocladia or condensed sympodia, which in turn may constitute components of higher order inflorescence structures. The presence of the bicolor unit or its derivatives links Sterculiaceae, Tiliaceae, Bombacaceae and Malvaceae. It is absent from all other families included in a broader defined order Malvales and represents one of the rare morphological synapomorphies of core Malvales. Furthermore, inflorescence morphology provides characters of systematic significance for various taxa within core Malvales.
23673180|This work describes the leaf anatomy of 16 species belonging to three genera of the Malpighiaceae family found in the Cerrado (Minas Gerais State, Brazil). The scope of this study was to support the generic delimitation by contributing to the identification of the species and constructing a dichotomous identification key that includes anatomical characters. The taxonomic characters that were considered to be the most important and used in the identification key for the studied Malpighiaceae species were as follows: the presence and location of glands; presence of phloem in the medullary region of the midrib; mesophyll type; presence and type of trichomes; and presence, quantity, and disposition of accessory bundles in the petiole. It was also possible to indicate promising characters for future taxonomic and phylogenetic studies in the Malpighiaceae family, especially for the Banisteriopsis, Byrsonima, and Heteropterys genera.
23642687|Arthopyrenia endobrya from Southern Brazil is illustrated and described as a new species of lichens. The thallus is composed of filamentous green algae loosely surrounded by fungal hyphae. Both symbionts grow endophytically within the leaf cells of two species of Lejeuneaceae (Hepaticae). The algae and hyphae penetrate the cell walls of the host by means of fine perforations. The ascocarps develop between the leaves and perforate them with their apical region. The classification as a member of the genus Arthopyrenia is preliminary. Arthopyrenia endobrya aus Sdbrasilien wird als neue Flechte beschrieben und abgebildet. Der Thallus besteht aus von Hyphen locker umschlungenen Grnalgenfden. Beide Partner leben rein endophytisch innerhalb der Blattzellen zweier Arten der Lebermoosfamilie Lejeuneaceae. Bei der Ausbreitung werden die Zellwnde des Wirtes von den Algen und Hyphen unter Verengung durchwachsen. Die Ascocarpien bilden sich zwischen den Blttern, die sie mit dem Scheitel durchbrechen. Die Zuteilung zu Arthopyrenia ist vorlufig.
23673935|Characters that have the potential to alter the breeding system of Geranium caespitosum were investigated. The characters differ mechanistically, functioning either endogenously and independent of pollen transfer, or exogenously by influencing pollen transfer. Little variation in self-fertility (endogenous mechanism) was measured among populations from different elevations grown in a common garden. Variation in floral morphology (exogenous mechanism) was limited and unlikely to create a change in the breeding system. Macroscopic variation (exogenous mechanism), including gynodioecy, sexual specialization, and pollen sterility, was observed in extreme elevation populations and probably has a sizeable effect on the breeding system.
23642189|Quantified C-band karyograms are presented for the related species Scilla siberica, S. mordakiae, S. ingridae, S. amoena, and S. mischtschenkoana. Chromosome structure, banding style, and heterochromatin characters suggest a systematic grouping of two more closely related species pairs : S. siberica and S. mordakiae, S. ingridae and S. amoena; they are part of a larger aggregate, well separated from S. mischtschenkoana. Four different heterochromatin fractions can be recognized in S. siberica and its relatives, but only two in S. mischtschenkoana. C-bands do not "replace", but they are added to euchromatin. The particular origin and history of the cultivated S. amoena and the triploid S. siberica cv. "Spring Beauty" appear to be responsible for their karyotype constancy, but chromosome conservatism obviously is genuine in S. mischtschenkoana. The banding data support the systematic grouping proposed on a morphological basis, and provide additional evolutionary evidence.
23655923|The Bulbophyllum exaltatum complex comprises 15 described taxa, and present a number of unresolved taxonomic questions, especially among populations found in the Brazilian campo rupestre vegetation. Allozymes were examined in 33 populations to determine the degree of genetic variability between them and their degree of differentiation to better define the taxa of this group. Additionally morphometric analyses were also performed on representatives of 24 populations. All of the populations examined demonstrated high levels of variability and none of the species formed distinct groups comprising all of the conspecific populations. However, the populations primarily grouped according to their regional occurrence, with a distinction between populations of the states of Minas Gerais and Bahia, which coincided with the geophysical disjunction of the mountain chains where they occur. It is probable that hybridization or incipient differentiation is contributing to the elevated genetic identity observed among the populations, generating a reticulated grouping pattern.
23642816|The structure of the massulae composing the pollinium of Loroglossum hircinum was studied before pollination and 12 and 24 hours afterwards. The grains are grouped in tetrads closely packed in massulae. The exine is only present on the outside of the massulae. The intine consists of two layers: a compact layer surrounding the pollen grain and a looser layer surrounding the pollen grain and a looser layer surrounding the tetrad. Twelve hours after pollination, pollen volume and the space between the tetrads increase due to vacuolization. Twenty-four hours after pollination, pollen volume and tetrad spacing are higher due to vacuolization and some grains have emitted pollen tubes. Pollen growth due to vacuole formation, and the absence of common walls between adjacent tetrads lead to crumbling of the massulae. The mature pollen grain does not have apertures: the site of pollen tube emission is determined after pollination. The first grains to germinate are those in the centre of the massula. The vegetative cell nucleus is the first to enter the pollen tube; the generative cell elongates and undergoes the second haploid mitosis shortly after entering the pollen tube.
23664057|Many terrestrial orchids are relatively rare, and their populations are small and spatially isolated. Population genetics theory predicts that populations of such species, affected historically by random genetic drift, would maintain low levels of genetic diversity and exhibit a high degree of among-population divergence. To test this prediction, I used enzyme electrophoresis. Genetic diversity within populations of the four rare, terrestrial orchids Gymnadenia cucullata (four populations) and its congener G. camtschatica (four populations), Amitostigma gracile (four populations in one region and three in another region), and Pogonia minor (three populations each in two regions) was investigated in South Korea at the landscape level. As predicted, populations of the four species harbor low levels of genetic diversity within populations: the mean percentage of polymorphic loci, %P, the mean number of alleles per locus, A, and the average expected heterozygosity, He, were 12.5%, 1.13, and 0.036 for G. cucullata, respectively; 18.2%, 1.18, and 0.067 for G. camtschatica; 3.0%, 1.04, and 0.009 for A. gracile; and 2.7%, 1.06, and 0.014 for P. minor. Except for G. camtschatica (FST = 0.000), a significantly high degree of genetic divergence between conspecific populations was detected in the other three species: FST = 0.081 for G. cucullata; 0.348 and 0.811 in two regions for A. gracile; and 0.469 and 0.758 in two regions for P. minor. In addition, individuals within populations are highly structured in the four species (overall FIS = 0.276 for G. cucullata; 0.308 for G. camtschatica; 0.758 for A. gracile; and 0.469 for P. minor), suggesting that selfing, biparental inbreeding, and/or consanguineous mating have occurred in populations of the four species. With the exception of G. camtschatica, an allele at a locus is fixed in a population, whereas alternative alleles with low or high frequencies are detected in another population across the landscape. My results suggest that evolutionary histories of G. cucullata, A. gracile, and P. minor are different from G. camtschatica. Historical genetic drift would be an important force shaping the genetic structure of the Korean populations of G. cucullata, A. gracile, and P. minor. For G. camtschatica on Ulleung Island, relatively higher levels of genetic variation within populations compared to its congener G. cucullata (He = 0.067 vs. 0.036) and little evidence of population genetic structure among populations (FST = 0.000) suggest that individuals were, presumably, once continuously distributed on Ulleung Island, and populations have recently been isolated by habitat fragmentation through natural succession (e.g,. probably the encroachment of woody vegetation on grasslands) or human-mediated disturbances (e.g., collections). Thus, conservation strategies for the four species should be differently developed in order to preserve genetic diversity in South Korea.
23644175|For the first time, a combined analysis of the ITS1 regions of all twenty-five Sorghum species has been undertaken. Parsimony analysis revealed a distinct lineage of Sorghum consisting of the cultivated species and their progenitors plus S. angustum, S. brachypodum, S. ecarinatum, S. macrospermum, S. laxiflorum and Saccharum officinarum. A second unsupported lineage consists of the Parasorghum and Stiposorghum species S. grande, S. leiocladum, S. nitidum, S. purpureosericeum, S. timorense, S. versicolor, S. amplum, S. bulbosum, S. interjectum, S. plumosum, S. stipoideum and the African grass Cleistachne sorghoides. Three Australian endemic species, S. angustum, S. brachypodum and S. ecarinatum, are closely related to S. bicolor, with S. angustum showing no difference to S. bicolor in ITS1 sequence. Sorghum macrospermum and S. laxiflorum form a strong clade within the Eusorghum branch indicating closer relationships to this group than to any of the Parasorghum or Stiposorghum species. Saccharum officinarum has shown closer relationships to Sorghum than to Zea mays, while the close relationship of Cleistachne sorghoides to Sorghum has been confirmed. These relationships between Sorghum species provide an important guide for plant breeders to exploit the wider Sorghum genepool through crosses between wild and cultivated species in an effort to improve sorghum production.
43496728|The reproductive biology of three sympatric species Pitcairnia flammea, P. corcovadensis and P. albiflos (Bromeliaceae) was studied on Corcovado Mountain in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Controlled pollination experiments were also conducted using plants transplanted to a greenhouse. The three species are self-compatible and interspecifically cross compatible. Pitcairnia corcovadensis was principally an autonomous self-pollinator, having scarce pollinator activity, anthers and stigmas at the same level, and absence of nectar. In P. flammea, many flowers opened per day, the stigma and anther were close to each other, and its nectar was regularly consumed by hummingbirds; all factors that promote geitonogamy in this species. Although fully self-compatible, P. albiflos always opened a few flowers per days showing an adaptation to cross-pollination. Observations during two flowering seasons showed that despite different times for peak flowering, blooming of these three species overlapped in April. They grow in mixed clumps that may facilitate promiscuous pollination between them but no intermediate forms were observed under natural conditions. The absence of temporal isolation, geographic isolation and isolation via post-pollination reproduction suggests that evolution toward selfing was important to avoid hybridization between these sympatric species.
23643191|The phylogeny of suprageneric groups in Cyperaceae has been examined by cladistic analysis of rbcL sequence data of 80 species in 40 genera. The results support the family as monophyletic and derived from a juncaceous grade. Oxychloe (Juncaceae) has moderate support as the sister taxon to Cyperaceae. Several monophyletic groups correspond to previously recognised tribes, and some similarities are noted between this analysis and previous cladistic analyses of primarily morphological data. Support is also given for the removal of Hellmuthia from tribe Hypolytreae, the transfer of Isolepis nodosa to Ficinia, and the inclusion of Oxycaryum and Kyllingiella in tribe Cypereae. A polytomy comprising Cyperus, Juncellus, Kyllinga and Pycreus indicates a broader circumscription of Cyperus. The greatest uncertainty lies with the generic and tribal status of the Scirpeae.
23674277|Characteristic features of rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) distribution and proliferation were noted during olive pollen (Olea europaea L.) development, suggesting the physiological significance of this organelle. Initially scarce in the young microspore, ER increases as cytoplasmic vacuoles form. At the vacuolated microspore stage the cytoplasm contains numerous polysomes and elongated rER cisternae arranged preferentially in stacks, with an average intracisternal width of 0.07 m. Stacks persist in the bicellular pollen grain but consist of fewer, shorter, dilated cisternae (mean intracisternal width 0.1 m) containing a considerable electron-dense matrix. Cisternae in the mature grain are fragmented, leaving behind an ER of swollen pockets. Pockets of ER containing a material of greater electron density are evenly deposited along the plasmalemma, in close relation with it. A dense material is seen in the tubules of the apertural region, which was lacking in earlier stages. Our results show that ER may be involved in protein transport to the intine.
23673117|We studied the population genetic and clonal structure of the endangered long-lived perennial plant Narcissus pseudonarcissus using random amplified polymorphic markers. Estimates for mean gene diversity within 15 populations of N. pseudonarcissus of three neighbouring geographical regions were high in comparison to other long-lived perennials (HeN = 0.33). The genetic diversity of the two smallest populations (<200 plants) was significantly reduced, indicating loss of genetic variability due to drift. The analysis of the population genetic structure revealed a significant genetic differentiation both between regions (ST = 0.06) and between populations within regions (ST = 0.20). However, there was incomplete correspondence between geographical regions and the population genetic structure. In order to preserve the overall genetic variation in wild populations of N. pseudonarcissus, management measures should thus aim to protect many populations in each region. The spatial genetic structure within populations of N. pseudonarcissus was in agreement with an isolation by distance model indicating limited gene flow due to pollinator behaviour and restricted seed dispersal. The very restricted spatial extent of clonal growth (<5 cm) and the high level of clonal diversity indicate that clonal growth in N. pseudonarcissus is not an important mode of propagation and that management measures should favour sexual reproduction in order to avoid further reductions in the size and number of populations.
23642745|Cousinia gigantoptera Rech. f. & Podl., sp. n., described from the type collection from Takhar province, has a unique broadly winged stem and cannot be placed in any of the sections (sect. Racemosae?).C. acanthodendron, described from the type collection from Samangan province, probably belongs to sect. Actinia and is related to C. pseudactinia and C. rudis.For C. pseudactinia, C. rudis, and C. tirinensis new records are given.The descriptions of C. rudis and C. tirinensis are completed and by that the placement of the latter within sect. Pugioniferae is confirmed.
23642853|Seventy populations of North American annual Microseris, Stebbinsoseris, and Uropappus species were examined for chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal DNA restriction site variability to determine the origin of the allotetraploid species S. heterocarpa and S. decipiens. Previously identified chloroplast DNA restriction site variants were used in concert with restriction site variation for Nco I in the nuclear-encoded ribosomal DNA repeat. The presence of two, mutually exclusive restriction site gains were observed in diploid populations of M. douglasii; these same variants were also found in populations of allotetraploid S. heterocarpa, indicating mutiple origins of this species from different maternal diploid populations of M. douglasii. Variation in the rDNA repeat between the diploid annual species and the putative paternal genome of U. lindleyi was found to be additive in S. heterocarpa. A similar relationship was observed for the origin of S. decipiens; cpDNA restriction site variants found in M. bigelovii and M. douglasii were present in S. decipiens. The rDNA Nco I variants also were additive in this purported allotetraploid. These results confirm the reticulate evolutionary pattern in Stebbinsoseris and provide another example of multiple origins of intergeneric allopolyploids.
23645243|We investigated the reproductive biology of Crotalaria micans, a colonizing species that occurs in disturbed sites. The flowers have two whorls of stamens with differential growth and dimorphic anthers. The inner anthers serve two functions: 1) to cooperate with the stylar brush in the pollen presentation, and 2) to push the remaining pollen within the keel onto the stigma at the end of the receptivity period. Flowers pass through three phases: a) male phase, when outer anthers release their pollen, but stigmas are not receptive; b) female phase, when stigmas are receptive, but still separated from flowers' own pollen, and c) an autogamous phase, when the round anthers grow towards the stigma, leading to delayed autonomous self-pollination. Because C. micans is completely self-compatible, delayed self-pollination and geitonogamy result in approximately 76% of seeds being self-fertilized.
23674634|In the flowers of Apios americana the vexillum remains  in its bud position. In this way, a dark cavity is formed displaying a bright window at its base. Insect visitors are attracted to the hidden inflorescences by scent. In their attempt to reach the window they trigger an explosive release of stigma and pollen. Stigmatic fluid glues pollen to the visitor. All characters of the flower fit well into the myiophilous syndrome and thus flies are expected to be the proper pollinators. Apios americana seems to be the only myiophilous exception within the predominantly melittophilous Fabaceae.
23644040|Aeschynanthus Jack, an epiphytic genus with c.160 species, is widespread in SE Asia. We selected 50 species for ITS nrDNA sequencing, to include all biogeographic areas and all infrageneric groupings, which are currently based on seed morphology. Some species were sequenced directly from PCR product; others cloned because of ITS length polymorphisms. The clone sequences were analysed individually and combined in an elision matrix. Results extend earlier findings that Aeschynanthus is divided into two clades, one occurring primarily in mainland SE Asia and the other in Malesia. This pattern is interpreted as indicating an ancient vicariance event followed by dispersal and plate fusion. Clade I has straight or clockwise spiral orientation of the testa cells and clade II anticlockwise spiral orientation. In clade I some species of section Microtrichium form a basal group with other sections being polyphyletic or paraphyletic. In clade II the monophyletic section Aeschynanthus is nested within the paraphyletic basal Microtrichium.
23643361|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was used to determine genetic relationships among P. mariana (black spruce), P. rubens (red spruce), and P. glauca (white spruce) and to assess the degree of polymorphism within populations from different provenances and among spruce hybrids. Eleven arbitrary decamer primers were used to amplify genomic DNAs extracted from embryogenic cultures and seedlings. Species-specific RAPD markers were identified. Picea mariana and P. rubens showed similar RAPD profiles confirming their close genetic relationship. Species-specific RAPD markers were identified and were useful in distinguishing white spruce from black and red spruces. RAPD differentiation between populations within each species was small. The level of polymorphism was much higher in spruce hybrid populations than in the pure species. Cytological analysis of P. mariana  P. rubens hybrids showed normal mitotic behaviour at prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase. All the hybrids analyzed from different cross combinations were euploids.
23645090|In Belgium, at the western border of its continental distribution range, the perennial herb S. nutans has evolved two parapatric ecotypes (calcicolous or silicicolous), which show contrasted allozyme, morphological and adaptive patterns, and isolating reproductive barriers. We examined allozyme variation in 21 populations close to Belgium (from France and Luxemburg) in relation to their peripheral or central geographical position, and investigated their genetic relationships with the Belgian ecotypes. Both peripheral and central populations showed high genetic variation. They were differentiated from each other, but not in relation to the substrate (calcareous or siliceous). The peripheral and central populations were related to the Belgian silicicolous and calcicolous ecotype, respectively. This suggests an ancient differentiation and different past histories for the Belgian ecotypes, and parapatric speciation processes. This study exemplifies the high evolutionary potential of populations at range peripheries and the need for considering them in conservation strategies.
23644051|A data matrix of 143 morphological and chemical characters for 142 genera of euasterids according to the APG system was compiled and complemented with rbcL and ndhF sequences for most of the genera. The data were subjected to parsimony analysis and support was assessed by bootstrapping. Strict consensus trees from analyses of morphology alone and morphology + rbcL + ndhF are presented. The morphological data recover several groups supported by molecular data but at the level of orders and above relationships are only superficially in agreement with molecular studies. The analyses provide support for monophyly of Gentianales, Aquifoliales, Apiales, Asterales, and Dipsacales. All data indicate that Adoxaceae are closely related to Dipsacales and hence they should be included in that order. The trees were used to assess some possible morphological synapomorphies for euasterids I and II and for the orders of the APG system. Euasterids I are generally characterised by opposite leaves, entire leaf margins, hypogynous flowers, "early sympetaly" with a ring-shaped corolla primordium, fusion of stamen filaments with the corolla tube, and capsular fruits. Euasterids II often have alternate leaves, serrate-dentate leaf margins, epigynous flowers, "late sympetaly" with distinct petal primordia, free stamen filaments, and indehiscent fruits. It is unclear which of these characters represent synapomorphies and symplesiomorphies for the two groups, respectively, and there are numerous expections to be interpreted as reversals and parallelisms.
23642105|Taraxacum waltheri Doll is a new triploid microspecies from sect. Erythrocarpa. Chromosome numbers and pollen conditions are reported, and a distribution map is given for several rare Oriental microspecies. Eine triploide Taraxacum-Kleinart aus sect. Erythrocarpa wird neu beschrieben: Taraxacum waltheri Doll. Auerdem werden fr eine Reihe von seltenen orientalischen Klein-Arten erstmalig Chromosomenzahlen, Pollenverhltnisse und chorologische Daten mitgeteilt.
23642104|A new species, Thomsonia sumawongii Bogner, is described from Thailand. Relationships to Th. napalensis and between Thomsonia, Pseudodracontium and Amorphophallus are discussed. Allopythion hookeri Schott has to be eliminated as dubious. Eine neue Thomsonia-Art aus Thailand, Th. sumawongii Bogner, wird beschrieben und ihre Verwandtschaft diskutiert. Typische Merkmale von Th. sumawongii sind eine unregelmig ellipsoide bis zylindrische Knolle, eine kegelfrmige Appendix mit gut entwickelten Staminodien und eine diskusfrmige, sitzende Narbe.
23674304|Relationships among Geranium species constituting sectt. Anemonifolia, Lucida (monotypic) and Ruberta together with representatives of sect. Unguiculata were investigated by gas-chromatographic study of essential oils, electrophoretic comparison of seed proteins and chromatographic separation of nectar amino acids.  Essential oil study gave little information. G. macrorrhizum (sect. Unguiculata) had far greater quantities of essential oils in its foliage than other species and differed from them qualitatively.  Species of sectt. Anemonifolia and Ruberta, together with G. cataractarum (sect. Unguiculata), between them yielded 19 seed protein bands; the distribution of these indicated close relationship among the species and was consistent with hypotheses for the origin of certain species by allo- and autopolyploidy partly within the group. Involvement of an unknown species in the origin of two allopolyploids was implied. Separate origins for the two octoploid species in this set are also inferred. In two instances there was evidence for the transformation of one band into another subsequent to the separation of related species. The inference of allopolyploidy was supported by the occurrence of additivity of parental bands shown by an artificial hybrid between two of the species. A model for the evolutionary divergence of the seed protein patterns is presented. Two species outside the above set appeared less closely related; they were G. lucidum and G. macrorrhizum (sect. Unguiculata) and between them they showed 6 additional bands, four of which were shared.  Of 18 nectar amino acids found, 4 to 15 occurred in any one species, with low numbers (4 and 8) occurring in the most extreme inbreeders. The spectra of nectar amino acids of two hybrids showed additivity of those of the respective parents. The results echo rather closely those provided by seed proteins, but in the absence of data from outside the group their taxonomic significance is uncertain. However, the divergence between the two octoploids was again evident.
43558184|The karyotype of the recently described species Clivia mirabilis was analyzed by differential chromosome staining with Giemsa, chromomycin, and DAPI and by fluorescence in-situ hybridization with 5S and 45S rDNA probes. Like the other five Clivia species it was shown to have a unique karyotype, although its karyotype was similar in several respects to that of C. gardenii, differing in having only one pair of chromosomes with CMA bands compared with two pairs in C. gardenii and lacking any DAPI-positive bands. The evolutionary relationships of the species and their karyotypes are discussed.
23673932|Flowers of Eucalyptus cleziana have two clearly distinct perianth whorls. The small free parts of the outer (calycine) whorl cease growth early and are lost from the flower; the parts of the inner (corolline) whorl become continuous laterally by confluence of growth centres and form an operculum in the mature flower. The stamens are inserted on a circumfloral buttress (staminophore) that is homologous to the adaxial corolline component in Angophora and the bloodwood and Eudesmia eucalypts. Flowers of Monocalyptus have only one perianth whorl, which is opercular. The stamens are similarly inserted on a circumfloral buttress. Developmental study does not provide conclusive evidence for either a calycine or corolline determination of the Monocalyptus operculum, but comparison with other eucalypt groups, including E. cleziana (the sister taxon), predicts an essentially corolline composition.
23669406|Prof. Werner Rauh (19132000) was the director at Heidelberg Botanical Garden and Herbarium for several decades and until his retirement in 1994, he undertook more than 36 expeditions, mainly to South and Central America as well as to southern Africa and in particular to Madagascar. From these journeys, he brought back innumerable plants to the Botanical Garden Heidelberg, especially succulents, bromeliads and orchids, which are a valuable part of today's living collection and of the Herbarium. During his expeditions, he wrote more than 90 booklets with detailed information not only about the plants collected, but also about the vegetation and geology of the regions he visited. The heart of the presented Werner Rauh Heritage project is a relational database to store the heterogeneous information found in these field books, as well as to link the information to actual taxonomy and to the garden's existing database, the living collection and numerous plant type material. A number of powerful tools are being developed to enable researchers to search the database for cross-linked information including Rauh's original field numbers and the place of collection. The central part of the Werner Rauh Heritage Project database is a look-up table with the geo-referenced itineraries of Werner Rauh's journeys and another table with all taxa entries listed in any field book. Tables with synonyms, basionyms and protologue data are included as well as numerous images and links to other taxonomic databases such as IPNI and TROPICOS.
23644352|Using two molecular data sets, the plastid atpB-rbcL intergenic spacer region and the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS), the taxonomic affinities of two newly available Anemone species from the Southern Hemisphere were tested. From previous work based on morphology and geographic distribution, it was assumed that A. tenuicaulis from New Zealand was most closely related to the Tasmanian A. crassifolia, whereas the affinity of A. antucensis from Chile and Argentina was regarded as uncertain. Analyses of molecular sequence data from these and 18 other species of Anemone s.lat. (with Clematis as outgroup) result in trees largely congruent with past analyses based on morphology and plastid restriction site data. They strongly support A. richardsonii and A. canadensis (with boreal distributions in the Northern Hemisphere) as paraphyletic to a well supported Southern Hemisphere clade consisting of A. antucensis and A. tenuicaulis. This group of four species is part of an otherwise predominantly Northern Hemisphere assemblage (subgenus Anemonidium s.lat., chromosome base number x = 7), including A. narcissiflora, A. obtusiloba, A. keiskeana and A. (= Hepatica) americana. All other austral species included in the present sampling, A. crassifolia (Tasmania), A. knowltonia (= Knowltonia capensis), and A. caffra (both South African), form a separate clade, sister to A. (= Pulsatilla) occidentalis and other Northern Hemisphere anemones (subgenus Anemone s.lat., x = 8). Possible phytogeographical links of the Southern Hemisphere species are discussed.
23675282|Reproductive isolation is demonstrated between morphologically distinct, sympatric demes of four epipelic diatom species inhabiting a small pond. The six demes of Sellaphora pupula, four of them allogamous, one probably autogamous, and one apparently asexual, differ morphologically with respect to size, shape, stria density and pattern. In the pond, Caloneis silicula, Cymatopleura solea, and Neidium ampliatum each contain two allogamous demes, differing principally in size. There are intrinsic barriers to hybridization between the demes, which operate at the earliest stages of sexual reproduction. Such gamodemes are perhaps best treated taxonomically as separate species.
23645342|The systematics of the mainly yellow flowered Gagea species complex (Liliaceae) has long been considered difficult because only a few phenotypic features within this genus and as a result of hypothesized interspecific hybridisation. A molecular phylogenetic study of seven Gagea species (G. bohemica, G. lutea, G. minima, G. pomeranica, G. pratenis, G. spathacea and G. villosa) from Germany has been undertaken, based on plastid DNA sequences (trnL(UAA)-trnF(GAA), psbA-trnH) and on the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS). Sequence divergence within the Gagea species ranges up to 15.5% for psbA-trnH, 22.0% for trnL-trnF and 23.7% for ITS (ITS1 + 5.8S rRNA + ITS2). Two subspecies of Gagea bohemica: G. bohemica subsp. saxatilis and G. bohemica subsp. bohemica are characterized by trnL-trnF data and morphological features. Analysis of the ITS region shows that G. pomeranica represents a hybrid of G. pratensis and G. lutea. Lloydia serotina was initially used as an outgroup species, but it was placed within the investigated Gagea species in the psbA-trnH and the trnL-trnF phylogenetic tree.
23642862|In the diploid species P. prolifera, the evolution of autogamy has resulted in the presence of distinct selfing and outcrossing races. The change in breeding system toward autogamy is associated with a reduction in the size of floral features and a lower pollen production. The outbreeding populations have only been found in Greece, while the selfing populations have colonized much of Europe. The two races appear to be reproductively isolated from one another.  Petrorhagia sect. Kohlrauschia contains four species. P. glumacea is outbreeding and shows unilateral incompatibility with the small-flowered race of P. prolifera and interfertility with the large-flowered race; although P. glumacea is sympatric with the large-flowered race, they do not appear to hybridize in the wild. Amongst the allopatric species, internal breeding barriers are also found. These may take the form of hybrid sterility or seed incompatibility. P. velutina is autogamous and reproductively isolated from all the other species of the section regardless of whether they are sympatric or allopatric. It is suggested that the evolution of autogamy has been an important factor in the spread of P. velutina, the tetraploid P. nanteuilii, and the small-flowered race of P. prolifera in Europe.
23673110|Chromosome numbers are reported for 29 populations of 19 Vernonieae taxa collected mainly in the northeastern region of Brazil. Among them, data for five genera (Blanchetia, Rolandra, Pithecoseris, Stilpnopappus and Vanillosmopsis) are here reported for the first time, and the first chromosome counts are presented for 12 species. Chromosome numbers are quite diverse among and sometimes within genera, especially in the controversial and large subtribe Vernoniinae. The numbers varied from 2n = 18 to 2n = 72. The main karyoevolutionary mechanism seems to be dysploidy, while polyploidy is probably associated with ancient hybridization processes generating most paleotetraploid genera. All studied species presented semi-reticulated interphase nuclei and proximal-early condensing behavior in prophase to prometaphase. In one species (Vernonia condensata with 2n = 40) fluorochrome staining with CMA/DAPI revealed five chromosome pairs bearing subterminal CMA+/DAPI- heterochromatin, probably NOR-associated, revealing the existence of low amounts of satellite DNA. The role of these features in the evolution of the tribe is discussed, revealing some interesting aspects for understanding of the Vernonieae karyoevolution, especially regarding neotropical members.
23643707|The Hamamelidaceae is a family that bridges the basal elements of the Rosidae and the "lower" Hamamelidae, thus a better understanding of the phylogeny of the family is important for clarifying evolutionary patterns in the diversification of eudicots. However, subfamilial as well as tribal relationships in the Hamamelidaceae have been controversial. Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast gene matK were used to study the intergeneric relationships of the family. In the phylogenetic trees, constructed using parsimony analysis, the clade containing Altingia and Liquidambar (Altingioideae) is sister to a clade that includes all other Hamamelidaceae. Exbucklandia and Rhodoleia form a clade, suggesting a close relationship between the two genera. Disanthus is sister to the monophyletic Hamamelidoideae. The paraphyletic arrangement of Disanthus, Mytilaria and Exbucklandia with respect to the Hamamelidoideae does not support the combination of these genera in one subfamily. In the Hamamelidoideae, the matK phylogeny supports the monophyly of several previously recognized groups with modifications, including the tribes Eustigmateae (incl. Molinadendron), Fothergilleae (excl. Molinadendron and Matudaea), and the subtribe Dicoryphinae. However, the Hamamelideae as traditionally circumscribed is polyphyletic. Apetaly has evolved three times independently in the Hamamelidoideae.
23657038|Genome size of 16 species of Arachis L. with x = 10 and three with x = 9 was determined. DNA content (2C) between all diploid species, varies from 2.87 pg in A. retusa to 6.59 pg in A. douradiana. Considering species with 2n = 2x = 20 of all the sections, it suggests that in the evolution of Arachis genome, both increases and diminutions of DNA content would have occurred. Species with greater DNA content are included in sections believed to have a more recent origin, whereas those that contain minor DNA belong to the oldest sections; therefore, we propose genome evolution of Arachis toward higher DNA content. Origin of the basic chromosome number x = 9 is discussed considering genome size variation between species with x = 10 and x = 9. Reduction of the DNA content after the polyploidization would have happened in A. hypogaea.
23642196|Population analyses, scatter diagrams and field observations demonstrate that Ophrys helenae is morphologically (and ecologically) well separated from the partly sympatric O. mammosa and O. ferrum-equinum in N. Greece. Hybrids with the distantly related O. mammosa are very rare.
23644088|Leaf samples of mostly herbarium specimens (237 species of 172 genera) were cleared. Internal secretory structures of large size or unusual shape were detected and observed. Selected samples were processed into resin and sectioned for light microscopy or prepared for scanning electron microscopy. Adding results from two earlier publications, our survey includes 365 species from 174 genera. Five types of internal secretory structure, mostly unknown previously in the traditional Scrophulariaceae, occur in only nine genera: 1) single-celled subepidermal idioblasts, empty at maturity, in Scrophularia and Verbascum (Lersten and Curtis 1997), 2) 216 (or more)-celled nodules, with fibrous contents, in mid-mesophyll strata of Graderia and Radamaea, 3) epithelium-lined oil cavities in Leucophyllum (Lersten and Beaman 1998) and Capraria, 4) Kranz-type enlarged bundle sheath in Anticharis, and 5) paraveinal mesophyll (PVM) in Picria and Bonnaya.
43558187|The fragrant orchid Gymnadenia conopsea s.l. is a controversial taxon with two commonly distinguished species, G. conopsea s.str. and G. densiflora. Despite morphological similarity, differentiation between the taxa has been reported for several characters; however, character variation within taxa has obviated a clear consensus. We assessed ITS sequences, microsatellite variation and chromosome numbers on the European scale (1,420 samples) and conducted morphological analyses for 626 samples from Germany. ITS analysis revealed a 2% nucleotide divergence between the taxa, similar to the divergence between other Gymnadenia species. The ITS sequences of G. densiflora form a well-supported monophyletic group sharing a most recent common ancestor with G. nigra and G. austraca. Thus, G. conopsea and G. densiflora are not sister species, and a species rank is supported for G. densiflora (Wahlenb.) Dietrich and G. conopsea (L.) R.Br. s.str. This was confirmed by the microsatellite analysis, which revealed a strong genetic differentiation between the taxa because of largely non-overlapping sets of aleles. Chromosome numbers showed that G. conopsea was either diploid or tetraploid, whereas G. densiflora was diploid throughout. Morphologically, the taxa differed significantly in the mean value of a number of diagnostic characters. However, a discriminant analysis showed that the morphological variability is substantial, and on the individual level an unequivocal assignment is not possible as 96% of G. conopsea, but only 77% of G. densiflora could be assigned correctly. Further studies are needed on character variation within and among species and ploidy levels to allow for a better identification of the genetically differentiated but morphologically similar taxa.
23656030|The pollination biology of the critically endangered Nervilia nipponica was investigated at two sites on Shikoku Island, Japan, to shed light on the species' ecological strategy and to help prioritise management decisions for its conservation. Though the solitary flowers failed to attract pollinators, high rates of fruit set were observed in control plants at both sites. Comparable rates were obtained in bagged plants and following induced autogamous and xenogamous pollinations, indicating that the species is capable of outbreeding, but self-compatible and not pollinator-limited for fruit set under natural conditions; rates were significantly lower following emasculation. The number of seeds set per fruit and their fertility did not differ significantly between open-, self- and cross-pollinated treatments. Epifluorescence microscopy revealed that, in open-pollinated plants, pollen grains germinate within the anther on the first day of anthesis, and that fertilisation occurs within the following 96 hours. The position of the stigma, which overlaps the clinandrium, friable pollinia, and the absence of a rostellum ensure efficient, non-mechanical autopollination. Though this confers reproductive assurance, inbreeding depression may be limiting fitness at subsequent stages of the recruitment cycle and low genetic diversity is inferred.
23643007|The evolution of the Australian flora through the Tertiary has not been reviewed by a megafossil palaeobotanist for almost a century. Based on material available and published studies, the Australian Tertiary can be considered in three units: Eocene, Oligo-Miocene, and Pliocene. Key taxa in the Eocene include Casuarinaceae, Proteaceae, Fagaceae, Podocarpaceae, and Lauraceae. Many known Eocene deposits are interpreted as warm, humid rainforests. Oligo-Miocene floras reflect a climatic deterioration, with greater occurrence of sclerophylly and xerophylly. A reduction of tropical taxa is seen with an increase of Myrtaceae and earliest records of Mimosaceae, Chenopodiaceae, and Poaceae. These trends continue into the Pliocene, which is not well represented in Australia. Problems needing to be addressed include the discrepancy between the pollen and megafossil records of Nothofagus, the origins of Australia's wet tropical taxa, and the role of fire in the early evolution of the Australian flora.
23674265|The comparative vegetative and reproductive morphology and anatomy of the endangered, monotypic, dicotyledonous genus Medusagyne was studied, and detailed descriptions of leaf, axis, nodal, wood, floral, pollen, fruit, and seed structure are presented. Overall, the genus has many specialized features, including the possession of extreme, habitat-related specializations. Flowers are either bisexual or staminate, and are interpreted as retaining some primitive aspects, such as many free parts spirally arranged on an elongate floral axis. One of the most salient structural features of the plant is the massive development of ensheathing fibrous elements around the vascular system of both vegetative and reproductive tissues. Diffuse foliar sclereids are absent. Particular attention is paid to the unusual multicarpellate, synovarial gynoecium and comparisons are made with the Caryocaraceae. The totality of morphological and anatomical evidence confirms the view that Medusagyne is a very distinct and evolutionarily isolated genus, best treated as forming the monotypic family Medusagynaceae. Observations are presented, including the occurrence of stamen fascicle traces, that link the family to the dillenialean and thealean assemblage. Like other isolated thealean taxa, Medusagyne shows affinities to several different families, without having especially close relationships with any particular extant taxon.
23674320|Staminate flowers of giant ragweed, Ambrosia trifida L. (Asteraceae, tribe Heliantheae, subtribe Ambrosiinae) were processed into resin and sectioned 1  2 m thick. The invasive (amoeboid) anther tapetum remains parietal until microspores are released from tetrads, then it swells and invades the locule, merging gradually into a single protoplast that flows among the microspores. After the tapetal membrane ruptures at late microspore stage, tapetal debris fills the locule, then disappears as pollen matures. Pollen becomes tricelled before anthesis. The two sperm cell nuclei are slender and wormlike. The present report supports the two generalizations that invasive tapetum and tricelled pollen are attributes of the Asteraceae.
23655700|In Tetracentron sinense of the basal eudicot family Trochodendraceae, the flower primordium, together with the much retarded floral subtending bract primordium appear to form a common primordium. The four tepals and the four stamens are initiated in four distinct alternating pairs, the first tepal pair is in transverse position. The four carpels arise in a whorl and alternate with the stamens. This developmental pattern supports the interpretation of the flower as dimerous in the perianth and androecium, but tetramerous in the gynoecium. There is a relatively long temporal gap between the initiation of the stamens and the carpels. The carpel primordia are then squeezed into the narrow gaps between the four stamens. In contrast to Trochodendron, the residual floral apex after carpel formation is inconspicuous. In their distinct developmental dimery including four tepals and four stamens, flowers of Tetracentron are reminiscent of other, related basal eudicots, such as Buxaceae and Proteaceae.
43558388|The aim of the present study was to investigate genetic variability and relationships among several hybrid cultivars and parental species of Paphiopedilum for the purposes of further breeding. Genetic information was obtained by means of phylogenetic analysis, using nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) nucleotide sequence data. Nuclear rDNA was derived from internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions, and the 5.8S regions were amplified by polymerase chain reaction. The resulting nucleotide sequences were examined and compared for genetic variability, and the relationships were analyzed by pair-wise multiple alignment. ITS region analysis revealed the following lengths of the ITS1, ITS2, and 5.8S regions: 382-428, 207-215, and 170 bp, respectively. Sequence identity at the ITS site, including the 5.8S region, ranged from 75.9 % between P. emersomi and P. sanderianum, to 99.4 % between Paphiopedilum 'Hamana Wave' and Paphiopedilum 'Kolosand'. Next, we investigated whether each of the analyzed hybrid cultivars could be identified and differentiated at the interspecies or intraspecies levels. Our phylogenetic tree revealed that hybrids derived from the subgenus Brachypetalum were clearly differentiated from those derived from the subgenus Paphiopedilum. Moreover, interspecific hybrids showed unique phylogenetic positioning among parental species, according to the ITS sequence.
23644989|We have characterized the major nectar protein (Nectarin I) from ornamental tobacco as a superoxide dismutase that functions to generate high levels of hydrogen peroxide in nectar. Other nectar functions include an anti-polygalacturonase activity that may be due to a polygalacturonase inhibiting protein (PGIP). We also examined the expression of defense related genes in the nectary gland by two independent methods. We isolated a sample of nectary-expressed cDNAs and found that 21% of these cDNAs were defense related clones. Finally, we examined the expression of a number of specific defense-related genes by hybridization to specific cDNAs. These results demonstrated that a number of specific defense genes were more strongly expressed in the floral nectary than in the foliage. Taken together these results indicate that the floral nectary gland can have specific functions in plant defense.
23674168|From middle Carboniferous coal balls leaves and stems of structurally preserved Filicalean ferns (Psalixochlaenaceae, Botryopteridaceae) are described that deviate from the normal pattern of branching. From this, interpretations are made as to the origin and relationship of axillary branching and dichotomy in this line of ferns. Their megaphylls apparently have orginated from a three-dimensional dichotomous branching system. This is inferred from the widespread occurrence of short, leafy epiphyllous buds on their fronds and is related to their habit where the leaf often plays the dominant role and effects vegetative propagation.
23655122|The common potato, tetraploid Solatium tuberosum spp. tuberosum L. (tbr), has a narrow genetic base but a large number of related tuber-bearing species that harbor genetic diversity for agronomic characters. The taxonomic status of Solatium ruiz-lealii Brcher (rzl), a diploid species endemic to Mendoza province, Argentina, is controversial. It has been described as a new species of non-hybrid origin and as a natural hybrid between S. kurtzianum Bitt. & Wittm. (ktz) and S. chacoense Bitt. (chc). The hypothesis of the hybrid origin of rzl is examined systematically for the first time by phenetic analyses of morphological and molecular (SSR markers) data, and cytological analyses of interspecific hybrids. The morphological, cytological and molecular data are congruent, and suggest that rzl is not a recent natural hybrid between the ktz and the chc populations studied but has probably originated by divergence of chc, or by hybridization between chc and another taxon.
23656029|Calyces of 306 species representing 181 out of the 236 genera of Lamiaceae have been studied with particular emphasis on the amount of fibres and similar xylem cells. A characteristic calyx tissue called "mesophyll fibres", reported by earlier authors, is found to belong to the xylem. Most species of the subfamilies Lamioideae and Scutellarioideae differ from most other labiates, and particularly from Nepetoideae, in having much larger amounts of fibres and similar xylem cells in the calyx tube. This result supports cladistic hypotheses based on cpDNA showing that Lamioideae and Scutellarioideae are closely related and remotely related to Nepetoideae. The new data also contribute to the knowledge about the phylogeny within Lamioideae. The amount of fibres and similar cells also seems to be positively correlated with calyx size, calyx width, a ballistic dispersal mechanism in Scutellaria, and the aridity of the habitat. Possible adaptive significances of these correlations are discussed.
23642352|In contrast to recent suggestions to name the Blue-Green Algae (Cyanophyceae) "Cyanobacteria", it is shown, that the old naming "Cyanophyceae" is to be preferred for morphological, biochemical and general biological reasons. Moreover, the name Cyanobacteria seduces to apply the bacterial code of nomenclature based on pure cultures. However, culture methods are shown often to be insufficient for the elucidation of morphological features and for taxonomic descriptions in Cyanophyceae. In particular, the new terminology proposed for endo- and exosporine Cyanophyceae appears inadequate and obscures their phylogenetical relationships. Reasons for the retention of the term nannocytes are discussed. An einigen markanten Beispielen wird gezeigt, da die neuerdings erhobene Forderung, Cyanophyceen anhand von Standardkulturen zu beschreiben und die Beschreibungen auf die Bestimmungen des Internationalen Bakterien-Code auszurichten, auf wesentliche Schwierigkeiten stt. Es wird auch gezeigt, da die Cyanophyceen mit guten Grnden als Algen, wenn auch prokaryotische, und nicht als Cyanobacteria anzusehen sind. Im besonderen wird gezeigt, da manche neue taxonomische Auffassungen einer auf vergleichend morphologischen Untersuchungen beruhenden Systematik, die auch bestrebt ist phylogenetische Zusammenhnge klarzustellen, nicht gerecht werden.
23655708|Turkish representatives of the genus Rhaponticoides Vaill. are examined. A key and distribution map of Rhaponticoides species occurring in Turkey are provided for the first time. R. hierroi . Eren sp. nov., from Bakacak pass in the Western Taurus range, SW Anatolia, allied to R. mykalea (Hub.-Mor.) M. V. Agab. & Greuter is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its habitat conditions and conservation status are considered. Pollen micrographs of R. hierroi and R. mykalea are presented using scanning electron microscopy.
23642856|The family Verbenaceae sensu stricto is chemically characterized by the accumulation of 10-hydroxy or 8-methyl-8-hydroxy derivatives of 4-carboxylated iridoids compounds. The former were supposed to be characteristic of some genera of tribe Lantaneae, once were never found in another tribe. This paper reports the occurrence of theviridoside (10-hydroxy-iridoid) in leaves of Verbenoxylum reitzii (tribe Citharexyleae) and its taxonomic implication.
43558073|Apocarpous flowers share opportunities for post-fertilization ovule selection among more functional levels than syncarpous flowers, because the occurrence of a variable number of unfused carpels adds a new source of variation to the likelihood of successful female reproduction. The extent to which post-fertilization events might differ among these unfused carpels may promote variations in the reproductive strategies of plants. We report a study of the variation, within and among carpels and flowers, in seed production and mass in the apocarpous Helleborus foetidus (Ranunculaceae), in relation to the number of carpels per flower. Differences within and among carpels in female reproductive success were affected by carpel number and pollination environment. When analysing whole flowers as functional units we also found that the magnitude of the differences related to carpel number and pollination treatment actually depended on the "distribution" of pollen types within flowers. Thus, variable withinflower pollination environments, more likely to occur in apocarpous than in syncarpous flowers, may affect the strategies of resource allocation for fruit development at different stages of the reproductive process. Regarding seed production, we found that producing more flowers with four carpels was under directional; however, when mean diaspore mass was considered as a measure of fitness, directional selection was found on producing flowers with two and three carpels (the modal carpel number found in wild populations). We discuss ecological and developmental reasons which could explain the observed pattern, and conclude that selection on an optimum carpel number may be very variable across the species range, as the discussed reasons may impose constraints on eventual evolutionary response, thus contributing to the maintenance of the intra-individual variability in carpel number.
23655185|Disa sankeyi Rolfe was found to be pollinated almost exclusively by Hemipepsis wasps (Pompilidae) at sites across its range in the Drakensberg mountains of South Africa. Wasps of both sexes appear to locate the cryptic yellow-green flowers primarily by using scent cues, as they show a classic zigzag flight pattern when approaching inflorescences. The sweet-spicy fragrance emitted by the flowers is strong enough to be discernable by a human from several metres away and consists of a blend of at least 65 volatile compounds, with (E)- cinnamic aldehyde and eugenol as the major constituents. On settling, wasps lick the exposed droplet of nectar that is secreted from the mouth of the reduced floral spur on each flower. Pollinaria become attached to the front feet of the wasps as they grasp flowers adjacent to those on which they are feeding. Pollen transfer to stigmas similarly takes place on flowers adjacent to those that are used as a nectar source. Almost 100% of flowers in the study populations were found to have been pollinated. Specialized pollination by pompilid wasps appears to be a rare phenomenon that has been reported only in southern African plant species. It appears to be associated with cryptic green-yellow flowers and highly accessible nectar. Behavioural assays are required to determine whether the basis of the specialization in this pollination system lies in a particular chemical composition of the floral fragrance.
23664156|Epidendrum L. is the largest genus of Orchidaceae in the Neotropical region; it has an impressive morphological diversification, which imposes difficulties in delimitation of both infrageneric and interspecific boundaries. In this study, we review infrageneric boundaries within the subgenus Amphiglottium and try to contribute to the understanding of morphological diversification and taxa delimitation within this group. We tested the monophyly of the subgenus Amphiglottium sect. Amphiglottium, expanding previous phylogenetic investigations and reevaluated previous infrageneric classifications proposed. Sequence data from the trnL-trnF region were analyzed with both parsimony and maximum likelihood criteria. AFLP markers were also obtained and analyzed with phylogenetic and principal coordinate analyses. Additionally, we obtained chromosome numbers for representative species within the group. The results strengthen the monophyly of the subgenus Amphiglottium but do not support the current classification system proposed by previous authors. Only section Tuberculata comprises a well-supported monophyletic group, with sections Carinata and Integra not supported. Instead of morphology, biogeographical and ecological patterns are reflected in the phylogenetic signal in this group. This study also confirms the large variability of chromosome numbers for the subgenus Amphiglottium (numbers ranging from 2n = 24 to 2n = 240), suggesting that polyploidy and hybridization are probably important mechanisms of speciation within the group.
23669427|Two new species of the Neotropical genus Cranichis are described: Cranichis carlos-parrae Szlach. & Kolan. and Cranichis zarucchii Szlach. & Kolan. Both species are known exclusively from the Colombian Andes, where they were found growing in montane forests and paramo above 2,550 m of elevation. Each species is described and illustrated, and the habitat and distribution data are provided. A distribution map of the new species is presented. A dichotomous key for identification Colombian species of Cranichis is provided.
23674539|An electrophoretic comparison of variation at 37 presumptive isozyme gene loci was performed for 55 wild Vigna unguiculata accessions. The analysis included seven subspecies, covering the whole range of variation available in wild Vigna unguiculata. The results of the isoenzymatic study broadly confirmed the previous infraspecific classification inferred from morphological data. Although the "southern taxa" (e.g., subsp. tenuis, subsp. stenophylla) are as yet too poorly sampled to discuss in depth, wild Vigna unguiculata can be divided into one mainly autogamous annual group (including subsp. pubescens and var. spontanea) and several widely divergent perennial subspecies.
23671567|Scanning electron microscopical investigations of flower buds of the perennial herb Bergenia cordifolia (Haw.) A. Br. (Saxifragaceae) reveal a primitive gynoecium. During ontogenesis the margins of the carpel lamina transgress on the apical cone of the axis by meristem incorporation and finally fuse with the margins of the opposite carpel. These processes of meristem incorporation and fusion first lead to gamophylly and furthermore to carpel peltation, as is demonstrated by SEM-photographs (ring-shaped dike and common septum of the two carpels). As a result of carpel peltation, the lowest point of the septum deliminates the synascidiate zone. Above this point, the symplicate and, eventually, the plicate zone follows (vid. ventral suture). The margins of the carpel lamina merely touch each other without being coalesced. The preparation of a window in the carpel's dorsal side permits a look at a massive lateral placenta (Leinfellner 1951) developing the ovules. In the lower third  in lateral position at the placenta's margin  the first ovules are seen, the next ones follow in acropetal and basipetal direction, as well as to the periphery of the placenta.
23674587|Placopsis auriculata Lumbsch & Kashiwadani is described from Papua New Guinea. This new species is characterized by the presence of campylidia-like helmet-shaped soralia and the presence of the gyrophoric acid chemosyndrome. Hiascic acid is reported for the first time from the Agyriaceae. The distinction of that species from other sorediate species of Placopsis is briefly discussed.
23643990|The reproductive biology of W. berteroi, W. fernandeziana, and a putative hybrid between W. fernandeziana and W. grahamiae, endemic to Robinson Crusoe Island (Juan Fernndez archipelago, Chile) was studied. Flowers are hermaphroditic, protandrous, offer nectar, and exhibit secondary pollen presentation involving pollen collecting hairs on the style. These features imply allogamy and biotic pollination. However, male and female phases overlap and no effective pollinators were observed. Experimental data indicate these taxa are self-compatible and facultatively autogamous, a conclusion also suggested by the pollen/ovule ratios. Selfing is accomplished when the stigmatic lobes reflex and touch the style, except for W. berteroi where they do not reflex completely. Autogamy is accomplished in the latter when pollen grains deposited on the inner surface of the corolla throat by the "pollen brush" are gathered by stigmatic lobes when shaken by wind. The degree of autogamy, and perhaps self-compatibility, seems to be inconstant, as implied by the variable natural seed set (overall range 21188 seeds per fruit). A mixed mating system  primarily outcrossing/entomophilous, but also autogamous  must have been present in the continental ancestors of these taxa. Autogamy promoting self-fertilization is important now  on an island with scarce pollinators  and in the past  when the first founders arrived.
23674738|50% breaking point pressures of pollen grain walls of eleven species were determined. The breaking point pressures of most pollen grain walls are equivalent to those reported in the literature for other types of living cell walls such as bacterial spore coats, algal cell walls, mold sporophyte cells, and dicot suspension culture cells. The strongest pollen grain walls are two or three orders of magnitude stronger, however. Pollen grain walls are proportionately very thick in comparison to other types of cell walls. It is this thickness, not the construction or physical properties of the pollen grain wall, that most probably accounts for their strength.
23643989|The floral ontogeny and anatomy of Koelreuteria paniculata have been investigated to understand the developmental basis for the occurring monosymmetry and the origin of the septal cavities. Petals arise sequentially and one petal is missing between sepals 3 and 5, or rarely between sepals 2 and 5. The eight stamens arise sequentially before petal initiation is completed. The last formed petal and one stamen arise on a common primordium. Two stamen positions are empty (opposite the petal between the sepals 2 and 5, and the petal between sepal 1 and 3); consequently two antesepalous stamens have cebome displaced. The derivation of octandry from a diplostemonous ancestry, and reduction of the petal are discussed. The triangular gynoecium has a strong impact in obliquely reorganizing the symmetry of the flower, loss of organs, and shifts of stamens. The so-called septal slits occurring within the style are a deep-reaching non-nectariferous extension of the stigma. Alternating locular furrows are present which could play a role as pollen transmitting tissue and in the loculicid dehiscence of the capsule.
23643382|The accumulation of specific seed proteins is a taxonomically valuable feature and can be used to additionally characterize plant taxa. To date, mainly crop proteins have been analysed in the Poaceae. In this investigation seed proteins from 147 species were screened with emphasis on legumin-like proteins and prolamins. The groups resulting from evaluation of the protein profiles correspond with well-known subfamilies and tribes. Panicoideae are clearly separated from Pooideae. Within Pooideae, the Bromeae plus Triticeae tribes revealed obvious similarities. Lolium, Festuca and Vulpia, generally included in the tribe Festuceae, revealed a protein profile similar to the profile of the Bromeae/Triticeae. Legumin-like proteins are accumulated abundantly in Bambusoideae and Pooideae except Bromeae/Triticeae, however, only the species included in the Aveninae subtribe produce "soluble"(globulin-type) legumins as already known from Avena sativa.
43558608|Gliadin polymorphism in 19 landrace populations of Turkish cultivated emmer wheat [Triticum turgidum L. ssp. dicoccon (Schrank) Thell.] was assessed using the aluminum lactic acid-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (A-PAGE) technique. Being a source of useful genes, landraces of wheat represent one of the most important genetic resources available to breeders for present and future genetic improvement of wheat. This is the first genetic characterization of these 19 Turkish emmer wheat landrace populations collected from their main cultivation areas. Considerably high amounts of variation were detected within and among the populations. A total of 27 alleles (na) were identified among all analyzed populations, 10 of them being unique to populations C, D, H, K, L, M, and N. The highest allele number (na = 7) was observed in populations A and L, whereas the lowest number of aleles (na = 3) was observed in populations F, G, and U. The mean number of effective alleles (nae) was 12.33, and the mean values of gene diversity, genetic differentiation, and gene flow between populations were He = 0.92, FST = 0.296, and Nm = 0.60, respectively. Certain gliadins closely linked to dough quality, such as -45 and -35, were found in 13 and 18 of the populations, respectively. According to Pearson's correlation coefficient values, gene diversity estimates had strong positive correlation (rp = 0.510; p = 0.026 at < 0.05%) with latitude. The rest of the genetic data (na and nae) obtained in the present study showed no correlation with geographic (altitude, latitude, and longitude) or climatic factors (temperature and annual rainfall). Principal component analysis was performed to explain spatial genetic variation, revealing 90.044% of total genetic variation in three components. Results obtained from this study can effectively be used in developing more efficient breeding programs to improve wheat genotypes, and to direct genetic resource conservation studies.
23645108|Phylogenetic analysis of noncoding trnL plastid DNA sequences and morphological data for 43 species of Zygophylloideae, representing most of the morphological and geographical variation in the subfamily, indicates that the currently recognised genera Augea (monotypic, southern Africa), Tetraena (monotypic, China), and Fagonia (c. 30 species, widespread), are embedded in Zygophyllum (c. 150 species, wide-spread). A generic classification based on six monophyletic and morphologically distinctive entities is proposed: Roepera with c. 60 species in Australia and southern Africa, Zygophyllum with c. 50 species in Asia, Tetraena with c. 40 species in Africa and Asia, Augea with a single species in southern Africa, Melocarpum with two species in the Horn of Africa region, and Fagonia with c. 30 species in both the Old and the New World. Scanning electron microscopy studies of testa structure provided important characters for the delimitation of some genera. New combinations (61) are made in Roepera, a resurrected genus originally described from Australia, one new name is proposed in Zygophyllum, 35 new combinations are made in Tetraena, and two new combinations are made in Melocarpum (previously Zygophyllum sect. Melocarpum).
43558598|To illustrate the effects of domestication on wild pepper, we compared the seed micromorphology and germination characteristics of two wild pepper strains and their corresponding cultivars. The results showed that compared to their corresponding cultivars, wild pepper seeds are significantly smaller, have more groove and ridges on the surface, higher water imbibition rate, higher germination rate and higher -amylase activity, and digest starch granules faster. The results indicate that the smaller wild seeds are easier to spread; more grooves and ridges on the surface and higher hilum ratio benefit their water imbibition, and rapid decomposition of starch granules and higher a-amylase activity are in favor to germination. By contrast, increased seed size will lead to a reduced germination rate and decreased adaptive ability to water environmental change. Thus, seed size is the result of natural and artificial selection, and whether larger seeds of various pepper cultivars are meaningful in evolution is debatable.
23643354|The woody Sonchus alliance consists of 19 species of Sonchus subg. Dendrosonchus, one species of Sonchus subg. Sonchus and species of five genera (i.e. Babcockia, Sventenia, Taeckholmia, Lactucosonchus, Prenanthes), and is restricted primarily to the archipelago of the Canaries in the Macaronesian phytogeographical region. An enzyme electrophoretic study, including 13 loci, was conducted to assess genetic diversity within and divergence among species of the alliance. Nei's genetic identities (distances) between genera and/or subgenera range from 0.490 (0.714) to 0.980 (0.013), and pairwise comparisons of all populations show relatively high genetic identities, with a mean of 0.804. The high identities further support the genetic cohesiveness of the alliance and its single origin on the Macaronesian islands. Species in the alliance also show about 50% higher total genetic diversity (HT) than the mean for other oceanic endemics. There is greater divergence between endemics or species on older islands compared to those on younger islands, which suggests that time is a factor for divergence at allozyme loci. Furthermore, populations on older islands have higher total genetic diversities and lower identities than conspecific populations on younger islands. These results imply early colonization, radiation, and divergence of the woody Sonchus alliance on older islands followed by subsequent colonization to younger islands. The taxonomic distribution of alleles in the alliance indicates lineage sorting also played a role in divergence among species. Lineage sorting may also produce nonconcordance with either taxonomic designation or the pattern of variation obtained from other molecular markers such as ITS sequences of nrDNA. Timing for the origin and radiation of the alliance agrees with the estimate based on ITS sequences, and suggests that the early divergence and rapid radiation took place during the Late Tertiary on either Gran Canaria or Tenerife.
43558142|The primary hypothesis of this study was that in the Galpagos Islands, fruit and seed set via nocturnal pollination would exceed that of diurnal pollination because of the greater insect activity at night typical of hot, arid regions. Clerodendrum molle, a widespread member of the Galpagos flora was submitted to pollination experiments, visitor observations, nectar sampling, pollen transfer studies, pollen-ovule ratio studies, and pollen measurements. Flowers set fruit and seed via open pollination, autonomous autogamy, facilitated autogamy, facilitated cross-pollination, diurnal pollination, and nocturnal pollination. Results indicate no significant difference in fruit set. Cross-pollinated flowers showed a significant increase in seed set over all treatments except facilitated autogamy. Nocturnal and diurnal fruit and seed set did not differ significantly. Nocturnal visitors included ants, spiders, hawk moths, and roaches whereas diurnal visitors included carpenter bees and ants. Galpagos members of C molle exhibit incomplete protandry and set fruit via autonomous autogamy as a result of natural selection in an environment with few faithful pollinators. Overall low fruit and seed set are likely because of a combination of pollen and resource limitation, the latter exacerbated by nectar robbing. Studies of island angiosperms are crucial for complete understanding of the population dynamics of indigenous plants, which can assist conservation officials in protecting these species.
23642938|During the last few years we have been confronted with the need to use herbarium specimens in the molecular phylogeny studies, since it is generally difficult to obtain living material of some rare species. Ancient DNA has been sequenced, and there are also reports on successful DNA amplification from herbarium specimens. However, it is not easy to obtain amplified DNA from the first herbarium sample tested. In this paper, experiments are described about trials of DNA amplification from two to 151-year-old herbarium specimens of plant species we needed for our projects. Of the 17 herbarium samples tested only two allowed DNA amplification under standard DNA isolation conditions. Different types of PCR inhibiting activities were demonstrated in DNA extracts. In some of the extracts there was extremely low concentration of template with satisfactory quality. In some instances, PCR inhibiting activities were successfully removed by treating them either with insoluble polyvinylpyrrolidone or by adding bovine serum albumin (BSA) to the amplification mixture. However, some PCR-inhibiting activities were resistant to the treatments described above. When the concentration of template was very low, a second PCR amplification with internal primers was necessary to increase the amount of DNA for sequencing. Nevertheless, contamination of either DNA extract or amplification mixture were sometimes observed, and consequently precautions were taken to minimize them. Finally, successful amplification was obtained in eight samples out of the 17 examined.
23673730|The pollen grain wall structure of Caytonanthus arberi was studied with SEM and TEM. The monosulcate, bisaccate pollen grain of this taxon has an alveolar wall structure that is more like that found in saccate Conifers than primitive Angiosperms. Pollen grain morphology does not support a Caytonialean ancestry for the Angiosperms.
23642112|The patterns of variation of chromosome numbers in the Centrospermae suggest a common ancestry of centrospermous anthocyanin and betalain families. Phylogenetic divergence in the order may have originated with progenitors similar to extant Molluginaceae, Aizoaceae or Phytolaccaeceae taxa with x = 9. Evolutionary radiation and advancement in several lines then seems to have been paralleled by trends for increasing chromosome base numbers through dysploidy and polyploidy, e.g. towards Caryophyllaceae, Portulacaceae-Basellaceae, Hectorellaceae, Cactaceae, Didieraceae, Nyctaginaceae and Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthaceae.
23657045|The genus Dipteronia Oliv. endemic to central and southern China consists of two species, D. sinensis Oliv. and D. dyerana Henry, both of them are rare and endangered. In the present study, genetic variation in 17 populations of D. sinensis and four populations of D. dyerana was estimated using ten polymorphic chloroplast microsatellite loci (cpSSR). Forty-nine chloroplast haplotypes were identified from 204 individuals analyzed. Thirty-nine haplotypes were found in D. sinensis, while ten in D. dyerana. No haplotype was shared between the species. AMOVA analysis revealed that the majority of the genetic variation was partitioned among populations within D. sinensis (FST = 0.7980) and D. dyerana (FST = 0.654). Cluster analysis grouped the 21 populations into two groups according to their species delimitation. The populations of D. sinensis were further divided into two subgroups corresponding to their geographical distributions. Correlation analysis revealed significant correlation between geographical distance and genetic distance of these populations (r = 0.326, p < 0.01 for D. sinensis vs. r = 0.777, p < 0.05 for D. dyerana). Genetic structure of these populations and a calculated pollen-to-seed flow ratio of (3.2:1 vs. 0.6:1) within the species suggested that little gene flow has occurred among the populations over an extended period. Thus, it implies that the genus Dipteronia might have experienced a genetic bottleneck and limited expansion during its evolutionary history.
23642820|The autogamous diploid annual Microseris douglasii of California occurs in many isolated populations. The populations consist of one to many highly inbred biotypes. Morphological variation among populations usually is greater than within populations. In spite of the virtual absence of gene flow even within populations, genetically determined character differences are randomly distributed and associated throughout the range of the species. Recent evidence even suggests introgression of chloroplasts from the related M. bigelovii. Offspring families from 25 plants of a very variable population were raised and examined for segregation of morphological and molecular (RAPD) markers. All 25 original plants were completely homozygous for all markers, but each differed from all others at least in some markers. The population consisted of two genetically isolated groups of plants: a distinct inbred line (3 plants) and 22 plants with random associations of a common set of markers and characters, possibly recombinant inbreds from a past hybridization event. One of these 22 plants contained a chloroplast genome found in M. bigelovii, the other 24 plants a chloroplast genome found only in M. douglasii.
43498295|The primary and secondary structures of the intergenic spacer (IGS) between the 3'-end of 25S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene and the 5'-end of 18S rRNA gene are described for the cultivated chili pepper Capsicum pubescens. The recognized functional IGS is 2,078 bp in length. According to nucleotide base composition, regulatory elements, and conserved and repeated sequences the IGS can be divided into seven structural regions (SRI-VII). SRI comprises three copies of GAGGTTTTT-like motif, a probable transcription termination site in Solanaceae. At 3'-end, there are 21 bp matching the 18S rDNA. SRII is formed by 47 repeats of CACCATGG-like motif, the shortest repetitive region found in plant rDNA to date. SRIII is highly AT-rich, preceding SRIV, a highly conserved region in Solanaceae containing the transcription initiation site (TIS) TATATAAGGGGGG. The external transcribed spacer (ETS) is 966 bp in length. SRV-VII, downstream of the TIS, possesses eight inverted repeats, and three predicted stem-loops show pre-micro RNA (miRNA)-like structural features. Intragenomic variation is presented, and data are compared with characterized Solanaceae 25S-18S rDNA IGS.
23645151|In hermaphrodite plants, variations in structural gender (defined as the ratio between male and female gametes) may occur at different levels (among flowers, plants, and populations). In this study, we investigated variation in four traits influencing structural gender (number of carpels, ovules per carpel, stamens, and pollen grains per stamen) within and among six distant populations of the hermaphrodite perennial herb Helleborus foetidus (Ranunculaceae) in the Iberian Peninsula. Our results show that the four traits investigated varied significantly at all levels considered. Traits influencing the female sexual component (number of carpels and ovules per carpel) showed greater variation at the lowermost levels (within flower and plant) than traits influencing the male component, which in turn varied more markedly among populations. Number of carpels per flower and number of pollen grains per anther were the most important traits affecting between-plant variation in structural gender. There was no evidence of significant plant-level trade-offs or correlations between the various male and female traits, which covaried differently across populations. The observed between-population variation in structural gender of Helleborus foetidus can be explained as a consequence of differences in self-pollination levels related to a flower's "mating environment".
23644987|Erwinia amylovora is the causative agent of fire blight, a bacterial disease existing as an unsolved problem in most countries where pome fruits like apple (Malus domestica) and pear (Pyrus communis) or ornamental plants of Rosaceae are grown. The primary site of colonization is the open flower. As for the establishment of the disease, the importance of various organs within the flowers is considerably different. The usual place for developing a large epiphytic population is the stigma. The actual infection will be attained by the external washing (rain, heavy dew) of bacteria from the stigma to the hypanthium. The bacteria penetrate through the openings of the nectary, so, the nectarthodes are the main entrance sites for them. Nectar is an excellent medium for growth of fire blight bacteria. Most often, however, the incidence of disease is significantly less than the percentage of colonized flowers. Little is known about the interrelationships of free moisture, nectar sugar concentration, ovary water potential, fine-structural characteristics of nectary versus the disease incidence and severity. The aim of this paper is to review the ecology and infection biology of Erwinia amylovora on floral surfaces and in floral tissues.
23645285|Fifteen microsatellite primer pairs developed in sweet cherry and peach were used to explore genetic relationships among North American plums (Prunus section Prunocerasus). In all, 186 putative alleles were detected with a mean value of 12.4 per locus. The Jaccard coefficient of similarity was calculated between all pairs of accessions and their genetic similarities represented by a UPGMA dendrogram. Despite the apparent closeness among native American plums as evidenced by their ability to hybridize freely and their very similar ITS and trnL-trnF nucleotide sequences, all pairs of accessions among the North American plums shared fewer than half of their alleles. Some of the relationships suggested by the UPGMA dendrogram are congruent with current taxonomic hypotheses, but others are difficult to interpret. Further resolution of relationships among American plums will require molecular markers more variable than ITS yet less variable than microsatellites.
23655691|As a first step in determining the identity and relative importance of the evolutionary forces promoting the speciation process in two closely related European taxa of Aquilegia, we investigated the levels of morphological variation in floral and vegetative characters over the narrow region where their ranges enter into contact, and evaluate the relative importance of both types of traits in their differentiation. A total of 12 floral and ten vegetative characters were measured on 375 plants belonging to seven A. vulgaris populations and six A. pyrenaica subsp. cazorlensis populations located in southeastern Spain. Floral and vegetative morphological differentiation occur between taxa and among populations within taxa, but only vegetative characters (particularly plant height and leaf petiolule length) contribute significantly to the discrimination between taxa. Differentiation among populations within taxa is mostly explained by variation in floral traits. Consequently, morphological divergence between the two taxa cannot be interpreted as an extension of among-population differences occurring within taxa. Multivariate vegetative, but not floral, similarity between populations could be predicted from geographical distance. Moreover, the key role of certain vegetative traits in the differentiation of A. vulgaris and A. p. cazorlensis could possibly be attributable to the contrasting habitat requirements and stress tolerance strategies of the two taxa. These preliminary findings seem to disagree with the currently established view of the radiation process in the genus Aquilegia in North America, where the differentiation of floral traits seems to have played a more important role.
23655803|Developmental types of sori in Osmunda and Schizaeaceae are comparatively studied and discussed in a systematic context. (1) The "simultaneous marginal sorus" is characterized by a minute knob-like receptacle representing the thickened tip of a short costa, simultaneous initiation of massive sporangia, and absence of indusia. (2) The "acropetal marginal sorus" is characterized as an accessory outgrowth at the end of a costa or at the margin of a sorophore, comprising a minute or elongated bifacial receptacle, acropetal initiation of massive marginal sporangia, and minute or long-extended or hood-shaped upper indusia. The state of superficial singly-arranged massive sporangia such as in Todea may give rise to the Osmunda type of the simultaneous marginal sorus and to the Schizaeaceae types of the acropetal marginal sorus. Phase differentiation in leaf development combined with complete laminar reduction leads to the Osmunda type, while phase differentiation in leaf lamina development and additional processes may give rise to the Mohria, Anemia, and Lygodium types. These morphological results support recent phylogenetic studies by other authors in disclaiming close relationships between Osmundaceae and Gleicheniaceae, and between Marattiaceae and Ophioglossaceae ("Eusporangiatae"). They also potentially support relationships between Osmundaceae and Schizaeaceae or between Ophioglossaceae and Schizaeaceae. The high complexity of the sori in Marattiaceae and Ophioglossaceae is surprising if the two families are viewed as basal groups.
23673108|Pericarp structure is investigated in 143 specimens belonging to 59 out of ca. 65 genera and 134 out of ca. 2,000 species of Lamiaceae subfamily Nepetoideae tribe Mentheae. Some of the data presented by earlier authors are believed to be incorrect. The variation in pericarp structure has been found to be strongly correlated to the variations in DNA and gross morphological characters. The groups of two-staminate genera (Salvia, etc.) and four-staminate genera of Salviinae (Lepechinia and Chaunostoma) can be distinguished from each other and from other labiates by differences in pericarp structure. The other two subtribes, Menthinae and Nepetinae, differ considerably, but their variations strongly overlap. The differences in pericarp structure also suggest that Menthinae can be divided into three main monophyletic groups based on other data: (1) the main bulk of the tribe, (2) a group of Prunella and Cleonia and perhaps also Horminum, and (3) the characteristic genus Lycopus. Pericarp data disagree with a suggestion that the genus Melissa should be included in the subtribe Salviinae. Modifications of the subtribal classification of Mentheae are discussed.
23643027|C-banding patterns and polymorphisms were analyzed in several accessions of the diploid Aegilops species Ae. uniaristata, Ae. mutica, and Ae. comosa subsp. comosa and subsp. heldreichii, and standard karyotypes of these species were established. Variation in C-band size and location was observed between different accessions, but did not prevent chromosome identification. One accession of Ae. uniaristata was homozygous for whole-arm translocations involving chromosomes 1N and 5N. The homoeologous relationships of these chromosomes were established by comparison of chromosome morphologies and C-banding patterns to other diploid Aegilops species with known chromosome homoeology. In addition, in situ hybridization analysis with a 5S rDNA probe was used to identify homoeologous groups 1 and 5 chromosomes. The present analysis permitted the assignment of all Ae. mutica, comosa subsp. comosa, and Ae. comosa subsp. heldreichii chromosomes, and three of the seven Ae. uniaristata chromosomes according to their homoeologous groups. The data presented will be useful analyzing genome differentiation in polyploid Aegilops species.
23643259|Dioecy has evolved independently several times in the large, mostly tropical genus Solanum. In all cases of dioecy in Solanum functionally male flowers have normal anthers, normal pollen and reduced stigmas while functionally female flowers have stigmas and anthers that appear normal but contain non-functional, usually inaperturate pollen. The inaperturate pollen has living cytoplasm, but apparently never germinates and it has been hypothesised that the pollen in these functionally female flowers is retained as a pollinator reward. Pollen morphology is compared in twelve of the thirteen known dioecious species of Solanum, and some stages in the the development of inaperturate pollen in the anthers of functionally female flowers of Solanum confertiseriatum of Western Ecuador are examined. Observations on the development and morphology of inaperturate pollen in functionally female flowers of Solanum are related to hypotheses about the evolution of dioecy in the genus.
43496773|We analyzed variability of morphological characters and genetic polymorphism of inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers in nine natural populations of three Lotus species from Eastern Europe, aiming to provide insights into the nature of the species L. ucrainicus. Nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (nrITS) was used as an additional molecular marker for a small subset of accessions. Analysis of variance, and principal coordinate and principal component analyses were applied for morphological data study. Cluster analysis [unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA)], principal coordinate analysis, and analysis of population genetic structure were used for ISSR pattern study. Morphological and genetic (ISSR, nrITS) evidence suggested hybrid origin of L.  ucrainicus as a result of hybridization between tetraploid species L. corniculatus and diploid species L. stepposus. We conclude that L.  ucrainicus may represent a case of hybrid speciation in statu nascendi, occurring before our very eyes.
23655114|Early floral development with focus on the androecium was studied with the help of scanning electron microscopy and serial microtome sectioning in Fouquieria columnaris and F. splendens. Perianth organs appear in a spiral pattern on the floral apex. The spiral may be clockwise or anti-clockwise. The androecium is best interpreted as two-whorled with all the stamens arranged in a single series. In F. splendens, two or more of the five epipetalous stamen positions are doubled, i.e. they are occupied by stamen pairs. Unusual features in the floral development of Fouquieriaceae include (1) a strong spiral component even in whorled organ categories and (2) a pronouncedly asymmetric floral apex during an early phase of floral development. From a phylogenetic point of view, it seems plausible that the common ancestor of Fouquieriaceae and its sister family Polemoniaceae was characterized by two alternating, pentamerous stamen-whorls.
43558602|Selection favoring avoidance of stigma clogging, pollen discounting, self-fertilization, and other negative effects of self-pollination can produce intricate patterns of intra- and interfloral dichogamy in plants bearing numerous flowers. Here we report an extensive study of the relationships among dichogamy, floral sex allocation (pollen-to-ovule ratios), nectar production, floral visitors, mating system, and fruit set in natural populations of Schefflera heptaphylla, a widespread paleotropical secondary forest tree that produces thousands of flowers in a blooming season. Each tree produces 15-30 sequentially blooming, paniculate, compound inflorescences. Each compound inflorescence has up to three orders of umbellets, which also bloom sequentially. While hand-pollinations showed that S. heptaphylla was capable of self-fertilization, our observations of thousands of flowers showed that strong intra- and interfloral protandry severely restricts both autogamous and geitonogamous self-pollination. All flowers were bisexual, thus the sexual system of the populations we studied was hermaphroditism. The pollen-to-ovule (P/O) ratios were characteristic of outcrossing species, and P/O ratios of flowers in the lastmaturing (third order) umbellets were significantly higher than those in earlier-maturing (first and second order) umbellets. Floral visitors were primarily flies (Chrysomya sp. and Syrphinae sp.) and wasps (Vespula sp. and Eumenes sp.). Flowers produced nectar during both the male (pollen presentation) and female (stigma receptivity) stages of their development, and the volume of nectar production was higher in the female stage. Nevertheless, flowers received fewer visits in the female stage than they did in the male stage, and natural fruit set was low, especially in first and third order umbellets. Fruit set from hand crossand self-pollinations was significantly higher than natural fruit set, indicating pollen limitation of fruit set. Schefflera heptaphylla has also been reported to be andromonoecious. Both hermaphroditism and andromonoecy are consistent with theoretical predictions for variation in sex allocation among sequentially maturing flowers in protandrous species. Further studies comparing hermaphroditic and andromonoecious populations of S. heptaphylla could elucidate the selective factors affecting sex expression, nectar production, and fruit set in species with numerous flowers displaying both intra- and interfloral dichogamy.
23669030|Studies on hummingbirdplant interactions commonly use a pollination approach emphasizing mutualistic relationships. But floral resources are often used opportunistically by these birds. Plantpollinator assemblies and pollination sustainability will depend both on the well-adapted plants and other potential floral resources. The Cerrado, Neotropical savannas of Central Brazil, has ca. 7.5 % of its flora supposedly adapted to hummingbird pollination. But detailed information about flowers effectively used by hummingbirds at community level is still lacking. Hence, we recorded all plant species visited by hummingbirds, to determine how these nectariferous flowers were distributed in time and space in different plant formations of a Cerrado area, and also the hummingbird species that visit them. The study was conducted between March 2007 and December 2008 in the Panga Ecological Station. Data regarding flowering phenology, floral morphology and visitation were collected monthly. Forty-six nectariferous species from 39 genera and 17 families were recorded, most with annual flowering dynamics and tubular flowers. But only 21 species had a combination of traits fitting classic ornithophilous syndrome. For the remaining species hummingbird visitation was ascertained from observations at the study site or other sites in the region. Eight hummingbird species occurred in the area and were recorded visiting directly 36 plant species. The study area presented a relatively low number of ornithophilous plants, but a great habitat diversity and many non-ornithophilous plants that hummingbirds used as nectar sources. Therefore, in the studied Cerrado, the diversity of environments and nectariferous plants favour the maintenance of resident and migrant hummingbirds.
23664937|Malagasy Dracaena (Ruscaceae) are divided into four species and 14 varieties, all of them showing a high level of morphological diversity and a putatively artefactual circumscription. In order to reveal relationships between those entangled entities, a span of Malagasy Dracaena were sampled and analyzed using cpDNA sequences and AFLP. The cpDNA analyses resolved three biogeographic clades that are mostly inconsistent with morphology, since similar phenotypes are found across the three clades. Bayesian inference clustering analyses based on the AFLP were not in accordance with the cpDNA analysis. This result might be explained by (1) a recent origin of the Malagasy species of Dracaena with an incomplete sorting of chloroplast lineages; (2) a high amount of hybridizations; (3) a complex migration pattern. Interestingly, when the AFLP are analyzed using the parsimony criterion, a trend towards a directional evolution of inflorescence types and ecological features was observed. This might be considered either as phenotypic plasticity and/or as the result of fast evolution in flower characters according to habitat preferences. Overall, our results point to the difficulty of defining evolutionarily significant units in Malagasy Dracaena, emphasizing the complex speciation processes taking place in tropical regions.
23645339|The genus Charybdis Speta (previously Urginea maritima agg.) was investigated karyologically and genetically throughout its geographic range in the Mediterranean. The different ploidy levels show a strong geographic pattern. Diploid populations are mainly found along the northern coast of Africa with C. pancration extending northwards from Tunisia to southern Italy. Tetraploid populations are most densely distributed in the eastern Mediterranean but are also found in North Africa, on the Balearic and Canary Islands. Hexaploid populations are restricted to the Iberian Peninsula and adjacent Morocco and Algeria. Chloroplast microsatellite data suggest that determination of ploidy levels alone is insufficient to adequately describe the existing populations. Especially the tetraploid and hexaploid populations exhibit additional genetic differentiation and geographic structuring. AFLP data indicate that tetraploid populations from southern Italy are of hybrid origin. Phylogenetic analysis further revealed that the genera Urginea Steinh. and Charybdis are not directly related to each other but have strong ties to genera from southern Africa. A possible colonization scenario of the Mediterranean via NW Africa and Iberia is discussed.
23672639|Seed protein electrophoresis confirms the existence of polymorphism among hexaploid populations of Festuca arundinacea. Both protein and morphological results suggest that F. pratensis and F. arundinacea should retain independent specific status. High protein homology of these two species with F. gigantea points towards phylogenetic links between these taxa.
23656068|Kenaf (Hibiscus cannabinus L.) and roselle (H. sabdariffa L.) are valuable fibre crop species with diverse end use. Phylogenetic relationship of 73 accessions of kenaf, roselle and their wild relatives from 15 countries was assessed using 44 inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) and jute (Corchorus olitorius L.) specific simple sequence repeats (SSR) markers. A total of 113 alleles were identified of which 61.95 % were polymorphic. Jute specific SSR markers exhibited high polymorphism and resolving power in kenaf, although ISSR markers exhibited higher resolving power than SSR markers. Number of polymorphic alleles varied from 1 to 5 for ISSR and 1 to 6 for SSR markers. Cultivated species exhibited higher allele polymorphism (57 %) than the wild species (35 %), but the improved cultivars exhibited lower genetic diversity compared to germplasm accessions. Accessions with common genetic lineage and geographical distribution clustered together. Indian kenaf varieties were distinct from cultivars bred in other countries and shared more genetic homology with African accessions. High genetic diversity was observed in the Indian (J = 0.350.74) and exotic kenaf germplasm collections (J = 0.380.79), suggesting kenaf might have been introduced in India from Africa through Central Asia during early domestication. Genetic similarity-based cluster analysis was in close accordance with taxonomic classification of Hibiscus.
23674817|Data are presented on genetic variation at 27 enzyme loci of the Green-Winged orchid, Orchis morio, in 18 population samples from Italy. The existence in Italy of two subspecies, i.e. subspp. morio and picta, is not supported by allozyme data. No genetic heterogeneity was found between morio-like and picta-like samples and specimens. Moreover, morphological transition between the two forms was observed in different Italian populations. The parameters of genetic variability estimated for O. morio populations are consistent with those found among monocotyledon plants, and among those outcrossing, animal-pollinated and with wind-dispersed seeds. Genetic diversity of Italian O. morio is mostly within populations. Correspondingly, low values of interpopulational genetic distance were found. This appears to be due to high levels of gene flow, which were estimated with different methods. The lack of O. longicornu from Italian samples, as well as of any hybrid with O. morio (F1, backcrossed or recombinant individuals) is demonstrated on the basis of genetic data. It is concluded that recurrent reports of O. longicornu from Italy are due to confusion with O. morio or with other Orchis species.
43558331|The white-flowered Tulipa kolbintsevii (Liliaceae), section Biflores, occurs in SE Kazakhstan, Dzjungarian Ala-Tau, Taskora valley. So far only T. aff. altaica and T. brachystemon (sect. Kolpakowskianae) both with yellow flowers, flushed greenish-violet or red on the outside, were known to be present there. It differs in that it is not only the easternmost species of the section Biflores, and has different placement of hairs on the tepals, but also has the lowest genome size of the species in this section with 2C = 48 pg. The other 14 species have 51.5-59.4 pg. Flow cytometry supported morphological differences. This method is useful for identification of dormant bulbs or sterile plants and is therefore important for monitoring of the trade in bulbous species.
23643177|Drimys winteri (Winteraceae) and 11 species of Annonaceae, namely Annona montana, Artabotrys hexapetalus, Bocagea sp., Papualthia sp., Polyalthia nitidissima, Tetrameranthus umbellatus, T. duckei, Uvaria sp., Xylopia malayana, X. aromatica, and X. emarginata, were investigated embryologically with special reference to development of ovule and embryo sac. The ovules are anatropous, crassinucellate and in most taxa bitegmic. The inner integument is of epidermal origin. The Annonaceae investigated have a multi-layered, later vascularized outer integument with most probably subepidermal initiation. In contrast, Drimys winteri has a three-layered, non-vascularized outer integument of epidermal origin. The annonaceous genus Tetrameranthus (T. umbellatus and T. duckei) possesses a middle integument between the inner and the outer one, stated here for the first time in a neotropic representative of Annonaceae. Within the angiosperms this feature occurs in Annonaceae only. The embryological characters are rather homogeneous. Differences between the species investigated are found in, e.g. the number of cell layers in the inner integument, which is commonly two in Annonaceae as compared to three in Drimys winteri, the presence or absence of a hypostase, the number of layers in the nucellar epidermis, great differences in size of ovules, and the species-specific pattern of tannin deposition in the ovules. In the species so far investigated the embryo sacs develop according to the Polygonum-type. In Xylopia malayana and Bocagea sp. in addition the carpels were investigated. They are conduplicate. In Xylopia malayana the free carpels are united by an "extragynoecial compitum", in Bocagea sp. each stigma produces its isolated mucilage cap. The results obtained from the investigated taxa are discussed and compared with published data on embryology and gynoecium structure in other annonaceous and winteraceous taxa.
23643402|ITS1 sequence data was obtained for fireweed (Senecio madagascariensis) and S. lautus from Australia, S. madagascariensis and S. inaequidens from South Africa and S. madagascariensis from Madagascar. Despite the low level of variation (0.03.4%), these data further resolve the controversy concerning the identity and origin of fireweed. They confirm that fireweed is part of the South African S. madagascariensis/S. inaequidens complex, and indicate that the infestation in Australia originated from South Africa as opposed to Madagascar. This will facilitate a resumption of biological control efforts in Australia and will direct surveys for control agents to South Africa.
23643260|Studies were performed on GC-MS to assess the lipophilic composition of six Adesmia species representing two subgenera and three series. Normal fatty acids and hydrocarbons were mainly found, as well as acetylenic compounds, dibasic acids, cyclic hydrocarbons, high molecular weight alcohols and one sterol.
23672634|A taxonomic revision of Verbesina sect. Ochractinia is presented. 40 species plus 7 additional infraspecific taxa are recognized. A table of the distribution of the species, key to the species and synonymy are included. Relationships to other sections of Verbesina and species relationships within sect. Ochractinia are discussed.
43558676|Cassava, Manihot esculenta Crantz, is the most important crop for poor people in the tropics and subtropics. It is a woody plant scarcely studied from the anatomical viewpoint. Information on its anatomy is needed for use in plant breeding programs. An interspecific hybrid between cassava and M. oligantha Pax was obtained and artificially polyploidized by the second author. Hand cross sections were applied to the stem, colored by safranin and alcian blue, and mounted in synthetic resin. Tetraploid type showed a larger portion of medulla and absence of a growth ring. Vascular tissues in tetraploid were larger too. Both of these types had similar structure of vessel elements and articulated laticifers. Distribution of different tissues in the two types refers to more resistance to drought in the tetraploid type than in the diploid one.
23645113|Discrete Australian populations of Hibbertia fasciculata R. Br. ex DC. differ in stamen number per flower: three to four in isolated, northeastern coastal populations in New South Wales vs. 1012 in southeastern Australian populations. In all populations, the stamen bases are attached to three broad flat pedestals regardless of number of stamens present. In certain other Hibbertia species, each pedestal results from initiation via a common stamen primordium that usually produces at least 34 stamens per common primordium. In H. fasciculata, each of the three pedestals is associated with three to four stamens in flowers of southeastern populations, but with only one stamen per pedestal in the coastal populations of New South Wales. Because the pedestals (remnants of common primordia) have persisted, the evolutionary trend probably has been one of reduction in stamen number. General observations and comparative studies suggest that this population-based reduction series in stamen number (as well as reduced plant size and flower size) reflects a locally successful trend towards smaller organs throughout the plant body together with a shift in pollination ecology.
23642188|The embryology of Heliotropium scabrum and H. strigosum has been studied. The development of the anthers follows the dicotyledonous type, the tapetal cells become binucleate. The pollen grains are shed at the two-celled stage. Megaspore tetrads are linear and the development of the megagametophyte corresponds with the Polygonum type. The endosperm is cellular. The embryo development follows the Onagrad Type, i.e. the Capsella variation in H. scabrum and the Nicotiana variation of the Solanad Type in H. strigosum. The pericarp is differentiated into a one-layered epicarp with bulbous-based, unicellular hair, a 56-layered chlorenchymatous mesocarp and a 67-layered endocarp. The seed coat consists only of the thickened portions of the epidermis.
23655511|Molecular phylogenies based on chloroplast gene rps4 sequences and nuclear ribosomal ITS sequences have been generated to investigate relationships among species and putative segregates in Plagiochila (Plagiochilaceae), the largest genus of leafy liverworts. About a fourth of the ca. 450 accepted binomials of Plagiochilaceae are included in these phylogenetic analyses, several represented by multiple accessions. A clade with Chiastocaulon, Pedinophyllum, and Plagiochilion is placed sister to a clade with numerous accessions of Plagiochila. Plagiochila pleurata and P. fruticella are resolved sister to the remainder of Plagiochilaceae and transferred to the new Australasian genus Proskauera which differs from all other Plagiochilaceae by the occurrence of spherical leaf papillae. The historical biogeography of Plagiochilaceae is explored based on the reconstructions of the phylogeny, biogeographic patterns and diversification time estimates. The results indicate that the current distribution of Plagiochilaceae cannot be explained exclusively by Gondwanan vicariance. A more feasible explanation of the range is a combination of short distance dispersal, rare long distance dispersal events, extinction, recolonization and diversification.
23656125|The genetic diversity of Artemisia halodendron (Asteraceae), a constructive and dominant species in the Horqin sandy land, was investigated to examine the genetic relationships with different hydrothermal regions in the Horqin sandy land. We sequenced chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) fragments psbAtrnH of 243 plants from ten populations across the Horqin sandy land. The analyses of cpDNA variation identified seven haplotypes. A high level of haplotype diversity (H d = 0.831) and low level of nucleotide diversity ( = 0.0018) were detected. Haplotypes clustered into three tentative clades. Low genetic differentiation among regions was consistently indicated by hierarchical analyses of molecular variance (AMOVA).
23642970|Asynapsis, i.e., lack of chromosome pairing in meiosis, is reported and documented for the first time in the holoparasitic plant Cistanche tubulosa in a natural population.
43558223|The Daisies, Bellis and Bellium, form a monophyletic complex within the core Astereae (Asteraceae).Although most early diverging lineages show an African distribution, the core Astereae is today widespread on five continents with the Bellis/Bellium complex as the only representative in the Mediterranean basin. Molecular clock estimates placed the divergence of Astereae from its sister tribe Anthemideae in the Oligocene. Using a combination of three plastid genes, we estimated divergence times for different lineages of the tribe Astereae. This, together with temporal and biogeographical reconstructions using the nrITS region, allows placing and timing of the major lineages of the Bellis/Bellium complex. The age reconstruction places the divergence of the tribe Astereae in the late Miocene (18-19 million years ago), followed by an out-of-Africa dispersal into Asia where the worldwide expansion may have started. Our results suggest that the colonization of the Mediterranean basin by the Astereae started from Eurasia some 10 million years ago. A Messinian early divergence of the Bellis/Bellium complex in the Mediterranean was estimated. However, a parallel 4-million-year delay for the within-genera diversification was inferred, probably related to the establishment of the sclerophyllous Mediterranean forest. Despite a similar time frame for the within-genera diversification, today's species numbers differ considerably between Bellis (15 spp.) and Bellium (five spp.).
23643341|The genus Cheirolophus is a good example of a genus with a western Mediterranean distribution, with an important centre of speciation in Macaronesia. We carried out an electrophoretic study on representatives of Iberian-North African species of Cheirolophus as well as species from the Canaries. In addition, some species of the genera Centaurea, Crupina and Serratula were examined. Our results show high genetic identities between taxa and low genetic diversity in Cheirolophus from the Canaries. This is the same pattern found in plants from other oceanic archipelagos and it suggests a recent colonization of the Canaries by the genus Cheirolophus. The Iberian species exhibit high genetic identities, suggesting that the genus as a whole is younger than has been suggested. Cluster analysis shows little correlation between accepted taxonomic delimitation of the species of Cheirolophus and isozyme variation, which points towards very recent speciation in the genus; not only in the Canarian species, but also in the continental group. On the other hand, cluster analysis reinforces the segregation of Cheirolophus as a genus distinct from Centaurea and supports a closer relationship to the genus Serratula.
23673917|Meiosis in seven interspecific Cucumis hybrids has been analysed i.a. in C. metuliferus  C. zeyheri, where the parents belong to different sections. In the triploid hybrids a remarkably high number of trivalents has been found. Additional data from literature on geographical distribution, cucurbitacins, flavonoid patterns, isozymes, C-banding, genome size, DNA amount and chloroplast DNA are used to discuss species relationships and evolution. The African cross-compatible group is divided into the Myriocarpus subgroup with the diploid species C. africanus, C. myriocarpus subsp. leptodermis and subsp. myriocarpus, and the Anguria subgroup with C. anguria, C. dipsaceus, C. ficifolius, C. prophetarum, C. zeyheri and all polyploids (except C. heptadactylus). It is argued that the Asian subg. Melo with x = 7 is derived from the African subg. Cucumis with x = 12; the latter contains all the polyploid species and has the most common basic chromosome number of the Cucurbitaceae. This phylogenetic advance is interpreted with concepts of the quantum model of evolution.
23656124|Although hummingbirds are considered the major bromeliad pollinators, different species may contribute differently to pollination. This study analyses the importance of different hummingbirds to pollination of Vriesea rodigasiana (Bromeliaceae), based on visitation frequency (a quantity component) and germinated pollen load per visit (a quality component) in the Atlantic rainforest of southeastern Brazil. This bromeliad flowers for 34 months with a peak in March. Its yellow, tubular flowers last about 13 h and demonstrate approach herkogamy. During flowering peak, Thalurania glaucopis visited more flowers than Ramphodon naevius, whereas by the end of the flowering season the latter visited more. Differences in hummingbird bill length resulted in different pollen placement and stigma contact. The short-billed T. glaucopis received pollen on the top of its head, depositing it on the center of the stigma, while the long-billed R. naevius received it on the proximal part of its bill, depositing it on the lower lobe of the stigma. Flowers visited by T. glaucopis had six times more pollen tubes than those visited by R. naevius. Our results suggest that this functional group of hummingbirds may be split into even smaller groups, namely short-billed and long-billed hummingbirds, based on different sites of pollen placement. Although both species were pollen vectors of V. rodigasiana, the short-billed T. glaucopis was its most effective pollinator in the area supporting Stebbin's principle, linking floral features and good pollinators.
23655920|Oxalis tuberosa is a vegetatively propagated tuber crop in the Andes. The peasants cultivate a great number of varieties for which genetic homogeneity has never been demonstrated. Morphological descriptors and ISSR markers were used to determine the intra-varietal diversity and the influence of the mode of conservation ex-situ vs in-situ. Molecular markers revealed an intra-varietal genetic diversity attesting that oca varieties are not pure clones. The morphological analysis was congruent with the peasant classification, contrary to the molecular markers. The comparison between both conservation strategies revealed a larger intra-varietal diversity in in-situ conditions and a genetic divergence between plants. The traditional practices are likely to be responsible of the intra-varietal polymorphism since the oca is propagated almost exclusively vegetatively. At the conservation level, differences could be explained by the sampling methods. A more integrated approach between genebanks and in-situ conservation is recommended to maintain the genetic resources of the species.
23642810|On the Rax-Alpe in Lower Austria Pinus mugo occurs in four local races which differ in colour and length of male flowers, and cone symmetry. On the thicker branch bases of one plant three-needled besides the ordinary two-needled fascicles were found. This phenomenon also occurs in the Mediterranean P. pinea, P. pinaster and P. halepensis, and may represent a common primitive trait.
23673171|We have investigated genetic variability among 56 individuals of the apogamous Dryopteris affinis complex from 9 populations in Switzerland and Austria using inter-simple sequence repeats. Our sample included 6 diploids, 48 triploids, and 1 tetraploid and 1 pentaploid plant each. We found genetic differences between and within the different ploidy levels. All diploids genetically differed from each other. In contrast, among the triploid plants we only found seven different genotypes of which one was rather common. The tetraploid and pentaploid individuals were nested among the diploids and triploids. No hypotheses have yet been proposed to explain the origin of genetic variations such as those documented here. We hope that this study stimulates new ideas about the position and the genetic background of this taxonomically difficult species group, in particular, and of apogamous species complexes in ferns in general.
23656646|In the present work the inflorescences of 12 species of Cyperus sect. Luzuloidei Kunth sensu Kkenthal were analyzed using the methodology and terminology of Troll's school. All the inflorescences studied are polytelic (indeterminate). The inflorescences are anthela-like or capitate, and can be terminal or pseudolateral. Below the main florescence a paracladial zone is present. In this zone three types of branching were observed, i.e. normal, accessory-axillar and prophyllar branching, whose position vary among the different species. In the paracladial zone a subzone of long paracladia and a subzone of short paracladia were observed. In the short paracladial subzone the spikelets are clustered in fascicles, which can be serial, prophyllar or mixed. Variation in length and position of pherophylls, length of prophyll, number and degree of branching were noticed. The systematic value of the inflorescence in the section Luzuloidei is discussed.
23674976|The occurrence of Rumex bryhnii Snogerup on the island of Bornholm, Denmark and in the province of Rogaland, Norway, is confirmed. Its distribution, ecology and key characters are discussed. An amended description is provided and the chromosome number 2n = 60 reported. Hybrids with R. crispus L., R. longifolius DC., and R. obtusifolius L. are reported and briefly characterized.
23644201|The genetic identities among several Echinospartum species and the genetic effects of isolation, small population size and decline in the restricted Echinospartum algibicum were studied both at adult and soil seed bank stages. The allozyme data support, to a large extent, population genetic predictions for genetic divergence. The genetic diversity parameters studied demonstrated that the aboveground population of E. algibicum is genetically less diverse than E. ibericum and E. barnadesii. Genetic identity between E. ibericum and E. barnadesii was very high, decreasing to levels considered typical for co-generic taxa between E. ibericum and E. algibicum. With regard to the soil seed bank of E. algibicum, this showed higher genetic variability than the adult population, greater extent of homozygosity, and significantly different allele frequencies at some loci. Despite the small population size, E. algibicum population maintains relatively high levels of genetic diversity both at adult and seed bank stages.
23673785|Chloroplast 4.5 S rRNAs of the monocot Acorus calamus and the dicot Ligularia calthifolia have been sequenced. Phylogenetic trees for the chloroplast 4.5 S and 5 S rRNAs and also for cytosol 5 S rRNAs have been constructed by several methods. They are compared with previous studies. Evidently, it is necessary to consider the inequality of nucleotide substitution rates in different lines for adequate phylogenetic reconstructions. Some relevant conclusions are presented. The possibilities and prospects for using data on low-molecular-weight rRNAs from cytosol and organelles for deducing phylogenetic relationships in plants are discussed.
23664367|Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses of a chloroplast DNA rbcL dataset indicate a position of Gottschelia schizopleura in Scapaniaceae (Jungermanniales suborder Cephaloziineae). Gottschelia grollei, G. patoniae and Scaphophyllum speciosum are nested in Solenostoma (Solenostomataceae, Jungermanniales suborder Jungermanniideae) and are transferred to this genus. Accessions of G. schizopleura from Africa and Asia are separated by long branches.
23671506|The new parasitic alga Chlorosphaeropsis epidemica is a member of the Chlorosarcinales and lives endophytically in the leaf-tissue of Potamogeton species. It forms stacks of cells and appears in great numbers, especially in dying leaf-blades. Sexual reproduction is described for the first time in this genus. Apart from its endophytic way of life, Chl. epidemica is characterized by mononuclear cells with a parietal chloroplast of irregular thickness and with a few perforations, sometimes of complicated reticulate shape, and with 15 pyrenoids. The usually sphaerical gametes (respectively zoospores) are provided with two equal flagella, a parietal plastid, one pyrenoid and one stigma. In connection with the asexual reproduction the terms "vegetative division" and desmoschisis are critically discussed.
23662385|Systematic relationships are important criteria for researchers and breeders to select materials. We evaluated a novel molecular technique, nucleotide binding site (NBS) profiling, for its potential in phylogeny reconstruction. NBS profiling produces multiple markers in resistance genes and their analogs (RGAs). Potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) is a crop with a large secondary genepool, which contains many important traits that can be exploited in breeding programs. In this study we used a set of over 100 genebank accessions, representing 49 tuber-bearing wild and cultivated Solanum species. NBS profiling was compared to amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP). Cladistic and phenetic analyses showed that the two techniques had similar resolving power and delivered trees with a similar topology. However, the different statistical tests used to demonstrate congruency of the trees were inconclusive. Visual inspection of the trees showed that, especially at the lower level, many accessions grouped together in the same way in both trees; at the higher level, when looking at the more basal nodes, only a few groups were well supported. Again this was similar for both techniques. The observation that higher level groups were poorly supported might be due to the nature of the material and the way the species evolved. The similarity of the NBS and AFLP results indicate that the role of disease resistance in speciation is limited.
23642632|The archegonial mucilage of Athyrium filix-femina and A. distentifolium paralyses spermatozoids of Dryopteris filix-mas (and in one case D. inaequalis) before they penetrate the archegonial venter. The archegonial mucilage of Dryopteris filix-mas has a weak positive chemotactic influence on the spermatozoids of the two Athyrium species. The spermatozoids of Dryopteris were never observed in the archegonia of Athyrium. Incompatibility was not observed within and between the two Athyrium species, within Dryopteris filix-mas or between Athyrium filix-femina and two Asplenium species.
23674795|Patterns of zinc tolerance were examined in eight Deschampsia cespitosa (L.) Beauv. populations from normal and zinc-contaminated soils, using solution culture methods. Zinc-tolerant populations have evolved beneath pylons, and their tolerance patterns (degree, variance, heritability) vary. Tolerance is genetically based in all of them. In contrast to the cases of other species previously reported, some within-population differences are considerable, and may be due to both heterogeneity of the soils zinc contents, various gene combinations and gene recombinations between genotypes. One control population contains many tolerant plants, an original result which is discussed.
23643513|Genetic relatedness in Chaenomeles was studied by RAPD analysis in 42 plants representing accessions of three wild species and one hybrid taxon. Amplification with 17 primers yielded a total of 156 polymorphic RAPD bands. Estimates of genetic relatedness suggest that C. cathayensis and C. japonica are the most distantly related species, and that the former is comparatively homogeneous. Chaenomeles speciosa, which may have arisen through hybridization between C. cathayensis and C. japonica, takes an intermediate position between these two species. Analysis of diagnostic bands demonstrate that neither C. speciosa nor C.  superba has any bands that do not occur in at least one of C. cathayensis or C. japonica. Moreover, C. speciosa and the partly overlapping taxon C.  superba are comparatively heterogeneous, which is also in accordance with a hybrid origin. Intraspecific variation was studied mainly in C. japonica; plants obtained from different sources of material formed well separated groups in the cluster analysis.
23664379|In this review we discuss the use of non-coding DNA at the intraspecific level in plants. Both nuclear and organelle non-coding regions are widely used in interspecific phylogenetic approaches. However, they are also valuable in analyses on the intraspecific level. Besides taxonomy, that is, defining subspecies or varieties, large fields for the application of non-coding DNA are population genetic and phylogeographic studies. Population genetics tries to explain the genetic patterns within species mostly by the amount of extant gene flow among populations, while phylogeography explicitly tries to reconstruct historic events. Depending on the study different molecular markers can be used, varying between very fast evolving microsatellites or some more slowly changing regions like intergenic spacers and introns. Here, we focus mainly on the use of non-coding regions in phylogeographic analyses. Mostly used in this context are regions of the genomes of the chloroplasts and mitochondria. In phylogeography, the correct estimation of allele or haplotype relationships is particularly important. As tree-based methods are mostly insufficient to depict relationships within species, network approaches are better suitable to infer gene or locus genealogies. Problematic for phylogeographic studies are alleles shared among multiple species, which could result from either hybridization or incomplete lineage sorting. Especially the latter can severely influence the interpretation of the phylogeographic patterns. Therefore, it seems necessary for us to also include close relatives of the species under study in phylogeographic analyses. Not only the sample design but also the analysis methods are currently changing, as some new methods such as statistical phylogeography were emerging recently and widely used methods like nested clade analysis might not be reliable in every case. During the last few years, a multitude of studies were published, which mainly analyzed phylogeographic patterns in European and North American plants. Phylogeographic studies in other regions of the earth are still comparably rare, although questions like the influence of the ice age on the vegetation in the tropics or southern hemisphere are still open and phylogeography provides an excellent remedy to answer them.
23674319|The transfer of the four taxa of Siphonoglossa sect. Pentaloba to Justicia is proposed. It is shown that the taxa of this section were placed in Siphonoglossa primarily because of a single-character phenetic relationship and that they correctly belong in Justicia. In addition to morphology, data from cytology and avonoid chemistry are also presented that support this intergeneric transfer. A key to the taxa and a detailed taxonomic treatment of the section are provided.
23645286|Infraspecific variation in flower colors was evaluated in 26 populations of Calceolaria uniflora Lam. in Southern Patagonia, Argentina. Computerized analysis of high-resolution photoimages was used to estimate the proportions of red, orange and yellow in surfaces of two corolla parts, "instep" and "throat", in field samples of 2035 flowers per population. The between-populations component accounted for 48% of variance for instep colors and 24% for throat colors. Geographic differentiation was found between populations with a uniform red instep in the Andes in the west, and populations with a maculate yellow-and-red instep in the Magellanic steppe to the east. Mixed populations occurred in a transition zone. Throat colors showed a different, north-south geographic trend. Based on color pattern and distribution, two subspecies may be differentiated within C. uniflora. Their overall geographic distribution is related to climate and vegetation, but their detailed distribution is better explained by isolation by distance and barriers to gene flow.
23643085|Principal component and canonical variate analyses were used to analyse the variation of 34 morphological characters measured in 98 accessions of Tulipa subg. Tulipa, formerly known as sect. Leiostemones. In addition 43 accessions were analysed cytogenetically by means of C-banding methods. Based on the encountered variation and on geographical distribution data 30 species in five sections were recognized, of which the synonymy is stated. Seven new series in two different sections have been designated.
23642640|The generic description of Mesostemma is updated. Stellaria platyphylla Rech. f. and S. perfoliata Rech. f. are transferred to Mesostemma. Three new subspecies of M. kotschyanum from Eastern and Central Afghanistan respectively are described.
23643154|The controversial issue of the circumscription of Hoffmannseggia and its relationship to Caesalpinia was examined using morphological characters and chloroplast DNA restriction site data from 32 species. The 53 morphological characters used included several not previously explored, but together they still failed to give unequivocal resolution of the taxa examined. However, morphological characters did provide some evidence for a Hoffmannseggia clade, but different from that traditionally circumscribed. The cpDNA restriction site analysis using 16 enzymes yielded 233 informative characters that provided strong evidence for a Hoffmannseggia clade. Both data sets supported the circumscription of a distinct "Pomaria" clade consisting in part of species traditionally placed within Hoffmannseggia. Nevertheless, both Hoffmannseggia and Pomaria and their allies fall within a larger clade of species traditionally considered to belong to Caesalpinia broadly defined. Because Caesalpinia itself appears to be polyphyletic, we advocate here maintaining Hoffmannseggia with the expectation that species of Caesalpinia s. l. will ultimately be reapportioned to a number of smaller, monophyletic genera.
23674174|In the early stages of ontogeny, the corolline parts of the Eudesmia eucalypts develop as compound structures directly comparable to the early stages of the petals of Angophora and the bloodwood eucalypts, but with the onset of androecial formation a marked difference takes place. Rather than forming on the floral apex, the stamen primordia arise on the basal adaxial components of the young corolline parts; this basal component develops into the staminophore of the mature flower. The operculum consists only of the dorsal components of the corolline parts, the homologues of the "dorsal keels" of the Angophora petals. If the corolline parts remain more or less free in their early developmental stages, corresponding groups of stamens are produced. Early corolline continuity leads to a continuous ring of stamens. The staminophore is not an organ sui generis, but a derivative of the corolla. The bundles of stamens in some species are best referred to as epipetalous groups, not antepetalous fascicles.
23674114|Morphometric relationships between populations of Papaver radicatum within the southern Norwegian mountains were investigated using canonical variates analysis and Ward's clustering on capsule and leaf character sets. The survey describes patterns of variation among 13 wild-scored populations from five geographically disjunct localities, usually assigned to five races or subspecies. Our results from wild-collected material largely support earlier findings based on univariate statistics on cultivated material. In general, populations from within a disjunct locality ( = subspecies) are most similar to other populations from the same locality. However, the subspecies vary in the degree to which they are differentiated in capsule morphology. The subsp. groevudalense populations are morphologically close to the main group of subsp. ovatilobum populations. Subspp. intermedium and oeksendalense are clearly distinct from one another and from the other subspecies, whereas the single subsp. gjaerevolli population is more similar to the ovatilobum/groevudalense complex. Variation in leaf characters showed only partial congruence with variation in capsule characters. The pattern of morphological relationships among the subspecies is thus more complex than previously thought. The subspecies may have become differentiated during a period of isolation, but such results alone cannot indicate the duration of such a period.
23645000|The genera Antiphytum, Echiochilon, Ogastemma and Sericostoma, which have been difficult to place within the tribes of the subfamily Boraginoideae (Boraginaceae), are analysed using plastid atpB sequence data. A selection of Boraginaceae genera was used to obtain a framework for the phylogenetic position of Antiphytum, Echiochilon, Ogastemma and Sericostoma. Sericostoma is found to belong within Echiochilon. The new tribe Echiochileae, Boragineae and Lithospermeae are monophyletic but the tribes Eritrichieae and Cynoglosseae are paraphyletic. The biogeography of Echiochileae (Echiochilon and Ogastemma from Africa and western Asia, and Antiphytum from America) is discussed.
23674100|The phycobiont of all species of Lempholemma analyzed is attacked by haustoria. The haustoria of these five species of Lempholemma and of two species with unknown apothecium but with a thallus quite similar to Lempholemma are described. They show distinct morphological and functional characters which allow species delimitation.
23673706|Seven species of Vulpia were subjected to morphological and protein studies using principal component and cluster analysis and the Jaccard's Similarity Coefficient. Studies showed all species were uniform and distinct from each other. Species of sect. Loretia were very dissimilar from those of sect. Monachne and sect. Vulpia. The latter section comprises taxa of high mutual affinity.
23674239|Analysis of several populations in a large part of the distribution area of the genus Emilia in Brazil has revealed only two species: the diploid E. sonchifolia and the tetraploid E. fosbergii. The more widely reported E. coccinea was not found. They show a karyotype constancy in morphology and chromosome number (2n = 10 and 2n = 20, respectively), C-banding pattern and number of secondary constrictions. Some indications were found that E. fosbergii may be an allopolyploid and that its ancestors had different genome sizes.
23643363|Variation in isozyme number was used to assess the evolution of haploid chromosome numbers (n=675) and systematic relationships in the tribe Brassiceae, which is believed to be one of the few monophyletic tribes in the Brassicaceae. Ten enzyme systems were surveyed among 108 species in 35 genera of tribe Brassiceae and for 11 species from seven other tribes. The data indicated that taxa with n=713 and n=1418 were similar in isozyme number, suggesting that genera with n=1418 did not arise from polyploidy (i.e. entire duplication) of the n=713 genomes. These results suggest that aneuploidy and/or chromosome fusion/splitting have played a more significant role than polyploidy in the evolution of higher base chromosome numbers in the tribe. The detection of widespread isozyme duplication in the tribe is consistent with reports of extensive gene duplication in the Brassica crop species, and suggests that the common ancestor of the tribe already had undergone a polyploid event, i.e. complete genome duplication, prior to aneuploid divergence. Inheritance studies conducted on Sinapis arvensis showed that segregation ratios at seven loci (Fbp-2, Gpi-2, Idh-2, Pgm-2, Pgm-2, Tpi-1, Tpi-1) conformed to those expected under Mendelian inheritance. Isozyme duplications were phylogenetically informative at various taxonomic levels in the tribe. In particular, duplications for cytosolic phosphoglucomutase (Pgm-2, Pgm-2) and plastid triose-phosphate isomerase (Tpi-1, Tpi-1) were evident in 33 of the 35 genera examined, supporting the monophyletic status of the Brassiceae with the inclusion of Orychophragmus and the exclusion of controversial members Calepina and Conringia.
23644349|A molecular investigation on the species of Genista belonging to sect. Spartocarpus was undertaken with the aim of inferring phylogenetic relationships within the section. The combined cladistic analysis of ITS 1 and 2 and of the chloroplast DNA trnL(UAA) intron yielded a single most parsimonious cladogram with G. aetnensis as sister group to the rest of the section, which is in turn divided into two major clades, one of which includes G. nissana, G. aucheri, G. sessilifolia, G. spartioides and G. haenseleri, and the other the remaining species of the section. This latter group has G. holopetala and G. radiata forming a clade, which is a sister group to a not entirely resolved monophylum including the G. ephedroides species complex. The latter shows a basal collapse of G. cilentina, G. dorycnifolia and G. numidica, and then a clade including G. ephedroides and G. valsecchiae, as well as a collapsed monophylum with G. demarcoi, G. gasparrini and G. thyrrena. The clade including the G. ephedroides species group has the lowest within-group molecular variation and appears to be recent in origin, as compared to the rest of the section. The pattern of cladogeny in the section seems to be related to geographical isolation, and is broadly congruent with palynological and biogeographical evidence.
23644404|Jaborosa integrifolia exhibits stigma-height polymorphism. There are individuals with flowers where anthers and stigma are at the same height but the rule is variable herkogamy, the most common type (75%) being that with an exerted stigma. Self- and cross-tubes did not differ in their capability to reach the ovary (t = 0.67, P < 0.53); they had a high growth rate (6.95  2.28 mm h1). There is not autogamy but mostly self-incompatibility. Fruits from controlled cross-pollination showed the highest seed set and seed viability. The nectar sugar is characterized by a similar amount of glucose and fructose, and by the absence of sucrose. Although nectar secretion was continuous throughout the life of the flower, most nectar was secreted during the first 24 h after flower opening. Nectar production costs appear to be lower than in other species since nectar secretion is neither inhibited after a removal (i.e. a pollinator visit) nor reabsorbed as the flower ages. Sphingids visit the flowers mainly after midnight. They insert their proboscis down to the base of the corolla tube to reach the nectar. The upper limit to fruit production is set by pollinator visits. Fruits produced from open-pollinated flowers are often predated by numerous larvae (mainly lepidopteran ones). Considering that this species is mostly self-incompatible and pollination is limited, that each plant displays only a low number of flowers throughout the flowering season, and that there is a high rate of fruit predation, it is not surprising that fruits of J. integrifolia are so rare.
23674832|The reproductive biology of 29 herbaceous understory monocot species was studied in a tropical cloud forest of northern coastal Venezuela (Henri Pittier National Park). Of the 23 plant species, 6 (26.1%) were self-incompatible and 17 (73.9%) self-compatible, the latter consisting of 12 (52.2%) fully self-compatible and 5 (21.7%) partially self-compatible species. An analysis of sexual systems and temporal variation of sex expression showed that of 29 monocot species, 14 (48.3%) were hermaphrodite and adichogamous, 14 (48.3%) monoecious and dichogamous, and one (3.4%) dioecious. The combination of monoecy and dichogamy prevented autogamy in 11 (91.7%) of the 12 self-compatibel and monoecious species; one (8.3%) was autogamous. Of all species, 24 (82.8%) were obligate outbreeders, 2 (6.9%) spontaneously autogamous, and 3 (10.3%) partially autogamous. Ovule and flower abortion were not significantly different between the different groups. Pollen-ovule ratio was significantly different between monoecious and hermaphrodite species. The number of pollen grains and ovules per flower and the pollen-ovule ratio were variable among various pollination types. The average pollen-ovule ratio was higher in beetle-, dipteran-, and wind-pollinated species than in bee-, bird-, and bat-pollinated species. The first three pollination types were restricted to monoecious species, and the second three groups were restricted to hermaphrodite species. Of 33 plant species investigated, 12 (36.4%) displayed vegetative reproduction. The reproductive features of the understory monocot species are discussed in the context of life form, devices of cross-pollination, and geological history of the tropical cloud forest.
23669872|Characterization of the predominant biogenetic quinolizidine types, together with the determination of oxidation levels and skeletal specializations of such alkaloids contained in Papilionoideae genera led to the recognition of several evolutionary lines in this subfamily. The results are consistent with the most recent views on the subject based on morphology and indicate quinolizidine alkaloidal evolution to have proceeded by skeletal specialization in tropical regions and by variation of oxidation level in temperate regions.
43496754|The problems of delimitation of species of Prosopis originate from the few morphological discontinuities which exist among some of them; some, however, originated as a result of wide distribution of germplasm without proper knowledge of the species, in particular, much material catalogued as P. juliflora, but being of other species, was distributed for reforestation projects worldwide. This work tests the morphological results obtained for P. pallida and P. limensis of the Peruvian-Ecuadorian coast and for P. juliflora of the Caribbean Basin of Colombia and Venezuela utilizing a study of AFLPs and a study of the morphology of plantlets developed in a conventional garden study. The phenogram obtained for the AFLPs demonstrates each of the three species to be a well differentiated cluster and the molecular variance between them is significantly greater than the variance within each species. Study of the plantlets also indicates statistically significant differences for four morphological characters between P. juliflora and the other two species (P. pallida and P. limensis). These results, in addition to the morphological differentiation evident between adult plants of P. pallida and P. limensis and the clear separation of these two species from P. juliflora, corroborate the genetic identity of the three taxa analyzed.
23673674|The rare and in its full variability not completely known species Clitocybe diosma Einh. is described; its relationship and distribution are discussed.
23674789|Datisca (Datiscaceae) is a ditypic genus with an intercontinentally disjunct distribution. Chloroplast DNA restriction site data was obtained from 23 populations and four 1020 year old herbarium specimens of D. glomerata and three populations of D. cannabina from throughout their geographic ranges in western North America and south-west-central Asia, respectively. In D. glomerata, plastome diversity is partitioned geographically. All populations from southern California have a common plastome, while most populations north of this region share a relatively divergent plastome (0.49% sequence divergence). Likewise, these plastomes are highly divergent (0.87% mean sequence divergence) from those found in D. cannabina. Biogeographic processes dating to the Pleistocene and Late Miocene may be responsible for these intra- and interspecific patterns of chloroplast DNA divergence.
23674305|Two principal types of shoot apex are recognized, (1) the classical pyramidal apical cell of pteridophytes which does not divide periclinally, and so never contributes directly to the inner tissues of the axis, and (2) that of seed plants, in which there are one or more superposed initials of which the innermost contributes directly to inner tissues by periclinal divisions. The occurrence of these types in the major groups of living land plants is reviewed. The first type is present in ferns, Equisetum, Psilotum, Tmesipteris, Selaginella, and bryophytes (when apical growth occurs in them). The second type occurs in all angiosperms and gymnosperms, and also in Lycopodium, Phylloglossum, Isoetes, and Stylites. No exceptions nor intermediate conditions occur. Both types of apex are known in Carboniferous fossils, the first type in sphenopsids and the second in pteridosperms and cordaitean gymnosperms. These apices define two evolutionary lines of land plants which may have originated separately as sporophytes from ancestors with no diploid generation. Correlation of these types with the following features is considered: sieve-element inclusions; initiation of leaves and sporangia; the primary vascular system; embryogeny, the vascular cambium; initiation of lateral roots and the type of branching. Seed plants and pteropsids differ in respect of all these features, giving support to the hypothesis that the sporophytes of these two groups arose independently. The position of sphenopsids and lycopsids is also considered.
23645111|An evolutionary pathway leading to acrotonous, 2-flowered spikelets of Panicoideae has been suggested elsewhere, which involves apical reduction of many-flowered mesotonic spikelets. Current phylogenies of the grass family show a sister relationship between Panicoideae and Centothecoideae. A survey of spikelet structures occurring among centothecoid grasses shows that some representatives of this group have intermediate morphologies which are consistent with that hypothesis. Chasmanthium and Bromuniola have many-flowered spikelets with a barren proximal floret, whereas Thysanolaena, Gouldochloa and Gynerium represent a series of apical reductions leading to 2-flowered spikelets. Moreover, manyflowered spikelets with 1-3 proximal male flowers followed by several female-fertile ones occur in Puelioideae, one of the early-diverging clades of the Poaceae. This fact suggests that some "panicoid" characters may have evolved long before the radiation of the Panicoideae took place.
23642595|The distribution of male and female inflorescences among stems of Myrica gale L. is strongly bimodal and indicates a genetical dimorphism in gender. Predominantly or strictly male stems are about twenty times as frequent as predominantly or strictly female stems. There is considerable variation among male and female stems in their precise gender. Quantitative values of the phenotypic sex (the observed gender based on the relative proportions of male and female inflorescences) and functional sex (the relative probabilities of transmitting genes to descendants through male and female gametes) of samples of stems are estimated.
23673784|Reticulate and microechinate pollen forms within Silene latifolia (S. alba, S. pratensis) were first described from N. America, where the species is an introduced weed. A previous study showed that the two forms also exist in Europe and intergrade along a zone roughly congruent with intergradation zones in seed morphology and flavone glycosylation genotypes. The present survey of pollen from herbarium specimens is more extensive and covers localities from nearly the whole of the species' native Eurasian and North African range. The first axis of a detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) of qualitative characterstate data for 11 pollen morphological characters shows a gradient between the two extreme exine types, reticulate and microechinate. When mapped, the co-ordinates of pollen samples on this axis indicate a broad zone of intergradation which coincides approximately with the somewhat sharper transition between low- and high-tubercle seeds in C. and N. Europe, but becomes diffuse in Italy and the Mediterranean region and diverges from the seed transition zone in SW. Asia and the Middle East. The biological significance of the pollen morphs is unknown; the variation pattern in pollen morphology, unlike that in seeds, is not consistently correlated with macroclimate.
23673242|Symbiotic associations are of a wide significance in evolution and biodiversity. Green hydra is a typical example of endosymbiosis. In its gastrodermal myoepithelial cells, it harbors individuals of unicellular green algae. Morphological characteristics of isolated algae determined by light and electron microscopy are presented. Cytological morphometric parameters (cell area, cell radius, chloroplast area) of isolated algae from green hydra (Cx), as well as from reference species Chlorella kessleri (Ck) and Chlorella vulgaris (Cv), revealed similarity between the isolated endosymbiont and C. kessleri. Isoenzyme patterns of esterase (EST), peroxidase (POX), and catalase (CAT) were used for the investigation of genetic variability in endosymbiotic algae isolated from green hydra. Out of 14 EST isoenzymes observed in Cx species, 9 were expressed in the Cx sample. Results of the EST isoenzyme analysis indicated a higher degree of similarity between Cx and Cv than between Cx and Ck. Due to much higher heterogeneity, EST isoenzymes seem to be more suitable genetic markers for identification of different Chlorella species than CAT and POX isoenzymes. Results obtained suggest that symbiogenesis in green hydra has probably not been terminated yet.
23673688|Diploschistes hensseniae Lumbsch & Elix is described as new to science. It is characterized by its terricolous habitat, perithecioid closed ascomata, relatively small spores, cylindrical asci, and the presence of diploschistesic and orsellinic acids in addition to lecanoric acid. It occurs on soil in arid regions of Australia.
23673231|The diversification and distribution of Abies species throughout the Mediterranean region has led to a complex of species which are difficult to classify. An open question is whether these mainly allopatric taxa have exchanged genetic information via secondary contact. We studied the variation and geographic distribution of paternally inherited chloroplast DNA markers in nine Mediterranean Abies taxa. Markers with high and low mutation rates were applied in order to differentiate among a scenario of secondary genetic contact and a scenario of complete isolation after speciation. The observed molecular variation was analysed using statistical parsimony, geostatistics, and measures of population genetic differentiation. Ancient paternal lineages, represented by markers with low mutation rates, were shared among species. The central and widespread A. alba retained all ancient lineages whereas other species exhibited fewer, down to a single lineage. In contrast, modern lineages, depicted by markers with high mutation rates, were largely separated among species. The western Mediterranean A. pinsapo and A. numidica were clearly separated from each other and from the remaining Abies species. This indicates the absence of secondary contact. The same scenario applies to the eastern Mediterranean Abies species. An exception is the parapatric complex of A. alba, A. cephalonica, and their supposed hybrid A. borisii regis, which exhibited evidence of secondary contact.
23663573|Pollen fertility was determined for synthetic F1 hybrids between members of the genus Tolpis endemic to the Canary Islands. Mean fertility varies from 1 to nearly 100%. High hybrid sterility is unusual for island lineages. Surprisingly, the fertility of hybrids between morphologically distinct species was generally higher than some crosses within the morphologically variable group that includes the Tolpis laciniata and T. lagopoda complexes. Within this group, fertility was lower particularly in hybrids involving one recognized segregate species (T. webbii), but none of the four potentially new species had reduced hybrid fertility. Despite the overall fertility differences between groupings within the T. laciniata and T. lagopoda complexes there is variation in fertility within groups; sterility factors have a complex inter-populational distribution. The cause of hybrid sterility is unknown, but preliminary data suggest that both chromosomal and genetic factors are involved.
43558601|The influence of floral display on male and female reproductive success is variable without consistent patterns. Few studies concentrate on the integrated influence of the different components of floral display on reproductive fitness at population level. We studied the impact of different components of floral display on reproductive success in the Chinese orchid Phaius delavayi. This deceptive orchid has flowers in which male and female success can be readily assessed in the field by observing rates of pollinarium removal and fruit initiation. The results showed that mean pollinarium removal (52.05  2.08%) was higher than fruit set (36.78  1.89%), and both male and female reproductive success decreased with increasing clump size in Phaius delavayi. Nevertheless, floral display expressed by clump size and flower position impacted both female and male reproductive success, whereas flowering initiation and duration, and inflorescence size had no effect.
23669748|Sex distribution in a neotropical willow, Salix martiana Leybold, has long escaped the attention of botanists. Its catkins are regularly composed of female, hermaphrodite and male flowers. The present paper discusses some aspects of its possible morphological and/or evolutionary significance.
23671560|In angiosperm pollen the reticulate-perforate exine sculpturing is associated with sporophytic self-incompatibility (S.S.I.) and imperforate and microperforate exine sculpturing is associated with gametophytic self-incompatibility. The earliest unequivocal angiosperm pollen conforms to exine morphology of pollen from plants with S.S.I. The orgin of S.S.I. is hypothesized to have coincided with the appearance of what is now the earliest recognizable angiosperm pollen. Other angiosperm characteristics correlated with S.I., functional stigmatic areas, large showy flowers (or aggregated inflorescences), and passive seed dispersal, provide some insight into the biological aspects of the earliest angiosperms.
23642635|Populations of the annual Phaseolus sublobatus from different ecogeographical zones are genetically differentiated. In twelve populations from the western ghats (Maharashtra range) chasmogamous flowers are arranged in peduncled capitate racemes borne in leaf axils of higher nodes. One population (Poona Race S4) has additional inflorescences, also with chasmogamous flowers, on the main axis between the cotyledonary node and the ground. When the pods of these flowers ripen, the inflorescence gradually coils and, eventually, gets bury the fruits in the soil. This phenomenon is not known in any other plant.The seed-coat patterns as revealed by SEM, and germination behaviour of both aerial and subterranean seeds are similar, and both types of seeds lack dormancy.Heavy seed predation selection pressure is probably the principal cause for the evolution of fruit dimorphism in P. sublobatus. The origin of geocarpy in relation to fruit dimorphism and seed predation is discussed.
23643099|Preissia quadrata has a high habitat specificity and a reproductive system including frequent sexual reproduction and absence of specialized asexual propagules. Fertilization is aquatic. Colonies collected in Europe, Asia, eastern and western Canada show the species to be polymorphic at the eleven isozyme loci studied. Most often, thalli of the same colony appeared genetically identical. Partitioning of genetic variation was among rather than within colonies, suggesting a clonal structure of the colonies and a species structure consisting of a series of small populations reproductively isolated from each other. Little genetic exchange between colonies growing nearby was present, but the species does not appear to consist of regionally circumscribed genetically cohesive entities. Some European and Canadian colonies had identical electrophoretic patterns. The problem of understanding the phenomena holding liverwort species together, both morphologically and genetically, remains an open question. The genetic structure of the species might be due to its past history. It might have had a continuous distribution in the northern part of the Northern Hemisphere. If so, little subsequent genetic diversification, perhaps linked to its haploid-dominant life cycle, must be supposed.
23657042|The steppe plant Iris aphylla was chosen to describe the genetic diversity patterns and postglacial expansion over the whole geographical range. By studying 29 populations, both in the centre and at the periphery of the geographical range, a moderate level of genetic diversity (P% = 32.5%; H = 0.105), a low level of linkage disequilibria and a low percentage of fixed loci (LD = 2.8%; FUL = 2.1%) were detected. The intermediate level of I. aphylla genetic diversity is rather close to plant species with a limited geographical range as well as rare and/or endangered species. It could also be explained by common processes of vegetative reproduction, the occasional or absent recruitments as well as the recent history of I. aphylla populations. The lack of significant genetic differences between central and marginal populations (AMOVA, 1.52%; P = 0.112) and the low number (13 per population) or lack of unique bands confirmed that the populations in both cases were recently established.
23644087|Stem and leaf anatomical characters of succulent plants in families of the order Caryophyllales were examined to determine phylogenetic and evolutionary trends within these families. Wide-band tracheids, novel tracheids having wide secondary walls hypothesized to prevent cell collapse under water stress, were found in three familiesAizoaceae, Cactaceae, and Portulacaceae. Wide-band tracheids are hypothesized to be a unique adaptation to severe drought conditions prevalent in the areas of origin for these families. Species of 89 genera of Aizoaceae were examined for the occurrence of these tracheids. If present, wide-band tracheids occurred only in leaves. Of the five subfamilies examined, these tracheids were found only in the subfamily Ruschioideae, but not in the putative basal genera of the ruschioids. The presence of wide-band tracheids is an apomorphic character for genera of Ruschioideae with the exception of the basal genera, and also suggests that further characters are needed to understand the alliance of the Apatesia and Cleretum groups with other ruschioid groups.
23642303|Cabomba aquatica has been found for the first time in India. Both, submerged and floating leaves are epistomatic. The stomata are anomocytic and perigenous in their development. The metaxylem vessel elements have simple perforation plates and spiral side wall thickening. Vessel elements are found in roots, rhizomes and aerial stems. The venation pattern is of two types like the dimorphic leaves. On the basis of these and other features Cabomba deserves family rank.
23642700|Studies on the floral biology, vegetative multiplication and breeding systems of 70 taxa of Western Australian Apiaceae were made. Autogamy, self compatibility and generalized pollination are widespread.
23642777|Proterospores are formed exclusively at the beginning of the sporulation period and independently of abiotic factors. They differ both morphologically and physiologically from other spores developed later by the same fruit-body. As seen in Ganoderma, proterospores germinate readily, whereas other spores must first pass through a fly larva gut. These proterospores are therefore well adapted to dispersal by air, the other spores, however, to dispersal by animals. In this respect, ontogenesis appears to recapitulate phylogeny. A comparative study of proterospores should further clarify systematic relationships within the fungi.
43496782|Genetic exchange between divergent lineages of silver fir (Abies alba Mill.) was studied in the Ukrainian Carpathians where two expanding populations originating from different glacial refugia meet. The study included 33 silver fir populations from Ukraine, Romania and Slovakia which were investigated using the maternally inherited mitochondrial nad5-4 marker and biparentally inherited nuclear microsatellites. The boundary between mitochondrial lineages is very sharp; only six populations containing a mixture of different haplotypes were found. Bayesian analysis of population structure based on seven nSSR loci revealed the existence of two clusters which coincided fairly well with mitochondrial lineages. Both haplotype frequencies and proportions of clusters identified by the Bayesian analysis exhibited a clinal transition over the contact zone, with cline widths of 17.6 km for mitochondrial haplotype frequencies (reflecting gene flow by seeds) and 119.6 km for Bayesian clusters based on nSSR (reflecting gene flow by pollen). Allelic richness and gene diversity differ significantly between mitochondrial lineages, the Balkan group being more variable, but an increase in gene diversity towards the boundary between lineages was observed only within the Balkan lineage. The observed patterns are suggested to reflect the postglacial colonization and historical gene flow. They demonstrated that in silver fir as a wind-dispersed species, the colonization front is quite continuous, and the survival of migrant seeds in already established populations is low. The relative contribution of pollen-mediated gene flow to genetic exchange between divergent lineages associated with glacial refugia is much higher than in the case of seeds, but pollen dispersal distance is lower than suggested by earlier studies.
23674399|Chromosome numbers are reported for eight of the nine Western Australian Villarsia species. Villarsia albiflora, V. calthifolia, V. capitata, V. congestiflora, V. lasiosperma, V. latifolia, and V. violifolia are diploid with n = 9. Five populations of V. parnassiifolia are diploid and three are tetraploid (n = 18). The morphological, ecological, and breeding-system diversity of the Western Australian species is largely not associated with the tetraploidy or hexaploidy that characterizes other Villarsia species in eastern Australia and South Africa. The majority of Western Australian Villarsia species are restricted to the high rainfall zone of southwestern Western Australia, where favorable climatic and edaphic conditions may have existed since mid-late Tertiary times.
23644170|Phylogenetic relationships of the three genera of the family Altingiaceae, i.e., Altingia, Liquidambar and Semiliquidambar, based on matK sequences and the intergenic spacer between the psaA and ycf3 genes (PY-IGS) of cpDNA, and on the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nrDNA were studied. Phylogenetic trees based on the three data sets (matK, PY-IGS and ITS) were generated using Hamamelis japonica and Mytilaria laosensis (Hamamelidaceae), Cercidiphyllum japonicum (Cercidiphyllaceae), and Daphniphyllum calycinum (Daphniphyllaceae) as outgroups. The partition-homogeneity tests indicated that the three data sets and the combined data are homogeneous. A combined analysis also generated a strongly supported phylogeny. The phylogenetic trees show that the North American and western Asian species, L. styraciflua and L. orientalis, respectively, form a monophyletic group which is sister to the clade including all Asian species in the family. The genus Liquidambar is paraphyletic with Altingia and Semiliquidambar nested within. Phylogenetic analyses of the molecular data indicate that taxonomic reexamination of the generic delimitation in the Altingiaceae is needed.
23642364|The distribution of four variants for flower colour of Crocus scepusiensis in the northern part of the Western Carpathians is described. The frequency of white stigmata morphs declines from east to west. In the center of the area stigmata colour morphs show strikingly patchy distribution. White perianth morphs usually occur at low frequencies and their distribution with minor exceptions is restricted to the central part of the area, where patchy distribution of the morphs is a rule. These distribution patterns suggest that the founder effect has played a major role in determining the genetic composition of individual populations. The cline for stigmata colour may also be explained by the dynamics of population expansion. No influence of selection can be demonstrated, but the association between perianth and stigmata colour, and the excessively low frequency of white perianth morphs may imply that the polymorphisms are not selectively neutral.
23674620|The two genera Plectranthus and Isodon are compared and found to be very dissimilar. Isodon ist considered to be misplaced in Ocimeae subtribe Plectranthinae and apparently is more closely related to subtribe Hyptidinae. The disjunct genus Rabdosiella is compared to these two genera and regarded to be polyphyletic. The African R. calycina (Benth.) Codd is returned to Plectranthus and called P. calycinus Benth., while the Asian R. ternifolia (D. Don) Codd is placed in Isodon sect. Pyramidium and called I. ternifolius (D. Don) Kudo.
23655990|Historical fragmentation and subsequent isolation has affected the levels of genetic diversity in many lineages of ancient plant taxa. This study investigated the effects of historical processes on Araucaria cunninghamii (Hoop Pine), Araucariaceae, using both RAPD and ISSR markers. While most populations maintain moderate levels of diversity, there is some evidence for reduced genetic variation. Most sampled populations are significantly differentiated from each other, thereby emphasizing the high degree of population structuring in A. cunninghamii. Increased divergence among the northern Queensland populations relative to southern Queensland populations suggests historical pressures have impacted differently on extant population distribution. More research is specifically required into the biology and population demographics of Australian Araucariaceae.
43558667|Microsporogenesis and development of the male gametophyte of Allium senescens L. were studied by use of paraffin sections. The anther was found to be foursporangia. Its wall includes four layers: epidermis, endothecium, middle layer, and secretory tapetum. Cytokinesis during meiosis of microspore mother cells (MMCs) is successive. Most mature pollen grains are two-celled, a few are three-celled. In addition, anomalies were observed during meiosis of MMC and in uninucleate microspores, including laggard chromosomes, lagging chromosomes, anaphase bridges, and micronucleus. These anomalies are possible reasons for abortive pollen.
23654253|Aristolochiaceae, a family of worldwide distribution comprising about 500 species, is a member of Piperales. Although Piperales is clearly monophyletic, the precise relationship within the order is ambiguous due to inconsistent placement of Lactoris fernandeziana. The appearance in some studies of Lactoris within Aristolochiaceae and the incongruence in generic treatments have also raised questions about the infrastructure of the family. This study addresses the overall generic relationships in Aristolochiaceae and its position in Piperales based on dense taxon sampling and sequence data from the plastid trnL-F region. The study resolved Piperales consisting of two major clades (Piperaceae plus Saururaceae and Lactoridaceae plus Aristolochiaceae) and Lactoris nested within Aristolochiaceae but with low support. The concept of two subfamilies in Aristolochiaceae, Asaroideae and Aristolochioideae, gains maximum statistical support. A generic treatment of Aristolochiaceae based on trnL-F is proposed which is congruent with recent analyses based on morphological characters.
43558297|Variation in ITS and the two chloroplast markers rpl16 and tRNA-Gly was studied to explore phylogeographic patterns in, especially, western Eurasiatic Cratoneuron filicinum (Hedw.) Spruce. ITS and chloroplast data yield incongruent results and are therefore analysed separately; recombination is indicated for ITS. For both data sets one group of haplotypes is widespread in western Eurasia. Another is found in the Mediterranean region and occurs in southern Scandinavia (ITS) or large portions of northern Europe, but is missing in central Europe. It is suggested that the northern populations of the latter haplotypes have dispersed from eastern or south-eastern glacial refugia. At the continental scale, south-east Asiatic populations differ from those in western Eurasia, with an apparent meeting zone west of the Himalayas. American haplotypes are most similar to some European ones according to ITS, but to southeast Asiatic ones according to chloroplast data.
23644962|The inflorescence development in Whytockia has been studied in order to explore the developmental basis for inflorescence architecture. The developmental pattern of the pair-flowered cyme in Whytockia basically conforms to that of most members in Gesneriaceae. However, the additional flower beside the terminal one in Whytockia is not equivalent to the frontal flower as in other Gesneriaceae because the former is located in the front-lateral position while the latter is in the front-median position. Also, the zigzag monochasial branching system in Whytockia represents the consecutive front-lateral branches rather than the lateral branches as in other Gesneriaceae. The inflorescence in Whytockia is flowering in a basipetal sequence, and its seemingly acropetal flowering sequence is due to the vigorous development of the consecutive frontlateral branches. In addition, the inflorescence of Whytockia does not represent the basic unit of the inflorescence in Epithemateae, and it is derived as compared to that of Rhynchoglossum. The development relationships of the inflorescence between Whytockia and its allies in Epithemateae are discussed on the basis of developmental and comparative evidence.
23673700|The ultrastructure of the sieve elements of Austrobaileya is compared with that of angiosperm sieve tubes and gymnosperm sieve cells (mostly from Cycadales). Except for the size of the sieve pores Austrobaileya shares all ultrastructural characters (e.g., chromatolytic nuclear degeneration, presence of p-protein, formation of sieve pores from unbranched plasmodesmata) and other features (e.g., companion cells) with angiosperm sieve tubes. Gymnosperm sieve cells on the contrary are characterized by pycnotic nuclear degeneration, absence of p-protein, formation of sieve areas from branched plasmodesmata with median cavities.  The exact ordinal assignment of Austrobaileya within the subclass Magnoliidae is still disputed, a placement close to either Myristicaceae and Winteraceae or Monimiaceae being possible as judged from both S-type sieve-element plastids and p-protein bodies.  On the basis of the ultrastructural results from Austrobaileya it is proposed to reconsider concepts and terminology of sieve elements. i.e., to include features from sieve pore development, nuclei degeneration and presence of specific proteins into the definitions and to restrict the term sieve cell to gymnospermous sieve elements which differ much from those of other vascular plants.
23643178|The pollination of the terrestrial herb Irlbachia alata by the bat Glossophaga soricina was recorded in northeastern Brazil. This herb colonizes disturbed swampy sites in clearings and forest edges, blooming year-round. Its greenish white flowers open at dusk and attract phyllostomid bats and hawkmoths. The long-tongued bat Glossophaga soricina is the major pollinator of I. alata at the study site, with its trapline visits promoting cross-pollination of this herb. The small flowers and the delicate stem of I. alata match the small size and the manoeuverable flight of glossophagine bats.
23673872|A morphometric analysis of 18 attributes of 110 plants of the Conospermum taxifolium complex suggests that it consists of three polythetically distinct taxa, corresponding to the traditional concepts of C. taxifolium Smith s. str., C. ericifolium Smith and C. ellipticum Smith. Discrimination is possible on the basis of leaf but not flower attributes. Analysis of allozymic variation indicates that the taxa are also genotypically differentiated. C. ericifolium and C. ellipticum are geographically isolated from each other but not from C. taxifolium, and C. taxifolium is usually ecologically segregated from the other two taxa. Where this ecological segregation breaks down, morphological intermediates sometimes occur as the result of hybridization.
23673961|Chloroplast DNA of seven species belonging to Anemone (sectt. Omalocarpus, Anemonidium, and Anemonanthea), Hepatica, and Pulsatilla have been analyzed by restriction enzymes. According to the dendrogram constructed, the sections of Anemone and the genera Hepatica and Pulsatilla seem to be evolutionary approximately equidistant to each others. This supports the concept that these groups should be treated on a similar taxonomic level, either as genera or subgenera.
23644036|In order to investigate the variability of the polymorphic Capparis spinosa L., a comparative study was carried out in Sicily on subsp. spinosa and subsp. rupestris. Autecology, phenology, quantitative morphology, plant architecture and leaf development of several populations were examined. These data reveal a parapatric distribution of the two subspecies and support their present taxonomic treatment. Subsp. spinosa is widespread on clay soils and shows remarkable intrapopulational variation. It is characterized by shortened reproductive and vegetative periods, high shoot growth rate, winter-desiccating shoot system and stipular thorns. Subsp. rupestris, less variable and linked with carbonatic and volcanic outcrops, shows prolonged phenological patterns, slow growth rate, woody habit and caducous stipules. A noteworthy phenotypic convergence with subsp. rupestris was observed in individuals of subsp. spinosa growing in rocky habitats. The evolutionary trends of Capparis spinosa in the Mediterranean region are discussed.
23672714|Visitation rates and mean numbers of visits per flower per day are determined at three altitudinal levels (2 200-3 600 m) in the high Andes of central Chile from quantified observations of flowers visitors to a total of 134 species of plants, studied over three flowering seasons. Significant altitudinal decreases in the mean no. visits/flower/minute and per day were recorded, with Level III flowers, on the average, being pollinated only about  as frequently and to as low as  as frequently in certain months, as Level I flowers. Visitation rates are generally highest in early and mid-summer at all altitudes.  The lower visitation rates at the higher elevations are due to lower insect abundance relative to plant resources and lower levels of activity for the insects present, stemming from the generally lower ambient temperatures. Seasonal differences in visitation rates may also be related to differences in insect abundance levels. The total probability of ovule pollination cannot be estimated directly from the pollination rates, because stigmas are probably receptive for longer periods at the higher elevations. When differences in the duration of stigma receptivity are estimated from differences in flower lifelength, the probability of pollination in Level III is not very different from that expected in Level I. However, for some months, the deficit in Level III may still be substantial.  These results underline the inherent dangers of predicting pollination possibilities directly from pollination rates. They also suggest that the impoverished pollination conditions assumed in hypotheses predicting higher amounts of self-compatibility at high altitudes might not be justified for all high temperate mountains.
23657317|We investigated seed morphology in 34 species of the genus Lysimachia and in 14 species and two subspecies of six additional genera (Anagallis, Ardisiandra, Asterolinon, Glaux, Pelletiera, Trientalis), which have been shown to be closely related to, or are placed within Lysimachia in previous molecular studies. We studied seed shape, seed coat structure, and seed coat surface patterns. Three major types of seed shape were identified: (1) sectoroid, (2) polyhedral, and (3) coarsely rugose with concave hilar area. In addition, seeds may be keeled or winged. The outer layer of the seed coat is either sponge-like and adhering only loosely to the inner seed coat or it is thin and tightly adhering to the underlying tissue. Seed surface patterns can be divided into six main types: (1) reticulate, (2) tuberculate, (3) vesiculose, (4) colliculate, (5) undulate, or (6) poroid-alveolate. Seed surface patterns are mostly congruent with molecular phylogenetic relationships. A reticulate surface pattern is diagnostic of, e.g. Lysimachia subgenera Palladia and Hawaiian Lysimachiopsis. Mapping seed characters onto a recent phylogenetic tree, reveals that they provide potentially synapomorphic character states for various subclades of Lysimachia. Salient examples include a rugose seed shape, which turns out to be synapomorphic for the clade comprising the genus Pelletiera plus Asterolinon linum-stellatum and a sponge-like outer seed coat layer, which characterizes a clade with Lysimachia vulgaris, L. thyrsiflora, and L. terrestris, with an analogue that apparently evolved in parallel in Trientalis europaea. We also discuss possible habitat factors that may have favored the independent evolution of particular seed types such as winged seeds in various lineages.
23674660|Selaginella moratii W. Hagemann & W. Rauh, spec, nova, is described. The Madagascarian plant from Fianarantsoa has a strongly differentiated subterranean rhizome system with a dichocladial mother rhizome bearing anisotomous branch systems with tufted tubers. These rhizophore tubers are observed for the first time in Selaginella. The green photophilous aerial shoots are produced by unbranched subterranean runners. The plant is adapted to carpets of Coleochloa setifera lying on granite rocks. Within these carpets, Selaginella moratii is associated with Drosera, Genlisea, Xerophyta, Myriothamnus, Kalancho, Senecio, and Alo among others. The description of the unique plants of Selaginella moratii Rauh & Hagemann is based on alcohol-fixed material collected in 1963 by the senior author. The largest plants from this material measured approximately 10 cm. It is unknown whether larger plants exist in nature. It must be stated that the collected material is incomplete in many respects. Thus, it does not permit a complete reconstruction of the growth form of the natural plants, and further, it turned out that some anatomical details could not be sufficiently cleared up. Due to the fact that, in the natural sites, plant collectors can see only the aerial shoot systems, which show no striking differences to other dorsiventral selaginellas, it happened that the species was overlooked. Also, since the collected material has not been described until now, the plant has not been rediscovered since the year of its first observation. Thus, a comprehensive comparative study of the living plants remains a desideratum.
23643053|Hagerup's (1950) observations of rain pollination in Narthecium ossifragum are commonly admitted. Nevertheless, Daumann (1970) stated that pollen and stigmas suffer considerable damage from rain impact. Experimental pollinations and pollen observations were conducted at a single site in the Upper Ardennes, Belgium, during three years. Rain water had a deleterious effect on both fruit and seed set and on pollen germination. Fruit and seed set differed among years mainly due to rainy weather. Fruit set also varied among experimental treatments. Pollination trials showed that Narthecium ossifragum is self-compatible and autofertile. Emasculation had a deleterious effect and caging had no effect on fertility.
43558178|The genus Setaria is economically important because many species are cultivated for grains or forage. Setaria magna is an American species, native to North America and introduced in South America. The morphological aspect of this species is similar to S. italica (foxtail millet), suggesting its potential value as a crop. The purpose of this work was to understand the breeding system (selfpollination vs. open pollination) of S. magna; additionally, the floral development was described. The results of the breeding system analysis indicated that S. magna is mainly autogamous and does not appear to have a self-incompatibility mechanism. The floral development observed was similar to that described for other Paniceae; in most of the spikelets only the upper anthecium developed fruit, but a small number of spikelets presented bisexual lower florets. These spikelets produced two caryopses per spikelet. Thus, S. magna can produced two types of dispersal units; a few whitish naked caryopses from the lower anthecium that fall without their lemma and palea at maturity; and a high number of brown caryopses protected by the lemma and palea from the upper anthecium. The presence of a normal embryo sac in the upper anthecium suggests that S. magna would present normal sexual reproduction, although we can not reject the formation of apomitic seeds in the lower anthecium.
23642514|Six new species are described: Teucrium chasmophyticum related to T. paederotoides from Northern Syria; Stachys subaphylla from North East Iran, the most xeromorphic representative of Sect. Ambleia; St. veroniciformis and St. kermanshahensis, closely related to each other but rather isolated from the remainder of sect. Fragilicaulis; St. nephrophylla, still another member of the same section centred in West Iran, North Iraq and South East Turkey, related to St. glechomifolia; and Nepeta allotria from the Elburs mountains in North Iran, of isolated systematic position.
43558131|Heterodichogamy in a natural population of an Annonaceae species from the rainforests of French Guiana is described for the first time. Anaxagorea prinoides had bisexual flowers and two floral morphs within the studied population were protogynous. The population under study comprised 7 mature trees belonging to one morph and 12 to the other. Statistical analyses showed that the two morphs were in a 50:50% ratio, and therefore the temporal sexual pattern of heterodichogamy is given. When anthesis of flowers in the male stage ended in one morph, anthesis started with flowers in the female stage in the complementary morph. Approximately 1 h before the end of anthesis in one morph, flowers of the reciprocal morph started to emit a fruit-like scent. The temporal separation of the female and the male stages of the two different morphs lasted only approximately 1 h. Six of the seven identified compounds in the banana-like floral scent were esters and one was an alcohol. The main compounds examined are known to be components of fruit scents. Nitidulidae beetles of the genus Colopterus were the pollinators of A. prinoides and during flowering were maintained within the population of this species. This was not only due to the fact that the beetles remained sheltered in the pollination chamber of the flowers, but also because upon release from individuals of male-stage flowers at the end of flower anthesis they were attracted by the odoriferous femalestage flowers of other individuals of the same population. Heterodichogamy of A. prinoides appears to be a means by which reproductive success is augmented. Attraction of beetle pollinators by "fruit-imitating" floral scent is not restricted to species of Anaxagorea, but occurs in many representatives of the Annonaceae.
23674794|An electrophoretic survey of isozyme variation was conducted to test the hypothesis that Senecio vulgaris L. (2n = 40) is of autotetraploid origin from S. vernalis Waldst. & Kit. (2n = 20). It was established that S. vulgaris exhibited fixed heterozygosity at three loci examined, showed disomic inheritance at all polymorphic loci, and contained a gene (aEst-1) and an allele (Aat-3b) which were not present in the single population of S. vernalis surveyed. From this it is concluded that S. vulgaris is not of autotetraploid origin. Instead, the genetic evidence is in keeping with an allopolyploid origin of S. vulgaris with the possibility that S. vernalis acted as one of its two parents.
23642077|The development of the shoot apex is studied in regard to relationships between morphogenesis and histogenesis. Differentiation of procambium starts only some distance from the shoot apex at the basis of leaf initials and continues from the node into leaf and axis. Lateral strands appear parallel with the first ternation in the leaf. The development of procambium strands is correlated with the differentiation in the axis and there seems to be a mutual stimulation between leaf initial and procambium. Histogenese und Morphogenese des Vegetationskegels von Clematis vitalba werden im Zusammenhang dargestellt. Die Differenzierung von Prokambium findet erst in einiger Entfernung vom Vegetationspunkt an der Basis entstehender Blattanlagen statt. Sie setzt sich vom Knoten aus in Blatt und Achse fort. Lateralstrnge entstehen, wenn in den Blattanlagen die erste Ternation stattfindet. Die Differenzierungen im Prokambium und in der Achse sind korreliert. Es wird angenommen, da zwischen den Blattanlagen und der Prokambiumdifferenzierung eine wechselseitige Frderung besteht.
23674741|Two new planktonic diatom species of the genus Chaetoceros are described herein: Ch. octagonus and Ch. rectus, from material of Baja California coasts and the Gulf of California, respectively; Ch. rectus was also found in a sample from Australian waters. Ch. octagonus is a robust species, with a characteristic pyramidal valve shape, heavily silicified valves and setae, and one central rimoportula on every valve in the chain; it is compared with related species, which show a similar morphology, especially by electron microscopy. It belongs into subg. Chaetoceros, sect. Borealia. Ch. rectus is placed in subg. Hyalochaete, and provisionally within sect. Anastomosantia. Its major characters are: chains, cells, and setae are delicate and fragile, cells are joined in the chain by a "bridge" which connects sibling intercalary setae, valves and setae are weakly silicified, and one rimoportula is present on terminal valves only. Comparison is made with another species of the same section. Ch. rectus shows a different manner of chain-forming within the genus than previously described in the literature.
23674739|A macromorphological study is made on taxa of the genus Ornithogalum subg. Heliocharmos in North Africa, Spain, and France. The results obtained are consistent with data from cytogenetics, reproductive biology and strategies of reproduction. They allow the retention of two species: O. algeriense and O. umbellatum. A biogeographical and phylogenetic interpretation of the subgenus is proposed for the western Mediterranean. Theoretical views on phenetics are discussed.
43558240|The common primrose (Primula vulgaris, Primulaceae) has several color morphs. Two of them, traditionally treated as subspecies, vulgaris with white and yellow flowers, and polymorphic sibthorpii with the predominance of dark (anthocyanin-containing) flowers, often occur at the same places along the eastern Black Sea coast, stretching over 250 km between Novorossiysk and Pitsunda. Seventy-one primrose populations were sampled on almost every 10-km interval of this line. We found a significant trend of increase in the proportion of dark flowers in the populations from northwest to southeast, with an abrupt (60 km) transitional zone. Within this zone, we found significant spatial trends correlated with altitude and distance from seashore. No reliable morphological differences between color forms were found. The observed large-scale geographical structure may be a joint result of the recent contact of previously isolated color morphs, heterogeneity of pollinator preferences, and genetic drift.
23670123|The diagnostic characters alleged by Ettl (1981) and Ettl & Komarek (1982) to distinguish the Classes Chlamydophyceae and Chlorophyceae are discussed. The recognition of these classes ignores ultrastructural evidence of the close phylogenetic relationships of their members and produces an artificial redistribution of orders, families, and genera that can only lead to confusion in the taxonomy of the green algae. Suggestions for a more natural classification are made.
23642954|Levels of variation revealed by starch gel-electrophoresis were compared with morphological and chemical variation within and among the species and subspecies of Virgilia: V. oroboides subsp. oroboides, V. oroboides subsp. ferruginea and V. divaricata. The data sets exhibited concordance in that all point to a very close relationship between the taxa. Differences are mostly quantitative and an overlapping east-west gradient of character variation is indicated. Analysis of morphological and chemical characters showed that V. oroboides subsp. ferruginea and V. divaricata are relatively distinct, whereas allozyme analysis indicated a high degree of genetic similarity among populations of these two taxa. The observed pattern of variation suggests relatively recent speciation with subsequent introgressive hybridisation resulting in a geographical and ecological gradient.
23656137|A highly selfing breeding system affects gene flow, which may have consequences for patterns of genetic variation and differentiation on both the population and species level. Feather grasses (Stipa spp.) are dominant elements of Eurasian steppes that persist in Central Europe in scattered isolated populations that are of great conservation interest. Cleistogamy is common in the Stipa pennata group, the phylogeny of which is largely unresolved. Intraspecific patterns of genetic variation can be characterised by lack of gene flow due to selfing, but also by large-scale historical migrations and long-term isolation. We analysed both 5 species within the S. pennata group and 33 populations of Stipa pulcherrima sampled across a large part of its range. Using AFLP markers we assessed phylogenetic relationships of the S. pennata group and patterns of genetic variation within and among populations. The S. pennata group formed a consistent clade separated from S. capillata. Stipa pulcherrima was sister to S. eriocaulis, but the relationships among S. pennata s. str., S. borysthenica., and S. tirsa remained unresolved. Within-population genetic variation was extremely low in all species of the S. pennata group (He = 0.00.013). In S. pulcherrima, genetic variation was consistently relatively high in the east (Romania, Russia) and declined toward western populations, with many populations at the western range edge lacking genetic variation entirely. Populations were strongly differentiated (FST = 0.762), and this differentiation did not follow a classical pattern of isolation by distance. Bayesian cluster analysis revealed nine gene pools in S. pulcherrima, which were mostly geographically clustered. Overall the results suggest that S. pulcherrima and species of the S. pennata group are characterised by a cleistogamous breeding system leading to extremely low levels of genetic variation and high levels of population differentiation at both the population and species level. Postglacial colonisation, current population isolation, and population bottlenecks at the western range periphery have further reduced genetic variation and obviated gene exchange. Thus, genetic variation can only be preserved by the conservation of multiple populations.
23671505|(1) On the Canary Islands and Madeira typical bird-flowers occur in at least twelve species of six genera, although true flower-birds are absent. This inconsistency is in part elucidated by field observations on exotic and wild plants of Tenerife.  (2) In the Botanical Garden of Orotava it could be observed that various ornithophilous plants, which were introduced there, were visited by indigenous birds for nectar and in one case (Orthostemon) for food tissue. Of the three bird species involved, an endemic race of Chiffchaff (Phylloscopus collybita) and resident Blackcaps (Sylvia atricapilla) exploit, and pollinate, flowers legitimously, while the Wild Canary (Serinus canaria) is predominantly a destructive nectar robber.  (3) The insular Chiffchaff also proved to be a regular pollinator in the wild, at least of Canarina canariensis and Isoplexis canariensis, two ornithophilous paleoendemics. Ornithophily, thus, is naturally practised on the island, though by birds basically insectivorous.  (4) A list of Macaronesian plants bearing the more or less complete ornithophilous syndrome is presented, including newly recognized Teucrium heterophyllum and Scrophularia calliantha.  (5) On biogeographical and faunistic grounds it is presumed that the modern visitors of Canarian bird flowers are secondary rather than the original partners of the continental tertiary flora in which these plants originated. Palearctic immigrants, when becoming resident on the islands during and since the Pleistocene, adopted facultative nectar feeding, entering an "orphaned" food niche. Casual flower visits in Europe suggest a certain predisposition of the Chiffchaff and the Blackcap for the exploitation of flowers.  (6) The ability of unspecialized birds to acquire nectardrinking spontaneously and to pass this habit on to their offspring, is demonstrated by a population of Tree Sparrows (Passer montanus) which have visited ornithophilous Kniphofia (Liliaceae) in Berlin for several years. 1. Auf den Canarischen Inseln und Madeira kommen Ornithophile (mindestens 6 Pflanzengattungen mit 12 Arten), aber keine echten Blumenvgel vor. Beobachtungen aus Tenerife werden mitgeteilt, die zur Klrung dieses Problems beitragen. 2. Im Botanischen Garten von Orotava werden verschiedene exotische Vogelblumen von einheimischen Vgeln auf Nektar bzw. auf feste Lockspeise (Orthostemon) ausgebeutet. Von den drei beteiligten Vogelarten geht Serinus canariensis (endemisch) berwiegend illegitim vor, whrend die Inselrasse von Phylloscopus collybita sowie Sylvia atricapilla beim Nektartrinken Blten sachgerecht bestuben knnen. 3. Phylloscopus collybita wurde an mehreren getrennten Wildstandorten auch als anscheinend regulrer und effektiver Bestuber von Canarina canariensis und Isoplexis canariensis beobachtet, beides Paloendemiten mit ornithophilem Syndrom. Dies zeigt, da aktive Ornithophilie in der Canarenflora nicht ausgestorben, sondern noch aktuelles Geschehen ist. 4. Teucrium heterophyllum und Scrophularia calliantha sind in die Liste der Vogelblumen Makaronesiens aufzunehmen; weitere Arten, in denen eine unvollkommene Ornithophilie erkennbar ist, werden neu genannt. 5. Es wird die Ansicht vertreten, da die ermittelten Besucher wahrscheinlich nicht die Partner aus der tertirzeitlichen Ursprungsflora des Festlandes sind, sondern auf den Inseln, seitdem sie dort vor langer Zeit als Zuwanderer oder Zugvgel palarktischer Herkunft sehaft wurden, eine unbesetzte Nische eingenommen haben. Eine Prdisposition fr Nektargewinn geht aus Berichten ber Phylloscopus und Sylvia in Europa hervor. 6. Als Beispiel dafr, wie das Nektartrinken bei Nichtblumenvgeln spontan neu auftreten und sich durch Tradition fortpflanzen kann, wird ber Bltenbesuch von Passer montanus an Kniphofia in Berlin berichtet.
43558211|DNA fingerprinting (AFLP) and chemical analyses of essential oils were utilized to define the extent of variation existing in the genus Ocimum. Research was carried out on 22 Ocimum accessions representing seven species. Concerning the essential oil composition of all investigated accessions, 115 compounds were identified. UPGMA cluster analysis, based on Euclidian distances of essential oil constituents between all pairs of accessions, showed four well-supported clusters (O. tenuiflorum, O. basilicum/O. africanum, O. basilicum, and O. americanum/O. africanum). Relating to the essential oil composition of all of ?A3B2 tlsb?> the investigated accessions, 17 compounds were identified as the main ones, and according to them 13 chemotypes were determined. AFLP relationships were determined by neighbor-joining (NJ) cluster analysis based on Dice's distance matrix and by maximum parsimony (MP) analysis. O. basilicum, O. americanum/O. afiicanum, O. tenuiflorum, and O. gratissimum represented four clusters supported with high bootstrap values. A neighbor-net diagram allowed the visualization of apparently conflicting data by revealing relationships between genotypes and chemotypes. Concerning the O. africanum species, two distinct chemotypes, geranial/neral (accession 11) and estragol (accession 10), have been established, while all the studied O. americanum accessions belong to the geranial/neral chemotype. This could be additional evidence that O. americanum is one of the parents of O. africanum. Furthermore, the fact that the O. africanum accession (10) as well as O. basilicum 'Purpurascens' and O. basilicum 'Erevanskii' accessions belong to the estragol chemotype supports the theory that O. afiicanum is one of the parents of these two O. basilicum accessions.
23673652|Patterns of seed and fruit production of Bauhinia ungulata, a small tree legume indigenous in tropical America, were studied in Costa Rica. Only about 8% of flowers produced fruits. The average pod had 19 ovules and about two thirds of these began seed development, with mature pods containing an average of 9.7 mature undamaged seeds. About half of the mature pods were damaged by herbivores and within these, 27% of ovules or seeds had been eaten. Among trees there was no significant variation in pod production, but the number of ovules per pod and seed production per pod varied significantly. Within infructescences most pods were retained at middle positions. Within pods, the probability of an ovule developing into a seed increased toward the distal end. The pattern of seed and fruit production in this species agrees well in general with that reported for other neotropical legumes. The abortion of seeds and fruits can be regarded as a way of controlling maternal investment, and as a response to herbivory.
23672613|A detailed description of female reproductive structures in Crocus is given, using three different techniques: wax embedding and sectioning, SEM, and observation of cleared ovules by interference contrast microscopy. The results of this examination, and a chromosomal investigation of the intraspecific hybrids obtained by crossing specimens of C. speciosus of different karyotypes, are used to test the hypothesis that Crocus is apomictic. Although facultative diplospory cannot be entirely ruled out, it is suggested that apomixis is an unlikely explanation from the unusual amount of chromosomal variation found in some species of Crocus, and alternative causes are discussed.
23674568|81 wild forms and 110 cultivated cowpea, Vigna unguiculata, accessions from 21 countries of Africa were screened for variability in seed storage proteins. Total seed proteins, albumin and globulin fractions were investigated by means of sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and isoelectric focusing (IEF) of nonreduced and/or reduced samples in one- and two-dimensional procedures. The globulin fraction is heterogeneous in molecular weight and contains both legumin-like components and three to six nondisulfide-linked subunits. Three globulin subunits, with molecular weights 110, 76, and 41 kD were found to be composed of disulfide-linked polypeptides. In the nondisulfide-linked fraction, both cultivated and wild forms exhibited patterns of four types (AD). This fraction contains polypeptide subunits of molecular weights 62, 56, and 52 kD for A type, 62, 56, 54, and 52 kD for B type, 62, 56, 52, and 50 kD for C type, and at least 62, 56, 54, 52, 50, and 49 kD for D type. These subunits present similar multiple charge forms but C and D types possess more basic specific 50 and 49 kD nondisulfide linked components. Major albumin fraction contains subunits of 94, 86, 32, and 24 kD. No infraspecific variation was observed in albumin or legumin-like fractions. The discussion is focussed on the relations between genetic variability assessed by storage protein coding genes and phenotypic variability.
23671507|The thickenings in the anther wall of Phthirusa adunca are confined to the endothecium. This observation resembles the previous report on P. pyrifolia.
23669026|The Franconian Alb (Bavaria, Germany) is rich in endemic Sorbus taxa, considered as apomictic microspecies and derived by hybridization between Sorbus aria aggregate and Sorbus torminalis (Sorbus latifolia aggregate). Molecular studies using the AFLP technique, neighbour joining, Bayesian clustering, principal coordinate analysis (PCo) and voucher studies were used to investigate genetic structure and origin of adult plants and cultivated offspring of three endemic S. latifolia taxa, namely Sorbus cordigastensis, Sorbus franconica and Sorbus adeana and probable parental species from the S. aria agg. and S. torminalis. The S. latifolia taxa, adults and progeny, showed low genetic variability and a more or less clonal structure, confirming an apomictic mode of reproduction. The investigated S. latifolia taxa were remarkably different among each other, confirming their status as microspecies. The AFLP data confirmed the hybrid origin of the S. latifolia taxa, they were 1.31.5 times more closely related to S. aria agg. than to S. torminalis. The S. aria agg. showed a complicate genetic structure and fell into four main groups, two intermediate groups besides Sorbus pannonica and Sorbus aria sensu stricto (S. aria s.str.). Some progeny of S. pannonica was more variable than expected and clustered partly with other groups indicating gene flow within S. aria agg. Different subgroups of the S. aria aggregate may be parental for the S. latifolia taxa, contributing to the remarkable genetic distances between them.
43558135|The genus Scrophularia L. (Scrophulariaceae) comprises 200-300 species, of which approximately 19 are distributed in North America and the Greater Antilles. To investigate phylogenetic and biogeographic relationships of the New World species, two intergenic spacers (trnQ-rps16 and psbA-trnH) of chloroplast DNA and nuclear ribosomal ITS were sequenced. Phylogenetic analyses revealed three distinct New World clades that correspond to their geographical distribution and are corroborated by morphological characters. Phylogenetic inference indicates the eastern American S. marilandica L. as sister to all Antillean species; for colonization of the Caribbean archipelago, a late Miocene dispersal event from the North American mainland is assumed. There is evidence for a hybrid origin of the most widespread North American species, S. lanceolata Pursh. The results further suggest that S. nodosa L. is sister to all New World and three Japanese species of Scrophularia. The latter form an Eastern Asian-Eastern North American (EA-ENA) disjunction with six New World species. We propose an eastern Asian origin for the New World taxa of Scrophularia. Divergence times estimated using a relaxed molecular clock model suggest one or more Miocene migration events from eastern Asia to the New World via the Bering Land Bridge followed by diversification in North America.
43558671|The genus Chamaecrista originates from the dismembering of Cassia L., which was elevated to the level of subtribe Cassiinae, giving rise to Cassia sensu stricto, Chamaecrista, and Senna. Phylogenetic analysis has suggested that Cassiinae is not monophyletic. The relationships between its genera are not clear, because they sometimes appear close to Chamaecrista and Senna and at other times close to Senna and Cassia. We describe here development of the seeds of three species of Chamaecrista and compare our data with information published in the literature for Cassiinae and non-Cassiinae legumes. The ovules appear well conserved in Cassiinae, differing only in the length of the funiculus. In terms of seed development, the shape of the endosperm haustorium is similar in Senna and Chamaecrista. Chamaecrista shares more characteristics of its mature seeds with Senna than with Cassia. Chamaecrista and Senna have variable seed shapes, the presence of pleurograms, the absence of root cap primordia, a short epicotyl, and the cotyledonary mesophyll tends to be dorsiventral. These seed characteristics place Senna close to Chamaecrista and distance it from Cassia. We also observed characteristics unique to Chamaecrista, for example the occurrence of multiple pleurograms, a partially multiplicative seed coat, and the presence of embryonic colleters.
23669991|Crossing Microseris pygmaea (10 pappus parts) with M. bigelovii (5 pappus parts) results in hybrids with variable pappus part numbers between 5 and 10. Previous work has shown that a system of four additively acting genes determines the average pappus part numbers of these hybrids. In hybrid B 87 two genes have a 10-determining and a 5-determining allele each, two others a 5-determining and a null (inactive or missing) allele. Genetic linkage of one of the latter with the enzyme gene Esterase-1 and the leaf shape gene spatulate leaves has been demonstrated. Here we demonstrate linkage between one of the two 10-determining genes and the enzyme locus Esterase-Y/B. The genotypes in the pappus part system of many specimens can now be fully determined. This is a major advance for the analysis of the evolution of this additive polygenic system.
23669875|Meiosis is described in thirty-seven taxa ranging from low to high chromosome numbers. Most were regular and bivalent forming. C. flavus subsp. flavus was observed at first anaphase only and was highly irregular. C. speciosus had one or two possible interchange quadrivalents and the C. vernus aneuploid cultivars exhibited multivalents, bivalents and univalents together with some anaphase bridges and fragments. Chiasma frequency is determined here for the first time.
23642086|According to biochemical and physiological characters, 77 strains of Chlorella were assigned to 12 taxa. The characters used are presence or absence of hydrogenase, formation of secondary carotenoids under nitrogen-deficient conditions, liquefaction of gelatin, products of glucose fermentation, ability to reduce nitrate, thiamine requirement, acid tolerance, salt tolerance, thermophily, and base composition of DNA (GC content). On the other hand, certain nutritional characters, i. e., utilization of organic carbon and nitrogen compounds, were found to be more or less strain-specific, highly variable, and therefore unsuitable for taxonomy.
23643155|The ascospore septation in 13 species of Diploschistes was examined. Microcephalic, macrocephalic, as well as irregular ascospore septation were found. In some species and even specimens of some species, different types of spore septation were detected. The taxonomic significance of the character of ascospore septation sequence is questioned, and the distinction of the orders Graphidales and Ostropales, which was primarily based on this character, is rejected.
23642639|By means of thin layer chromatography pyrrolizidine alkaloids and phenolic compounds in some members of the family Boraginaceae, subfamilies Heliotropioideae and Boraginoideae, were studied. From Omphalodes verna a main alkaloid was isolated with an isoretronecanol (or stereoisomeric) nucleus. The chemotaxonomical model of Ttnyi for Boraginaceae based on fatty acids is generally supported, but relationships between Heliotropioideae and Cynoglosseae appear to be closer, suggesting parallel developments from common ancesters.
23673214|The medicinal genus Thottea (Aristolochiaceae) is represented in the Western Ghats, India, by eight species, seven of which are endemic to this region. In the present study, diversity in floral structure and organization of these eight species was analyzed from a systematic perspective. Floral morphology was thoroughly studied and discussed with emphasis on 16 qualitative and 11 quantitative characters. Statistical tools such as UPGMA cluster analysis, PCoA, PCA, and one-way ANOVA were used for elucidating species boundaries and inter-relationships. Significance of the selected qualitative and quantitative characters for species level systematics was revealed by the PCA and one-way ANOVA. Based on the nature of sepals (free/fused), two species groups were identified (first group with T. duchartrei and T. idukkiana, and the second group with the remaining six species). By considering the number and arrangement of stamens, yet another species grouping was proposed (one with T. abrahamii and T. dinghoui, and the other with the remaining six species). The UPGMA phenogram and the PCoA scatter plot clearly pointed out the existence of two species groups: the first group with T. abrahamii, T. barberi, T. dinghoui, T. ponmudiana, T. siliquosa, and T. sivarajanii, and the second one with T. duchartrei and T. idukkiana. With regard to the morphometric tools and the taxonomic key, it does not seem possible to distinguish T. abrahamii from T. dinghoui, and T. idukkiana from T. duchartrei.
23642879|Radiant umbels result from the enlargement of peripheral phyllomes. We find the following patterns: 1) The Orlaya-type: only one petal in the flower is enlarged. 2) The Coriandrum-type: one whole and two half petals in the flower are enlarged. 3) The Artedia-type: two half petals in the flower are enlarged. 4) The Xanthosia-type: the enlargement affects three involucellar bracts of which two become asymmetrical.The enlargement of the phyllomes can effect the umbellet or the umbel or both. Obviously, this is the reason why many of these inflorescence systems display insufficient degrees of synorganization, with an optimum reached in Artedia and some species of Xanthosia.
23643671|In Bulbophyllum involutum and B. ipanemense (Orchidaceae), two closely related species, shortly after removal the pollinarium has a diameter of approximately twice that of the entrance of the stigmatic cavity, requiring a mean time of 105 to 135 minutes to shrink in width and allow pollination. Because the pollinators of these species remain for some minutes in the same flower after removing the pollinia this mechanism, previously unknown in Orchidaceae, may be very important in preventing self-pollination. This mechanism does not occur in B. weddellii, and the pollinator does not remain in the flower after removing the pollinia. The smaller diameter of the stigmatic cavity in B. involutum reduces by 50% the chances of inter-specific pollination with B. weddellii, and interspecific crossing is strictly unidirectional. This is important in maintaining isolation between these sympatric species, which share the same pollinators and have synchronized flowering.
23642804|A cytological analysis of 22 experimental interspecific hybrids within Epilobium sect. Epilobium, involving 15 taxa, has indicated that the generalized western North America E. obcordatum has the BB chromosome arrangement. This strengthens greatly our earlier contention that BB is the original chromosome arrangement in the section. The very distinctive northwestern North American E. luteum, only species in the section with cream-colored petals, has the CC arrangement, like the members of Haussknecht's Alpinae. This chromosome arrangement apparently originated in the North Pacific region in plants that were of normal stature. The North American E. leptocarpum, which closely resembles the Japanese endemic E. fauriei and, like it, forms gemmae in the axils of the upper leaves, also resembles it in having the CC chromosome arrangement. The Asian E. platystigmatosum has a novel chromosome arrangement derived from BB, which we here designate the EE arrangement.
23655679|Three new taxa from Albian, Early Cretaceous assemblages in Gondwana (Australia and Antarctica) and two previously described fossils from the Late Cretaceous and Eocene of North America are attributable to the heterosporous semi-aquatic fern family Marsileaceae. They are assigned to Marsileaceaephyllum, a morphotaxon erected here for sterile remains (whole plants, and isolated leaves and leaflets) of Marsileaceae. The Gondwanan taxa, Marsileaceaephyllum lobatum and Marsileaceaephyllum spp. B-C, have either a cruciform leaflet arrangement or dichotomous and anastomosing venation characteristic of modern Marsileaceae. Two previously established taxa, Marsilea johnhallii and Marsilea sp., which represent sterile Marsileaceae, are also transferred to the new genus (now Marsileaceaephyllum johnhallii and Marsileaceaephyllum sp. A, respectively). Examination of all fossil venation patterns reveals four new venation types not present in extant taxa, suggesting that most fossil Marsileaceae (leaves) are distinct from extant genera, and are likely members of extinct lineages. This is further supported by the absence of modern megaspore types in the Early Cretaceous.
23643054|Chromosome numbers of 65 species of sect. Hoarea have been determined. These show three basic chromosome numbers, x = 11, 10 and 9. Only a few species are tetraploid. In five species both diploid and tetraploid cytotypes are reported. Several cases of deviations in chromosome numbers and cytological abnormalities were found, most of these being related to the presence of B chromosomes that occur in eight species. Evidence is presented to suggest that the basic chromosome numbers of x = 10 and x = 9 are derived from x = 11 by centric fusion. Although variation in basic chromosome number within Pelargonium has been the subject of detailed study, this is the first time that evidence has been found for a mechanism of change in basic number, that of centric fusion by Robertsonian translocation. For the species of sect. Hoarea with x = 9, where the evidence for Robertsonian translocation is greatest, this process has probably taken place quite recently. In contrast to results from other sections of the genus Pelargonium, the three different basic numbers of sect. Hoarea do not contradict its delimitation as a natural taxon.
23672591|Viscin threads and other pollen connecting threads of some angiosperm families were investigated, especially those of Ericaceae. According to the definition adopted, viscin threads are  long exinous processes which consist of exinous material and connect pollen grains or tetrads. Such viscin threads are found within the Onagraceae, Caesalpiniaceae, Ericaceae, and Mimosaceae only. While they differ in structure and composition, they always consist of sporopollenin and exhibit a very strong stickiness, even after all viscid substances have been removed by acetolysis. In contrast, the pollen connecting scleroprotein threads of Orchidaceae and the cellular threads of Strelitzia reginae Aiton. (Musaceae) are not connected with the exine surface, are destroyed by acetolysis, and thus do not correspond to viscin threads.
43558158|Inflorescence and floral development of three species of Indigofera (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae), I. lespedezioides, I. spicata, and I. suffruticosa, were investigated and compared with that of other papilionoid groups, especially with members of the recently circumscribed Millettioid clade, which was merged as sister to Indigofereae in a recent cladistic analysis. Although Indigofera is a genus of special interest, because of its great richness in species and its economic importance, few studies have been made of floral development in the genus or in Indigofereae as a whole. Flower buds and inflorescences were analysed at several stages of development in the three species. Our results confirmed that Indigofera species bear a usual inflorescence type among legumes, the raceme, which comprises flowers initiated in acropetal succession, each with a subtending bract and no bracteoles initiated. The inception of the floral organs is as follows: sepals (5), petals (5), carpel (1), outer stamens (5), and, finally, inner stamens (5). Organ initiation in the sepal, petal, and both stamen whorls is unidirectional, from the abaxial side; the carpel cleft is adaxial. The vexillum is larger than other petals at maturity, covering the keels, which are fused edge-to-edge. Nine filaments are fused to form an adaxially open sheath, and the adaxial stamen of the inner whorl remains free (diadelphous androecium) in the mid-stage of development. Most of the infra-generic differences occurred in the later stages of development. Data on floral development in Indigofera obtained here were also compared with those from other members of Papilionoideae. This comparison showed that the early expression of zygomorphy is shared with other members of the Millettioid clade but is rarely found in other papilionoids, corresponding to a hypothetically morphological synapomorphy in the pair Indigoferae plus millettioids.
23664816|Thuja plicata and Platycladus orientalis initially produce only bifacial needle leaves. When the first lateral shoots develop, the leaf morphology and anatomy changes dramatically. Subsequently, only greatly reduced, bifacial scale leaves are developed. A new kind of "superimposed bifaciality" occurs with the change from juvenile needle leaves to mature scale leaves. Anatomical dorsiventrality affects not only the individual leaf, but also the complete plagiotropic lateral shoots of Thuja, which have a sun- and shade-exposed side. The upper lightexposed median leaves show adaxial leaf anatomy, contrary to the lower shaded median leaves showing abaxial leaf anatomy. Due to their mixed exposure, the lateral leaves show a lateral differentiation. At vertical lateral shoots of Platycladus, a predominant light-exposed side is absent. Thus, the anatomical dorsiventrality does not affect the complete shoot. Here the morphological abaxial side of a scale leaf becomes functionally and physiologically adaxial by reorientation of the palisade parenchyma and stomata. In juvenile needle leaves, the palisade parenchyma is located adaxial, with the majority of stomata being located abaxial. Conversely, in mature scale leaves, the palisade parenchyma is abaxial and the majority of stomata are adaxial.
23643317|Polymorphisms for six enzyme systems (GPI, IDH, PDG, PGM, SKD, and TPI) were analysed in the top onion, Allium  proliferum. Five multilocus isozyme genotypes were found. The banding patterns of top onions were compared with those of A.  wakegi, A. cepa, A. fistulosum, A. altaicum, and artificial hybrids between these three species. One top onion type and one artificial hybrid had identical banding patterns. Shallots and A. altaicum, the wild progenitor of A. fistulosum, cannot be distinguished from the common onion and A. fistulosum, respectively; these species are also potential contributors to the top onion's gene pool.
23674836|A phylogenetic analysis of 25 species, representing eight genera of the Rubieae tribe (Rubiaceae), has been made using the DNA sequence of the chloroplast atp B-rbc L intergene region. Six tropical genera from other tribes of Rubiaceae have been used as outgroups. Whatever the method of analysis (distance, parsimony or maximum likelihood), five groups are clearly separated and described as informal clades. Their relative relationships are not clearly resolved by the parsimony analysis, resulting in eight equally parsimonious trees, 327 steps long, with a consistency index (CI) of 0.749 (excluding uninformative sites). The Rubieae tribe appears monophyletic from the data available. Some new and partly unexpected phylogenetic relationships are suggested. The genus Rubia forms a separate clade and appears to be the relatively advanced sister group of the remaining taxa. The Sherardia clade also includes the genera Crucianella and Phuopsis. Galium sect. Aparinoides appears closely attached to the Asperula sect. Glabella clade. The remaining taxa of Galium are paraphyletic: Galium sect. Platygalium (in the Cruciata clade) is linked to the advanced genera Cruciata and Valantia; the more apomorphic groups of Galium form the Galium sect. Galium clade, including the perennial sections Galium, Leiogalium, and Leptogalium as well as the annual (and possibly polyphyletic) sect. Kolgyda.
23669044|Qualitative and some quantitative micromorphological characters of leaf blades, lemmas and paleas were examined using scanning electron microscopy for 29 species of Festuca subgenus Festuca, including the first observations on members of sections Amphigenes, Dimorphae and Cataphyllophorae. The aim of this study was to survey these features in the subgenus Festuca, to assess their taxonomical value. The observed patterns are compared with current taxonomic proposals based on molecular studies. The characters show important taxonomic value, mainly of the abaxial lemma. Characters showing the greatest variation are shape of long cells, shape of the periclinal walls, thickness of anticlinal walls, presence of prickles and abundance of silica bodies. The principal characters of the leaf-blade surfaces include the type and shape of short cells. Two different surface patterns were observed on the lemma, one, long cells rectangular to elongated, with flat to slightly convex periclinal walls and thickened anticlinal walls, for the sections Amphigenes and Dimorphae, and another, long cells rectangular to square, with concave periclinal walls and unthickened anticlinal walls, for the remaining sections. This study confirms the taxonomic value of micromorphological characters in the subgenus Festuca, and that abaxial lemma surface appears to be the most useful.
23642943|Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) was used to examine genomic diversity in taxa of the neotropical legume genus Leucaena. Data were analysed using both similarity- and parsimony-based approaches and the data compared to a parsimonybased analysis of chloroplast DNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP). Distance-based methods of RAPD analysis produced groups inconsistent with those identified by RFLP analysis. Parsimony-based analysis of the data produced groupings largely consistent with those identified using RFLPs. The major differences were grouping of the two subspecies of Leucaena diversifolia (subsp. diversifolia and subsp. stenocarpa) in the RAPD tree, but their separation in the RFLP tree. The value of RAPD data in systematics as a result of these data and our understanding of the molecular basis of RAPDs are discussed.
23654252|The embryo stage of development and the nature of the reserve tissues are analyzed according to the timing of the morphogenetic factors during ontogeny. A seed characterization system and a seed formula are proposed. Several typological systems characterize seeds, based mainly on the size and position of the embryo and other external characters. This paper proposes a system based on morphogenetic factors that act on the embryo and determine the origin of reserve tissues. Seed morphogenesis results from a series of phenomena whose temporal sequence varies according to the genetic program of each species. Such peculiarities were selected for by environmental pressures, and their morphological expression reflects their adaptation. Such a system may offer insights into the ecology and evolution of particular species.
23644344|16 iridoid glucosides and 3 aromatic compounds were isolated from Bulgarian natural populations of Veronica L. and Pseudolysimachion Opiz species. The distribution of 11 compounds in 34 species (96 samples) was shown. Seven Veronica and Pseudolysimachion species were screened for iridoids for the first time and a phenylethanoid glycoside, calceolarioside C, was found for the first time in the genus Veronica. The systematic significance of iridoid glucosides at subspecies, species, sectional, and generic levels is discussed. A correlation between the chemical characters (iridoids and flavonoids) and the chromosome base numbers of the perennial Veronica species was established. Origin of the annual species from the perennials through two evolutionary lines was supposed.
23642634|Emblingia is a short lived fire weed with a highly autogamous breeding system.
23643059|Different stages of megaspore and megasporangial development in Selaginella argentea (Wallich) Spring, S. bigelowii Unerw., and S. kraussiana (Kze.) A. Br. have been seen and studied. Megaspore wall units give positive reactions for polysaccharides and protein in young megaspores, and become the thick and resistant wall typical of the genus only later.  Units forming the exospore and the spaces between units enlarge from widths of 510 nm early during development up to over 200 nm at pregermination stages. The spaces enlarge first. Initially they are circular and mostly about 70 nm in diameter. Later, spaces toward the inner part of the exospore enlarge more than those near the outer surface. During pregermination, wall spaces range in size from 4 to 50 times the width of units with the larger spaces located near the inner surface. As a result the exospore would be under tension to spring outward during germination when the laesurae are lysed.  A gap in the exospore, shaped like a half-moon in polar sections, forms in equatorial and distal portions of the spore. This gap becomes enormous, three times the volume of the central space plus the mesospore, and is filled with lipids and other nutrients. Late in development, during the period of tapetal cell degeneration, the gap contents are moved into the central space and the gap is closed.  Late in development the mesospore is degraded. Its products, along with gap contents, seem to be added to the contents of the central cavity and appear as reserve storage globules. A primary wall-like endospore is formed during this period, at the inner surface of the exospore. During germination this endospore develops further at its inner surface.  Changes in the size and shape of megasporangia occur independently of the size of megaspores.
23644272|The pollination biology of the neotropical scandent shrub Combretum lanceolatum was studied in the seasonally-flooded Pantanal region in western Brazil. This plant bears horizontally oriented inflorescences, whose yellowish green flowers begin to expand at dusk and are fully open at dawn. Instead of fluid nectar the flowers produce sweet gelatinous secretion in form of pellets. The glandular complex of the flower is composed of the inner wall of the receptacle and its tubular extension, being equivalent to the nectariferous disk of the nectar-producing species within the genus. The jelly is produced at night, contains mannan and is imbibed by free hexoses. It originates by swelling and disintegration of the inner wall, after contact with the nectar generated concomitantly in the mesophyll. Combretum lanceolatum is unique within the genus in its production of jelly pellets instead of liquid nectar. A new term, the jelly-flower, is proposed for flowers with this kind of reward. The pellet is not replaced once removed by a bird, and thus resembles a fruit in its availability to consumers, another unique feature that distinguishes this species within the genus. The jelly pellets offered by the many flowered branches attract a great diversity of bird visitors (28 species from eight families), which feed on this copious food resource and pollinate the flowers. The most effective pollinators probably are thrushes, tanagers, and orioles. Flocking parakeets and macaws sometimes feed on the petals, thus acting as flower plunderers. Combretum lanceolatum presents a high fruit set under natural conditions, which likely favours its spreading and becoming a weed species.
23673773|The reproductive structures of Deplanchea tetraphylla (Bignoniaceae) exhibit a significant number of unusual features: inflorescence with an apical "platform"; flowers yellow, short-tubed, strongly zygomorphic; mouth closed through lateral compression; stamens and style long-exserted, erect or slightly reclined; nectar dark brown, exposed in the spoon-shaped lowermost corolla lobe and apparently acting also as a visual cue. These features suggest a highly elaborate syndrome for bird pollination: the birds (probably lorikeets) perch on the inflorescence platform and bend downwards to take up the exposed nectar, thus touching the exserted anthers and stigmas with the throat or breast. The likely evolution of this syndrome by additive steps, effecting a change from "head up" to "head down" position of the pollinator, can be traced from the floral structure of the remaining four species of the genus.
23642946|A comparison of the West African Neoschumannia Schltr. and the East African Swynnertonia S. Moore reveals that the two monotypic genera must be united. Swynnertonia is sunk into synonymy of Neoschumannia and the new combination Neoschumannia cardinea (S. Moore) Meve is made for the East African species. Neoschumannia is shown to belong to the tribe Stapelieae. The taxon exhibits a very unusual character combination: the growth form of a woody liana is combined with a tripartite corona unique within the Asclepiadaceae. The morphology of the corona suggests a position of Neoschumannia close to the base of the Stapelieae  Ceropegiinae alliance.
23645003|The problem of the water content of pollen is reconsidered, especially the distinction between "partially hydrated pollen" (PH pollen), pollen with a water content greater than 30%, and "partially dehydrated pollen" (PD pollen), which has a water content of less than 30%. Both types have been found even in systematically contiguous groups or the same genus. Partially hydrated pollen, encountered in at least 40 families of angiosperms, has the advantage of germinating quickly, normally in a few minutes to less than an hour. Dispersal of highly hydrated pollen also occurs in orchids but for a different reason, i.e. to enable packaging of massulae. The disadvantage of pollen dispersed with a high water content is that water is readily lost and the pollen may desiccate and die unless it has biochemical or anatomical devices to retain water or phenological strategies, such as flowering when temperatures are not too high and when relative humidity is high. Most pollen of Gymnosperms and Angiosperms studied has, however, been found partially dehydrated.
23645037|Plathymenia foliolosa and P. reticulata are two tropical tree species economically important for their high quality wood. P. foliolosa occurs mainly in areas of Atlantic Forest (a tropical forest) whereas P. reticulata occurs mainly in the Cerrado region (a savanna vegetation), both Brazilian biomes classified as hotspots for conservation priorities. In the present study RAPD markers were used to differentiate P. foliolosa from the vicariant species P. reticulata. Using 10 random primers it was possible to obtain 84 markers, of which 22 (26.2%) were present in just one of the two species. Nine of the ten primers were successful in discriminating between the species through the detection of diagnostic markers or band frequency differences. One of the populations of P. foliolosa, located in a region where the two species co-occur, presented several markers that were characteristic of P. reticulata, suggesting the occurrence of gene flow between the two species.
23645044|The present study analyzed the distribution pattern of the Ae. speltoidesderived repetitive clone pGc1R-1 in the Triticum/Aegilops complex. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis showed that clone pGc1R-1 is a S-genome-specific repetitive sequence that hybridized to the S-genome of three species in the section Sitopsis, Aegilops speltoides (S), Ae. longissima (Sl), and Ae. sharonensis (Ssh), but not to Ae. bicornis (Sb) and Ae. searsii (Ss), nor to any other diploid Aegilops species. This clone also hybridized to the very closely related G-genome of T. timopheevii subsp. armeniacum and T. timopheevii ssp. timopheevii, but not to the B-genome of T. turgidum and T. aestivum. Hybridization also was observed in the polyploid Aegilops species, Ae. kotschyi (UkSk), Ae. peregrina (UpSp), and Ae. vavilovii (XvaDvaSva). Large inter- and intraspecific variations were observed. Our results confirm that the S genome is related more to the Sl and Ssh genomes than to the Sb and Ss genomes; there is a greater affinity between the G and S genomes than between the B and S genomes. Mechanisms to account for the variation in the FISH pattern with different genomes include sequence amplification and deletion. Variation in the distribution of this genome-specific DNA sequence, pGc1R-1, on chromosomes can be used to reveal evolutionary relationships in the Triticum and Aegilops complex.
43558062|Centaurium pulchellum is an annual herb native to Europe, but introduced in South America, where it is widely used in the preparation of digestive infusions and bitter drinks. In this species, a wide variation in the aperture pattern of pollen grains was reported and has been attributed to environmental factors or irregularities at meiosis. For this reason, cytological and palynological studies have been undertaken on two different populations. The pollen grain analysis showed that some types are more frequent within each population, but the most common forms were the typical 3-colporate and 4-colporate. The cytological analysis revealed that the analyzed populations of C. pulchellum have chromosome number 2n = 36. The presence of tetravalents at meiosis strongly suggests that these populations are autotetraploid based on x = 9. The meiotic behavior showed a significant percentage of irregularities in different phases: off-plate bivalents, precocious segregation, laggard chromosomes, bridges, and cytomixis. However these irregularities are not related to the variation in the aperture pattern of pollen grains. The heteromorphism in the pollen grains observed in C. pulchellum could be a normal condition to which the species is well adapted.
23645211|An Early Cretaceous angiosperm, Sinocarpus decussatus gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Yixian Formation in Liaoning, China, based on an infructescence fragment. It is probably ebracteate, consisting of one terminal fruit and two pairs of pedicellate lateral fruits arranged decussately. Carpels are probably borne on a small convex receptacle. There are no distinct remnants of a perianth although fragments observed at the base of immature fruits may represent perianth parts. No remnants of androecial parts have been observed, and it is unknown whether the flowers were unisexual or bisexual. The basally syncarpous ovary is superior and composed of 3 or 4 carpels. Each carpel contains about 10 anatropous ovules/ seeds borne along the linear placentae. Seeds are flattened and embedded in a thick amorphous material. The character combination of Sinocarpus indicates a systematic position among the basal grade of eudicots or the basal core eudicots, and particularly shows similarities to extant Ranunculaceae, Buxaceae, and Myrothamnaceae, but based on the available data the fossil cannot unambiguously be placed in any modern family.
23643676|A series of strains of the homozygous species Oenothera grandiflora (characterized by the genome BB and plastome III) were combined with plastome IV from O. parviflora (BC-IV) by means of appropriate crosses. An incompatibility between genome B and plastome IV is expressed in the haplo- and diplophase: (1) B-IV pollen, though normally developed, is largely inactive. The extent of the inactivation varies between different strains and shows a seasonal fluctuation as determined by seed set in outcrossing and selfing experiments. (2) In most of the strains lethality of BB-IV embryos is the rule, leading to empty seeds. This can be ameliorated by including another plastome in the zygotes and developing embryos on account of the biparental plastid transmission in Oenothera. It can best be demonstrated in crosses with a seed parent having normal green plastids of plastome IV and mutated chlorophyll deficient plastids from a different plastome in the pollen parent, leading to variegated progeny as well as a remainder of empty seeds. (3) In about one-half of the strains the BB-IV plants exhibit a temporary bleaching of the virescens type. The incompatibily between genome B and plastome IV does not support the earlier assumption that plastome IV is the ancestor of plastomes II, III, and V. Instead, a precursor plastome is postulated from which plastomes II, III, and IV are descended. While plastome I can be derived from II, only plastome V can be descended from plastome IV.
23673143|Phylogeographic analysis of the Coffea subgenus Coffea was performed using data on plastid DNA sequences and interpreted in relation to biogeographic data on African rain forest flora. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of trnL-F, trnT-L and atpB-rbcL intergenic spacers from 24 African species revealed two main clades in the Coffea subgenus Coffea whose distribution overlaps in west equatorial Africa. Comparison of trnL-F sequences obtained from GenBank for 45 Coffea species from Cameroon, Madagascar, Grande Comore and the Mascarenes revealed low divergence between African and Madagascan species, suggesting a rapid and radial mode of speciation. A chronological history of the dispersal of the Coffea subgenus Coffea from its centre of origin in Lower Guinea is proposed. No relation was found between phylogenetic topology and the age of emergence of the volcanic islands that Coffea species have colonised in the Indian Ocean, suggesting dispersal from mainland Africa after the emergence of the youngest island, Grande Comore, 500,000 years ago. Additional sequences were obtained from GenBank for 24 species of other Rubiaceae genera, including the Rubia genus whose origin has been dated from the Upper Miocene. Estimates of substitution rates suggested that diversification in Coffea subgenus Coffea occurred about 460,000 years ago or as recently as the last 100,000 years, depending on the cpDNA region considered and calibration. The phylogenetic relationships based on plastid sequences confirmed biogeographic differentiation of coffee species, but they were not congruent with morphological and biochemical classifications, or with the capacity to grow in specific environments. Examples of convergent evolution in the main clades are given using characters of leaf size, caffeine content and reproductive mode.
23655940|A cladistic analysis was performed including five Cretaceous and 31 extant taxa within Saxifragales using a combination of molecular sequence and morphological data in order to elucidate the utility of extinct taxa in illuminating saxifragalean evolution. The results suggest that Saxifragales as well as most major infraordinal clades lack unambiguous morphological synapomorphies among the characters examined; that the major lineages of Saxifragales were distinct by ca. 9070 Ma; and that the ca. 90 Ma taxa lack characteristic derived features present in modern taxa. General conclusions concerning the advantages of joint extinct-extant taxon phylogenetic analyses explored herein include: 1) Prediction of the morphological characters present in early members of a clade; 2) Determination of minimum ages for lineage divergences; 3) Resolution of the order in which synapomorphies may have evolved; and 4) Circumscription of the time interval during which synapomorphies may have evolved.
23643679|Cucumis melo L. (melon) genotypes differ widely in morphological and biochemical traits. Intra-specific classification of such variability has been difficult, and most taxonomists still rely on the work of Naudin (1859). A collection of 54 accessions representing diverse genotypes from 23 countries was surveyed. Morphological traits related to the vegetative and flowering stages and mature fruit morphology and quality parameters, e.g., taste, aroma, sugar composition and pH, were scored. These were used to construct a "botanical-morphological" dendrogram that generally reflected the classification of Cucumis melo into several horticultural varieties. DNA polymorphism among the accessions was assessed using the Inter-SSR-PCR and RAPD techniques that detected abundant DNA polymorphism among melon genotypes. Cluster analysis indicated that the largest divergence was between North American and European cantalupensis and inodorus cultivars as one group, and the more "exotic" varieties: conomon, chito, dudaim, agrestis and momordica, as a second group. The molecular phylogeny agreed, broadly, with the classification of melon into two subspecies, and did not contradict the division into "horticultural varieties". It was apparent, however, that the infra-specific division is rather loose, molecular variation being distributed continuously between and within cultivar groups. We suggest that despite the morphological diversity, separation between varietal-groups may be based on a too small number of genes to enable unambiguous infra-specific classification based on DNA diversity.
23655711|Pinus is the largest genus of conifers, containing over 100 species and is also the most widespread genus in the Northern Hemisphere. Pinus monticola and P. strobus are two closely related and economically important species in Canada. Morphological and allometric characteristics have been used to assess genetic variation within these two species but these markers are not reliable due to ecological variations. The purpose of the present study was to determine the level of genetic diversity within and among Canadian populations from the two species using molecular markers and to identify and characterize genome-specific inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSR) and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. The level of genetic variation among populations was much lower for P. monticola than P. strobus. For both species, the among population variation values were smaller than within population variation. The populations from P. monticola were more closely genetically related than populations from P. strobus based on ISSR and RAPD analyses. Six ISSR and four RAPD markers specific to either P. monticola or P. strobus were cloned and sequenced. Primer pairs flanking these specific sequences were designed and genome specific SCAR markers for P. monticola and P. strobus were developed and characterized.
23642607|Solitary bees (Halictus sp.) were found to be the effective pollinators of Cephalanthera longifolia. In the same foraging flight the bees also visit flowers of Cistus salviifolius which has a similar colour pattern. Cephalanthera offers no reward to its pollinators, but orange papillae on its labellum successfully imitate pollen of Cistus. As Cephalanthera also attracts pollinators in the absence of Cistus, this is regarded as "facultative floral mimicry".
23656033|Dispersal ability is an important fitness component in most plant species. Therefore, some phenotypic traits can be selected due to their effect on dispersal. In this study I determine the potential for dispersal-mediated selection on plant height in an autochorous plant, Erysimum mediohispanicum (Brassicaceae). Selection was quantified by selection gradients, structural equation modeling and generalized additive models. I detected significant dispersal-mediated linear selection gradient on plant height, taller plants dispersing seeds farther. Nevertheless, the generalized additive models suggest that the selection on stalk height was non linear. Indeed, it detected a threshold in the effect of stalk height on dispersal ability; plants shorter than that threshold had an extremely short dispersal, whereas plants taller than that threshold dispersed the seeds very far. Furthermore, the structural equation modeling showed that stalk height indirectly affected dispersal distance through its significant effect on one reproduction-related fitness component, taller plants having greater fecundity. Selection on E. mediohispanicum stalk height occurs through two simultaneous paths, one via producing many seeds and the other through increasing probability of dispersing them far away.
23643170|The Ulmaceae is usually split into two subgroups, referred to as either tribes or more commonly subfamilies (Ulmoideae and Celtidoideae). The two groups are separated, with some exceptions, on the basis of leaf venation, fruit type, seed morphology, wood anatomy, palynology, chemistry, and chromosome number. Propositions to separate the two groups as distinct families have never gained general acceptance. Recent morphological and anatomical data have suggested, however, that not only is family status warranted but that Celtidaceae are more closely related to Moraceae and other Urticales than to Ulmaceae. In order to test these alternative sets of relationships, restriction site mapping of the entire cpDNA was done with nine rare cutting enzymes using 11 genera of Ulmaceae s. l., three other families of the Urticales, and an outgroup family from the Hamamelidae. Cladistic analysis of the data indicates that Ulmaceae s. l. is not monophyletic and that distinct families (Ulmaceae and Celtidaceae) are warranted; that Ulmaceae is the sister group to Celtidaceae plus all other families in the order; and that Cannabaceae might be nested within Celtidaceae. Familial placements of various problematic genera (e.g. Ampelocera, Aphananthe) are resolved and character evolution of key morphological, anatomical, chemical, and chromosomal features are discussed.
43558619|Genetic differentiation in space can be detected at various scales. First, habitat fragmentation can produce a mosaic genetic structure. Second, life history aspects of a species such as dispersion, mating system, and pollination can generate a genetic structure at a finer level. The interplay of these levels has rarely been studied together. In order to assess the effects of forest fragmentation we analyzed the genetic structure at two spatial scales of the terrestrial orchid Cyclopogon luteoalbus, which lives in patches inside forest fragments in a cloud forest of eastern Mexico. We hypothesized high differentiation between forest fragments and strong spatial genetic structure within fragments under this scenario of strong fragmentation and restricted dispersal patterns. Using 11 allozymic loci we found high genetic diversity at fragment level with moderate differentiation among fragments, and at patch level, strong and variable spatial genetic structure among life cycle stages with high inbreeding coefficients. We also found bottlenecks indicating recent population size reductions. While both inbreeding and restricted seed dispersal may explain the strong spatial genetic structure at patch level, reduction in population size may explain the genetic structure at fragment level. However, the levels of genetic diversity indicate that some between-fragment gene flow has occurred. Bottlenecks and high inbreeding at patch level may result in local extinctions, but as long as an important number of fragments remain, patch recolonization through immigration is possible in C. luteoalbus.
23673233|Studies of the North American columbines (Aquilegia, Ranunculaceae) have supported the view that adaptive radiations in animal-pollinated plants proceed through pollinator specialisation and floral differentiation. However, although the diversity of pollinators and floral morphology is much lower in Europe and Asia than in North America, the number of columbine species is similar in the three continents. This supports the hypothesis that habitat and pollinator specialisation have contributed differently to the radiation of columbines in different continents. To establish the basic background to test this hypothesis, we expanded the molecular phylogeny of the genus to include a representative set of species from each continent. Our results suggest that the diversity of the genus is the result of two independent events of radiation, one involving Asiatic and North American species and the other involving Asiatic and European species. The ancestors of both lineages probably occupied the mountains of south-central Siberia. North American and European columbines are monophyletic within their respective lineages. The genus originated between 6.18 and 6.57 million years (Myr) ago, with the main pulses of diversification starting around 3 Myr ago both in Europe (1.253.96 Myr ago) and North America (1.425.01 Myr ago). The type of habitat occupied shifted more often in the Euroasiatic lineage, while pollination vectors shifted more often in the Asiatic-North American lineage. Moreover, while allopatric speciation predominated in the European lineage, sympatric speciation acted in the North American one. In conclusion, the radiation of columbines in Europe and North America involved similar rates of diversification and took place simultaneously and independently. However, the ecological drivers of radiation were different: geographic isolation and shifts in habitat use were more important in Europe while reproductive isolation linked to shifts in pollinator specialisation additionally acted in North America.
23673770|Three remarkable new genera of conidial lichen-forming fungi, with pycnidial or acervular conidiomata are described and illustrated. Hastifera tenuispora gen. et spec. nov. from the South-Tyrol, Italy, is characterized by very long and narrow hyaline conidia produced in pycnidial conidiomata immersed in thalline warts. Lichingoldia gyalectiformis gen. et spec. nov. from rocks subject to inundation by freshwater in Norway has long sigmoidly curved conidia which appear to be adapted to dispersal in water. Woessia fusarioides gen. et spec. nov. from a Quercus stump in the Burgenland, Austria, has a finely granular thallus and disc-like conidiomata producing falcate conidia; this species is also of interest in that it has Chlorella as the photobiont. The recently described hyphomycete Cheiromycina flabelliformis B. Sutton is reported from Austria for the first time, and is also lichenized. Recent collections of Nigropuncta rugulosa D. Hawksw. from Austria and Italy also show that this species is lichenized rather than parasymbiotic. In all five cases the fungal hyphae of the conidiogenous structures are continuous with those in intimate contact with cells of the algal partners and the biological relationship appears to be mutualistic giving rise to stable crustose lichen thalli.
23644098|Twenty-nine Malus species, 12 M. domestica cultivars and representative outgroup taxa were chosen for sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer of nuclear ribosomal DNA and the matK region of the chloroplast genome, in order to develop an explicit phylogenetic hypothesis for the genus and identify potential germplasm donors to the domesticated apple, M. domestica. Maximum parsimony analysis generated nuclear and chloroplast cladograms that provide reasonable resolution of sub-generic groups, as recognised in classifications. All of the close relatives of M. domestica occur in a poorly resolved series Malus clade. Two matK duplications were found, one in series Malus and the other in most M. domestica cultivars and one Central Asian M. sieversii accession.
23671730|Tambourissa exhibits an unusual spectrum of floral diversity, tightly linked, however, by a common ground plan. Divergent evolutionary trends have led to small, closed flowers and to secondarily open flowers, including the largest of the Monimiaceae. The myophilous and cantharophilous flowers attract pollinators by scent, colour, stigmatic nectar and pollen. Some species have attained monoecy with partial or complete self-incompatibility, others even dioecy. Extraordinary evolutionary trends include the differentiation of a hyperstigma, the carpel group formation within a gynoecium, the increasing disorder in carpel orientation with increase of carpel number, and the formation of a pseudoperianth by the sterile lobes of the floral cup.
23671350|Nectar spurs have an important role in floral evolution and plantpollinator coadaptation. The flowers of some species possess spurs curving into a circle. However, it is unclear whether spur circle diameter is under direct selection pressure from different sources, such as pollinators and nectar robbers. In this study, we quantified selection on some floral traits, such as spur circle diameter in Impatiens oxyanthera (Balsaminaceae) using phenotypic selection analysis and compared the relative importance of pollinators and nectar robbers as selective agents using mediation analysis. The study showed that pollinators caused significant selection on corolla length, spur curvature and spur circle diameter while nectar robbers only imposed strong selection on spur circle diameter. Pollinators favored flowers with large corolla, curly spurs and large spur circle while nectar robbers preferred flowers with small spur circle. More pollinator visits resulted in higher female reproductive success, while robbery reduced female fitness. Conflicting selection on spur traits from pollinators and nectar robbers was not found. Mediation analysis showed that selection on floral traits through nectar robbing was stronger than selection through pollination. The results suggested that pollinators and nectar robbers jointly mediated the directional selection for large spur circle, and nectar robbers caused stronger selection than pollinators on floral traits.
23643727|Penland's beardtongue, a rare endemic plant of the Colorado Plateau, displays a mixed breeding system. Plants are partially self-compatible but set more fruits when cross-pollinated than when self-pollinated. Fruit production is significantly increased by pollinators. However, in two years of study there was no indication that fruit set was being limited by inadequate pollinator visitation. Pollinator effectiveness was judged by correlating bee behavior at the flowers with analysis of the pollen carried on bee bodies. The most important pollinators were native megachilid bees, particularly in the genus Osmia. The bees that pollinate Penland's beardtongue are essential to its reproduction and must be preserved along with this rare plant.
23643199|Cypripedioideae (Orchidaceae) have been the subject of numerous taxonomic treatments with conflicting interpretations of relationships among the five genera and the 150170 species. We have produced nuclear ribosomal ITS nucleotide sequences for nearly 100 slipper orchid species and used parsimony analysis to investigate their relationships. Our results demonstrate that each genus, as currently circumscribed, is monophyletic (Mexipedium and Selenipedium being represented by a single taxon). Like rbcL data, ITS sequences place Mexipedium sister to Phragmipedium. Relationships at the sectional level in Paphiopedilum are largely as described by Cribb. However, the division of Paphiopedilum into subgg. Brachypetalum and Paphiopedilum is not supported; subg. Brachypetalum is paraphyletic to subg. Paphiopedilum. Phragmipedium species are divided into the same three major clades as in the taxonomic scheme of McCook. The plicate-leaved genera, Cypripedium and Selenipedium, are successive sister groups to the rest of the subfamily, confirming generally held opinions that they display plesiomorphic characters compared to the conduplicate-leaved genera. A survey of karyotypes in the context of the ITS tree reveals a general trend toward increased chromosome number, probably brought about by centric fission. These data also accord with a previously suggested biogeographic hypothesis of a widespread Northern Hemisphere distribution, followed by range fragmentation due to Miocene cooling.
23642866|Considerable structural and numerical chromosomal variation has been found in natural populations of Alopecurus. Interchange heterozygotes, identified by multivalent formation during meiosis, have been recovered in four out of six species studied and are reported for the first time in the diploids A. bulbosus, and A. myosuroides, and the tetraploid A. pratensis. B chromosomes have been found in two species, A. pratensis and A. myosuroides and also in inter-specific hybrids between A. pratensis and A. arundinaceus. The characteristics, distribution and meiotic behaviour of both interchange heterozygotes and B chromosomes are described.
23671731|Flavonoids have been used successfully for interpreting evolutionary relationships in many groups of angiosperms. These interpretations often have been presented in narrative fashion without specific indications of the kinds of relationships expressed. In this paper a method of phylogeny reconstruction with flavonoid data showing cladistic, patristic, and phenetic relationships is presented. Such a phylogram contains maximal information about flavonoid evolution. As an example, relationships in the North American species of Coreopsis (Compositae), containing 46 species in 11 sections, are analyzed by this approach. A phylogeny of sections of the genus from previous morphological, chromosomal and hybridization data is compared with that from data on anthochlors (chalcones and aurones). Strong correspondence of these evolutionary interpretations gives support to the hypothesized evolutionary trends within the group.
23642751|The genus Nigella, burdened with about 80 or more binomials, consists of only 14 acceptable species. A key, notes on the nomenclature, and illustrations are provided. The most polymorphic species is N. arvensis; its races have long been subject to taxonomical controversy and are grouped here into 14 varieties: N. arvensis var. anatolica, var. iranica, and var. simplicifolia are described as new taxa.
23644086|A rheophytic aroid, Furtadoa sumatrensis M. Hotta, showed protogynous flowering behaviour, which reduced autogamous pollination within the spadix and promoted outcrossing among spadices by Colocasiomyia sp. (Diptera, Drosophilidae). Self-compatibility of this species allowed geitonogamous crossing between genetically homogeneous spadices from the same individual. Chemical dyes as pollen analogues were carried by Colocasiomyia flies bidirectionally along the forest stream habitat, and their movements were significantly affected by the density of mature spadices in a population. This correlation was consistent among populations. In a population with higher density, the dye's movements were restricted to a smaller distance logarithmically. Estimated neighborhood size (Ne) and area (A) showed positive and negative correlation with density, respectively. The range of pollen flow was estimated at most within a river system.
23656051|Pollen morphology of ten Brazilian species within the South American clade (ca. 20 species) of Symplocos section Barberina (Symplocaceae) was analyzed with scanning electron microscopy to assess their reported androdioecious breeding system. All species exhibited pollen dimorphism. Pollen from male individuals is well developed and 3-colporate, whereas that from morphologically hermaphroditic individuals is malformed, often completely fragmented, lacks cytoplasm, and has no germination pores. Our results suggest that the morphologically hermaphroditic species of S. section Barberina with malformed pollen are cryptically dioecious.
23674931|The distribution of CHy-banded heterochromatin was studied in the chromosomes of Aegilops longissima, Ae. speltoides, Triticum monococcum, and T. turgidum. Interphase nuclei were measured after Feulgen staining at different thresholds of optical density; the curves so obtained indicated the relationship among the species with respect to the different fractions of the genomic DNA. The karyological and cytophotometric analyses indicate differences between Ae. speltoides and Ae. longissima, the latter species being enriched in heterochromatin. Similar results were demonstrated for the genus Triticum, in which T. turgidum showed more heterochromatin when compared with T. monococcum. The results suggest that the B genome of the cultivated wheats possesses a type of heterochromatin that resembles the type present in Ae. longissima.
23642739|Microseris strain C 34 is a hybrid between the Chilean species M. pygmaea (10 pappus parts) and the Californian M. bigelovii (5 pappus parts). The F 1 specimen had from 5 to 10 pappus parts per achene with an average of 6. F 2, F 3 and F 4 plants derived from this hybrid by spontaneous selfing show segregation for the average number of pappus parts. Four segregating unlinked genes could be demonstrated, each with an allele determining 5 pappus parts from the bigelovii parent, one with an allele determining 10 pappus parts, three with null alleles from the pygmaea parent. The expected average pappus part number is the arithmetic mean of the 5- and 10-determining factors. Considerable environmental and developmental influences, both "random noise" and systematic shifts, could be demonstrated to influence the phenotypic expression. The parallel hybrid strain B 87 has two 10-alleles rather than one in its pygmaea genome. The evolution of the pappus part genes of M. pygmaea from those of a bigelovii-like ancestor seems to demand the concerted (non-independent) mutation of at least two genes.
23645160|The nuclear ITS region and four noncoding cpDNA regions were directly sequenced to reconstruct the phylogeny of subsect. Meleuphorbia (Euphorbia L.), which is endemic to South Africa. Sequence polymorphism within cpDNA regions was too low to permit phylogenetic analyses. Large deletions including the ctp2-atpB proximal promoter in the atpB-rbcL IGS were found in two individuals. Phylogeny of subsect. Meleuphorbia was reconstructed using nrITS sequence data. The two resulting major clades are consistent with the geographic distribution of the investigated taxa. Plants distributed in the winter rainfall area in the Little Karoo form one clade, plants growing in the Great Karoo with predominant summer rainfall form the other. Subsect. Meleuphorbia is not monophyletic, because members of subsect. Anthacantha are clustered within the meleuphorbias. Both share functional unisexuality, form angled stems and the key character of Anthacantha (inflorescence spines) occurs as a transitional stage in form of persistent peduncles in Meleuphorbia.
23674675|Circumscription of the tribe Cinchoneae (Rubiaceae) is reconsidered on the basis of a cladistic analysis of structural data comprising 48 characters (164 states). It is concluded that the tribe Cinchoneae, in order to be monophyletic, should be restricted to comprise Capirona, Cephalodendron, Cinchona, Cosmibuena, Dolicholobium, Ferdinandusa, Joosia, Ladenbergia, Macrocnemum, and Remijia. It is also suspected, on insufficient evidence, that Maguireocharis, Pimentelia, and Stilpnophyllum belong here. Alseis, Calycophyllum, Schizocalyx, and Wittmackanthus form a monophyletic group possibly related to the Cinchoneae. A new tribe, Calycophylleae, is proposed to accommodate them. Hillia, which is possibly the sister group of the Cinchoneae, is retained in a separate tribe. Coptosapelta, Corynanthe, Crossopteryx, Hymenodictyon, Luculia, Mitragyna, Mussaendopsis, Paracorynanthe, Pausinystalia, and Uncaria are referred to the same tribe, for which the name Coptosapelteae has to be adopted. Probably also Greeniopsis belongs here. The genera Cigarilla, Coutarea, and Exostema, and possibly Syringantha and Wernhamia, seem to be most closely related to Portlandia and should be transferred to the tribe Condamineeae. Bouvardia, Coursiana, Danais, Duidiana, Dunnia, Heterophyllaea, Hindsia, Lecanosperma, Manettia, Merumea, Neohymenopogon, and Schismatoclada should be provisionally transferred to the tribe Hedyotideae, which is suspected to be polyphyletic, however. No conclusive results were reached concerning the position of Balmea, Blepharidium, Emmenopterys, and Suberanthus, the position of them remaining uncertain.
43558298|Nucleotide sequences from the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA and 5.8S gene were used to infer the phylogeny of Tilia species (represented by 13 distinct populations) growing in different geographical areas of Hyrcanian forests in northern Iran. Four well-supported lineages were revealed, including that of a new species, T. hyrcana, with stellate trichomes on both sides of the leaves and petiole. T. hyrcana is a wellsupported cladospecies, with the ITS sequence and secondary structure following the diagnosable phylogenetic species concept, and is also characterized by a distinct morphology. A controversial species is Tilia rubra subsp. caucasica, with three different formsan assemblage of taxa characterized by a lack of stellate trichomes on leaveswhile Tilia begonifolia is distinguished by stellate trichomes on the underside of both leaves and petiole. The fourth lineage group, T. dastyla, is characterized by the presence of trichomes on the style. A single taxon found in the west of the Hyrcanian forest region is similar to T. begonifolia, but due to the former being located in a distinct group, a reassessment of the diagnostic morphology is recommended. ITS sequence data also suggested a closer relationship between T. rubra and T. begonifolia. Compensatory base change analysis was not strong enough to separate individual species within the Tilia genus. In general, the study supports the utility of ITS sequence data and secondary structure as accessory taxonomic characteristics with which to help clarify the systematics of the Tilia genus.
23643175|Reaction norms were determined in two natural populations of the perennial plant Iris pumila from contrasting light conditions at two levels of photosynthetically active radiation (105 and 35 mol m-2s-1). Seedlings developed from free-pollinated seed families sampled individually from 19 and 12 randomly selected clonal genotypes in an exposed and a shaded population respectively, were grown in a growth room using a mixed model nested factorial experimental design and scored for a number of phenological and morphological traits. Ambient light conditions significantly affected all of the juvenile traits measured. In both populations, relatively convergent norms of reactions were revealed for leaf appearance dates, as well as for leaf number, suggesting the importance of these traits for functional adjustment to prevailing light conditions. Reaction norms for morphological traits, however, were largely nonparallel, but although often crossing each other, a significant family-by-treatment interaction in the ANCOVAs performed was not detected for any of the traits measured, indicating a small amount of genetic variation for plasticity in these populations. The extent of plastic response to light availability was determined and expressed as an index that estimates the percentage change in a trait value from a high to a low light level. Evolutionary and ecological implications of the observed plastic variations are also discussed.
23654233|Due to often large variation in traits within and between populations, taxonomy of orchid species is problematic. In this study, we aim to assess the probability of sympatric speciation in mixed populations of nectarless Dactylorhiza incarnata varieties (incarnata, ochroleuca and cruenta). We conducted morphological, phenological and ecological measurements in five populations in Hiiumaa, western Estonia. In most populations, we did not find any differences to reveal genetic divergence between the varieties. In one population, however, differences in shoot and flower traits were found. This population also differed at the community level from the other four study populations. Composition of pollinator fauna on one hand, and the presence of rewarding companion species on the other, may cause selection to act towards different directions in different populations of nectarless species. In contrast to earlier studies with another nectarless orchid species, we found pollination success to be positively frequency-dependent, which may be caused by a stable pollinator preference for one of the varieties.
23642158|Different strains of the two diploid Larrea species L. divaricata (S. America) and L. tridentata (N. America), are compared morphologically, cytologically, and in their seed proteins. There are minor differences, also in chiasma frequencies. Experimental F1 hybrids have near-normal meiosis but are semisterile. The parental species, therefore, biologically may be considered "allopatric semispecies".
23642677|Eriocaulon setaceum can be characterized by: young microsporangium wall with epidermis, endothecium (with fibrous thickenings), and glandular tapetum (uninucleate cells); pollen grains 3-celled, spiraperturate; embryo sac development according to the Polygonum type and with antipodal cyst; endosperm nuclear; embryo small, with incipient differentiation into cotyledonary and epicotylary loci; seed coat mainly from the inner layers of the integuments; pericarp 2-layered and membranous. Embryologically, the Eriocaulaceae are nearer to the Xyridaceae than to other Farinosae. Their elevation to the rank of an order, Eriocaulales, therefore appears justified.
23673933|Aristotelian principles still dominate botanical classification. Biological classification has undergone a major transformation during the period from Adanson (1763) to Darwin (1859), from essentialism and the practice of downward classification, to empiricism and upward classification. The polythetic class was conceptualized during the 1950s. Interest in the species problem generated data from many different disciplines, the most recent being DNA systematics. These many disciplines have contributed to our understanding of evolutionary processes and to improved classifications. Many different phylogenetic models were developed and for different kinds of data. These models formed the basis of many algorithms to infer phylogenetic trees, some widely available in computer packages. This became possible with rapid growth of computer technology. These developments in turn catalyzed the formulation of divergent philosophical principles and approaches to classification. For instance, should methodological principles be divorced from knowledge about evolutionary processes? These approaches are discussed along with problems of reticulate evolution, intra-OTU-variation, homology, and other issues in the light of existing methodologies and their impact on classification. The next important direction in addition to development of new classificatory algorithms is the synthesis of various elements of different methodologies presently used in isolation.
23655189|Great variability involving 36 quantitative and 31 qualitative characters, as well as the habitats occupied has been shown in 18 populations of Elymus caninus from Poland, based on the detailed population and statistical analyses of morphological characters. The variability of these characters proves that the intraspecific units which have been distinguished on the basis of these characters do not have systematic significance. The two morphotypes of E. caninus ("pauciflorum" and "caninus") described in this study will provide the basis for further genetic studies aimed at establishing their significance for considerations in the systematics of the species.
23664157|Euphorbiaceae s. s. is one of the largest angiosperm families, comprising nine major lineages. Molecular analysis indicated a polyphyletic condition in the subfamily Crotonoideae s.l., with four lineages identified, including one termed inaperturate crotonoids, which encompasses the tribe Crotoneae. Anatomical data were obtained from 15 species of Croton sect. Cyclostigma (Griseb.) Miill. Arg., Brasiliocroton P. Berry & I. Cordeiro and Astraea Klotzsch, which belongs to this lineage. The presence and protodermal origin of the idioblasts with lipophilic content and the interruption of the palisade by collenchyma layers on the adaxial side of the mid vein are common to the Croton L. species analysed and Brasiliocroton. The presence of dorsiventrality, paracytic stomata, collateral vascular bundles, branched non-articulated laticifers and crystal idioblasts in the species studied indicates morphological similarities among the three genera. The interpretation of the stipite of the complex trichomes as emergences is a structural novelty for the group. Leaf anatomy provided an excellent source of characters for future studies of the tribe Crotoneae (Euphorbiaceae s.s., Malpighiales).
23644991|We studied five natural populations of Dactylis glomerata L. (Poaceae) growing at different altitudes in the south-eastern fringe of the Alps in northern Slovenia to determine the subspecies. The stomatal length, the pollen diameter and chromosome counts were consistent with the tetraploid taxon D. glomerata subsp. glomerata (2n = 4x = 28). Genome size was measured in 55 individuals. The mean 2C value was 8.6 pg DNA. The mean 2C values of populations growing at different altitudes showed only 2.1% variation, and no correlation was observed between altitude and genome size. In D. glomerata subsp. glomerata eight nucleoli were observed in late telophase, indicating that the nucleolus-organising regions inherited from both diploid parent species are functional. We demonstrate that both genome size and the number of nucleoli may be used to determine the ploidy level as an alternative to chromosome counting.
23655222|Nuclear ITS sequence data were used to investigate phylogenetic relationships within Aconitum subgenus Aconitum, which is well-known for its taxonomic complexity. We selected 51 species and one variety of this subgenus from eastern Asia, North America and Europe, mostly from the Hengduan Mountains region in southwestern China and representing all the previously circumscribed infrasubgeneric groupings. Traditional circumscription of some infrasubgeneric taxa is not supported by our data, and the relationships of the species in these taxa should be reconsidered. Species from northern China show relatively close relationships with those from Europe, North America, Japan and Korea of eastern Asia. High morphological variation but low genetic diversity found in species from the Hengduan Mountains region probably indicates a recent radiation. Our ITS topology is congruent with the subgrouping of the subgenus Aconitum based on the morphology of seeds and of petals, suggesting that seed and petal morphology may reflect well the phylogenetic relationships within the subgenus, but other morphological characters which have long been previously considered to be of important systematic value, i.e. the degree of leaf division, the shape of the upper sepal and the attitude of the stem, might be unreliable in subdividing the subgenus.
43558679|Serjania (Sapindaceae, Paullinieae) comprises about 230 species, and currently two infrageneric classifications have been proposed but both are difficult to apply. This work tested which infrageneric classification fitted better in relation to cytogenetic traits added to the main morphological features used by the authors of the subgenus arrangements to gain an insight into the evolutionary karyotype relationships. In order to test the relationship between karyotypes and the systematics of this genus, the karyotypes of five species of Serjania belonging to five different sections (sensu Radlkofer) were described. Known karyological information on 26 species was used to complement the results. With these data, a cluster analysis was set up to test which infrageneric classification fitted better. In addition, a principal component analysis (PCA) was performed to examine the relevance of the traits in the subgenus classification. All the karyotypes analyzed (including new as well as previous records) had 2n = 24 chromosomes, and the karyotypes were asymmetrical: submetacentric and metacentric chromosomes were common, whereas telocentric chromosomes were rare. The PCA revealed seven principal components, the first two explained 52 % of the total variation, and the last ones were related to all the karyotypic features studied. The phenogram obtained reflected a scarce fitting into both infrageneric classifications, with only 3 sections of the 12 proposed by Radlkofer and two of the six sections proposed by Acevedo-Rodrguez being represented. Finally, regarding karyotype evolution, the constancy of chromosome number and the variation in the length of the complement suggest that structural chromosome changes would have played a leading role.
23674567|Phylogenetic analyses of 28 Poaceae species based on the chloroplast rps4 gene are presented using parsimony and distance methods. Two monocots from other families were used as outgroups. The chloroplast gene rps4 was amplified, cloned, and sequenced for each species. The inferred phylogenetic trees were compared to recent classifications and are shown to fit their general features. There is a dichotomy in our tree between the pooid group and the other grasses. This is in contradiction with other molecular phylogeneis, where the bamboos appear first within the family. This result led us to discuss some hypotheses about the relationships of the bambusoids with the other groups of grasses, and also about the relative position of rice and bamboo, which are found close to each other in our trees.
23643063|Since Delpino (1869), Juel (1894, 1911), and Mller (in Mller 1921: 164), the flowers of Solanaceae have received little attention with regard to function and pollination syndromes. The present paper deals with representatives of 6 of the 9 known salpiglossidean genera. Previous observations are updated and discussed at the tribal level. Most species studied are butterfly- or moth-pollinated. With the exception of Salpiglossis, the fertile floral parts are concealed in the corolla tube, and their arrangement is specially suited for deposit of the pollen on the lepidopteran tongue. Particularly notable are (a) abundant stigmatic secretion that makes the pollen sticky, and (b) versatile anthers that optimize contact between the tongue and the thecae. Brunfelsia and Browallia exhibit a mechanism analogous to that of Apocynaceae, however, with two entrances instead of five. When the tongue is inserted, it is forced to contact the stigma and becomes glued with its secretion. When the tongue is pulled out, it touches the anthers and causes slight balancing movement. In Streptosolen, very probably an ornithophilous descendant of the Browallia stock, the mechanism is much simplified. Leptoglossis and Hunzikeria bear a novel device for pollen deposition: there are two fertile wheel-like anthers that are capable of full rotation up to eight turns.
23656134|Our investigation aims to understand the genetic structure and evolutionary history of Petagnaea gussonei, an ancient and endangered species belonging to the Saniculoideae subfamily (Apiaceae). It is paleoendemic to Sicily, with a small number of populations in the Nebrodi Mountains. A total of seven chloroplast microsatellite repeat loci and 12 AFLP primer combinations were used to screen 115 individuals corresponding to 17 populations. The ratio of seed to pollen flow was also calculated using the modified Ennos equation. A relatively high level of genetic diversity was detected with AFLPs (e.g., 0.045 < H < 0.278), and a moderate variation was also found using cpSSRs (0 < Hk < 0.667). Two different haplotypes (B and W) were identified, with five populations being monomorphic for haplotype B. There was no genetic differentiation on the basis of haplotypic frequency (G ST ) and similarity (R ST ), and no phylogeographic structure was detected among the populations. AFLP values also confirmed that the populations are not very genetically differentiated. The principal component analysis based on pairwise genetic differences showed three groupings without a geographical correlation. The AMOVA analysis indicates that the amount of variation is higher within populations (82 %) than among populations (18 %). Results of the pollen flow/seed flow ratio indicated positive values for each population, indicating that gene flow by seed is not more efficient than by pollen. Instead, the total pollen/seed flow for all population presents a negative value, suggesting that pollen dispersal does not appear to be more effective over the long range for gene flow than seed dispersal. This differentiation level supports the hypothesis that the fragmentation and isolation of the residual populations is in progress. This phenomenon is due not only to post-ice age climate changes, but also to direct and indirect anthropic actions.
23643188|Pairings of monokaryon cultures representing Omphalotus illudens (eastern North America), O. nidiformis (southeastern Australia), O. olearius (southern Europe), O. olivascens (North American Pacific coast), and O. subilludens (southern North America) showed widely variable compatibility patterns. Omphalotus olearius  O. subilludens  O. olivascens showed high compatibility, while O. illudens was significantly less compatible with all other taxa. Isolates of Omphalotus nidiformis represented an almost genetically isolated biological species. The role of partial compatibility in nomenclatural ranking is discussed.
23655121|Essential oils of B. articulata, B. crispa, B. microcephala, Baccharis milleflora, B. myriocephala, B. stenocephala, B. trimera and B. usterii, all of sect. Caulopterae, have been analyzed by GC and GC/MS. Despite the morphological similarity among these species, differences in composition of their essential oil obtained by hydrodistillation and hexane extract could be observed. Special attention was given to Baccharis trimera and B. crispa since their differentiation during early stages is not possible due to the absence of synflorescences. Carquejyl acetate is suggested as a marker for Baccharis trimera, and a fast method of detection of this compound is given.
23674932|A polyploid complex of Tuberaria sect. Scorpioides species in S Spain has been studied. We have found the chromosome numbers n = 12 and 18, which probably originated from the extinct base number x = 6 by means of allopolyploidy. Octoploids (n = 24) seem to be the result of different crossings, and fall morphologically within T. guttata, T. inconspicua, or T. commutata. Backcrosses between octoploids and tetraploids originate new hexaploids (n = 18), which, once stabilized, behave as amphidiploids. Most of these also fall within the traditional concept of T. guttata, so that the enormous polymorphism of this taxon seems to be justified.
23642689|Allozymic variation in proteins encoded by 22 loci was analyzed electrophoretically in 278 individual plants of wild barley, Hordeum spontaneum, the progenitor of cultivated barley, in four 100 meter transects, in Israel, each equally subdivided into basalt and terra rossa soil types. Significant differentiation according to soil was found in 9 alleles. Our results suggest that allozyme polymorphisms in wild barley are at least partly adaptive, and differentiate by edaphic natural selection rather than by stochastic processes, and/or neutrality of allozymic variants.
23644410|Lathyrus vernus (L.) Bernh. is a diploid, long-lived perennial and insect-pollinated herb with no special adaptation to long-distance dispersal. It occurs on neutral soil in deciduous forests throughout western Eurasia. Due to specific habitat preferences, L. vernus has a fragmented distribution with isolated populations. We investigated allozyme variation at eleven loci in 20 populations of L. vernus from one geographically central region (the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic) and two geographically marginal regions (southern and central Sweden) in the species present-day distribution. There was a clear differentiation between the three regions and the genetic distance between the populations was highly correlated with geographic distance. The total genetic diversity (HT) was 0.354. The proportion of genetic diversity due to differentiation between regions, and to differentiation between populations within regions, accounted for 10% each. There was no difference in level of genetic diversity between the three regions. No significant difference in level of genetic diversity was found between small and large populations. The genetic diversity in L. vernus may either be a result of the long generation-time of the species or peculiarities in the post-glacial migration species, e.g. survival only in refugia far east of the sampled populations and/or migration as a continuous process not involving founder-events.
23671522|The great diversity of secondary compounds is interpreted as a typical expression of plant life representing an important survival strategy. Because of the toxicity of accumulated secondary metabolites for the plant itself, special depot areas and facilities which enable the transport against the energy gradient are needed for storage. Since all of these requisites and the biosynthetic pathways are more or less genetically fixed, the different accumulation tendencies and distribution of secondary compounds may serve as valuable chemotaxonomic criteria. Apart from systematically and ecologically oriented contributions, data derived from comparative analyses are also shown to be of practical value: e.g. the knowledge of taxon-specific biogenetic trends allows the prediction of the occurrence of distinct classes of substances even in those species of a group which have not been chemically investigated. This may play a prominent role in the search for distinct pharmaceutically active substances. Biogenetic investigations within a class of compounds advance rapidly when the structures of several derivatives occurring in related taxa are compared, etc. Ideas concerning the role of comparative phytochemistry as a biological discipline are outlined. A comparative computerized UV-IR data screening programme is described which allows a rapid preliminary identification of related derivatives within different classes of substances also representing a convenient method for the determination of characteristic biogenetic trends. The structure elucidation of several alkamides is discussed in detail on the basis of comparative IR-analyses.
43558336|A population of Centaurea weldeniana was discovered recently near Wien (Vienna). The species is reported from Austria for the first time. Determination is confirmed by morphometric analysis of Central European and additional Balkan material of the C. jacea agg. and karyological data. All sampled populations of C. weldeniana are diploid, while only tetraploids have been reported from Central Europe within the C. jacea agg. so far. Detailed morphometric analysis of the newly discovered C. weldeniana population revealed several hybrids with tetraploid C. jacea. The hybrids are tetraploid and originate from unreduced gametes of diploids.No triploids were found. Indeed, the incidence of hybridization is surprisingly low. The population was probably discovered already in 1886 (determined as C. bracteata) and was described as a new species C. argyrolepis in 1901, but these data were lost. However, this isolated diploid population has survived for at least 125 years, which provides a good example of the strength of inter-cytotype reproductive barriers in Centaurea sect. Jacea.
43558384|Pollen morphology within a single plant species has been regarded as a relatively constant trait; it has, thus, been used as a taxonomic character. Numerous palynological studies have described the morphology of pollen from Cactaceae and from other families of plants. There have, however, been few studies of the variation of pollen traits, especially variation of pollen size. Here, we describe the morphology of pollen grains from Pachycereus weberi, paying particular attention to variation of the diameter of the grains. We found that pollen grains from P. weberi are spheroidal, isopolar, and tricolpate, with microperforate and spinulate tectum and visible perine. Pollen diameter is highly variable. Our results show that pollen size must be used carefully as a taxonomic character. Further, we discuss the importance of sample size in descriptive studies of pollen and diverse meiotic abnormalities that may be implied by the high variation of pollen grain size for P. weberi.
23642958|For two close diploid relatives of the allotetraploid Nicotiana tabacum, N. sylvestris (subg. Petunioides) and N. tomentosiformis (subg. Nicotiana), the nucleotide sequences of the external transcribed rDNA spacer regions (ETS) are described and compared (within the genus and with other Solanaceae). The ETS of these two diploid species consists of three regions: the most upstream region I contains the putative RNA polymerase I transcription initiation site. Region II consists of several subrepeats (type A) and of a short species specific element. There are 5 subrepeats in the N. sylvestris clone and 10 subrepeats in the clone isolated from N. tomentosiformis. Region III, adjacent to the 18S rRNA gene, exhibits much higher similarities between species than regions I and II, not only among N. sylvestris and N. tomentosiformis but also with more distantly related Solanaceae. At the 5-end of region III of the ETS in the two Nicotiana species studied in detail there are three copies of highly divergent subrepeats (type B). Possible ways of the step-wise molecular evolution of these ribosomal DNA regions in Nicotiana and the Solanaceae are discussed.
23642155|As a contribution for the study of systematic and evolutionary relationships it is suggested to analyze nuclear DNA and chromatin by means of CsCl ultracentrifugation, thermal denaturation and renaturation, scanning densitometry, and (ultra)structural analyses. Relevant data have been obtained for Helianthus annuus as a first example. The 2C DNA content of four cultivars of Helianthus annuus L. was calibrated by comparative measurement with Allium cepa nuclei using a scanning densitometer in on-line operation with a computer. Significant infraspecific variation could be detected: cvar. "Amerikanische Riesen" displayed 6.1 pg, cvar. "Gefllte Vielbltige" 9.9 pg, cvar. "Russian Mammoth" 8.9 pg, and a Heidelberg strain 8.7 pg. The buoyant density in neutral CsCl was determined for cvar. "Amerikanische Riesen" to be 1.695 g  cm-3; this corresponds to an average GC content of 35.1%. Thermal denaturation revealed a melting temperature of 86.4 C. Derivative thermal denaturation profiles led to the detection of several distinct DNA fractions. The species-specific nuclear structure is of the chromonematic type, but in differentiated cells the chromatin fibers may be more decondensed so that a chromomere-interchromomere structure appears. The heterochromatin constitutes an average of 4.5% of the total genome. Chromatin ultrastructure is characterized by a diffuse distribution of chromatin threads and patches. Nucleosomes of 110  diameter can be recognized. The data are discussed (a) in relation to findings on DNA variation in other plants, (b) in relation to the systematic usefulness and further characterization of nuclear DNA and chromatin, and (c) in relation to tissue-specific and functional variation of the species-specific chromatin structure.
23654196|Patterns of allozyme variation have been investigated in 101 clones representing most of the morphological variation (and taxa) found in the amphi-apomictic genus Pilosella Hill. in the Nordic countries. Levels of variation were very high, both within narrowly defined taxa and within the whole data-set, but the correlation between a morphologybased taxonomy and patterns of allozyme variation was very weak. Almost all enzyme bands were found in more than one taxon and the differences between broadly defined species in terms of the frequency of bands were generally small. Cluster analyses did not perfectly recover any taxon but there were some tendencies for samples of some broadly defined taxa (e.g. P. officinarum s. l., and P. cymosa ssp. cymosa) to cluster together. It is concluded that there is considerable gene-flow among virtually all Nordic morpho-types of Pilosella and this is considered an argument for applying a very broad species concept in this genus.
23674584|Chromosome banding patterns obtained with C- and N- banding, and AgNO3 staining were studied in somatic metaphase complements of four Lactuca species. L. sativa and L. serriola have almost identical chromosome morphology, and L. saligna differs only slightly from them, but L. virosa is quite distinct from the other species. A gross comparison of the banded karyotypes suggests a closer relationship of L. saligna to L. sativa/serriola than to L. virosa. Our data agree with the results of previous crossing experiments in these species but conflict partly with recent RFLP data which indicate a closer phenetic relationship of L. saligna to L. virosa than to L. sativa/serriola. Such a discrepancy may be explained assuming that domestication of L. sativa/serriola resulted in an increased selection pressure on unique DNA sequences as demonstrated by the RFLP data. Differential evolution of specific heterochromatin classes (and presumably of highly repetitive DNA classes), as revealed by chromosome banding techniques was not linked to domestication. Thus the disparity in conclusions about relationship (in terms of genetic similarity) as based on the different experimental approaches reflects a non-parallel evolution of highly repetitive vs. unique DNA classes.
23643708|A phylogenetic analysis of Huperzia (Lycopodiaceae) documents a single origin of epiphytism and multiple reversals to a terrestrial habit in the Neotropics. Epiphytism evolved prior to the final rifting of South America and Africa, but the origin of most modern species diversity probably postdates the Mid Cretaceous diversification of flowering plants. In this respect, the evolution of Huperzia parallels that of many other Neotropical epiphytic groups. In the Andes, alpine terrestrial species are shown to have evolved from montane epiphytes, an event that correlates well with regional orogenesis during the Miocene. Species from Australia, New Zealand, and Tasmania show diverse relationships with SE Asian groups. Results also indicate that long distance, transoceanic dispersal is rare in these homosporous plants  accounting for less than 5% of species distributions  and that convergence in strobilus and branch morphology is widespread among Paleotropical and Neotropical epiphytes. The phylogenetic analysis is based on a sample of 63 species (c. 15% total species diversity) and data from a c. 1.1kb region of noncoding (intron and spacer sequences) plastid DNA located between the trnL and trnF genes.
23655111|Genetic diversity and differentiation among the B. intermedius accessions of different geographic origin has been studied using isozyme analysis. The mating system was evaluated on the basis of allozyme polymorphism. Outcrossing rate (t) in B. intermedius was mostly 0, except one population with t = 0.16, indicating nearly complete autogamy in this species. Given that B. arvensis and B. intermedius had common allozymes of all isozymes studied, it is suggested that B. intermedius may be a direct autogamous derivative of the outcrosser B. arvensis. Contrary to expectations, the allozyme diversity in B. intermedius was higher than in B. arvensis, 23 and 16 allozymes, respectively. Geographic pattern was found among the accessions of B. intermedius.
23643164|The hairs at the apical end of the seeds of Hillia are pluriseriate, multicellular structures. The cells making up a hair are elongated exotesta cells and, consequently, also have secondary thickenings identical (H. parasitica) or similar (H. costanensis) to those found on the exotesta cells on the main body of the seeds. Hair formation already starts in bud stage: at and around the chalazal region of an ovule, integument epidermis cells are grouped together to form  elongated packets of 47 cells. The cells of each packet undergo further elongation and anticlinal division so that a hair on a mature seed may be up to c. 30 mm long. Basally, the seeds have a tail- to  wing-like appendage, made up of only two cell layers, the exotesta of the ab- and adaxial side of the seed. This basal appendage shows the same anatomical structure as the wings of various anemochorous rubiaceous seeds. Although seed hairs of this kind are unique in the Rubiaceae and  from the point of development and structure  not homologous to exotesta wings, the presence of a basal wing-like appendage suggests that Hillia, previously often placed into a tribe of its own (Hillieae), can be accommodated in the Cinchoneae, a tribe in which winged, anemochorous seeds predominate. The tufts of hairs of the comose seeds of Hillia look superficially similar to those of certain Asclepiadaceae and Apocynaceae (like the Rubiaceae belonging to the order Gentianales). Comparisons based on literature data, however, reveal that there are striking differences in the position, development and structure of the hairs (produced at the micropylar end, initiated after fertilization, hairs unicellular, etc.).
23673831|Silene thebana Orph. ex Boiss. is transferred as a subspecies to S. fabaria (L.) Sm., resulting in the new combination S. fabaria (L.) Sm. subsp. thebana (Orph. ex Boiss.) Melzh. The chromosome count of 2 n = 24 is recorded for the first time for this taxon.
23655145|The phylogeny of the four genera of Aizoaceae subfamily Sesuvioideae (Sesuvium, Cypselea, Trianthema and Zaleya) is elucidated employing internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences and 23 morphological characters. Phylogenetic analysis based on ITS sequences and a combined molecular-morphological analysis provide largely congruent results. The monophyly of Sesuvioideae and its close relationship to Aizooideae s.l. and Mesembryanthemoideae is confirmed. Zaleya is placed within Trianthema and Cypselea within Sesuvium by ITS analysis, but in the combined analysis, Zaleya forms an unresolved polytomy with the two Trianthema clades and Cypselea, as well as two Sesuvium species, remain unresolved. Sesuvium sesuvioides and S. hydaspicum, previously treated as synonyms, are closely related, but molecular data do not support conspecifity. The Trianthema triquetra complex needs further intensive study because the African T. triquetra sample is closer to the NE African-Arabian T. sheilae than to Australian samples of T. triquetra. The close relationship of four species of Trianthema (T. patellitecta, T. rhynchocalyptra, T. megasperma, and T. pilosa) from Australia based on molecular data is supported morphologically by the exclusive possession of a well-developed indumentum in these taxa.
23642939|Inflorescence structure in the family Asclepiadaceae, particularly in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae, is elucidated using the methodology and terminology of the school of W. Troll. Asclepiadaceae inflorescences are principally thyrsoid systems, with variability resulting from different degrees of reduction of dichasial paracladia to bostryces, sciadioids, and, finally, to single flowers.
23656116|The morphology and ultrastructure of fresh pollen from nine species, one including two varieties representing seven genera of Annonaceae are described based on observations with scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The pollen grains are elliptic with a single furrow, or disulculate. Some are globose with no visible aperture or any indication of a pole. Ornamentation is smooth, rugulate, echinate or verrucate. The tectum is usually continuous and of the same thickness over the whole grain except for the aperture zone, where the exine elements are very often imperceptible. The infratectum may be granular, or columellae and granules are mixed together. The foot layer consists of continuous or irregularly contorted foliations. The endexine is distinct and thin, and varies slightly in thickness in some species, but is vaguely distinguishable in others. The intine is two-layered and consists of an entexine with many vesicular-fibrillar components with tubular extensions, and a more homogeneous endintine. The controversy around the presence of an endexine in Annonaceae is discussed, but whether its presence is ancestral cannot be determined. Data on fresh pollen are compared with those from similar studies on dried pollen.
23674980|TrnL (UAA) - trnF (GAA) chloroplast DNA spacer sequences of three species of Monanthes, Sedum surculosum (= Monanthes atlanticum) and S. jaccardianum were compared. S. surculosum, the systematic position of which has been disputed ever since its discovery, shares a phylogenetically highly significant 70 bp deletion with S. jaccardianum. In addition to this large deletion the two Moroccan species of S. ser. Monanthoidea differ in three more indels as well as in four nucleotide substitutions from the species of Monanthes. These data render strong support for the monophyly of S. ser. Monanthoidea and Monanthes. Spacer length in seven species and one subspecies of Monanthes is relatively uniform.
23673879|The residual failures of harmony between botanical and cultivated plant systematists is related to a review of their methodologies. Because some cultivated plant groups overlap the distinction, it is argued that special classification systems are not appropriate generally to cultivated plants. A fundamental reason for the difficulty is suggested and it is shown that this still allows, as a compromise solution, the adoption of the author's previously published flexible unified hierarchy of categories, which is figured and its relevance to the whole situation explained. Some misunderstandings between botanists and horticulturists are reviewed and explanations consistent with the previous discussion offered. These concern typification, whether cultivars require types or have synonyms and what should be done about the confusion of "typical". The relationship between the Codes is clarified by an example and the matter of the "gardener's species" is discussed.
23669027|Primula vulgaris exhibits flower colour polymorphism in the eastern part of its range, especially pronounced on the NE coast of the Black Sea. This polymorphism in the Caucasian populations has been taxonomically described and some segregated species are listed as rare and endangered. We used sequence variation in two chloroplast noncoding regions (trnLtrnF and rpl132trnL) and the complete nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of ribosomal DNA region to investigate correspondence between flower colour and geographical distribution of both nuclear and chloroplast haplotypes. It appears that variability in these DNA regions does not correlate with flower colour, being, however, clearly structured geographically. We used nested clade analysis to explore this geographical structure. It seems that the territory of the Colchis refugium on the E coast of the Black Sea contains both the highest flower colour and haplotype diversities. The results suggest that common primroses colonized the NE coast of the Black Sea from this refugium, spreading along the coast westward. At the same time, the analysis of ITS haplotypes indicates that P. vulgaris colonized the Crimea from NW Anatolia. This makes it clear that no segregated species can be recognized within flower colour polymorphic P. vulgaris in the Caucasus region. However, its phylogeography needs further detailed study on a broader scale.
23674410|Wheat alcohol dehydrogenase and -amylase genes were fractionated and enriched in an actinomycin-D/CsCl gradient. The experiments illustrated may be of importance for cloning of DNA alleles in crop science.
43558683|The genetic diversity of high-molecular-weight (HMW) glutenin subunits in 18 cultivated emmer wheat landrace populations, originating from Turkey, was investigated using sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The mean number of aleles (n) and effective alleles (n) were observed as 3.67 and 1.53, respectively. The mean values of expected heterozygosity (gene diversity) (H) and average heterozygosity (He,av) were calculated as 0.31 and 0.12, respectively. Actual genetic differentiation (D) and gene flow (Nm) between the different populations were observed as 0.24 and 0.16, respectively. Statistical analysis of Pearson's correlation, multiple regressions and principal component analysis indicated that eco-geographical variables have a significant effect on HMW-glutenin diversity. Considering the dramatic decrease in genetic diversity of modern high-yielding cultivars, the conservation of genetic diversity in these wheat landraces, and in other old cultivars, is important for improving modern monocultures and their ability to resist biotic and abiotic conditions caused by climate changes, thus generating a wide adaption to a variety of environmental conditions. Adoptation measures for germplasm conservation of Turkish emmer wheat landraces and utilisation of their germplasm for improvement of modern wheat varieties were discussed in this study.
43558212|In this work, the cytotaxonomic implications of the chromosomal characterization of cultivated and native Zephyranthes species described in northeastern Brazil were studied. All individuals had karyotype formed by a set of metacentric chromosomes, in addition to submetacentric and acrocentric chromosomes. In Zephyranthes robusta, 2n = 12 was observed and karyotype with formula 4M + 2SM in somatic cells, representing the most symmetric karyotype among the investigated species. Z sylvatica showed three different chromosome complement numbers: 2n = 12 with formula 1M + 5SM, 2n = 12 + 1B with 1M + 5SM + (1B), and 2n = 18 formed by cracks. The cultivated species Z. rosea Lindl. presented 2n = 24 with 4M + 7SM + 1A, however Z. grandiflora Lindl, showed the same chromosome number with 2M + 5SM + 5A. Zephyranthes aff. rosea Lindl. presented 2n = 25 with one small metacentric forming a crack in the fourth metacentric pair. Z. brachyandra has 2n = 24 + (1B) and formula 4M + 3SM + 5A + (1B). Z. candida Herb. presented 2n = 38 and karyotype formula 9M + 10SM. In Habranthus itaobinus numerical variation was observed, with the majority of populations showing a chromosome complement composed of 2n = 44 + 1B with 5M + 12SM + 5A + (1B), or In + 44 + 3B in a single population. Mechanisms involved in the formation of these karyotypes from chromosomal imbalance data are discussed. Taken together, data from this study only partially confirm previous counts for epithets and further enhance the cytological variability data previously reported for the genus.
23673726|The chromosome numbers of seven species of Pelargonium sect. Eumorpha have been determined from material of known wild origin, and karyotypic comparisons have been made. Within the section there is variation in basic chromosome number (x = 4, 8, 9, 11), variation in chromosome size, and two species have polyploid races. The three species with chromosome numbers based on x = 11 have the smallest chromosomes (1.01.5 m); chromosomes are larger (1.03.0 m) in the other species. P. elongatum has the lowest chromosome number in the genus (2n = 8). P. alchemilloides is exceptional in that it has four cytotypes, 2n = 16, 18, 34 and 36, and the form with 2n = 36 has large chromosomes (2.0 5.0 m). Evidence from a synthesized hybrid suggests that P. alchemilloides with 2n = 16 may be of polyploid origin. The three species based on x = 11 appear to be more closely related to species from other sections of Pelargonium that have the same basic chromosome number and small chromosome size, rather than to other species of sect. Eumorpha.
23645038|A plastid phylogeny of the genus Ilex based on three different loci (the atpB-rbcL spacer, trnL-trnF and rbcL) is compared with its nuclear phylogeny based on two different loci (the ribosomal ITS and the 5S RNA spacer). These two sets of molecular data are then compared to geographical and temporal data from the fossil record. The plastid phylogeny is strongly correlated with the geographic distribution of extant species. However, the nuclear phylogeny is strongly incongruent with the plastid phylogeny, suggesting frequent interlineage hybridizations. Moreover, the comparison of the ribosomal ITS tree and the 5S RNA spacer tree indicates also possible lineage sorting. Particularly interesting is the finding of two different Ilex lineages in the plastid American clade showing different biogeographic patterns in South America. One of them has a simple North American/South American biogeographical relationship. The other has complex biogeographical relationships, some species showing direct Asian/South American biogeographical relationships. During its history, the genus Ilex probably experienced frequent lineage sorting and interlineage hybridization with subsequent nuclear or cytoplasmic introgression, making the study of its history very complex.
23674573|Levels of allozymic and morphological diversity among Androcymbium gramineum, A. europaeum, and A. psammophilum have been assessed using data on 17 allozyme loci and 18 morphological characters. No apparent pattern of geographic or ecological variation was found. Our results also suggest that A. gramineum and A. europaeum should be considered members of a single species and that the insular species A. psammophilum can no longer be thought of as the result of a founder effect from A. gramineum. Intra-populational variability was greater than inter-populational variability at both levels studied, which is of strategic interest for the "ex-situ" conservation of these threatened endemic species.
23674702|Phylogenetic relationships among the 12 species of the "green ash" group of eucalypts were examined using allozyme data, to investigate the causes of rarity in three localized endemics of the group. The relationships suggested by the allozyme data showed both similarities to and differences from those estimated from morphological data by Ladiges and coworkers. The phylogenetic relationships suggest that rarity in Eucalyptus burgessiana may be related to recent divergence, while E. paliformis and E. rupicola are relatively old species, more likely to be relicts, and/or restricted to a rare habitat.
23673663|The species of Briza L. s. l. are disjunctly distributed between Eurasia and South America. A taxometric analysis has been carried out, using data from electrophoresis of seed polypeptides and published morphological characters. Evidence from a cluster analysis of seed polypeptide data strongly supports the recognition of two different natural groups, a S. American group and a Eurasian group, and is consistent with karyotype data, but does not support the generic groupings of South American taxa derived from the morphological data.
43558330|The baculiform, rod-like morphotypes belong to several phylogenetic lineages within Desmidiaceae (Zygnematophyceae, Viridiplantae). Some, for example the genus Pleurotaenium, form independent lineages, but reductive evolution of complicated desmid cells toward baculiform morphology also occurred in individual lineages, for example Micrasterias. In this genus, the rod like Triploceras forms evolved from more complex ancestors.In this study, we tested for an independent position of the subtropical and tropical genus Triplastrum, previously separated from Triploceras on the basis of morphological data. In addition, monophyly of Pleurotaenium was also investigated with multiple isolates corresponding to seven species of this genus, including the morphologically dissimilar P. nodosum and P. ovatum. Finally, two isolates of Docidium baculum were also investigated. Molecular phylogenetic analysis of concatenated rbcL + coxIII sequence data implied that the baculiform taxa investigated were in three distantly related positions within Desmidiaceae.The genus Triplastrum proved to be unrelated to Triploceras, because it clustered in the "omniradiate" lineage of Desmidiaceae among morphologically dissimilar taxa. The genus Pleurotaenium was monophyletic, but P.ovatum was recovered in a weakly supported sister position to all the other members of the genus. The trnGucc phylogeny of Pleurotaenium taxa concurred with the rbcL + coxIII phylogram, and generally revealed the poor morphological concepts of some species in this genus. The most common taxa P. ehrenbergii and P. trabecula were resolved as polyphyletic because their strains were distributed among several strongly supported clades. However, strains of P. nodosum and P. archeri formed separate, well supported lineages within the genus.
23644065|Genome size (C-values) and pollen viability staining were applied as new criteria to investigate the species of the genus Helleborus Linnaeus (Ranunculaceae). All species have the same chromosome number (2n = 32). However, the nuclear DNA content, as measured by flow cytometry with propidium iodide, could be demonstrated to range between 19 pg to 35.7 pg. The different genome sizes of the species coincided to a large extent with earlier determined section boundaries based on morphology. Flow cytometry can be a convenient method to discriminate between some species.
23670055|Light and first SEM observations on the pollen of Aegialitis indicate that the two species of the genus are clearly distinguishable from all other genera of the tribe Staticeae to which Aegialitis presently is relegated. Intraspecific exine or aperture dimorphism which appears frequently in this tribe, is not recorded in this genus. A. annulata and A. rotundifolia have distinct monomorphic pollen and show a great resemblance in exine features with the tribe Plumbagineae, particularly species of Plumbago. Considering these and other features, separate subtribal status for Aegialitis within the Plumbagineae is proposed.
23673664|Approximately 1 500 angiosperm species, in previous papers, have been sampled for the assessment of the amino acids (a. a.) in their nectar. We reaffirm that the findings provide statistically significant data linking differences in the concentration with pollinator type. Flowers that are pollinated by animals that have alternative sources of protein-building a. a. 's show lower a. a. concentration than those that are not. There is a tendency for woody plant nectar a. a. 's to be less concentrated than those of herbaceous plants, but there can be "phylogenetic constraints" which may reduce the correlations of a. a. concentration with pollinator type and with life form. The individual a. a. 's form complements which are qualitatively extremely constant within species. Proline is a normal constituent of many nectars and does not necessarily indicate contamination of the nectar by pollen. Criticism of our findings by Gottsberger & al. (1984) is answered by reference to our previous publications and those of other workers, and to the presentation of data from California native species, not published previously. All previous postulates are borne out by these new data with the exception of positive correlations of a. a. concentration with "primitive" and "advanced" floral characteristics taken one at a time, which appear to be inconsistent and are affected strongly by the nature of the family in which they occur. Summary data are provided for families and genera which indicate that high or low a. a. concentration can typify certain families and genera of both relatively "primitive" and relatively "advanced" nature. Needs for future research on an ecosystem basis are quoted.
23674804|Twelve natural populations of four cedar pine species, Pinus sibirica, P. cembra, P. pumila, and P. koraiensis, occurring in the Soviet Union were investigated by starch-gel electrophoresis. Frequencies of 55 alleles at 19 loci were determined. Interpopulation genetic diversity in P. sibirica and P. pumila was only 24 per cent of the total genetic diversity. Nei's distance coefficient (Dn) was used to estimate the level of genetic differentiation among conspecific populations and among species. Dn values among populations ranged from 0.006 to 0.038. A dendrogram constructed using Dn values divided cedar pines species into 2 clusters: sibirica-cembra (Dn = 0.030) and pumila-koraiensis (Dn = 0.143). Nei's distance between these clusters was 0.232. On the basis of the data obtained it was possible to draw the following conclusion: P. sibirica, P. pumila, and P. koraiensis are distinct species, while P. cembra should apparently be regarded as geographical P. sibirica race.
23674615|Ixianthes retzioides is a rare, moderately sized, shrub with large yellow flowers that are lined with glandular trichomes. Preliminary analysis indicates that the trichomes secrete a complex mixture of lipids. Floral morphology suggests that Ixianthes should be pollinated by a large oil-collecting bee, yet only one possible candidate, Rediviva "gig", is known and it occurs outside of the distributional range of Ixianthes. Despite observations of Ixianthes at different sites in different years, no oil-collecting bee has been observed visiting the flowers. This together with low fruit and seed set at the main study site suggests that Ixianthes has lost, at least locally, its specialized pollinator. Plants are self-compatible and set a limited amount of seed as a result of visits by pollen-collecting bees.
23642843|The karyotypes of eight taxa of Orchis L. with 2n = 32 and 2n = 36 have been investigated using morphometrical measurements following staining with Feulgen, Giemsa (C-banding) and the DNA specific fluorochrome Hoechst 33258. The karyotypes of O. coriophora subsp. fragrans, and O. papilionacea proved to be the most asymmetrical, while O. morio and O. longicornu exhibited the most symmetrical karyotypes. Using C-banding and the fluorochrome H33258 only the taxa with high asymmetry indices showed the presence of differentially stained chromatin bands. In most chromosomes hetero-chromatin bands were present at the telomeric position. The present results seem to indicate that the analysed species do not form a homogeneous group and further subdivisions are possible, which, in turn, do not always correlate with divisions based on morphological characters. Both karyomorphology and heterochromatin distribution coincide in indicating a possible evolutionary pathway.
23664385|Paspalum dilatatum Poir. and its related species are warm-season grasses native to the grasslands of temperate South America. The group comprises several sexual tetraploid forms and apomictic tetraploids, pentaploids, hexaploids, and heptaploids. Interest in several of these biotypes as forage grasses has led to the accumulation of abundant cytogenetic information, evolutionary hypotheses, and thorough field studies which make the group a very promising model for analysis of evolutionary processes in apomictic complexes. Microsatellite markers were used here to analyze the relationships among the apomictic biotypes and evolutionary pathways. Most apomictic biotypes were shown to be monoclonal and sexual recombination is probably very rare. Suggested mechanisms for the formation of apomicts involve either unreduced female gametes or euploid pollen grains from the pentaploid biotype. Even-ploid apomictics, including those cytologically capable of facultative apomixis, are monoclonal and seem to play a very minor role in the evolution of the complex. The relationships hypothesized among the apomicts are congruent with a single origin of apomixis in the group which in turn would be coded by a non-recombining genome.
23643014|New investigations on the flower and fruit structure of extant Hamamelidaceae and other Lower Hamamelididae together with new finds of fossil flowers and seeds from the Upper and Lower Cretaceous provide the outline of an increasingly more differentiated picture of the early evolution of the subclass. Three patterns of valvate anther dehiscence are recognized in the subfamily Hamamelidoideae (and the subclass Hamamelididae). The basic (plesiomorphic) type within the Hamamelididae has 2 valves per theca. The type with 1 valve but 2 pollen sacs per theca is both consistent and exclusive for the 5 southern genera of the Hamamelidaceae. They seem to be the remnants of a homogeneous group that originated before the Upper Cretaceous. This is supported by fossil hamamelidaceous flowers from the Upper Cretaceous that have thecae with 1 valve. Since several-seeded Hamamelidaceae predate one-seeded forms in the fossil seed record (in Europe) and the systematic structure of the one-seeded group is relatively more homogeneous, several-seeded groups are considered to be more ancient. Several parallel evolutionary trends are recognized within the Hamemelidaceae as well as within the Lower Hamamelididae: anther dehiscence with 2 valves per theca  1 slit or 1 valve; pollen sacs per theca 2  1; pollen tricolpate  polyforate; exine coarsely reticulate  finely reticulate; loss of perianth (tepals or petals and sepals) and concomitant loss of fixed number of floral organs; differentiation of exposed nectaries.
23664814|In this study, the genetic variability and relationships among wild and cultivated pomegranate genotypes from the north of Iran were investigated by morphological characters and RAPD molecular markers. Principal component analysis showed that the first three components explained 61.64 % of the total morphological variation for studied genotypes. Fruit neck diameter, anthocyanin index, TSS, aril juice, fruit flavor index, petiole length, fruit peel thickness and seed hardness were predominant in the first component and contributed most of the total variation. Fruit characteristics such as titratable acidity were negatively correlated (r = 0.56) with TSS (r = 0.56) and pH (r = 0.86) and also, seed hardness showed negative correlation with aril length and aril diameter. Clustering from morphological data allocated individuals into two main clusters with high variation. Two hundred and twenty-nine fragments were scored of which 174 of them were polymorphic with 76.9 % polymorphism. Genetic similarity ranged from 0.15 to 0.78 with an average of 0.42, indicating high genetic variation among studied genotypes. High molecular and morphological variability indicated that this germplasm includes rich and valuable plant materials for pomegranate breeding.
23664945|According to traditional taxonomical criteria, the fertilization aperture in the genus Oedogonium has been classified into pore or circumcision type. To contribute with information useful to clarify the systematics of the Oedogoniales, we have studied the oogonial aperture in O. decipiens var. decipiens showing a circumcision in median position. The aperture mechanism and associated structures (line of weakness and thin layer) are similar to those previously described in O. cardiacum. The type and position of the aperture in mature oogonia was also studied in other seven Oedogonium species. In all the analyzed species, the fertilization aperture occurs along the line of weakness, but they would differ only in the opening degree of this line. Therefore, the types of oogonial aperture would not be so different as to discriminate groups of species belonging to the genus Oedogonium, in agreement with a previous molecular phylogenetic study of this group of algae.
23655730|We measured morphological characters and relative DNA contents to assess variation and phylogenetic relationships among Serapias species in three populations of each of the 10 putative taxa that occur in Southwest Europe. DNA contents indicated diploidy for most species, except for tetraploid S. lingua and hexaploid S. olbia. Multivariate (discriminant) analyses yielded two main groups: a smallflowered S. parviflora group and a large-flowered S. vomeracea group. Within the S. parviflora group, S. elsae should be considered a large-flowered variation of S. strictiflora. The geographically disjunct S. gregaria and S. strictiflora are probably different taxa. In the S. vomeracea group, analyses suggest that S. neglect a and S. cordigera are closely related. Serapias cordigera from the southwestern coast of the Iberian Peninsula is probably a subspecies, S. perez-chiscanoi was separated from all other species and S. occidental was morphologically intermediate between S. cordigera and S. vomeracea, suggesting a hybrid origin, with the latter two taxa as parents.
23664363|The evolution of 5S rRNA gene unit (5S gene unit) was studied among the ten species belonging to Vigna subgenus Ceratotropis by sequencing and analyzing the intra- and inter-specific sequence heterogeneity. The 5S unit from these species ranged from 214 to 342 bp in length as a result of several indels in the intergenic spacer (IGS) region. A large deletion (>100 bp) was found specifically in the IGS of V. radiata accessions. IGS showed high sequence variation with more than 50% polymorphic and 35.4% parsimony informative sites. However, the coding region (5S gene) was highly conserved, both in length and in sequence. Intra-genomic and intra-specific divergence was observed among some species, which indicated that the 5S unit is evolving at different rates among the Vigna species. Most Vigna species harbored one type of 5S unit indicating complete homogenization among them. Vigna glabrescens, a tetraploid species, also showed single type of 5S rDNA from only one of the diploid progenitor indicating loss or homogenization of the other type. However, V. nakashimae and V. riukiuensis harbored multiple, diverse, 'intra-genomic 5S types' indicating that 5S rDNA is not completely homogenized by concerted evolution and is still evolving. In general, the phylogeny based on IGS sequences was in agreement with many of the earlier reports except some surprising observations such as, V. glabrescens clustered with V. mungo in section Ceratotropis and unlike most of the species, wild and cultivated types of V. umbellata were present in different subclusters. Presence of divergent 5S sequences in V. nakashimae and V. riukiuensis caused errors in phylogeny reconstruction at species level and suggested a horizontal 'gene transfer' as a result of interspecies hybridization. The comparative analysis showed that 5S IGS sequences have better phylogenetic utility than chloroplast DNA sequences, such as atpB-rbcL and is comparable to ITS1 and ITS2 in this respect.
43558045|The tribal affinities of Cratystylis and Haegiela were assessed using three chloroplast DNA sequences, the trnL/F spacer, the trnL intron and the matK coding region. The outgroup was represented by two species of the subfamily Barnadesioideae, whereas one to seven genera (45 species including Cratystylis and Haegiela) of the tribes of the Asteroideae [Anthemideae (6 genera), Astereae (7), Calenduleae (2), Gnaphalieae (7), Heliantheae s.1. (5), Inuleae s.str. (3), Plucheeae (3), Senecioneae (4)] and Cichorioideae, [Arctotideae (1), Cardueae (2), Lactuceae (2), Liabeae (1), Mutisieae (1) and Vernonieae (1)] comprise the ingroup. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that Cratystylis has strong support as a member of the tribe Plucheeae, whereas Haegiela is a member of Gnaphalieae. At some point in their taxonomic history, both genera have been placed in these tribes and there are good morphological and chemical characters that justify these placements. The monotypic Haegiela was once included in Epaltes (Plucheeae) and this study has confirmed the need for the separation of the two genera. The genus Cratystylis appears to be monophyletic.
43558333|Stemodia stricta Cham. & Schltdl. has been regarded by several authors as a synonym for Stemodia hyptoides Cham. & Schltdl., a variety of this taxon or a quite different species. These species have wide morphological variation at the inter and intra-specific level, which occasionally makes it difficult to identify them. In addition, S. hyptoides has diploid (2n = 2x = 22), tetraploid (2n = 4x = 4), and hexaploid (2n = 6x = 66) cytotypes whereas S. stricta is always diploid (2n = 22). To determine the taxonomic position and status of both plants, twenty-five morpho-anatomical traits were analyzed by use of multivariate methods. The results shows that UPGMA and PCoA, tests separate the two species, and the cytotypes of S. hyptoides into three different groups, which suggests that the analyzed taxa are different morphologically and anatomically. The most relevant morphological features separating the specimens studied are the plant height, leaf size, leaf shape, and corolla length. Stemodia stricta is a good species that is clearly separated from S. hyptoides. The diploid specimens of S. hyptoides may be distinguished from the polyploids by a set of morphological features, for example shape, pubescence, and margin of the leaf and corolla length. The morphological features of the polyploid specimens are in accord with the original description of S. hyptoides. As a consequence, the diploid cytotype of S. hyptoides should be regarded as a different species.
23655560|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS1, 5.8S rDNA, and ITS2) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) was sequenced from 53 species, which represent most of the living species diversity in the genus Phalaenopsis (Orchidaceae). A phylogeny was developed for the genus based on the neighbor-joining and maximum parsimony analyses of molecular data. Results of these analyses provided support for the monophyly of the genus Phalaenopsis and concurred in that the genera Doritis and Kingidium should be treated as being parts of the genus Phalaenopsis as suggested by Christenson (2001). Within the genus Phalaenopsis, neither subgenera Aphyllae nor Parishianae were monophyletic, and they were highly clustered with subgenus Proboscidioides plus sections Esmeralda and Deliciosae of subgenus Phalaenopsis based on ITS data. Those species also have the same characters of morphology of four pollinia and similar biogeographies. Furthermore, neither subgenus Phalaenopsis nor Polychilos was monophyletic. Within the subgenus Phalaenopsis, only section Phalaenopsis was highly supported as being monophyletic. As for the subgenus Polychilos, only section Polychilos was moderately supported as being monophyletic. In conclusion, the present molecular data obtained from the ITS sequence of nrDNA of the genus Phalaenopsis provide valuable information for elucidating the phylogeny of this genus.
23642905|The leafless spurge Euphorbia aphylla (Euphorbiaceae), an endemic species restricted to several of the Canary Islands where it inhabits coastal and arid localities, expresses Crassulacean Acid Metabolism (CAM) when it is subjected to summer drought. A flexible CAM is consistent with the general ecology of the species. It is the only member of sect. Tirucalli native to the Canary Islands and is at the north-western edge of the section's biogeographical range. The other members of the section have a paleotropic distribution and are found throughout Africa. Many of them are regarded as obligate CAM plants, including E. tirucalli which was used as a comparison in ecophysiological experiments examining the response of E. aphylla to drought and temperature.
23673796|In the parasitic Scrophulariaceae and Orobanchaceae, two types of contact organs exist: secondary and primary haustoria. Secondary haustoria are lateral organs, developing in large numbers and only when the seedling is fully established. In contrast, a primary haustorium represents the first developmental stage of the seedling itself. In the root system of the parasitic Lesquereuxia syriaca (= Siphonostegia syriaca) there are only secondary haustoria, but a few of them apparently develop in a terminal position. This is achieved by transferring the haustorial initiation region closer to the root apex. One can interpret this as a transformation of the apical meristem into a meristematic haustorial tissue. On the condition that an extreme shortening (abbrevation) of the primary root could happen, we discuss the transformation of the terminal secondary into a primary haustorium.
23673206|This paper presents phylogenies of the small but ecologically and horticulturally important Australian genus Correa (Rutaceae). Consensus phylogenies generated using parsimony were congruent with their counterparts generated by Bayesian analysis, although usually less well resolved. The phylogeny generated from the second internal transcribed spacer region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA supported the monophyly of Correa and identified two well supported clades (one comprising C. lawrenceana and C. baeuerlenii and the other containing all other species of the genus). Phylogenetic reconstructions based on the combined trnL-trnF spacer and the trnK intron (including the matK gene) regions of chloroplast DNA also supported the monophyly of Correa and of the C. lawrenceana/C. baeuerlenii clade, but the topology among the other species differed markedly from that in the ITS-based phylogeny. The major clades identified in the chloroplast phylogenies seemed to follow geographic patterns rather than species boundaries, with different samples of C. glabra bearing chloroplast genotypes from different clades. These patterns are likely to be because of independent evolution of the chloroplast and nuclear genomes, and are typical of cases of introgressive hybridisation among species or incomplete lineage sorting of chloroplast genomes leading to incongruence between chloroplast and nuclear phylogenies. Thus, the phylogenies based on nuclear DNA should reflect species relations better than the chloroplast phylogeny in Correa, and we propose a new subgeneric classification of the genus on the basis of the ITS-based phylogeny and morphology. Correa subgenus Persistens Othman, Duretto and G.J. Jord., containing C. lawrenceana and C. baeuerlenii, is formally described.
23642172|L. pimpinellifolium is a highly heterogeneous species, exhibiting pronounced trends from one end of its linear distribution to the other in nearly every studied genetic locus. Drastic differences between populations were also detected in genetic variability and rates of outcrossing. Highly significant positive correlations exist in every possible comparison between flower size, degree of stigma exsertion, heterozygosity, and allelic polymorphism. The hypothesis most compatible with observations proposes that the very uniform, highly self-pollinated biotypes originated from the more primitive, more variable, facultatively allogamous forms.
23644965|Stigma morphology in Pedicularis and its role in pollination have not been evaluated. This paper reports for the first time the relationship between stigma morphology and other aspects of floral design. 17 species of Pedicularis representing all the different types of corolla structure in the genus were studied in the field and in the laboratory. Results indicate that the stigmatic surface morphology of Pedicularis species is related to the type of corolla structure occurring in the species. Pollination studies in eight Pedicularis species demonstrated adaptation between stigmatic surface morphology and other aspects of floral biology. Species with larger, more corrugated stigmatic surfaces always possess a subsidiary construction ("tooth" or "beak") on the galea. In addition, they have relatively longer flower tubes, higher stigmatic pollen loads, bigger pollen size and a shorter blooming period for individual flowers. Finally, the authors discuss the evolutionary significance of floral design in genus Pedicularis.
23664061|Chromosomal diversity and morphological dimorphism were examined by breeding the intraspecific hybrids among six accessions of Avena agadiriana Baum et Fedak. The accession M55 occasionally showed a quadrivalent, which indicated that it was heterogeneous for a reciprocal translocation. The chromosome pairings in the intra-early-flowering ecotype hybrids were almost normal with high chiasma frequency at metaphase I. However, the intra-late-flowering ecotype hybrids showed a quadrivalent or a trivalent with a univalent, similar to the inter-ecotype hybrids. The marginal population of the northeastern end, M74, always showed a quadrivalent or a trivalent in all the hybrids due to a unique large reciprocal translocation. This result was consistent with the late-flowering ecotype. There was a genocline of the chiasma frequency resulting from chromosomal rearrangements between adjacent populations. There was also a significant negative correlation between the mean chiasma frequency and the annual rainfall in each collection site (r = 0.880). The two distinct ecotypes were characterized by the different magnitude and number of chromosomal rearrangements, reciprocal translocation and loss of satellite chromosomes, and they were adapted to the wide range of environments along the Atlantic coast of Morocco.
23656052|Rhamnus ludovici-salvatoris, endemic to the Gymnesian Islands, coexists with the related and widespread R. alaternus in Mallorca and Menorca. In both species, the population genetic structure using RAPD, and flowering during a 3-year period to check for possible phenological barriers, were analyzed. Rhamnus ludovici-salvatoris showed lower genetic diversity and stronger population structure than R. alaternus, the Cabrera population being less diverse and the most differentiated. Rhamnus ludovici-salvatoris flowered one month later, although flowering of both species coincided sporadically. These congeners seem to have diverged through isolation by time and differentiation in habitat. The population genetic structure of R. ludovicisalvatoris could mainly be due to the existence of small populations on the one hand, and a gene flow caused by rare hybridization events on the other, which may also explain the presence of morphologically intermediate individuals in Menorca. The conservation of R. ludovici-salvatoris populations may include population reinforcements and other in situ interventions.
23671564|The nodal anatomy in Melastomataceae is variable. The (two times) unilacunar one trace type is wide-spread. In addition, species of Heterocentron and of Tribouchina exhibit one pair of common gaps with split laterals. Others possess a distinct "flank bridge" of vascular tissue. Species with internodes quadrangular and four-winged in transsect exhibit up to five concentric cortical bundles per wing; they are involved in both petiolar vascularization and formation of flank bridges.
23673918|The acetolysis method introduced by Gunnar Erdtman is still a very welcome and highly successful technique in palynology. However, acetolysis destroys all pollen material with the exception of sporopollenin that forms the outer pollen wall, the exine. Modern palynology in its application to plant systematics and phylogeny must consider all sporoderm characters, not only those of the exine. The neglect of the intine may distort some principal palynological aspects. This is illustrated by cases of total breakdown or gross modification of thin exine structures (e.g. in Beilschmiedia, Strelitzia) and by the clarification of apertures (e.g., Polyalthia, Fissistigma, Calluna). In our view the investigation of both acetolysed and non-acetolysed pollen is obligatory for a well balanced view of pollen structure and function.
23656120|Unique historical factors and ecological conditions make Southwest China a natural distribution and variation center for trees of the genus Populus in China. However, little is currently known about the native poplars occurring in this region, and considerable doubt still exists regarding the classification and evolutionary relationships of poplar species. In this study, nuclear and chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) sequences were utilized to determine the genetic relationships and phylogeny of Populus species in Southwest China. The results suggest that P. pseudoglauca belongs to the section of Tacamahaca. Further, P. schneideri may be a natural hybrid of P. kangdingensis and P. cathayana and, thus, it should likely not be regarded as a variety of P. kangdingensis, as in the existing classification system. In addition, cluster analyses showed that P. gonggaensis may be derived from a cross between species of section Leucoides and P. cathayana or P. schneideri of section Tacamahaca, although it is still doubtful whether P. gonggaensis can be regarded as a separate species, due to its narrow distribution range. The parents of the Luding poplar may be P. yunnanensis and P. lancifolia. P. butuoensis showed a close affinity to species of section Leucoides and had a close relationship with P. gonggaensis or P. lasiocarpa. However, further research is needed in order to appropriately classify these as species or varieties. The incongruence between phylogenetic trees based on nuclear-and chloroplast-DNA sequence data may be due to the different inheritance patterns between nuclear- and cpDNA genome.
23642152|Quantitatively evaluated C-banding karyograms and further observations on karyotype structure are presented for Scilla persica, 7 species of the Scilla hohenackeri group, and Puschkinia scilloides. Within the S. hohenackeri group very diverse and species-specific banding patterns are found. On the basis of karyology, S. bisotunensis and S. furseorum should be closely grouped together, while S. persica and Puschkinia scilloides appear quite isolated.
23673906|Notes are provided on the association of the beetle Diphucephala affinis (Scarabaeidae) with yellow flowers of Hibbertia hypericoides, H. huegelii (Dilleniaceae), Acacia pulchella, and A. stenoptera (Mimosaceae). Observations were undertaken during September 919, 1979 at S. Perth, Western Australia. They indicated that D. affinis is not a pollinator of Hibbertia as suggested in the literature, but may play a small role in the pollination of some Acacia species.
23642554|This first study of the whole genus Agathis makes use of recent local revisions of the New Caledonian and Australian species which are all maintained. The male cone is shown to have most of the taxonomically useful variation, and this confirms the findings of two partial revisions centred on Indonesian species. Thirteen species are recognized, two of which have two subspecies. New Caledonia has five, and Australia three, sympatric species. Otherwise the species are allopatric except for a few populations of central Malesian A. dammara within the range of west Malesian A. borneensis. One of these montane populations is the distinctive A. dammara subsp. flavescens of Malaya, formerly a full species. Two groups and three individually distinctive species can be recognized on microsporophyll characters. The larger, group B, comprizes eight species, A. australis (New Zealand), A. corbassonii, A. lanceolata and A. montana (New Caledonia), A. macrophylla (Melanesian islands and including A. obtusa and A. vitiensis), A. atropurpurea (Australia), A. dammara (mainly central Malesia) and A. borneensis (west Malesia); both the last have long synonymies. The smaller species, group (A), comprizes A. microstachya (Australia) and A. labillardieri (west New Guinea and the Sepik basin). The individually distinctive species are A. moorei and A. ovata of New Caledonia and A. robusta of Australia with its new subspecies nesophila, described here, of eastern New Guinea and New Britain.
23655684|Nuclear DNA amount has been assessed in 21 populations of 19 species of the genus Cheirolophus, and phylogenetic analyses have been performed in order to find the relationships between the species of the Mediterranean Basin and those of Macaronesia. A combined analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS and ETS has been performed based on Bayesian inference, and nuclear DNA amount has been assessed by flow cytometry. The monophyly of the Macaronesian group and its relationship with Ch. sempervirens indicate a unique colonization event of Macaronesia from the continent. This single event has not been proved in the case of the Canarian archipelago. DNA amount is significantly lower in the insular species than in the continental ones, and a connection appears between the evolution of the genus Cheirolophus (colonization of islands) and the loss of DNA, probably due to the selection pressure existing on the oceanic islands.
23655780|Generic relationships in the Pyrinae (equivalent to subfamily Maloideae) were assessed with six chloroplast regions and five nuclear regions. We also plotted 12 non-molecular characters onto molecular phylogenies. Chloroplast DNA trees are incongruent with those from nuclear regions, as are most nuclear regions with one another. Some of this conflict may be the result of hybridization, which occurs between many genera of Pyrinae in the present and may have occurred in the past, and duplication of nuclear loci. Sequence divergence between genera of Pyrinae, which is significantly less than that between genera of another large clade in Rosaceae, the Rosoideae, is concentrated in terminal branches, with short internal branches. This pattern is consistent with an ancient, rapid radiation, which has also been hypothesized from the fossil record. Even with about 500,000 bp of sequence, our results resolve only several small groups of genera and leave much uncertainty about phylogenetic relationships within Pyrinae.
23645369|Carex section Acrocystis currently includes 27 taxa in North America. Recent phylogenetic studies have suggested that the North American and some but not all of the Eurasian species form a clade. Relationships and biogeographic patterns among species in this core-Acrocystis group are explored here using nuclear ribosomal (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) and nrDNA external transcribed spacer region (ETS) sequence data. While maximum parsimony analysis of the ITS and ETS data provides only a moderately resolved branching structure for species relationships within the coreAcrocystis clade, maximum likelihood analysis provides a more resolved hypothesis of relationships in the section. The core-Acrocystis clade consists of a grade of Eurasian and primarily western North American species, with a wellsupported clade of only eastern North American species nested within this grade. ITS and ETS types do not coalesce within many species or species complexes. Possible explanations for the noncoalescent nature of ITS and ETS copies in Acrocystis are explored, including lineage sorting, hybridization, and cryptic species.
23674902|Nutlet sculpturing of 23 Teucrium species belonging to six sections was studied. The nutlets of analysed species were characterized by the presence of the oil glands of various density. Section Teucrium is well defined by very densely distributed trichomes and oil glands on nutlets. Trichomes on nutlets were absent in all other species, except in T. marum from sect. Chamaedrys. Sect. Polium is a homogeneous group, distinguished from the other sections. There are some similarities of this sect. with sect. Scordium. Species of sect. Chamaedrys are heterogeneous and overlap according to the surface sculpturing characters with the other sections. The significance of nutlet microcharacters as additional taxonomical markers in the infrageneric classification of the genus Teucrium is discussed.
23673113|Rhododendron subgenus Hymenanthes comprises >200 highly interfertile species in SE Asia (mainly Himalayas and southern China) plus the 1011 members of subsection Pontica (excluding R. hyperythrum) distributed outside SE Asia. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of cpDNA matK and trnL-F sequence data divided Hymenanthes into two clades: clade H, in which two Pontica species and the SE Asian R. adenopodum were sister to a clade of 60 SE Asian species, and clade P comprising eight Pontica species plus R. praevernum, R. calophytum, and R. insigne from SE Asia. If these three species belong in Pontica, they expand its range substantially. However, as they have no morphological links to Pontica, they might descend from clade H species that captured chloroplasts from a now extinct species of Pontica. Either way, their distribution within the Chinese/Himalayan range of Rhododendron indicates an ancestor that came from the north or east to meet the diversifying group of Hymenanthes in the Himalayas, making the SE Asian members of Hymenanthes a polyphyletic group.
23644355|A new method for comparisons of the ecogeographical and climatic constitutions of taxa is presented. The method will be important for understanding the evolution of species in time and space because ecogeographical characters of the species become directly comparable. On a global analytical level, distribution ranges of species may be considered as a function of the ecological constitution of the species, i.e. their endogenous hardiness to environmental forces, and climate. Frequency diagrams of the species' occurrences are calculated for the monthly climatic means of temperature and precipitation using high-resolution maps of distribution and climate. These frequency diagrams are used to construct monthly temperature-precipitation diagrams (TPD) that show the monthly climate spaces of the species'. For the first time, within the TPDs the climate spaces of the plants become directly comparable. However, comparability is somewhat restricted because of the necessity to consider the TPDs of all 12 months. A higher degree of abstraction is obtained using the climatic centre of a species as inferred from the TPD. The twelve monthly climatic means are transferred to the climatic mean diagram (CMD). In the CMD the climate spaces of the species become directly comparable in the course of the year. Despite the high degree of abstraction each diagram type reflects particular ecogeographical characteristics of the species even at a regional geographical level. Especially the CMD offers ways for understanding evolutionary shifts in the ecogeographical constitution of closely related species. The reasons for the shifts are composed of a hydric and thermal component. They may be addressed in molecular and physiological studies concerning evolutionary changes of these ecogeographical traits.
23642139|The genus Karschia, in the earlier sense, including saprophytes and parasites on lichens, has been thought to be a non-lichenized parallel genus of the lichen genus Buellia. Modern workers included it on the one hand in Buellia, on the other hand combined it with bitunicate ascomycetes. It is now proved that Karschia is heterogeneous and contains but superficially similar members both of the genus Buellia of the Lecanorales and of typical or masked bitunicate Ascomycetes. Therefore, it can not be regarded as a link between Lecanorales and Dothideales. The type species of Karschia belongs to the Dothideales. Die Ascomycetengattung Karschia ist im Laufe der Zeit immer mehr als Bindeglied" zwischen lecanoralen flechtenbildenden Pilzen und bitunicaten Ascomyceten betrachtet worden. Sie enthlt Arten, die formell durch apothecienartige Fruchtkrper und dunkle, zweizeilige Sporen bereinstimmen und entweder als Saprophyten auf Holz oder als Parasiten auf Flechten auftreten. Die Typusart ist ein stromatischer bitunicater Ascomycet, eine andere Art ist als lichenicoler Vertreter der sonst flechtenbildenden Lecanorales-Gattung Buellia anzusehen, zwei weitere Vertreter sind maskierte Bitunicate noch unklarer Zuordnung. Die bekannteste Verbindung zwischen Dothideales und Lecanorales hat sich damit als irrig erwiesen.
23675279|In the genus Trebouxia (incl. Pseudotrebouxia) two sorts of nonmotile reproductive cells exist: autospores and aplanospores. In subg. Trebouxia small mother cells give rise to 4, 8, or 16 autospores, while comparatively large mother cells develop into zoosporangia or, if the release of zoospores is arrested, into aplanosporangia. Both zoo- and aplanosporangia contain (32) 64 or 128 daughter cells. The transformation of trophic cells into zoo-/ aplanosporangia starts with the formation of a local thickening of the cell wall that marks the prospective opening, and (in most species) with the disappearance of the pyrenoids; sooner or later strong starch deposition can be observed. In subg. Eleutherococcus autospores do not occur; zoo- and aplanosporangia are formed essentially in the same way as in subg. Trebouxia. Differences occur between the form and position of chloroplasts during successive divisions: flattened and parietal in subg. Eleutherococcus, not flattened and  central in subg. Trebouxia. In Eleutherococcus, besides large cells also relatively small cells may produce zoo- or aplanospores.  Dictyosomes could be observed in the living state in representatives of subg. Eleutherococcus under optimal conditions. In trophic cells they are arranged in a group surrounding a hyaline area at the side of the nucleus. In young uninuclear sporangia they are positioned between the nucleus and the local thickening of the cell wall. In somewhat older sporangia they occupy mainly those parts of the nuclear surface which is turned towards the cytoplasmatic cleavage furrow. In subg. Trebouxia dictyosomes could not be observed by light-microscopy. In several species the chloroplast lobation (observed under optimal conditions) differs from that described in the literature.
23642221|Karschia destructans Tobler is recognized as a synonym of Buellia schaereri De Not. This species is not a parasitic fungus but a lichen that suffers when growing together with Chaenotheca chrysocephala (Ach.) Th. Fr. or Chaenotheca phaeocephala (Turn.) Th. Fr. subsp. alpina (Ndv.) Schmidt. Karschia destructans Tobler wird als Synonym von Buellia schaereri De Not. erkannt. Diese Art ist kein Parasit auf Chaenotheca-Arten, sondern wird durch Chaenotheca chrysocephala (Ach.) Th. Fr. sowie Chaenotheca phaeocephala (Turn.) Th. Fr. subsp. alpina (Nnv.) Schmidt geschdigt.
23674526|Variation in C-banding was studied in seven populations of Allium schnoprasum from eastern N. America, including populations referable to var. sibiricum, var. laurentianum, and  intermediate. 23 bands were recognized on five pairs of chromosomes, and were treated as 23 loci. No banding site was monomorphic throughout the plants studied. The level of polymorphism per population was >60%, and the average heterozygosity values varied from 0.21 to 0.27. The various "banding patterns" of chromosomes were shown to depend on the random combination of individual bands. Nei's genetic distances between populations varied from 0 to 0.070 (mean: 0.033). The matrix of genetic distances was analysed by non-metric multidimensional scaling, and the results showed a significant relationship between longitude and population scores on the ordination. The chromosomal data did not clearly discriminate between the two native varieties of A. schnoprasum, but were interpreted as a longitudinal cline. It is suggested that studies of C-banding variation in vascular plants should focus on individual banding sites, rather than on whole chromosome banding patterns.
23674307|Genomic DNA samples from 21 box elder plants collected in Missouri (U.S.A.) were digested with restriction enzyme and southern blot hybridized with the M13 minisatellite probe. Each plant was found to have a unique DNA fragment pattern. Moreover, levels of genetic variation estimated from a similarity index appear to be related to sampling distances. However, size of the fragments utilized in the analysis affects the estimates of genetic variation to a considerable degree.
43558587|This work focuses on the representatives of genus Echinops (Asteraceae, Cardueae) in the Aegean and Balkan regions, from the perspective of their genome evolution. Chromosome numbers were determined by orcein staining in 14 populations of nine taxa, and DNA contents were assessed by flow cytometry in 24 populations of nine taxa. A molecular phylogeny based on the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and trnL-trnF and including first sequences for two taxa (Echinops sphaerocephalus subsp. taygeteus and E. spinosissimus subsp. neumayen) provided a framework for discussing genome changes. From a methodological point of view, similar C-DNA value estimates were obtained when measuring, for a same population, fresh leaves from adult plants collected in the field and from cultivated seedlings. Conversely, despite giving the appearance of being correct (e.g., low coefficient of variation), genome size assessed using silica gel-preserved material differs significantly from values obtained for the same populations with fresh material. Nevertheless, silica gel-preserved material may still provide rough estimates of genome size for, e.g., inferring ploidy level. Suitablenon-silica gel-basedDNA amounts assessed for 23 populations range from 2C = 6.52 pg (E. spinosissimus subsp.neumayen) to 2C = 9.37 pg (E. bannaticus). Chromosome counts were established for the first time for Echinops graecus (2n = 32), E. sphaerocephalus subsp. albidus (In = 32), E. sphaerocephalus subsp. taygeteus (2n = ca. 30), and E. spinosissimus subsp. neumayen (2n = 28). Genome size and chromosome number are confirmed as crucial parameters for deciphering lineage diversification within the genus Echinops.
23655486|A cytogenetic study was conducted on four species of the genus Urvillea (Sapindaceae, Paullinieae): U. chacoensis Hunz., U. filipes Radlk. and U. ulmacea Kunth of the Urvillea section and U. laevis Radlk. of the Stenelytron section. The chromosome numbers in U. chacoensis (2n = 22) and U. laevis (2n = 24) were confirmed, and new chromosome numbers are reported for U. filipes with 2n = 22 and U. ulmacea with 2n = 88. Additionally, data on interphase nuclear structure, chromosome banding patterns (C-Giemsa and C-CMA3/DAPI) and FISH with rDNA probes are also presented. The distribution of AT- and GC-rich regions and the physical mapping of ribosomal genes (45S and 5S rDNA sites) were established for the first time in these Urvillea species. Sections of Urvillea are cytogenetically differentiated according to basic chromosome number, where x = 11 in the section Urvillea and x = 12 in the section Stenelytron. This first section displayed an important karyotypic feature, the occurrence of large AT- and GC-rich bands at terminal chromosomal regions. The Urvillea section showed polyploidy and its species were differentiated by their banding patterns. Urvillea chacoensis showed several terminal AT-rich bands, while terminal AT- and GC-rich bands were both found in U. ulmacea. However, the section Stenelytron did not exhibit this banding pattern. The 45S rDNA sites appeared always associated with GC-rich regions and they were numerically variable among species, being located or not the same chromosome 5S rDNA sites. Variation in the repetitive DNA distribution and their role in karyotype differentiation among these Urvillea species are discussed.
23673775|The meiosis of the diploid Paeonia tenuifola and the allotetraploid P. officinalis was studied after conventional methanol/acetic acid-fixation and synaptonemal complex (SC) spreading. Meiosis in P. tenuifolia (2n = 10) is normal with five bivalents in metaphase I, and the SCs in pachytene show regular features. In P. officinalis (2n = 4x = 20) univalents, bivalents and multivalents are found in metaphase I. The SCs reveal several abnormalities: a high number of unpaired lateral elements, partner exchanges between three and four lateral elements, loops and lateral element thickenings. These characteristics are compared with the situations found in other polyploid and hybrid species. It is noteworthy that the abnormalities in meiosis of P. officinalis are not reflected in its somatic karyotype. Its features were analysed after silver staining and fluorescent staining with chromomycin and compared with those of P. tenuifolia.
23674894|The Acharian genus Cetraria has not been scrutinised in the same way as the genus Parmelia in terms of circumscription of segregate genera. A few generic names have been introduced, but mainly in checklists without any real indication of what these names stand for. After a detailed investigation of characters in the apothecia, conidiomata, anatomical structures, as well as morphology and secondary chemistry, it is clear that several, more or less distinctive, phylogenetic lines exist among taxa which earlier were accommodated in Cetraria. Some of these distinctive phylogenetic lines are distinguished by ascus characters: (1) clavate asci with a small axial body, an apical ring structure in the tholus and ellipsoid ascospores; (2) uniseriate asci with a large axial body and globose ascospores; and (3) taxa with broadly clavate asci with a large axial body and ellipsoid ascospores. Sixty-three character states were studied and results from the character analyses were evaluated by cladistic analysis against 43 examined terminal taxa. Seven further taxa were included in one analysis. Results from the cladistic analyses give rather strong support for a new systematic treatment of at least certain groups in the cetrarioid lichens. A formal systematic arrangement is not made here but will be presented elsewhere. The characters investigated are illustrated in 78 half tone pictures and one line drawing. Five cladograms are presented.
43498304|The genus Tanacetum L. consists of around 160 species of the Compositae-Anthemideae. It holds a crucial position for understanding the phylogeny of the tribe and its subtribal and generic classification. The present study focuses on the phylogenetic relationships of the species and aims at a discussion of the infrageneric classification and boundaries of the genus. Sequence information from a nuclear [nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS)] and a chloroplast marker [chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) trnH-psbA] was used to infer the phylogeny of Tanacetum and many representatives of closely related genera. Bayesian inference methods were used for the phylogenetic reconstructions based on a combined dataset including both sequence and indel information. Contrasting the high morphological diversity in the genus, sequence divergence among Tanacetum representatives included was found to be very low, leading to unresolved phylogenetic relationships within the genus. Nevertheless, the generic separation of Tanacetum from other members of subtribe Anthemidinae (i.e., Anthemis, Archanthemis, Cota, Nananthea, and Tripleurospermum) emerges, while other, presently accepted genera are found nested in Tanacetum (i.e., Gonospermum, Lugoa, and Xylanthemum). Finally, the phylogenetic independence of the SW European T. microphyllum from the rest of Tanacetum and the other genera of Anthemidinae is found to receive strong support and is also backed by its morphological uniqueness. The new genus Vogtia Oberpr. et Sonboli is described to accommodate Tanacetum microphyllum and the closely related species T. annuum. The sinking of Gonospermum, Lugoa, and Xylanthemum into a broadly circumscribed genus Tanacetum is proposed until more stable phylogenetic reconstructions based on more and more variable molecular markers are possible. Concerning the infrageneric classification of Tanacetum, the phylogeny does not support the separation of the white- and red-rayed species (the former genus Pyrethrum) from the discoid, disciform, or yellow-rayed ones (i.e., Tanacetum in the strict sense) at any infrageneric rank. The hypothesis by Tzvelev (1961) that the yellow-rayed representatives may have evolved from disciform ancestors receives little support.
23674979|The genera of the Rafflesiaceae show a marked diversity in the structure of their ovules and seeds. Evolutionary trends are recognizable in ovule orientation and number of integuments. A change from anatropous ovules in Apodantheae and Mitrastemoideae towards incomplete anatropy in Rafflesieae and orthotropy in Cytineae occurs, next to a change from bitegmic ovules in Apodantheae towards unitegmy with rudimentary outer integuments in Rafflesieae and Cytineae and full unitegmy in Mitrastemoideae.  The differences in ovule structure are clearly reflected in the seeds. The seeds are essentially exotegmic, have very small embryos and an oily endosperm.  Seed structure strongly confirms the existing subfamilial classification and supports additional arguments for the generic status of Apodanthes. It does not support a separate status of the genus Berlinianche. In Rafflesiaceae, seed micromorphology is only of limited use at the species level. As far as known seed dispersal is endo- or exozoochorous in all genera.
23645212|Genome size (Cx-value) was applied as a new criterion to investigate the relationships within the genus Galanthus L. (Amaryllidaceae). More than 150 samples representing all species, from wild and cultivated material, were investigated. Most species of Galanthus have the same basic chromosome number (2n = 2x = 24). However, the somatic nuclear DNA contents (2C), as measured by flow cytometry with propidium iodide was shown to range from 48.6 to 90.4 pg for the diploids. This implies that the largest genome contains roughly 4  1010 more base pairs than the smallest and has chromosomes that are nearly twice as large. On this basis we assumed that nuclear DNA content as measured using flow cytometry may be used to produce easily obtainable systematic data. Triploidy in G. rizehensis and G. alpinus var. bortkewitschianus, tetraploidy in G. elwesii and hexaploidy in G. lagodechianus were confirmed by flow cytometry. In addition, as well as a number of polyploid cultivars, triploids were also found in G. nivalis and tetraploids and hexaploids in G. transcaucasicus and G. elwesii, respectively. DNA content confirmed the close relationships in some species pairs, including: G. nivalis and G. reginae-olgae, G. krasnovii and G. platyphyllus, G. gracilis and G. elwesii. Further investigation of the taxonomic status of these pairs is suggested. As a rapid diagnostic tool, applicable even in the case of dormant bulbs or sterile plants, flow cytometry has applications for conservation and in particular the monitoring of the trade in bulbous plants.
23642985|Hedyotis salzmannii (Rubiaceae) is distylous. Experimental pollination revealed that both morphs are self-compatible. However, the thrum morph proved to be more self-compatible. Hand cross-pollination between different plants of the same floral form produced less seed-sets per pollination than hand cross-pollination between pin and thrum or thrum and pin pollination. Two species of Hymenoptera, one Apidae and one Halictidae, and two species of Diptera (Syrphidae) were observed as pollinators.
23642860|The chromosomes of several cultivated Tulipa species belonging to the subg. Eriostemones were examined using conventional staining and C-banding techniques. Most of the species have lightly banded chromosomes with heterochromatin content varying from nil to about 15%. The banding patterns of several taxa are described and discussed in regard to species relationships.
23673196|Introgressive hybridisation between Senecio hercynicus and Senecio ovatus (Compositae, Senecioneae) was studied in a mixed stand of the two species on the S- and SW-facing slopes of the German part of the Bohemian Forest (SE Germany). Morphological variation based on multivariate analysis of 14 diagnostic characters, along with genetic data from an amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) fingerprinting analysis, indicates that the surveyed stand forms an intensively introgressed hybrid swarm. The majority of individuals were found to be intermediate between the two parental taxa, and strong statistical correlation between phenetic and genetic distances was observed. In contrast to that, flowering time of individuals (expressed as the time when 50% of the capitula of a plant were in flower) was found to follow a bimodal distribution in the hybrid swarm and lacked any correlation with the genetic and morphological relationships among plants. The same was true for the spectra of pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PA) revealed by a gas-chromatographic survey: most of the 142 individuals surveyed fell into one of two main chemotypes, only a few plants exhibited an intermediate and additive PA spectrum, and no correlation with the genetic and morphological relationships among plants was observed. Assuming that most of the AFLP markers are neutral, we conclude that the correlation of morphology with the genetic pattern may argue for the neutrality of morphological features analysed. Consequently, we interpret the lack of correlation between phenological and phytochemical data with the neutral genetic markers as evidence that both phenology and phytochemistry may be either under selection or that these features are genetically or biosynthetically constrained.
23642601|Chlorella fusca wild type strain C-1.1.10 is able to synthesize ketocarotenoids (KC) and sporopollenin (SP) which are present in the cell wall (CW) as integral components. Mutants derived from this strain are unable to synthesize KC and SP. The CW ultrastructure of both, wild type and mutants, was investigated by TEM after different staining procedures. Strains containing SP in the CW exhibit a trilaminar structure of the outer layer of the CW, while mutants defective in KC- and SP-synthesis differ in this respect. Fragments of unit membranes, various membranous vesicles and structures often are found in the space between the CW and the plasmalemma; this perhaps indicates some steps of CW- and sporopollenin-synthesis. These findings again strongly confirm the close connection between the synthesis of KC, SP, and the trilaminar structure of the outer CW-layer.
23642629|Comparative investigations of serological characters of seed proteins from taxa regarded as members of the Saxifragales result in the recognition of two distinct groups of related families. One consists of the Saxifragaceae, Grossulariaceae, and Crassulaceae; to it Hamamelis, and possibly Penthorum and the Rosaceae may be connected. The second group contains the Hydrangeaceae, Escalloniaceae, Roridulaceae, Cornaceae, and Caprifoliaceae; it is rich in iridoid compounds, has more derived morphological characters, and seems to represent a monophyletic line block. The Pittosporaceae were not found to be linked with either of the two groups, but rather show similarities with members of the Apiales. All these data support systematic arrangements proposed by Dahlgren (1975 a). Eine vergleichende Untersuchung von serologisch erfabaren Merkmalen der Samenproteine fhrte zur Unterscheidung zweier scharf getrennter Verwandtschaftskreise von Familien, die alle bislang zu den Saxifragales gestellt wurden. Die eine Familiengruppe enthlt die Saxifragaceae, Grossulariaceae und Crassulaceae; daran lassen sich Hamamelis und mglicherweise Penthorum sowie die Rosaceae anschlieen. Die andere umfat die Hydrangeaceae, Escalloniaceae, Roridulaceae, Cornaceae und Caprifoliaceae. Damit besttigt sich die zuletzt von Dahlgren (1975 a) vollzogene Aufteilung der alten Engler'schen Saxifragales, wobei sich der Verwandtschaftskreis um die Cornaceae durch strker abgeleitete Merkmale kennzeichnen lt und durch das Vorkommen iridoider Verbindungen immer deutlicher als monophyletischer Block erscheint. Die Pittosporaceae schlielich drften keiner der beiden Gruppen anzuschlieen, sondern eher mit den Apiales verknpft sein.
23660100|We present the first assessment of phylogenetic utility of a potential novel low-copy nuclear gene region in flowering plants. A fragment of the MORE AXILLARY GROWTH 4 gene (MAX4, also known as RAMOSUS1 and DECREASED APICAL DOMINANCE1), predicted to span two introns, was isolated from members of Digitalis/Isoplexis. Phylogenetic analyses, under both maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference, were performed and revealed evidence of putative MAX4-like paralogues. The MAX4-like trees were compared with those obtained for Digitalis/Isoplexis using ITS and trnL-F, revealing a high degree of incongruence between these different DNA regions. Network analyses indicate complex patterns of evolution between the MAX4 sequences, which cannot be adequately represented on bifurcating trees. The incidence of paralogy restricts the use of MAX4 in phylogenetic inference within the study group, although MAX4 could potentially be used in combination with other DNA regions for resolving species relationships in cases where paralogues can be clearly identified.
23655724|The phylogenetic and systematic position of all species of Acer section Acer from North America, East Asia, and western Eurasia are evaluated using various splits-based networks (distance networks, bipartition networks), ITS motif analysis, and morphology. Molecular analyses are based on 276 ITS clones obtained from 101 specimens collected mainly from natural stands. The large sample size ensures to cover sufficiently inter- and intraspecific ITS variability of this group. Formerly recognised species are generally supported by ITS data and morphology; the combination of molecular (ITS) and morphological criteria allows defining seven (supraspecific) taxonomic groups prior to a phylogenetic reconstruction. Phylogenetic signals captured in modern ITS sequences are partly incompatible but clearly suggest that Acer section Acer underwent three major radiations. Horizontal gene flow is indicated between ancestors of extant taxa that are isolated at present times. The level of ITS derivation can be estimated and corresponds to levels of morphological differentiation and (palaeo-) biogeographical patterns. Based on our results we question the potential of cladistic approaches to infer low-level evolution in an adequate manner and demonstrate that speciation in members of Acer section Acer is not generally linked to cladogenesis. The data and methodologies provided here allow to trace pathways of low-level evolution and to analyse such data sets with a less restricted (non-dichotomous) dynamic concept.
23674346|The increase of the amino acid concentration over different time intervals in artificial nectar (i.e., a sucrose solution) due to pollen contamination was investigated in four Californian plant species (Aesculus californica, Amsinckia lunaris, Brodiaea pulchella, Carduus pycnocephalus), which are important nectar resources for a Californian colony of the butterfly Battus philenor as well as for other insects. The increase of the amino acid concentration in the medium is different in all four species and seems to be determined by a variety of factors including permeability of the pollen grain wall and presence or absence of pores. The results suggest a passive diffusion process of the free pollen amino acids into the medium rather than an active release. Implications from the experiments for Battus philenor and for other nectar feeding pollinators are discussed. A possible complementary effect of free pollen and nectar amino acids is proposed for plant species in which pollen is likely to be knocked into nectar by their flower visitors. A possible evolutionary pathway from nectar feeding butterflies such as Battus philenor to the complex derived pollen feeding habit in the Heliconius butterflies is proposed.
23645110|Phylogenetic analysis of all modern and two fossil species of Fagus based on morphological characters strongly supports the subgenus Engleriana as a monophyletic group. This is based on several apomorphic features of vegetative structures, as cupule/nut and pollen characteristics in the three species constituting the subgenus Engleriana. Species of the subgenus Fagus form a paraphyletic grade basal to the subgenus Engleriana and display weak cladistic structure. This is mainly due to a high amount of morphological parallelism and essentially few phylogenetically informative characters among species of the subgenus Fagus. The North American F. grandifolia is most distinct among the species of the subgenus Fagus and shares some characteristics with the subgenus Engleriana. For Fagus weak differentiation is suggested during its early phase of dispersal in the Oligocene, accounting for the low resolution among its fossil and modern members. This is in agreement with at least one of three previous molecular studies on Fagus.
23642581|The serological reaction of seed proteins provides evidence for a partly new systematic arrangement of Cytisus sect. Trianthocytisus and of Cytisus s. 1. Proposed modifications agree with recent advances in morphological taxonomy. Sect. Trianthocytisus includes only two species, C. villosus and C. aeolicus. Its position is central within the genus, and this fact agrees with the proposed retypification of Cytisus (type species: C. villosus). C. emeriflorus, formerly included in the same section, constitutes the monospecific sect. Emeroides, which is intermediate towards the genus Lembotropis. This is serologically isolated and includes only L. nigricans. It is confirmed that C. sessilifolius should be removed from the genus Cytisus as a monospecific genus: Cytisophyllum Lang which is closely allied to Hesperolaburnum and to Podocytisus, the most primitive genera of Genisteae.
23654188|This paper provides the first comparative survey of structural variation in inflorescence architecture and flower structure of Hemigraphis and other members of the subtribe Strobilanthinae (Acanthaceae). Several discrete structural characters are identified which may provide support for phylogenetic relationships within the group. These include (1) the presence or absence of an accessory bud, (2) the presence or absence of a hollow style, (3) the presence or absence of an abscission layer, (4) the number of stamens comprising the androecium, and (5) the pattern of filament detachment. The structure of the filament curtain, a complex structure that partitions the flower, is also investigated. A more precise term for this structure "stapetal curtain" is suggested since it is a result of close synorganisation between the filaments and corolla tube. This structure appears to have a wide distribution throughout Acanthaceae and is not confined to Ruellieae s.l., as previously described. The earlier characterisation of four discrete types of filament curtain is unsatisfactory, since many of the features used to distinguish them are continuous and not unique features of particular species.
23642685|A new species of Tillandsia is described and discussed in regard to related species.
23669028|Crotalaria L. (Fabaceae) comprises approximately 700 species that are distributed in tropical and subtropical regions of the world. In India, it is the largest legume genus with 92 species. Sequences of the nuclear internal transcribed spacer from species representing all the six recognized sections of Indian Crotalaria were subjected to phylogenetic analyses. Ancestral state reconstructions were done for two morphological characters, corolla keel beak, and leaf form. Analyses reveal five major well-supported clades within a monophyletic Crotalaria. Clade 1 has members with rostrate-spirally twisted keel beaks while the remaining four clades comprise members with keel beaks rostrate-not spirally twisted. Clade 1 further bifurcates into two clades characterized by differences in leaf morphology: (1a) contains species with simple leaves belonging to section Calycinae, section Crotalaria subsection Crotalaria and subsection Bractetae and multifoliolate leaves belonging to section Crotalaria subsection Polyphyllae (1b) contains species with trifoliate leaves belonging to section Dispermae, section Crotalaria subsection Longirostres. Sub-clade iii in Clade la contains four species complexes, each forming a monophyletic group. Of these one comprising C. madurensis, C. subperfoliata, C. shevaroyensis, and C. longipes is endemic to a region in southern India. Each of the others contains one endemic species and one widespread species that is sympatric with the endemic one (C. hirta and C.mysorensis', C. epunctata and C. albida; C. clarkei and C. triquetra). The present study suggests that: (1) all members of section Calycinae and most members of section Crotalaria form a clade, (2) members of section Crotalaria subsection Longirostres and section Dispermae form a distinct clade, (3) twisting of the keel beak is an apomorphy within the genus, (4) there is a reversal to keel beak rostrate-not spirally twisted in C. shevaroyensis and an independent origin of a rostratespirally twisted keel beak in C. humilis, and (5) the trifoliolate condition is a plesiomorphy in the genus and the simple leaf condition an apomorphy; there is a single reversal to the trifoliolate condition in C. orixensis. The current morphological classification system of Indian Crotalaria species includes six sections, but these circumscriptions are not supported by the molecular data.
43558055|Multivariate analysis of leaf shape, anatomy, and Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) data of 27 Camellia species with secretory structures (sects. Archecamellia, Stereocarpus, Furfuracea, Chrysantha), together with three species from related genera, Gordonia and Tutcheria (Theacea), was conducted to clarify some taxonomic problems. Our results show that crystals occurring in adaxial epidermal cells are firstly observed in Chrysantha species, and the secretory structures described are in fact cork warts. Furthermore, we introduce a form coefficient (Fc) to assess the shape of epidermal cells, since they are usually irregular and difficult to describe. Pearson correlation analysis indicates that Fc is useful to assess epidermal cell shape. Principal component analysis (PCA) of leaf shape indicates that two species from section Archecamellia and two species from section Stereocarpus are significantly different from those in section Furfuracea. Cluster analysis of FTIR data visualizes the degree of affinity among the 30 species examined here, which is consistent with the cluster analysis (CA) of anatomical data, as illustrated in the dendrogram. Therefore, our study indicates that integrated leaf characters based on leaf shape, anatomy, and FTIR data are useful in the taxonomic treatment of Camellia species with secretory structures. Taxonomic controversies among the Camellia species with secretory structures could thus be successfully addressed using only a few intact or small portions of leaves. Moreover, our results tend to support that Chrysantha species should not be merged into section Archecamellia, and that section Heterogenea should not be recognized in taxonomic treatments of Camellia species with secretory structures.
23673922|In contrast to W. Troll's typology of inflorescences which aims at more or less rigid, well defined types, this investigation accentuates the processes that constitute the evolutionary transformations leading from one typical form to another. Troll divided the inflorescences into the two types of monotelic and polytelic synflorescences, the first with a terminal flower on the main axis, the latter with a homogeneous florescence on the indeterminate axis. Both forms are enriched by proximal branches which repeat the structure of the main axis (paracladia). The evolutionary processes leading from the more primitive monotelic type to the advanced polytelic type are truncation (loss of the terminal flower) and homogenization of the distal branches, which thus form a homogeneous florescence. A closer survey of the polytelic groups reveals the fact that, using Troll's criteria, the same distinction can be found within these groups themselves. Loss of the terminal florescence (truncation of 2nd and higher degree) as well as homogenization of the distal paracladia may lead to florescence-like units of higher complexity. Examples can be found in Asteraceae (Figs. 1 and 2), Fabaceae (Fig. 3 a), Mimosaceae (Fig. 3 b), Acanthaceae, and also in Monocots, as exemplified by the Marantaceae (Figs. 4 and 5). The so-called racemization (inversion of efflorescences from basipetalous to acropetalous) may be mentioned as a third element of transformation, emphasizing the unity of the florescences.  In consequence, there are more organizational levels than reflected in the two Troll types. The polytelic type comprises several degrees of truncation and homogenization, the basis for a reasonable organizational analysis should therefore be the degree of ramification of flowering branches rather than the mere question of a terminal flower on the main shoot axis (Fig. 6). On the other hand the three processes of truncation, homogenization and racemization are evolutionary transformations that may occur independently from one another, thus giving rise to a large number of variations, which can not be satisfactorily interpreted by exactly defined types. On the basis of these considerations the question of homologous parts in inflorescences is reviewed. The homology of partial florescences and paracladia is accentuated contrary to Troll's interpretation (Fig. 7). Homogenization as an evolutionary trend may transform paracladia of different degree of ramification, leading to one-flowered units on the one side and to highly complex structures as in the Marantaceae on the other.
23673179|Morphological and cytological studies are complementary approaches to understand the molecular mechanisms that regulate floral developmental pathways. To better understand abnormal mutant phenotypes in floral development, we conducted detailed observations and investigations of the morphology, cytology, and cell ultrastructure of wild-type Chinese cabbage (Brassica campestris L. ssp. chinensis Makino and syn. B. rapa ssp. chinensis) flowers when they developed from primordia to anthesis. First, we measured bud and organ length with a stereo microscope and observed the developmental status and characteristics of the floral organs using a scanning electron microscope; then we made thin slices of anthers to observe the developmental stage and characteristics of pollen using an optical microscope; and finally, we made super-thin slices of anthers to observe the ultrastructure of pollen during its development with the aid of a transmission electron microscope. In this study, the floral developmental continuum was divided into 17 stages based on significant changes in the shape of floral primordia, and the pollen developmental continuum was divided into 14 stages based on the developmental characteristics. The results could provide the morphological basis for further research on the molecular mechanisms that regulate development of the floral organs and/or pollen of Chinese cabbage and their allied species.
23644174|This paper deals with the use of cladistic methods and cladograms in phylogeny reconstruction in plant groups containing numerous taxa. How accurate are the cladograms as to details? Accuracy tests at the level of details require an independently known phylogeny, which excludes most plant groups, but such tests can be carried out in domesticated and experimental plant groups which have documented pedigrees. Four such tests are known and are presented here: a new case in Gilia and three previously published cases in Avena, Hordeum, and Helianthus. The four cases include domesticated and experimental plants, use of morphological and molecular evidence, and presence of dichotomous as well as reticulate phylogenies. The cladograms of the four plant groups all differ in significant details from the known pedigrees. These results are discussed in relation to problems of interpretation of cladograms.
23655710|The food deceptive orchid, Dactylorhiza romana (Sebastiani) So exhibits a colour polymorphism with yellow, red, and intermediate orange morphs. In this study we tested if floral odour differed among the three distinct colour morphs. We identified 23 odour compounds in D. romana, and all of them occurred in the three colour morphs. Monoterpenes dominated the floral scent. On the basis of Euclidean distances of relative amounts of compounds, yellow morphs were closer to each other than to orange or red morphs. Differentiation of the morphs was mainly due to linalool and benzaldehyde. Linalool occurred in low relative amounts in the yellow morphs, but in high amounts in some of the red individuals, whereas benzaldehyde occurred in higher relative amounts in yellow morphs. Linalool and benzaldehyde are known to be important signal-substances in plant-insect communication, however, it remains to be shown whether insects can discriminate between flower morphs on the basis of the here shown odour differences.
23673106|This study includes 24 reports of chromosome counts in Tripleurospermum Sch. Bip. (20 taxa), Anthemis L. (1 species) and Matricaria L. (3 taxa) belonging to the tribe Anthemideae of the family Asteraceae from Turkey. Chromosome numbers of these taxa are 2n = 2x = 18, 3x = 27 and 4x = 36. Nine counts are new reports, one is not consistent with previous report, and the remainder confirm earlier information. Statistically significant differences depending on ploidy level, stomatal length or environmental factors such as altitude were determined in Tripleurospermum. Several systematic and evolutionary aspects of the genera are discussed in the light of chromosomal data.
23645275|Lamium subg. Galeobdolon was investigated in Central Europe to evaluate karyological, morphological, and isozyme variations. Flow-cytometric analyses revealed three ploidy levels: diploid (corresponding to L. flavidum and L. galeobdolon), tetraploid (corresponding to L. argentatum and L. montanum), and triploid (very rare cytotype most probably of hybrid origin). Mixed samples comprising two or more cytotypes / taxa were repeatedly detected. An existence of hybrid individuals between both tetraploid taxa was also supported. Almost no variation at isozyme level was observed in L. argentatum originating from three European countries thus favouring a hypothesis of a monotopic origin. On the contrary, the pilot study detected high isozyme variability in the other taxa. Morphometric analyses confirmed clear separation between L. galeobdolon and L. montanum; bract characters and maximum number of flowers were selected as quantitative features with the highest discriminant power. Serious discrepancies between the original description of L. endtmannii and both karyological and morphological performance of the plants from localities attributed to this species were found. These results allow us to conclude that any taxonomic status of L. endtmannii is not justified.
23643148|Saxifraga oppositifolia, S. biflora, and their hybrid S.  kochii were studied in a mixed population in the Swiss Alps. Qualitative morphological characters did not allow to clearly separate the hybrid S.  kochii from its parental species. All quantitative characters were intermediate in S.  kochii, but the ranges of these characters overlapped with those of S. oppositifolia and S. biflora. A hybrid index and canonical discriminant analysis allowed a clear separation of the three groups and strongly confirmed a priori grouping. Phenological observations showed that the three groups were not temporally separated within the investigated mixed population. Reciprocal hand pollinations between S. oppositifolia and S. biflora yielded higher seed set with S. oppositifolia than with S. biflora as maternal plant. Germination rate of seeds from these crossing experiments varied in the same way as seed yields, whereas germination rate was intermediate for seeds from naturally pollinated S.  kochii. Considering its ecological and reproductive properties, S.  kochii has good prerequisites for evolving into a distinct species.
23673172|Gentianella aspera is a biennial plant of various nutrient-poor grasslands that has become rare in the landscapes outside the Alps of eastern Austria. Using AFLP fingerprinting we investigated: (1) effects of spatial structure on genetic structure in a large vineyard population that is confined to the embankments separating the grapevines; (2) temporal variation in genetic diversity and structure in this population; (3) relationships with other populations in a regional context. On the regional scale, moderate isolation by distance among populations was revealed by a Mantel test. Bayesian analysis of population structure indicated three spatially distinct gene pools and an additional one within the vineyard population. Within this population, spatial autocorrelation analysis revealed a positive correlation between genetic and spatial distance up to 50 m. Patterns found by PCoA were not in line with a priori defined subpopulations and indicated substantial gene flow across embankments. AMOVA revealed low differentiation among both the subpopulations that were found on the linear embankments and among two local groups of these subpopulations. We found, however, striking differences in the among-group variation between the 2 years, i.e., between two local groups within the generations and between those groups among generations. This was due to the highly variable larger group of the younger generation, in which an additional gene pool was identified by Bayesian analysis of population structure. Based on these results we discuss scenarios of local and regional dynamics within and among G. aspera populations.
23655113|The seedling development of an undescribed Malaccotristicha species was observed by using seedling culture and microtomy to infer the evolution of body plan with a focus on the root, which is a developmentally leading organ of most Podostemaceae. The young seedling has a small primary shoot apical meristem and a primary root apical meristem. The shoot meristem develops into a plumular ramulus, and the root meristem into a cylindrical radicle with no root cap. The radicle transforms to a dorsiventral, flattened, capped primary root. An adventitious root develops endogenously on the lateral side of the hypocotyl and is similar to the primary root. This is a new pattern in Podostemaceae. Comparison of this and described patterns of Podostemaceae (and the sister-group Hypericaceae) suggests that the radicle was lost in the early evolution of Podostemaceae and instead adventitious roots replaced it as a leading organ.
23645357|The flavonoid chemistry of 16 species of Chenopodium was investigated, with an emphasis on C. album and its relatives. The chief compounds seen were 3-O-glycosides of quercetin, kaempferol and isorhamnetin. The latter two classes show a mutually exclusive distribution among the diploid and all but one tetraploid species. C. polyspermum is unusual in possessing O-methylation at the 4-, 6- and 7-positions, and C. murale is the only taxon to have 7-O-glycosylation. Acylated glycosides are common. C. album and related hexaploid taxa display a single flavonoid profile, providing no support for the recognition of more than one species. The hexaploid flavonoid profile represents an almost perfect summation of those of the diploids, C. suecicum and C. ficifolium. This apparent additive inheritance supports the hypothesis that these species (or taxa very similar to them) are involved in the ancestry of C. album. Chromosome numbers are reported for 14 of the species.
23674096|The green alga Trebouxia aggregata (Archibald) Grtner (Chlorellales) and the procaryotic blue-green alga (cyanobacterium) Gloeocapsa sanguinea (C. Agardh) Ktz. emend. Jaag (Chroococcales) are reported to be the phycobionts in Euopsis granatina (Sommerf.) Nyl. (Lichinaceae). The ultrastructure of the two organisms, studied in the lichen thallus, is described.
43558590|Endemic genera on oceanic islands often evolved striking morphological and ecological differences among species, with weak postzygotic reproductive isolation. Human activities can lead to increased connectivity and can thereby promote secondary contact and hybridization between previously isolated species. We studied this phenomenon in three species of the genus Pericallis (Asteraceae) on Tenerife, Canary Islands. A total of 53 populations was sampled, including morphologically uniform as well as mixed populations containing morphologically diverse individuals. All plants were analyzed both genetically using AFLP markers and morphometrically. As expected, morphological analysis clearly separated the plants from the uniform populations in three clusters, with distinguishing characters corresponding to those used in species identification. The three species were also grouped into distinct genetic clusters in a STRUCTURE analysis, although no private aleles were observed. Adding the mixed population data to the analyses provided evidence for extensive hybridization among species, predominantly between P. cruenta and P. echinata, and between P. cruenta and P.tussilaginis, and morphological and genetic signals were congruent. The mixed populations were geographically located in between the uniform populations and were found in road verges significantly more often than the uniform populations. The observed distribution strongly suggests that hybridization between originally isolated species is recent, promoted by secondary contact due to human disturbance and the construction of roads.
23674095|In the lichen genus Usnea different species of Trebouxia-phycobionts as well as different haustorial types are known. The isolated and cultivated phycobiont of Usnea longissima Ach. was studied by light- and electron microscopy and resembles in cytomorphological details the type of Trebouxia impressa Ahmad. In addition to simple wall-to-wall contacts between the symbiotic components also intraparietal ( = intrawall-)haustoria could be observed as the normal interaction type.
23642957|Hierarchical patterns in Silene sect. Sedoideae were investigated using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), nucleotide sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of the 18S28S nuclear ribosomal DNA, and discrete morphological characters. All data sets firmly supported the species recognized. The RAPD data offered the best resolution at the intraspecific level, supporting the current intraspecific classifications of S. sedoides and S. integripetala. The ITS sequences and the morphological data gave poor resolution within species, and the three data sets disagreed about the relationships among species. The signal from the RAPD data was strongest and remained when the total data set was analysed. The three data sets all support an amphiploid origin of S. aegaea, with the strongest evidence from the ITS sequences. Incongruences among data sets as well as merits and shortcomings of each are discussed. The robustness of the results can be evaluated using perturbations of data, i.e., bootstrap and jackknife of taxa and characters. These methods should not be taken as methods of statistical inference at the taxonomic level, because unbiased sampling appears impossible. RAPD data, however, come close to being suitable for statistical estimation of hierarchies at the genome level, but several methodological problems have to be solved.
43558341|To reconstruct the evolutionary history of the polyploid southern and central European genus Leucanthemum, comprising 41 species with ploidy levels ranging from 2x to 22x, we analysed chloroplast DNA sequence variation (psbA-trnH and trnL-trnF intergenic spacer regions) of 106 representatives belonging to 30 species and 41 taxa. In an unrooted haplotype network, which shows internal (ancestral) haplotypes that are mainly represented by diploid taxa (L. gallaecicum, L. gracilicaule, L. halleri, L. laciniatum, L. lithopolitanicum, L. rotundifolium, and L. tridactylites), we identified three major haplotype groups (HTGs) containing diploid and polyploid species. Whereas HTG I contains most of the polyploid taxa of the genus, with a single diploid species from the SW Alps (L. virgatum), HTG II consists of four diploid (L. burnatii, L. gaudinii, L. graminifolium, and L. vulgare) and six polyploid species, and HTG III comprises one diploid (L. pluriflorum) and three polyploid species endemic to the NW part of the Iberian Peninsula. We also further found evidence for recurrent formation of at least three polyploid taxa (i.e., L. delabrei, L. ircutianum subsp. cantabricum, and L. pollens).
43558168|Overexploitation of Terminalia arjuna by the Tasar silk, pharmaceutical, leather, and other industries has led to gradual depletion of its germplasm resource and genetic diversity. Information on its existing gene pool is currently lacking. We report the first evaluation of genetic variation in this tree, using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and selective amplification of microsatellite polymorphic loci (SAMPL) markers. The study consisted of (1) characterization of genetic diversity at interzonal and intrazonal levels, (2) comparison of diversity within and among populations, and (3) comparison of efficiency of the two marker systems. The germplasm used in the present study had a wide genetic base, which is evident through the high level of genetic diversity observed, as expected for a widespread, long-lived tropical species. The clustering obtained after interzonal genetic diversity analysis of T. arjuna is not region specific, a reflection of the lack of any defined population structure in this genus in India. The high value of r obtained through Mantel's test for evaluation of cophenetic correlation in cluster analysis indicated the high fitness of the accessions to a group. The region-specific bands obtained during the present investigation can be used as diagnostic markers for authentication and to identify raw materials for herbal drug preparations.
23644331|This paper reviews research on the role of electrostatic forces in pollination, both in natural and in agricultural systems. Researchers from various fields of biological studies have reported phenomena which they related to electrostatic forces. The theory of electrostatically mediated pollen transfer between insect pollinators and the flowers they visit is described, including recent studies which confirmed that the accumulated charges on airborne honey bees are sufficient for non-contact pollen detachment by electrostatic forces (i.e., electrostatic pollination). The most important morphological features in flower adaptiveness to electrostatic pollination were determined by means of two theoretical models of a flower exposed to an approaching charged cloud of pollen; they are style length and flower opening. Supplementary pollination by using electrostatic techniques is reported, and its possible importance in modern agriculture is discussed.
23645242|Haploids, diploids and tetraploids of Cyclamen persicum (2n = x = 24, 2x = 48 and 4x = 96), C. graecum (2n = 84) and their interspecific hybrids (2n = 45, 3x = 66, 4x = 90) were analyzed cytologically. The mean chromosome association per PMC at diakinesis or at metaphase I in meiosis was 23.29 23.39 I + 0.310.36 II in C. persicum (x), 0.170.23 I + 23.8823.92 II in C. persicum (2x), 0.521.18 I + 46.3946.78 II + 0.030.09 III + 0.410.48IV in C. persicum (4x) and 0.400.46I + 41.3441.63 II + 0.02 III + 0.070.21IV in C. graecum. The mean chromosome association per PMC at diakinesis or at metaphase I was 0.470.62 I + 44.6944.76 II in the hybrid (2n = 90) of C. persicum (4x)  C. graecum, 38.4842.50 I + 1.273.26 II in microspore-derived plants (2n = 45) from the hybrid (2n = 90) by anther culture and 26.2226.67 I + 19.6719.89 II in the hybrid (2n = 66) of C. persicum (2x)  C. graecum. The results indicate that C. graecum is an autotetraploid, the hybrid (2n = 4x = 90) is an amphidiploid, the microsporederived plant (2n = 45) is a polyhaploid and the hybrid (2n = 3x = 66) is a sesquidiploid. Based on studies of meiosis, the ploidy levels and the origin of C. graecum and C. persicum are discussed in comparison with several species in the genus Cyclamen.
23659846|Androecium development and vasculature were studied in nine species of the Adansonieae clade (core Bombacoideae, Malvaceae s.l.). In early androecium development either distinct pentagonal androecial ring walls or five common petal/androecium primordia are present. Ring walls give rise to five antepetalous and five alternipetalous primary androecial primordia. Common primordia divide into peripheral petal primordia and antepetalous primary androecial primordia. Antepetalous primary androecial primordia split anticlinally into ten primordia-halves, on which secondary androecial primordia are initiated in a centrifugal succession. Androecial lobes are formed by fusion of an alternipetalous primary androecial primordium and its two neighbouring antepetalous primary primordia-halves, a pattern that also occurs in other Malvatheca. Later, tertiary androecial primordia are formed by the subdivision of secondary androecial primordia (except in Adansonia and Ceiba). Each tertiary primordium differentiates into a two-locular androecial unit. At anthesis these two-locular androecial units are often present in pairs, corresponding to the two halves of the same secondary androecial primordium. Androecium development and vasculature imply that the alternipetalous androecial sectors have been reduced in Bombacoideae, a tendency that is shared with other subfamilies of Malvaceae.
23642596|Morphological and cytological investigations as well as crossing experiments were carried out with Ranunculus seguieri Vill. and 4 species of the Ranunculus alpestris L. group (R. alpestris L., R. traunfellneri Hoppe, R. bilobus Bertol., R. crenatus Waldst. & Kit.). For R. seguieri and R. alpestris, localities and distribution are given in addition to extensive diagnoses. A key to the species includes morphological characteristics and distribution data for R. traunfellneri, R. bilobus, and R. crenatus. New diagnostic characters are described. Crossing experiments between R. seguieri and the species of the R. alpestris group were unsuccessful. All 5 species have a chromosome number of 2n = 16, the record for R. bilobus is new. There is no statistically significant difference between the karyotypes of R. seguieri and R. alpestris s. str. Nevertheless, according to morphological evidence and crossing experiments, R. seguieri is not closely related to the R. alpestris group.
23643821|A molecular phylogenetic study of the genus Cyclamen L. (Primulaceae) has been undertaken, based on sequence data from the 5.8S gene in the ribosomal nuclear DNA and its flanking internal transcribed spacers ITS1 and ITS2. Sequence data from 15 species of Cyclamen and seven outgroup taxa selected from Primulaceae and Myrsinaceae were analyzed phylogenetically. A second analysis based on a combined morphological and molecular dataset was performed to evaluate earlier hypotheses of character evolution in the genus. The results indicate that four monophyletic subgroups may be recognized in the genus, viz. Cyclamen, Psilanthum Schwarz, Eucosme Schwarz and Gyrophoebe Schwarz. Each of the four subgenera is diagnosed by distinct basic chromosome number, as well as by morphological and molecular characteristics.
23642703|Katagnymene accurata controls the length of the filaments by bipartition in consequence of the formation of one separation-disc near the middle as soon as a certain length is reached. This behaviour is compared with that of other Hormogonales. The species is also well characterized morphologically. The filaments always are enclosed in a thin, firm sheath; nevertheless, they sometimes show locomotion by gliding in the direction of their long axis. Free trichomata (hormogonia) do not exist. A short excursus on the application of cultures to descriptions of species is added. Die Oscillatoriacee Katagnymene accurata n. sp. zeigt einen regelmigen Rhythmus von Wachstum der Fden und ihrem Zerfall in zwei Tochterfden bei Erreichung einer gewissen Lnge. Der Faden verhlt sich somit als eine hhere Einheit, nicht als bloe Aneinanderreihung von Zellen. Der Zerfall wird eingeleitet durch die Bildung eines Spaltkrpers, d. i. eine besondere Form einer Nekride. Er entsteht, von seltenen Ausnahmen und Pathologien abgesehen, gesetzmig nahe der Mitte des Fadens, das Erreichen einer entsprechenden Fadenlnge wirkt gewissermaen als Signal. Die Folge seiner Entstehung nahe der Fadenmitte ist die im groen Ganzen gleichbleibende Fadenlnge. Es gibt keine Hormogonien, aber die Fden als solche zeigen manchmal Kriechbewegung wie Oscillatorien. Die Besonderheiten der Art werden mit den Merkmalen anderer Oscillatoriaceen verglichen und es wird die systematische Stellung errtert.
43558386|Centaurium scilloides is a very isolated taxon, taking into account morphological characteristics, chromosome number, and disjunct Atlantic distribution. Comparison of the Azorean plants with those living in mainland Europe reveals significant differences, which question their assimilation into a single taxon. Our molecular data inferred from sequences of nrDNA (internal transcribed spacer, ITS) and plastid regions (trnL intron and trnL-F spacer), confirmed the hypothesis that plants of C. scilloides from the Azores archipelago are different than those distributed on the Atlantic coasts of Europe, and both should, consequently, be treated as independent species. As a result, a new systematic treatment is proposed.
23674423|The nucleotide sequence of cytoplasmic 5 S ribosomal RNAs from three gymnosperms, Pinus contorta, Taxus baccata and Juniperus media and from one fern, Pteridium aquilinum, have been determined. These sequences were aligned with all hitherto known cytoplasmic 5 S ribosomal RNA sequences of photosynthetic eukaryotes. A dendrogram based on that set of sequences was constructed by a distance matrix method and the resulting tree compared with established views concerning plant and algal evolution. The following monophyletic groups of photosynthetic eukaryotes are recognizable: the Rhodophyta, a group consisting of Phaeophyta, Bacillariophyta and Chrysophyta, and the green plants, the latter comprising green algae, Bryophyta, Pteridophyta and Spermatophyta. According to our 5 S ribosomal RNA tree, green plants may have originated from some type of a green flagellated organism such as Chlamydomonas. The land plants seem to have originated from some form of charophyte such as Nitella. 5 S ribosomal RNA seems to be less appropriate to estimate dissimilarities between species which have diverged relatively recently, like the angiosperms. Therefore, a precise evolutionary process is difficult to reconstruct for members of this group.
23672723|The nomenclatural history of the generic name Parmeliopsis is reviewed. Its correct citation is found to be Parmeliopsis (Nyl. ex Stizenb.) Nyl., dating from 1866, not 1869 as commonly cited, with P. placorodia (Ach.) Nyl. as holotype species. There is consequently no nomenclatural problem to the adoption of Foraminella Fricke Meyer, typified by F. ambigua (Wulfen) Fricke Meyer for the Parmeliopsis species with falcate conidia. A synopsis of the nomenclature of the North American and European species of both these genera is included.
23673964|Ten species of orchid plants belonging to the genera Orchis (7), Dactylorhiza (2), and Gymnadenia (1) were analyzed by enzyme electrophoresis. Each species can be identified by a combination of enzyme bands different from those of all other species examined. The electrophoretic data were used for the construction of phenetic and phylogenetic trees with the help of computer programs. The trees were almost identical regardless which method was used. Our results differ considerably from a classification based on morphological evidence. The electrophoretic data indicate that the genus Orchis is not a monophyletic group.
23642742|If exsiccated trichomes of Pseudanabaena galeata are immersed in water, striking changes occur as a consequence of lysis and maceration. The locomotion of living trichomes differs from that in Oscillatoriaceae. This and other differences make it doubtful, whether Ps. galeata belongs to the Oscillatoriaceae; at any rate it occupies an aberrant position.
23669753|Chromosome numbers are reported for six taxa of Calea, among them tetraploid C. septuplinervia, the only known polyploid in Calea s. str. The base chromosome number of Calea is interpreted as x = 19.
23655129|Detailed analysis of 270 specimens of Conocephalum conicum (L.) Dumort., mainly from the POZW Herbarium revealed some diagnostic differences between two cryptic species originally detected on the basis of isozyme studies. Several diagnostic characters were found in the structure of the archegoniophore, sporophyte and sterile thallus. The most reliable diagnostic features are size and structure of stomatal apparatus of the archegoniophore 'heads', type of junction of the air chamber walls with epidermal cells, and the thallus surface details. On the basis of morphological and anatomical diagnostic characters, two formerly cryptic species are recognized following the rules of formal taxonomy. The lectotype of C. conicum preserved in FI was found to possess characteristics of cryptic species C. conicum- species L. Accordingly, the species previously named as C. conicumspecies L must bear the name Conocephalum conicum (L.) Dumort. No published name was related to C. conicum  species S, which is therefore described as a new species: Conocephalum salebrosum Szweykowski, Buczkowska & Odrzykoski. Both species are fully described and their diagnostic
43496788|Knowledge of the chromosome variation in wild populations is essential to understand the pathways and restrictions of karyotype evolution in plants. The aim of this study is to conduct an intraspecific analysis of the karyotypes by fluorochrome banding and ribosomal DNA (rDNA) loci detection by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) and of the meiotic behaviour in natural populations of Lathyrus nervosus, sect. Notolathyrus. Chromosome banding showed that, despite the high constancy in the karyotype formula and in the rDNA loci among populations, there is intraspecific variation in the amount and distribution pattern of 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) heterochromatin. However, those changes were not related to the total chromosome length of the haploid complements. This fact demonstrates that structural chromosome changes may be one of the most important mechanisms for karyotype variation among natural populations of L. nervosus. The chromosome number surveyed at the population level revealed the first case of polyploidy in South American species and the first case of uneven polyploidy of the genus. All the chromosome markers analysed indicated that the polyploids found originated by autopolyploidy. The meiotic analysis showed different chromosome abnormalities that may be generating numerical and structural changes in the sporads. The finding of unreduced gametes that are alive at anthesis suggests sexual polyploidization as the most probable mechanism involved in the origin of these 3x and 4x autopolyploid cytotypes in L. nervosus.
23674389|Latex starch grains of certain Indian species of Euphorbiaceae belonging to Euphorbia, Chamaesyce, Pedilanthus, Synadenium and Monadenium have been studied. They exhibit distinct shapes in different taxa, i.e., rod, spindle, osteoid, dumb-bell and discoid. This helps i.a. in the taxonomic circumscription of Chamaesyce from Euphorbia.
23642498|The anther tapetum of the gymnosperm Gnetum gnemon produces no lipid osmiophilous droplets as pollenkitt forerunners. Thusin contrast to entomophilous and anemophilous angiospermsno pollenkitt is produced at all. From lack of pollenkitt in other gymnosperms, it appears to be restricted to angiosperms. This can be considered as new and additional proof for the hypothesis that the angiosperms are one coherent phylogenetic group, and that the development of pollenkitt in their ancestors was one of the main prerequisites for the adaptive switch to entomophily.
23674507|In Tillandsia pallidoflavens none of the organelles undergoes fundamental de- and redifferentiation during microsporogenesis. The plastids are amoeboid, exhibit complex internal structures and gradually start accumulating polysaccharides from meiotic prophase I onwards. These observations contradict reports for other taxa. The ultrastructure of mitochondria and dictyosomes, respectively, is more or less orthodox. The extensive ER, which is only poorly stained by standard methods was identified by image intensifiying techniques. The ribosomes are not only associated with the ER or occur as polyribosomes free in the cytoplasm, but can also form more or less dense clusters.
23674317|In the southern part of Cyprus the pollinator  Ophrys (Orchidaceae) relationships and its specifity have been investigated from the end of February until the middle of March 1986. 12 Ophrys spp. were found. To date, only a single pollinator reference has been reported from this island. We found the following pollinators: Melecta tuberculata (Ophrys kotschyi), Eucera dimidiata (Ophrys flavomarginata), Eucera gaullei (Ophrys umbilicata), Eucera paulusi (Ophrys bornmuelleri), Anthophora erschowi (Ophrys elegans), Andrena torda (Ophrys sicula = O. lutea subsp. minor), Andrena cinereophila (Ophrys fusca, small-flowered), Andrena flavipes (Ophrys israelitica), Andrena morio (Ophrys iricolor and Ophrys transhyrcana), Andrena bimaculata (Ophrys sphegodes aggr., probably formerly confused with O. transhyrcana). Most interestingly, it could be verified that O. flavomarginata/O. umbilicata, O. bornmuelleri/O. levantina and O. transhyrcana/O. sphegodes aggr. (possibly O. sintenisii) are different biospecies. This is a result of genetic isolation due to varying pollinators, and of differences in flower morphology.
23673828|The Thymus teucrioides Boiss. & Spruner aggregate is revised and the following new taxa, all from the alpine zone in the Greek mountains, are described: Th. leucospermus Hartvig from the calcareous mountains of Pindhos and Mt Parnassos in Sterea Ellas, Th. rechingeri Hartvig with the subsp. macrocalyx Hartvig from calcareous mountains in Sterea Ellas and N Peloponnissos, and Th. teucrioides subsp. alpinus Hartvig from the serpentine areas of N Pindhos. In the variable Th. teucrioides s. str. many characters have turned out to be markedly geographically correlated and many local populations can be distinguished by a particular combination of characters.
23659852|Most studies on Salix hybrids concerning the diversity in a hybrid complex included typical morphological characteristics of leaves, buds, twigs and flowers for comparison with genotypic traits. Our analyses are based on a set of phenotypical traits of 19 clones of the S. alba/S. fragilis-aggregate which includes characteristics as phenology, growth, and composition of secondary leaf compounds, for the first time additional to morphological traits. Three clearly distinct groups (S. alba L., S. fragilis L., and S.  rubens Schrank) could be identified based on phenotypical traits and ITS1 and 5.8S nrDNA sequences. S.  rubens revealed additivities at variable ITS1 and 5.8S positions as well as intermediate morphology and secondary compound pattern, but was characterised by significant earlier foliation start. This property leads to a better utilization of the vegetation period and may explain the detected better growth compared to the parent species and therefore also may have contributed to the widespread occurrence of S.  rubens in Central Europe.
23643037|Paraveinal mesophyll (PVM) is a distinctive anatomical feature of the leaf mesophyll of some plant taxa that may represent a specialized physiological compartment. A comprehensive review of the 42 published references that mention PVM or similar cell layers and a survey of 121 of the 272 species of all nine genera of the Phaseoleae subtribe Erythrininae demonstrate that PVM is nearly exclusively found in Leguminosae. In Leguminosae, PVM is either rare or absent in subfamily Caesalpinioideae, uncommon in Mimosoideae, and extensively distributed among Papilionoideae. In subtribe Erythrininae, PVM is ubiquitous in Erythrina, and occurs in four other genera. Three Erythrininae genera (Apios, Mucuna, and Cochlianthus) lack PVM. Unique chloroplast-poor, enlarged conical cells (pellucid palisade idioblasts) occur in 80 species of Erythrina but not in any other genus of Erythrininae.
23656117|Pollen morphology and wall structure of Clara and Herreria were investigated in order to clarify their taxonomy. Materials treated with a lactic acetolysis method at 40 % were used to obtain measurements, descriptions, and illustrations using light microscopy. Non-acetolyzed pollen grains were analyzed with scanning electron microscopy to characterize the surface details and apertures. As a result of this work, an identification key was prepared for Clara and Herreria species based on pollen morphology. All species present medium-sized pollen that are also heteropolar, elliptic amb, and monocolpate, with perforate, microreticulate, or reticulate surfaces. The two species of Clara differ with regard to their colpus dimensions and sexine ornamentation, and the seven species of Herreria can be distinguished by their sexine ornamentation, confidence interval values for the largest diameters, and colpi width. It was concluded that pollen morphology proved to be uninformative for differentiating the genera Clara and Herreria, but useful for distinguishing between related species.
23673711|Prasophyllum odoratum is a vernal, nectariferous, terrestrial orchid that flowers profusely six to eight months following cyclical fires that disrupt sclerophyll woodlands. The morphology of the column and pollinarium is indicative of taxa placed within the subfam. Spiranthoideae. The orientation of the pollinaria to the stigma appears to prevent mechanical self-pollination. Both cross- and self-pollination appear to be effected by insects that forage within the brightly-colored, scented, non-resupinate flowers. Ants and drosophilid flies remove nectar, but do not appear to transport pollinaria between flowers. The primary pollinators are polytrophic flies in the fam. Syrphidae and opportunistic male bees in the genus Leioproctus (Colletidae). Approximately 52% of the flowers on a raceme set seed. The comparatively short floral tube of P. odoratum reflects the dependence of this species on short-tongued insects to effect successful dispersal of pollinaria.
23673939|The immunological comparison of the seed reserve proteins suggests that Lupinus is a natural genus, the American and the Euro-African species belonging to the same stock. Among the Lupines of the Old World, the smooth-seeded and the rough-seeded species from two natural segregates. The genus Lupinus is serologically related to the rest of the Genisteae and to the Asiatic Sophoreae rather than to American Sophoreae and Thermopsideae. The data suggest that Lupinus may have originated with the remainder of the Genisteae from primitive Sophoreae of temperate-subtropical Asia. America and the Mediterranean-African region are regarded as secondary centres of speciation.
23669397|Fluorescent chromosome in situ PCR method plays an important role in many fields of biology and can be used for determining physical maps, chromosomal structures and phylogeny. In the present study, improvements are made to fluorescent chromosome in situ PCR protocol by incorporating the use of SYBR Green I. All the complex procedures in this method have been removed, including the fixing of PCR products, the linkage step of antigen and antibody and the necessary detection the fluorescence signal. This new method is useful for the types of studies mentioned above. As an example, this improved technique was performed using primers for the 16S rDNA, 4.5S rDNA and psbA chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) genes to investigate the phylogeny of buckwheat, the introgression of cpDNA genes into nuclear genome and the chromosomal location of these genes for the construction of a physical map. The results showed that the 16S rDNA, 4.5S rDNA and psbA cpDNA genetic markers were found with different abundances and physical distributions in the nuclear genomes of the seven buckwheat species (10 accessions in total) under investigation. These data were used to confirm the phylogeny of these buckwheat species by constructing a phylogenetic tree.
23674466|A recently developed class of DNA endonuclease fragment probes (variously termed "minisatellite," "DNA fingerprinting," or "variable number tandem repeat loci" probes) has detected extensive intraspecific genetic variation in tetrapods. Here we use one probe from this class, the M 13 repeat probe (shown previously to yield "DNA fingerprints" in humans) to examine genetic diversity in the quaking aspen. Comparisons of endonuclease fragment profiles of individuals separated by at least 6 km reveals that diversification of alleles in this species has occurred to such an extent that the likelihood of two randomly chosen individuals having indistinguishable HaeIII fragment profiles is c. 3.17  104. Based on this finding, members of interdigitating clones can be assigned to one or another clone with high statistical confidence. Interdigitating, morphologically cryptic clones were also identifiable. These results demonstrate that some minisatellite probes can be applied to very distant taxa to obtain useful information about genetic variation.
23642929|A molecular phylogeny of the family Iridaceae based on the plastid gene rps4 was obtained using both parsimony and distance methods. Thirty-four species were examined together with eight outgroup species. Results show that the Iridaceae are monophyletic, and that Isophysis is likely to be the earliest emerging genus. Subfamily Ixioideae plus the genera Aristea and Nivenia form a strongly supported clade. Within subfam. Iridoideae, the tribe Irideae includes the genus Bobartia (of disputed position), and the tribe Mariceae includes Cypella. The division of Iridoideae into tribes is consistent with their geographical distribution.
23655153|The genera Aquilaria and Gyrinops (Thymelaeaceae, Malvales) are well known for the production of agarwood which is a highly wanted forest product of substantial economic value. The taxonomic status of Aquilaria and Gyrinops as separate genera is doubted as they are only distinguished by the number of stamens. We investigated their status by conducting phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences from the plastid trnL-trnF spacer. Control of international trade of agarwood is currently hampered by the failure of traditional methods such as microscopy to identify samples to species level. We therefore evaluated the potential of molecular identification of agarwood by searching for species- and region-specific plastid DNA polymorphisms. DNA sequences were obtained from 31 Thymelaeaceae accessions encompassing 20 different species in six genera. Aquilaria and Gyrinops appear to be paraphyletic. Success in sequencing wood samples demonstrates that molecular markers provide new perspectives for agarwood identification.
23643335|A recent investigation of genome size in certain samples of the pigeonpea, Cajanus cajan, indicates values from 1.55pg to 1.99pg (1C level), which is 1.29-fold variation between accessions. In the present analysis those of these accessions which had particularly high or low DNA contents in that study were subjected to a reanalysis using propidium iodide and DAPI flow cytometry and Feulgen densitometry. Only minor differences in genome size, not more than 1.047-fold, were found with flow cytometry, and no significant differences were obtained with Feulgen densitometry. The previously reported genome size cannot be confirmed. It is about half as large and was determined in the present study as 0.825 pg (1C, propidium iodide flow cytometry, Glycine max as standard) and 0.853 pg (1C, Feulgen densitometry, Allium cepa and Pisum sativum as standards), respectively.
23643109|In Vicia benghalensis two biotypes differing in biochemical and cytological features were identified in previous studies. It was hypothesized that these biotypes could also vary in reproductive behaviour and be genetically isolated. To better understand this issue, 25 distinct samples were studied using allozymes. Nine enzyme systems, accounting for 15 putative loci, were scored. The data obtained were analysed using population diversity parameters; Nei's genetic distance was calculated and used to construct a dendrogram. Principal component analysis was conducted to verify the dendrogram and to determine which alleles had stronger influence on the grouping of populations. The analyses demonstrated that the two previously identified biotypes are genetically different: Nei's distance between the two groups is larger than the distance within each group. Three-dimensional plotting of the first three principal components corroborates this division. Genetic diversity parameters confirm that the two biotypes also differ in outcrossing rates. These results denote the existence of two highly divergent genepools in V. benghalensis and suggest that a speciation process may be acting. The consequence of the present findings on the management of gene bank collections is analysed.
23655575|Subfamilies Podostemoideae and Tristichoideae of the aquatic flowering plant family Podostemaceae are conventionally characterized by a different mode of microsporogenesis. Simultaneous meiotic division into the four microspores is found in Tristichoideae, successive meiotic division is said to be typical of Podostemoideae. In contrast, the results of the present study reveal that in subfamily Podostemoideae both modes of microsporogenesis occur. This is exemplified by the early pollen development of two neotropical species: Apinagia latifolia and Marathrum rubrum. Successive versus simultaneous meiotic cytokinesis are thus not differential characters of the two subfamilies. It is worthy to note that successive cytokinesis occurs in a family (Podostemaceae) of the Eudicots which are characterized by simultaneous cytokinesis. The occurrence of Ubisch bodies (orbicules) in several species of Apinagia and Marathrum parallels the echinate ornamentation of the pollen grains.
23645115|Cladistic analysis of rbcL nucleotide sequences was applied to 58 taxa representing most subgenera and sections of Luzula and Juncus, chosen to reflect morphological and geographical diversity of both genera. Additionally, representatives of all other genera of the Juncaceae and two taxa from the Cyperaceae were included. Phylogenetic trees were constructed using parsimony with Prionium serratum as outgroup. The dataset has 190 parsimony informative sites. The analysis yielded more than 332,400 equally parsimonious trees (length 620, CI = 0.47, RI = 0.82). A jackknife analysis revealed several well-supported clades. Luzula is monophyletic and Juncus is non-monophyletic. Each of the generally accepted subgenera of Juncus, subg. Juncus and subg. Agathryon, form a clade, but their circumscription differs from the traditional views. The subgenera recognized in Luzula remain mainly unresolved. A well-supported clade is represented by an assemblage of representatives of five genera and species distributed in the Southern Hemisphere: Juncus capensis and J. lomatophyllus (both from section Graminifolii), Rostkovia, Distichia, Marsippospermum, and Patosia.
23643227|The genus Scilla has recently been split into two genera, Scilla s. str. and Ledebouria, based on morphological characters of South African species. This splitting, as well as the phylogenetic relationships between these genera and the related genera Drimia and Drimiopsis, is here discussed in the light of cladistic analyses of morphological and DNA sequence data of species from tropical Africa, the Mediterranean and India. Two chloroplast DNA regions are analysed: the intergenic spacer between the tRNA genes L(UAA) and F(GAA) and the L(UAA) intron.
23671347|A comparative study of Taxus wallichiana Zucc., Cephalotaxus mannii Hook. and Cephalotaxus griffithii Hook. of two families Taxaceae and Cephalotaxaceae has been carried out in detail to support the taxonomic existence of two families. The comparative studies have been carried out on the basis of wood anatomy and palynology. The anatomical properties of wood including the tracheids, ray parenchyma, axial parenchyma and number of cross-field pits have been described in detail. The palynological studies include the shape, size and ultrastructure of pollen grains. These studies give a taxonomic support for the recognition of two different genera of families Taxaceae and Cephalotaxaceae which are closely related.
23642974|Samples of 34 populations of the Juncus bufonius aggregate in Slovakia have been submitted to a numerical-taxonomic treatment. Three species corresponding to three known cytodemes, i.e. J. bufonius L. s. str. (2n = c. 100110), J. ambiguus Guss. (2n = 34) and J. minutulus (Alb. et Jahan.) Prain et al. emend. Snog. (2n = c. 72), have been confirmed for the study area. A survey of quantitative characters by various ordination and cluster techniques reveals that the length of capsules, seeds, inner tepals and anthers as well as the ratio of anther to filament length are significant for the segregation of the cytodemes.
43558221|In this work we assessed the genetic diversity of 32 C. calceolus populations from Poland. Mean genetic diversity was moderate (P = 36.4%, A = 1.58, Ho = 0.143, FIS = 0.059), and seven geographic regions did not differ significantly in their levels of polymorphism (p >0.05), although allele frequencies varied greatly. Only four unique alleles were found, at three sites in southern and southeastern Poland. Genetic (P, A) and genotypic diversity parameters (G, GU) were significantly correlated with population size (p <0.001). In the 32 studied populations we separated 422 different multilocus genotypes; none was common to all populations. Overall population differentiation was moderate at 0.137 (p <0.001), but we found a significant pattern of isolation by distance for the whole dataset (r = 0.65, p < 0.001). Our chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) results suggest a single evolutionary lineage and a common origin for all Polish C. calceolus populations. Information about the genetic health of C. calceolus populations should be useful in developing conservation strategies.
23664069|The first phylogenetic study of the genus Hennediella using nuclear ITS rDNA for 11 of the 15 species recognized is presented. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analyses were performed to evaluate the monophyly of the genus and to investigate phylogenetic relationships between the species. The molecular data suggest that the core Hennediella is monophyletic only including Tortula platyphylla, although the affinities of two species (Hennediella heteroloma and H. longipedunculata) are ambiguous. The ITS sequences did not fully resolve the internal relationships of Hennediella while its affinities with Dolotortula, Leptophascum, Sagenotortula, or Tortula remain ambiguous. The present circumscription of Hennediella is provisional until a morphological revision of genus Tortula is completed.
23674871|Canonical variate analysis of plants raised in a uniform environment was used to study the pattern of geographical variation in leaf shape of Crepis tectorum (Asteraceae). The diversity in leaf shape was much greater among populations confined to areas with exposed bedrock in the Baltic region than among weed populations scattered throughout Europe and Canada. A Ward's clustering linked outcrop populations from the archipelago of SW. Finland and the islands of land (Sweden) and Saaremaa (Estonia) due to the deeply lobed leaves characterizing these populations, while outcrop populations along the coast of E. Sweden were grouped due to their weakly lobed, narrow and dentate leaves. Most of the weed populations were grouped together but there was no tendency for the variation in this group to be related to habitat or geographical location. A mosaic of variation reflected in sharp (random) differentiation among local populations was super-imposed on the large-scale ecogeographical pattern.  Crossing data indicated that most of the variation in degree of leaf dissection is governed by one major gene with deeply lobed leaves dominant over weakly lobed leaves. I suggest that the simple pattern of inheritance may have favoured rapid evolutionary changes in leaf shape, particularly in the Baltic area which emerged relatively late from the sea. Genetic correlations may have constrained the pattern of variation at higher taxonomic levels, since some of the trait associations detected in a segregating F2 generation were also found at the among-population level.
23673899|S. cilicica Siehe and S. morrisii Meikle are two little known sibling species of the Scilla siberica alliance with previously difficult taxonomy, especially with regard to specific delimitation and geographic distribution. Quantitative C-band karyotyping and DNA content determinations were performed in four provenances, including the type localities. Both species (2 n = 12) differ strikingly in their banding patterns despite of similar DNA content. Karyotype diversification involved changes in eu- and heterochromatin quantities and resulted in some changes of chromosome form. Despite this, actual phylogenetic relatedness is indicated by a chromosomal marker (NOR-position) of rare occurrence in the alliance. Karyological results and circumstantial evidence from the literature suggest that S. morrisii is an endemic, exclusive to Cyprus as a member of the S. siberica alliance. S. cilicica seems to be restricted to continental S. Anatolia opposite to Cyprus. Its occurrence on Cyprus is questionable.
23673742|Cucurbitaceae are characterized by a high copy number for nuclear ribosomal RNA genes. We have investigated the genomic ribosomal DNA (rDNA) of four closely related species of this family with respect to structure, length heterogeneity, and evolution. In Cucumis melo (melon) there are two main length variants of rDNA repeats with 10.7 and 10.55 kb. Cucumis sativus (cucumber) shows at least three repeat types with 11.5,10.5, and 10.2 kb. Cucurbita pepo (zucchini) has two different repeat types with 10.0 and 9.3 kb. There are also two different repeat types in Cucurbita maxima (pumpkin) of about 11.2 and 10.5 kb. Restriction enzyme mapping of the genomic rDNA of these four plants and of cloned repeats of C. sativus shows further heterogeneities which are due to methylation or point mutations. By comparison of the restriction enzyme maps it was possible to trace some evolutionary events in the family of Cucurbitaceae. Some aspects of regulation and function of the middle repetitive rRNA genes (here between 2000 and 10000 copies) are discussed.
23664801|The contribution of soil seed bank of a desert endemic plant species in maintaining genetic diversity has been addressed in this paper through investigating the differences in genetic diversity and structure (using AFLP markers) between plants grown from soil seed bank and standing crop plants within and among five populations of H. sinaicum growing at St. Katherine Protectorate, southern Sinai, Egypt. Standard genetic diversity measures showed that the molecular variation within and among populations was highly significantly different between standing crop and soil seed bank. While soil seed bank had lower genetic diversity than standing crop populations, pooling soil seed bank with standing crop samples resulted in higher diversity. The results revealed also that soil seed bank had lower differentiation (7 %) than among populations of the standing crop (18 %). Results of neighborjoining, Bayesian clustering and principal coordinate analysis showed that soil seed banks had a separate gene pool different from standing crop. The study came to the conclusion that the genetic variation of the soil seed bank contributes significantly to the genetic variation of the species. This also stresses the importance of elucidating the genetic diversity and structure of the soil seed bank for any sound and long-term conservation efforts for desert species. These have been growing in small-size populations for a long time that any estimates gained only from aboveground sampling of populations may be ambiguous.
23643438|Pollination of Laurus azorica (Lauraceae), a dioecious Macaronesian tree, was studied. Male and female trees had the same size distribution. The population had 2.5 times as many male trees as females. In addition, males produced more flowers, and their inflorescences lasted longer. Individual flower lifetime and length of flowering season were the same in both sexes. Between the years of observation, one tree changed sex. Pollinators were Halictinae bees and the fly Tachina canariensis. The bees collected pollen and nectar and the fly collected nectar from both sexes. Both species visited other plants as well. The evolution of breeding systems in Lauraceae is discussed.
23655891|The present study, based on sequences of cpDNA (trnL-F & psbA-trnH) and nrDNA (ITS) and morphology, examined the evolutionary relationships in Blumea and its position among related genera. The results confirmed that the closest relatives of Blumea are Caesulia, Duhaldea and Pentanema p.p., and showed that the monotypic genera Blumeopsis and Merrittia are nested within Blumea. In Blumea s.l., two major, well-supported clades were recognised and a single species, the widespread Blumea balsamifera, that could not be placed with certainty relative to the two main clades. The two main clades differ in habit, ecology and distribution. The Blumea densiflora clade contains shrubs and subshrubs of evergreen forests, distributed from continental Asia to New Guinea and Polynesia, whereas the Blumea lacera clade is a widespread paleotropical group that comprises mostly annual, weedy herbs of open forests and fields.
23674936|Pollen grain morphology, sculpturing, and wall ultrastructure are investigated in two species of Coris (Primulaceae), C. monspeliensis L. and C. hispanica Lange. The study includes both acetolysed and unacetolysed pollen. No evidence of any major palynological difference is recorded between these two species, apart from a somewhat larger pollen in C. monspeliensis. However, Coris can be distinguished from the remaining members of the Primulaceae by the conjunction of relatively large pollen grains, prominent margo, and particular tectal pattern causing a reticulate surface with minute luminal perforations decreasing towards the colpi. From both these distinctive features, and others typically primulaceous, some evolutionary considerations are inferred. Finally, the higher proportion of irregular grains in C. hispanica is interpreted in light of environmental stress.
23657046|The present work describes the structural characterization of Pistacia terebinthus leaflets, focusing on changes in structure during the maturation process. P. terebinthus leaflets are characterized by the presence of: (1) abundant crystals, mainly in mesophyll cells; (2) both unicellular and glandular trichomes; (3) a large amount of tannins; (4) a simple epidermis covered by a thick, wrinkled cuticle; (5) anomocytic stomata lined by cuticle with an amphistomatic distribution; (6) a densely packed mesophyll, which becomes thicker as the leaflets mature; (7) a very prominent palisade parenchyma; (8) a midvein and larger secondary veins, each encircled by a sclerenchymatic sheath; (9) schizogenic ducts in the phloem tissue; (10) a leaflet margin slightly curved towards the abaxial side. As a whole, P. terebinthus leaflets show sclerophytic morphology. During leaflet maturation, the following major morphological changes were noted: (1) trichomes become scarcer, (2) the cuticle gained in thickness, (3) crystal inclusions were more abundant and (4) the mesophyll developed large intercellular spaces.
23657314|Due to their ploidy levels, their morphological and anatomical characters and their distribution the central alpine Festuca stricta subsp. bauzanina (2n = 8x = 56) and Festuca ovina var. guinochetii (2n = 10x = 70), both belonging to the Festuca valesiaca group, are raised to the specific level. As a new subspecies Festuca bauzanina subsp. rhaetica is described here. The taxa of the polyploid Festuca valesiaca group are morphologically, anatomically and chorologically characterised and an identification key for these taxa in the central Alps is presented.
23672623|The enzymatic spectra of Typha angustifolia, T. latifolia and their hybrids were examined by disc electrophoresis for three enzymatic systems: esterases, alcohol deshydrogenase, and glutamate deshydrogenase. The intermediate position of the hybrids is confirmed. The study of alcohol deshydrogenase reveales the existence of an intraspecific variability in T. angustifolia between individuals from the Massif Armoricain in France and Dellys in Algeria.
23655188|Inflorescence structures of 81 species and two subspecies (representing 61 genera) of the Chloridoideae have been investigated using stereo microscopy (SM). Inflorescences of the Chloridoideae are true polytelic inflorescences. Thirteen inflorescence subtypes are distinguished based on modes of the truncation and the homogenization. These are categorized into four basic inflorescence types. A key for the identification of these inflorescence types is presented. Generally, inflorescence characters have definite systematic value in recognizing supra-generic taxa in the Chloridoideae. Twelve processes have been identified as responsible for inflorescence diversification that awaits verification by further systematic study.
23642690|Tillandsia carminea is a new, morphologically and ecologically distinct species, related to T. stricta Solander, which occurs in the Serra dos Orgaos near Teresopolis, Brazil. It has been taken for T. rosea Lindley, but new investigations have shown that T. rosea is a synonym to T. stricta and that T. carminea is a good and distinct species.
23644959|A phylogenetic study of the largest tribe of palms, the Areceae, was conducted using sequences of two low-copy nuclear genes. Previous morphological and plastid DNA studies have not supported the monophyly of the tribe, but have placed its members in a large clade that includes the monophyletic tribes Geonomeae, Cocoeae, Podococceae, and Hyophorbeae. We analyzed this large clade to test the monophyly of tribe Areceae with nuclear data, to explore relationships among its subtribes, and to identify other monophyletic groups. For 54 palm species, including members of all 17 subtribes of tribe Areceae, we sequenced regions of the malate synthase (MS) and phosphoribulokinase (PRK) genes. Simultaneous analysis of these regions revealed 52 shortest trees, all of which resolved tribe Areceae as polyphyletic. Subtribes Iguanurinae, Dypsidinae, Oncospermatinae, and Arecinae were also resolved as polyphyletic. A clade of Indo-Pacific taxa was resolved with strong support, and would be a suitable target for more focused study.
23673678|Guatteria, Guatteriopsis, Guatteriella and Heteropetalum share the same conspicuous pollen type which is new for the Spermatophyta. It is zonoaperturate with a folded aperture region and an extremely reduced exine. First chromosome counts and karyotype analyses for Guatteriopsis (4 species investigated) and Guatteriella (1 species) are identical with those of Guatteria (19 species seen): 2n = 28. The genome is characterized by diploidization and partly telocentric chromosomes. Sequentially Giemsa C- and fluorochrome banded chromosomes and interphase nuclei are described. The cuticular folding pattern is distinct for Heteropetalum only. Growth forms and ecology are reported for many species. The evolutionary pattern of the Guatteria group is discussed and compared with other genera and families.
43496770|Seed micromorphology of 24 taxa of the genera Anacamptis and Orchis was examined under light and scanning electron microscopy. Seed qualitative characters appear very useful at the supraspecific level in the subtribe Orchidinae. Based on our observations, the sculpturing of the periclinal walls of the medial testa cells, the seed shape and several features of the anticlinal walls of the apical cells showed variability between the studied taxa, with special relevance of the first character. According to this factor, we found one type of seed for Anacamptis and two for Orchis. The taxonomic value of seed coat characters is compared with the last taxonomic proposals for the genera Anacamptis and Orchis.
23655613|In 1992, Vaillancourt and Weeden discovered a very important mutation for studying cowpea evolution and domestication. A loss of a BamHI restriction site in chloroplast DNA characterized all domesticated accessions and a few wild (Vigna unguiculata ssp. unguiculata var. spontanea) accessions. In order to screen a larger number of accessions, primers were designed to check this mutation using PCR RFLP or direct PCR methods. Using these new primers, 54 domesticated cowpea accessions and 130 accessions from the wild progenitor were screened. The absence of haplotype 0 was confirmed within domesticated accessions, including primitive landraces from cultivar-groups Biflora and Textilis, suggesting that this mutation occurred prior to domestication. However, 40 var. spontanea accessions distributed from Senegal to Tanzania and South Africa showed haplotype 1. Whereas this marker could not be used to identify a precise center of origin, it did highlight the widely distributed cowpea crop-weed complex. Its very high frequency in West Africa could be interpreted as a result of either genetic swamping of the wild/weedy gene pool by the domesticated cowpea gene pool or as the result of domestication by ethnic groups focusing primarily on cowpea as fodder.
43558208|Leymus is a genomically defined allopolyploid of genus Triticeae with two distinct subgenomes. Chloroplast DNA sequences of Eurasian and North American species are distinct and polyphyletic. However, phylogenies derived from chloroplast and nuclear DNA sequences are confounded by polyploidy and lack of polymorphism among many taxa. The AFLP technique can resolve phylogenetic relationships between closely related species, with a curvilinear relationship expected between the proportion of shared bands and nucleotide substitution rate (D), up to about 0.100 D. The objective of this study was to compare D and phylogenetic relationships among 16 Leymus taxa, based on chloroplast DNA sequences and multilocus AFLP genotypes. Estimates of chloroplast D between taxa were 0.002 and 0.013 within and among continental regions, respectively. Estimates of AFLP D between taxa were 0.076 and 0.093 compared within and between continental regions, respectively, versus 0.024 within taxa. Bayesian and neighbor-joining cluster analyses effectively separated all AFLP genotypes by species, but showed that North American L. ambiguus is a hybrid species with nearly equal contributions from sympatric L. cinereus and L. salinus taxa. Two hierarchical AFLP clades, containing six North American taxa and four Eurasian taxa, had more than 98% bootstrap confidence with 0.071 and 0.055 D among taxa. Three other Eurasian taxa clustered with 79% and 89% confidence, with up to 0.79 D between taxa. These estimates provide benchmarks for phylogenetic comparisons of AFLP profiles, but three taxa could not be reliably grouped, which may reflect concurrent radiation of multiple lineages or lack of homologous AFLP characters caused by a high D.
23674601|The pollination syndromes of Leonotis (Pers.) R. Br. are discussed. Ornithophily accounts for most of the nutlets set in perennial Leonotis species but in the annual species [L. nepetifolia (L.) R. Br.] autogamy prevails. Leonotis species are predominantly pollinated by a variety of sunbirds, although bees are also involved. Nectar is sucrose-dominant in perennial species but hexose-dominant in the annual.
23669404|Upon release from the anther, pollen grains can be exposed to dry environment and dehydrate. To survive in dry conditions, the pollen wall possesses the ability to fold itself due to water loss-harmomegathic mechanism. Apertures seem to function as the primary elements of harmomegathy as they are more elastic than the remainder of the pollen wall. Contribution of other sporoderm structures, surface features, and pseudocolpi in harmomegathy are usually not considered in palynological studies. The nature of pseudocolpi has not been properly understood until now, partly because of common use of acetolysis method as a standard procedure. Different structures involved in the harmomegathy mechanism were studied in Cryptantha celosioides, Cryptantha coryi, Heliotropium europaeum, Myosotis palustris, Rindera bungei, and Rindera tetraspis. Scanning electron microscopy was used to study harmomegathy in hydrated and dehydrated pollen grains. In addition, transmission electron microscopy was used to elucidate the ultrastructural basis of pseudocolpi and other harmomegathic structures with special attention to intine structure. Our data reveal that additional flexibility of the pollen wall in Boraginaceae is provided by pseudocolpi, rugulate surface, tectatecolumellate ultrastructure, and a transverse groove. Curious triangular polar poroid areas are described in M. palustris.
43558595|The origin and monophyly of the polyploid cotton (Gossypium) species has been largely accepted, despite the lack of explicit phylogenetic evidence. Recent studies in other polyploid systems have demonstrated that multiple origins for polyploid species are much more common than once thought, raising the possibility that Gossypium polyploids also had multiple origins, as postulated by some authors. To test the monophyly of polyploid cotton, we sequenced a 2.8-kb intergenic region from all diploid species belonging to the genome groups from which the polyploid originates. The resulting phylogenetic analyses strongly support a single origin of polyploid cotton involving a D-genome ancestor related to Gossypium raimondii and an A-genome ancestor that was sister to both extant A-genome species.
23644997|Variation at seven microsatellite loci was investigated in three local E. alaskanus populations from Norway and microsatellite variation was compared with allozyme variation. The percentage of polymorphic loci was 81%, the mean number of alleles per polymorphic locus was 5.7 and expected heterozygosity was 0.37. An F-statistic analysis revealed an overall 48% deficit of heterozygotes over Hardy-Weinberg expectations. Gene diversity is mainly explained by the within population component. The averaged between population differentiation coefficient, Fst, over 7 loci is only 0.13, which accounts for only 13% of the whole diversity and was contrary to allozyme analysis. The mean genetic distance between populations was 0.12. However, a 2 -test showed that allele frequencies were different (p < 0.05) among the populations at 5 of the 7 loci. In comparison with the genetic variation detected by allozymes, microsatellite loci showed higher levels of genetic variation. Microsatellite analysis revealed that population H10576 possesses the lowest genetic variation among the tested three populations, which concur with allozyme analysis. The dendrogram generated by microsatellites agreed very well with allozymic data. Our results suggest that natural selection may be an important factor in shaping the genetic diversity in these three local E. alaskanus populations. Possible explanations for deficit heterozygosity and incongruence between microsatellites and allozymes are discussed.
23642895|A cladistic analysis of 22 morphological characters in 5 species of Matricaria and 4 species and 2 subspecies of Microcephala shows that Matricaria songarica, also known as Cancrinia discoidea, is nested within Microcephala. It is consequently transferred to that genus and the new combination Microcephala discoidea is made. With this recircumscription, Matricaria and Microcephala become much more clearly delimited and presumably monophyletic taxa.
23674708|Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco, EC 4.1.1.39) and its subunits (large subunits = LSU, small subunits = SSU) were isolated from three Capsella spp. by gel electrophoresis and polypeptide composition was analyzed by isoelectric focusing (IEF) in the presence of 8 M urea. The described techniques are recommended for large scale systematic studies. Multiple IEF banding patterns of the SSU are probably the outcome of a heterogenous multigene family. The two diploid species C. rubella and C. grandiflora show an identical IEF pattern and could be differentiated from the putative allotetraploid C. bursa-pastoris only by the SSU banding pattern. Uniqueness of some SSU bands in the tetraploid and in the two diploid species, respectively, may indicate an ancient alloploid origin of tetraploid C. bursa-pastoris followed by events leading to divergences in the genomes of the allotetraploid and its presumed diploid progenitors after the hybridization event (SSU gene elimination, acquisition of new SSU genes).
23645098|Plagiochila cucullifolia Jack & Steph. var. anomala J. Heinrichs & Gradst. var. nov. is described and illustrated. The new variety is known from a single locality in southern Ecuador and differs from P. cucullifolia var. cucullifolia by the flat, not saccate leaves, somewhat smaller plant size and weaker leaf dentation. According to phylogenetic analyses of 35 nrDNA ITS1 and ITS2 sequences of Plagiochila, the two varieties of P. cucullifolia form a monophyletic lineage and are placed in a well supported clade together with five other species of Plagiochila sect. Hylacoetes: P. dimorpha Lindenb. & Gottsche var. ecuadorica (Inoue) J. Heinrichs, P. flabelliflora Steph., P. patriciae J. Heinrichs & H. Anton, P. macrostachya Lindenb. and P. turgida Herzog. Within Plagiochila, nrITS sequence variation is not concordant with morphological diversification. ITS sequences of Plagiochila cucullifolia s.str. and of P. dimorpha var. ecuadorica differ in only 23 aligned positions whereas two sequences of P. subplana Lindenb. differ in 86 aligned positions. Morphologically, P. cucullifolia s.str. and P. dimorpha var. ecuadorica differ in more than 20 characters and previously these two taxa were placed in separate genera. P. subplana phenotypes show considerable variation in leaf shape and dentation but the extremes are linked by numerous intermediates.
23674577|We studied the reproductive biology of Prunus spinosa and Prunus mahaleb (Prunoideae, Rosaceae) in the northwest Iberian Peninsula. The two species flowered at the same time (peaking on March 9 and 11, respectively in 1990) but differ significantly in their fruit maturation times. Nectar volume peaked in the early morning in both species, and was ten times greater in P. spinosa than in P. mahaleb. Neither species shows apomixis, nor does fruit-set occur if pollinators are excluded. In both species self-pollination resulted in fewer fruits than open pollination. The principal pollinators belong to the Apidae family (79% and 63% of visits to P. spinosa and P. mahaleb, respectively). Results are compared with those for other rosaceous plants with fleshy fruits.
23643700|Natural F1 hybrids between the outcrossing Phlox drummondii and the predominantly selfing P. cuspidata were examined to ascertain the proportion of hybrid individuals mothered by each species. Species-specific restriction fragment patterns (both nrDNA and cpDNA) were established as markers, and synthetic hybrids of known parentage were utilized to determine that the chloroplast genome is maternally inherited. Of 89 mature natural hybrids examined, approximately two thirds were mothered by P. drummondii, the outcrosser. That the outcrosser should mother most hybrids is expected since it is dependent upon incoming pollen for fertilization, and hybrids may result when heterospecific pollen is received. The fact that the highly selfing P. cuspidata mothered nearly one third of the hybrids is surprising, and may be related to both pre-zygotic and post-zygotic factors. Which species mothers hybrids has important implications for the potential for introgression as well as its direction.
23643661|Phylogenetic analysis was performed of 921 positions of trnL (UAA) 5 exon  trnF (GAA) exon chloroplast DNA regions from 68 representatives of Pelargonium sectt. Campylia, Cortusina, Glaucophyllum, Hoarea, Isopetalum, Ligularia, Otidia, Pelargonium, Peristera, Polyactium, and Reniformia, together with five putative outgroup species from sections Ciconium, Chorisma and Jenkinsonia. The total data set therefore comprised 67.2 kb of DNA sequence. Two main ingroup clades were identified: one clade contains sections Peristera, Reniformia, and Isopetalum, the other contains sections Campylia, Cortusina, Glaucophyllum, Hoarea, Ligularia, Otidia, Pelargonium, Polyactium and two species currently grouped in sect. Peristera. Branching order among five main clades within the latter clade was not resolved. The trnLF sequence data support monophyly only for sections Reniformia and Hoarea, the remainder of the currently recognized sections of Pelargonium being either paraphyletic or polyphyletic. The data further suggest that sect. Polyactium is diphyletic and that sect. Glaucophyllum is nested within sect. Pelargonium. One relatively derived clade, which represents half of the genus, contains predominantly geophytic and succulent species, occurring in the geographically restricted winter rainfall region of the South African Cape. This pattern is interpreted as reflecting explosive radiation, possibly as an adaptive response to recent aridification in the western Cape.
23643712|The phylogenetic relationships of the Canarian laurel forest endemic Ixanthus viscosus (Aiton) Griseb. (Gentianaceae) are investigated through a cladistic analysis of sequence variation of parts of the chloroplast gene matK and the ITS region of nuclear ribosomal DNA. The floral anatomical and morphological characteristics of Ixanthus based on paraffin sections and SEM studies are also discussed. In the molecular analyses Ixanthus is part of a clade of mostly temperate Erythraeinae and Chironiinae sensu Gilg, in which it is sister to the mostly Mediterranean annual Blackstonia. This relationship is supported by farreaching similarities in flower morphology and anatomy, and the shared possession of at least some perfoliate leaves. This finding contradicts most former classifications in which Ixanthus was placed either in subtribe Gentianinae which never included Blackstonia, or in a subtribe of its own which was suggested to connect woody tropical with herbaceous temperate taxa. The phylogenetic relationships found here show that 1) the sister group of Ixanthus is distributed in the Mediterranean area, and that 2) its habit as a basally woody suffrutescent herb is best interpreted as an advanced character state.
23642167|Quantitative methods (statistics and numerical taxonomy) were used for palynological studies of Eryngium maritimum from 13 localities extending from the Mediterranean to the North Sea. This demonstrates, 1. the homogeneity of the size of the pollen grains in respect of P (polar axis) and E (equatorial diameter) dimensions taken from a single inflorescence; 2. the great variation of the same quantitative characters at plant, population and species level; 3. the stability of the tectum as observed by scanning electron microscope. Variation of palynological parameters within a local population is independent of the general geographical pattern. Therefore, an individual sample represents the species only to a limited extent. Des mthodes quantitatives (Statistiques et Taxinomie numrique) ont t utilises pour l'tude palynologique d'Eryngium maritimum de 13 stations des ctes de la Mditerrane  la Mer du Nord. Les mthodes statistiques utilises mettent en vidence simultanment : 1. l'homognit, pour les dimensions P (axe polaire) et E (diamtre quatorial), des grains de pollen issus d'une inflorescence  ombellule-capitule  latrale; 2. la variation importante de ces mmes caractres quantitatifs au niveau d'une plante, d'une population et de l'espce; 3. la stabilit du caractre de la surface tectale observe en microcopie lectronique  balayage. Les mthodes de la taxinomie numrique montrent que la variation  l'intrieur d'une mme station est indpendante de la variation gographique gnrale observe. Ces mthodes dmontrent les limites de l'extension de la valeur reprsentative de l'chantillonnage d'une population pollinique issue d'une  ombellule-capitule  latrale au niveau de l'espce E. maritimum.
23671734|Observations of young fertile leaf primordia provide information about the development of the sporophyll of Anemia phyllitidis Sw. The marginal meristem which surrounds the leaf primordium forms the pinna primordia, firstly the two "spore pinnae" by meristem fractionation. These are turned with their adaxial side towards the leaf apex and continue marginal meristem fractionations until products of the 5th order are formed.In the sporophyll development two events are significant: (1) The fractionation products of the 2nd order reverse their direction of coiling. (2) From the marginal meristem of the fractionation products of the 5th order the sporangia arise in acropetal succession each originating from one initial cell.Three observationsthe fractionation products of the 2nd order being accessory outgrowths of the leaf margin, their reversed coiling direction, and the aggregation of the sporangia on the last segmentslead to the following concept of a sorus type : Each fractionation product of the 2nd order represents a marginal acropetal sorus with a branched receptaculum.
23655703|The aims of this study were to evaluate the degree of morphological differentiation between six varieties of Acacia caven and to examine their taxonomic validity in the context of other Argentinean species of the genus. To accomplish these purposes, morphological traits have been analyzed using multivariate methods (non parametric ANOVA, phenetic analysis and principal component analysis) on the varieties of A. caven and other six species of the genus, represented in Argentina. The phenogram obtained showed two principal clusters, one grouping all the species of subg. Acacia and the other grouping the species of subg. Aculeiferum. This result agreed with Vassal's infrageneric classification. However, the results of the principal PCA gathered the seven species here included in three groups, which were consistent with Bentham's infrageneric treatment. The ANOVA method indicated that most of the morphometric characters used were statistically sound for differentiation between varieties of A. caven. Further studies, including more species and characters, must be performed in order to clarify the position of Acacia boliviana and the relationships between A. caven and A. curvifructa.
23674857|Meiotic pairing behaviour in 19 interspecific Elymus hybrids is reported and discussed. The hybrids were made between four species belonging to the E. semicostatus group of sect. Goulardia, viz., E. semicostatus, E. abolinii, E. fedtschenkoi, and E. panormitanus (all 2n = 28), and Elymus species of seven different sections, viz., sect. Clinelymiopsis: E. caucasicus (2n = 28); sect. Elymus: E. sibiricus (2n = 28); sect. Goulardia: E. caninus (2n = 28), E. trachycaulus (2n = 28), and E. tsukushiensis (2n = 42); sect. Hyalolepis: E. batalinii (2n = 42); sect. Hystrix: E. hystrix (2n = 28); sect. Macrolepis: E. canadensis (2n = 28); and sect. Turczaninovia: E. dahuricus (2n = 42). Chromosomal pairing at meiotic metaphase I indicated that the species of the E. semicostatus group are genomically closer to the tetraploid E. caucasicus and the hexaploid species, regardless of sectional origin, than to the other tetraploid species of section Goulardia. Highest meiotic pairing was found in hybrids involving E. caucasicus, E. tsukushiensis, and E. dahuricus. The presence of pairing regulating genes in E. abolinii is suspected.
23642316|25 species of lichens have been collected in semidesertic to desertic areas of Iran. On the basis of spatial relations to the substrate and anatomical features of the thallus three main groups (one with a subdivision based on colour and morphology of the thallus) can be differentiated. Selective advantages and peculiarities in connection with the desert habitat are pointed out, such as inverse thallus-structure, a dense network of skeletal hyphae in the substrate in otherwise epilithic species, proliferating areolae of the thallus, immersed pycnidia with trichogynes and brownish spores in groups with usually colourless spores. Most of the species are wide-spread in arid and often also in humid regions; only one species, Verrucaria buschirensis J. Steiner, seems to be endemic. The prevalence of cyanophilic lichens in deserts may have phylogenetic reasons, as these groups appear to date back to periods without higher vegetation and a desert-like environment.
23674555|Leaf anatomy is described in 32 species of 16 genera of the New World tribe Tigridieae (Iridaceae, Iridoideae), including examples from both subtribes Cipurinae and Tigridiinae. Both plicate (pleated) and foliated (with flanges, or keel extensions) leaf types occur in both subtribes. However, among Tigridiinae, foliated leaves are restricted to Tigridia and differ from the foliated leaves of Cipurinae in that they lack subepidermal marginal sclerenchyma, which is present in all the foliated species of Cipurinae. This indicates that the foliated leaf type has evolved at least twice in the tribe, since the plicate leaf, which most closely resembles the equitant leaf typical of Iridaceae, is probably plesiomorphic.
23674502|The objective of this study was to contribute to a better understanding of the variation pattern in leaf beets. 42 biennial samples from a total of 74 entries were described by 17 characters. A group of presumably less selected leaf beets (group A) with narrow petioles was separated from more advanced cultivars by single linkage cluster (SLCA) and principal component analysis (PCA). SLCA sorted the more advanced cultivars into two groups (B and C) based on a simply inherited trait, the leaf colour. These two groups could virtually not be discerned by PCA. Group A contained germplasm similar to provar. vulgaris sensu Helm whereas accessions within group B and C did not easily fit into provar. flavescens. It seems that classical taxonomy does not predict the features of leaf beets precisely enough. It is suggested that this problem can be solved by replacing classical taxonomy in the case of leaf beets by a descriptive database.
23645244|The nucleotide sequences of four intergenic spacer regions of chloroplast DNA, atpB-rbcL, trnS-trnG, rps11-rpl36, and rps3-rpl16, were analyzed in the genus Glycine. Phylogenetic analysis based on the sequence data using Neonotonia wightii as the outgroup generated trees supporting the classification of two subgenera, Soja and Glycine, and three plastome groups in the subgenus Glycine. The results were consistent with the presence of diversified chloroplast genomes within tetraploid plants of G. tabacina and G. tomentella, as well as with a close relationship between G. tomentella and G. dolichocarpa that had been suggested based on morphological analyses. Little sequence variation was found in the subgenus Soja, suggesting that G. soja rapidly expanded its distribution in East Asia. The analysis also showed that the differentiation into three plastome groups in the subgenus Glycine occurred in the early stages of its evolution, after the two subgenera diverged.
23644059|Material of Dactylorhiza were sampled from 49 localities in Turkey and investigated for allozyme variation at ten loci (nine enzyme systems). Among diploids, the Anatolian D. osmanica and D. umbrosa were allozymically variable, but not distinct from each other or from D. incarnata. Dactylorhiza saccifera contained the same alleles as the European D. fuchsii. Dactylorhiza iberica and D. euxina were distinct from each other and the other diploids. On basis of allozyme patterns three distinct allotetraploid genotypes were distinguished, and each of them could be treated as a separate species. Dactylorhiza nieschalkiorum is similar to European allotetraploids, and may have arisen from hybridization between D. incarnata s.l. and D. saccifera. Dactylorhiza urvilleana may have arisen from parents related to present-day D. saccifera and D. euxina, but it also contains additional alleles that have not been found in any of the diploids investigated. A third allotetraploid known from four populations in the Ardahan and Kars provinces of north-eastern Turkey combines the allozyme patterns found in material of D. incarnata s.l. from the same area with those from D. euxina. It is here described for the first time as D. armeniaca.
23654198|Thymelaea hirsuta is a circum-Mediterranean subdioecious shrub used to model the evolutionary pathway from heterodichogamy to dioecy. Since discordant data on the pollination mechanism of this plant have been reported, in this study we have tried to clarify the complex of features and events involved in the breeding system of this species at the Northern edge of its range (Tyrrhenian coast, Italy and France). Flower and pollen features related to pollination mechanism were analyzed, and the seasonal presence of insects visiting the plant was monitored. Despite the presence of small pollen grains, normally associated with wind pollination, the Crotonoid-pattern of exine, the large amount of pollenkitt and the presence of nectar are typical entomophilous adaptations. Among insects visiting the plant, thrips (Thysanoptera) might have a role in pollination owing to their large number and for the constant presence of T. hirsuta pollen on their body. In contrast, no evidence of anemophilous transport of pollen was obtained, clashing with reports of a wind pollination system for Egyptian populations. Based on our observations wind seems not to play a key role in the pollination process of this species in the Northern Mediterranean region, while insects might play a major role.
43558156|Surveys of the incompatibility status of island floras have shown a deficit in taxa possessing homomorphic or heteromorphic incompatibility. This observation provides strong evidence for Baker's Rule (1967) in that self-incompatibility can impede these taxa of colonizing and establishing on islands. The woody liana Hugonia serrata Lam. (Linaceae) is an extremely rare plant species endemic to the Mascarene Islands of La Runion and Mauritius in the southern Indian Ocean. Previous research has documented the existence of tristyly in this species, thereby raising the number of known tristylous families to six. However, data were based on a very small sampling size and currently no data on the self-incompatibility system of the species are available. In this study, we investigated in detail the breeding system of H. serrata. Calculation of reciprocity and precision indices based on measurements of reproductive organs in a much larger sample size confirmed tristyly in this species. This stylestamen polymorphism was accompanied by several ancillary polymorphisms in stigma size, stigma color, anther size and pollen size. The rigidity of the heteromorphic incompatibility system was tested using experimental hand-pollinations. Significantly fewer pollen tubes arrived at the ovary after self- and illegitimate pollination (7%) than after legitimate pollination (12%). Seed set after self-pollination (3.6%) was also much lower than after legitimate pollination (66.7%). Comparison of seed set after legitimate pollination with natural seed set showed evidence for outcross pollen limitation. Our results indicate that despite severe pollen limitation and limited mate availability the heteromorphic incompatibility system in H. serrata is still strict after colonization of La Runion Island. Because H. serrata is extremely long-lived, these results suggest that establishment of heterostylous species on islands may have been favored by their long life span.
43558606|Previous anatomical studies have been restricted to the foliar aspects of Pilocarpus. However, no anatomical studies analyzing the foliar aspects of Pilocarpus in relation to related genera have been carried out. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify characters for future taxonomic and phylogenetic studies in Rutaceae, particularly in Pilocarpus, and to discuss the characteristics associated with the simple or compound leaf condition for the group. The petiole and the leaf blade of 14 neotropical Rutaceae species were analyzed, and the following characteristics were observed in all leaves studied: stornata on both surfaces; secretory cavities, including mesophyll type; camptodromous-brochidodromous venation pattern; and free vascular cylinder in the basal region of the petiole. Additional promising characters were identified for future taxonomic and phylogenetic studies in the Rutaceae family, especially for the Pilocarpus genera.
23654272|Australian species make up seventeen of the world's twenty-five recognised species of Sorghum, with the genus separated into five sections: Eu-sorghum, Chaetosorghum, Heterosorghum, Para-sorghum and Stiposorghum. Whereas the genetic relationships within section Eu-sorghum are well known, little is known about the genetic relationships and crossabilities outside the primary genepool. We made a detailed investigation of phylogenetic relationships within Sorghum to identify wild species most closely related to cultivated sorghum (with outgroups Zea mays and Saccharum officinarum). The ribosomal ITS1 gene of ten species and the chloroplast ndhF gene from nineteen species were sequenced. Independent and combined analyses of the ITS1 and ndhF data sets were undertaken. The Eu-sorghum species were resolved into a strongly supported lineage by all three analyses, and included the Australian natives S. laxiflorum and S. macrospermum in the ITS1 and combined analyses. All remaining sorghum species were resolved into a second well-supported lineage in the combined analyses, although some internal relationships within this second lineage remain unresolved. We identified S. laxiflorum and S. macrospermum as the Australian species most closely related to cultivated sorghum. Our data support a reduction in the number of subgeneric sections from five to three: Eu-sorghum (unchanged); a combined Chaetosorghum/Heterosorghum to reflect the very close relationship between these two species; and a combined Para-sorghum/Stiposorghum section, thereby removing the unclear taxonomic and genetic boundaries between these species.
23643824|As part of a larger investigation of the C. alpinum-C. arcticum complex of arctic and North Atlantic areas, isozyme variation of C. alpinum, C. arcticum, and related taxa was analysed. A total of 124 multilocus phenotypes was divided into more or less distinct groups by numerical analyses. Most groups correspond well to previously recognized taxa. However, what has traditionally been considered as C. arcticum was divided into two distinct groups, consisting of northern (Svalbard, Greenland) and more southern (Norway, Iceland) populations, respectively. The division of C. arcticum into two taxa is also supported by other kinds of data and the two taxa probably deserve species rank. Serpentine plants from Shetland had multilocus phenotypes similar to those of C. arcticum from Iceland and should be included in the southern taxon.
23670119|Detailed chromosome counts have been made in 61 species, belonging to 33 genera of Rutaceae. 30 of these species are reported here for the first time. For 18 species at least one previous publication gives a chromosome number differing from that reported here. Such discrepancies are, in most cases, due to errors in counting or identification of the material. By critically reviewing the literature on each particular case, it appears possible to eliminate most of the false data. On the basis of the present results, the base number x = 10 is proposed for the genus Ruta.
23642225|DNA contents (presented as 1 C-values) have been determined cytophotometrically in 7 species of the Scilla hohenackeri group (10.18 to 22.71 pg), and in the systematically more isolated taxa S. persica (21.02 pg) and Puschkinia scilloides (6.80 pg). The heterochromatin amount is not correlated with the nuclear DNA content. Euchromatin, therefore, is not a particularly "conservative" part of the genome. However, high C-values and large but few terminal heterochromatin bands, and lower C-values and numerous but smaller heterochromatin bands are found to be linked in the S. hohenackeri group. Obviously, numerous chromosomal changes have accompanied speciation in this group. DNA contents, and C-banded karyotypes are consistent with systematic affinities based on morphological similarities.
23655609|In this survey plastic responses to light intensity and planting density were examined in three Lamium species (L. purpureum, L. album and L. maculatum). Low light intensity enhanced plant height, length and width of leaves, but reduced number of shoots and leaves, as well as root and shoot weights. Higher density resulted in smaller plants and leaves, but had significant effect on module number (shoots and leaves) only on older plants. The effect of light intensity on measured traits was greater than the effect of density, and consistent with predictions about plastic responses on light intensity variation. Generally, the three Lamium species differed in the magnitude but not in patterns of plasticity. However, associations of analyzed traits with fitness significantly differed among species as well as among light treatments.
23643732|Phylogenies of the palm family based on DNA sequences from the trnL  trnF region of the chloroplast genome are presented. Although the region is highly conserved in palms and relatively few sites in the aligned data matrix are parsimony informative, a variety of relationships among members of the family are revealed by the analyses, some of which are congruent with the current classification of the palms, and others which are not. However, consensus trees contain high levels of ambiguosity, partly due to the inadequate numbers of informative characters in the dataset. Additional data are required before well resolved palm phylogenies can be generated.
23674716|A taxonomically difficult purple-flowered group within the genus Erysimum, restricted to the Iberian Peninsula, is analyzed by multivariate and cladistic analyses. 51 specimens have been scored for 14 characters. Both principal components and discriminant analyses provide support to the recognition of the five species considered by the author, namely E. linifolium, E. lagascae, E. baeticum, E. popovii, and E. cazorlense. Cladistic analysis, using 7 characters resulted in a single most parsimonious cladogram containing no homoplasies. The pattern of morphologic divergence follows a clear NW.-SE. trend, which is congruent with the topology of the cladogram. This trend significantly affects growth-form as well as fruit characters, both providing the main grounds for species recognition. The different behavior and significance of several characters in both kinds of analysis is discussed. The co-occurrence of morphologically similar individuals differing in the flower color is discussed, too. Possible explanations for this phenomenon involve hybridization in a wide sense or, alternatively, rejecting the assumption of monophyly for the group.
23642959|Ixianthes retzioides is a rare South African shrub with large yellow oil-secreting flowers. Populations studied previously revealed low levels of reproductive success and the absence of a specialized oil-collecting pollinator. We report the discovery of a population in which the predicted specialist pollinator, Rediviva gigas, is present. The presence of this oil-collecting bee resulted in a mean fruit set per plant of 97.2  8.3% (N = 9) and a mean seed set of 331.6  162.6 (N = 52). This represents a 7.4-fold increase in fruit set and a 7.8-fold increase in seed set over a previously studied population lacking the specialist pollinator. The contrast between populations with and without the specialist pollinator dramatically illustrates the potential benefits and costs of specialization for pollination, respectively.
23642747|Seeds of 39 species representing all native genera and sections of New World Antirrhineae were examined with the Scanning Electron Microscope and Light Microscope. Based on seed shape and surface ornamentation, seven morphological categories are recognized: cristate, tetracostate, foveolate, tumid tuberculate/cristate, circumalate, medusiform, and a miscellaneous category. Most sections and/or generic categories can be characterized by a single morphological type, although Maurandya s. l. has several distinctive seed types included within present generic boundaries. The cristate seed type is believed to be the "primitive type" from which the medusiform and tumid tuberculate/cristate types have developed. The tumid tuberculate/cristate type presumably gave rise to the circumalate, tetracostate, and foveolate patterns. The miscellaneous category (represented by Linaria and Kickxia) may be phyletically remote from the other New World types. Seeds of the New World Antirrhineae mostly seem to be adapted for water dispersal although some adaptations for wind dispersal (e.g. wings, light weight) are evident. Free-hand sections and seed coat clearings indicate that circumalate seeds are of two different anatomical patterns; such structural diversity may be found in the other seed types.
23643717|We studied the biology and floral rewards of 34 taxa of Genisteae from the SW of Europe. Most of the floral attributes show a statistically significant direct relationship. Anther biomass of the lower whorl (lW) is significantly lower than that of the upper whorl (uW), and the ratio of the two (Rv) differs among the taxa. All taxa are polliniferous, and Retama sphaerocarpa also secretes nectar. They can be considered xenogamous or facultative xenogams on the basis of their high pollen/ovule (P/O) ratios. Three principal mechanisms of pollen releasing are identified in this tribe: valvular, pump and explosive; the latter comprises specialized and nonspecialized subtypes. Pollination is sternotribic except in the specialized explosive mechanism, in which it is noto-sternotribic. Thus some pollen serves as food (pollen from the uW, which adheres to the ventral surface of the insect) and part of the pollen fulfils a polliniferous function (pollen from the lW, which adheres to the dorsal surface). Species that use a pump mechanism have very low Rv values (Rv=0.08-0.26); species with valvular or nonspecialized explosive mechanisms have Rv values between 0.24 and 0.58; those with a specialized mechanism of pollen presentation have high Rv values (0.6-0.76). In contrast to expectations, the highest P/O ratios appear in the specialized explosive system, which allows a single visit from the insect.
23674268|Molecular divergence between Gossypium klotzschianum and G. davidsonii was studied. The former is endemic to five of the larger islands of the Galapagos, while G. davidsonii is restricted to the southern half of Baja California, approximately 2 500 km distant. A substantial body of genetic and taxonomic data suggests that these two species are related as progenitor and derivative. Interspecific hybrids are fully fertile, with no evidence of F2 breakdown and normal segregation of genetic markers. Allozyme analysis of 33 populations for 41 loci indicated that the allelic composition of G. klotzschianum represents a subset of G. davidsonii. Although genetic diversity is relatively restricted in both species, calculated measures demonstrate higher levels of genetic variability and greater population structuring in G. davidsonii than in G. klotzschianum. The interspecific genetic identity of 0.87 is typical for progenitor-derivative species pairs. Chloroplast DNAs were surveyed for variation with 25 restriction enzymes using hybridization probes that cover the entire chloroplast genome. No intraspecific and little interspecific variation was detected among 560 cpDNA restriction sites, representing sequence information for approximately 3 200 nucleotides. Only 3 mutational differences distinguished the two species, resulting in a sequence divergence estimate of 0.09%. Divergence times were estimated from both the isozyme data and the cpDNA restriction site data. Although these estimates have several sources of error, both molecular data sets were congruent in suggesting that the two lineages diverged between 250 000 and 700 000 years ago. Accumulated evidence suggests that dispersal was from Baja California to the Galapagos Islands rather than the reverse, and most likely was mediated by trans-oceanic drift. G. klotzschianum may be the only species of the endemic Galapagos flora to have arisen from a northern Mexican progenitor.
23655239|We examined the effects of the retention of colour-changed flowers on long- and short-distance attractiveness of bumblebees and the likelihood of successive flower visits by bumblebees in Pedicularis monbeigiana. The lower lip changed colour with age from white to purple. Hand geitonogamous pollination significantly reduced seed production. No pollen limitation occurred in this species. Purple-phase flowers contributed minimally to pollinator attractiveness at long distance. The combination of less reproductive flowers with a lower amount of reward and floral colour change enabled plants to direct pollinators to reproductive, highly rewarding white flowers at close range. A high percentage of purple-phase flowers in an inflorescence was associated with a marked reduction in the frequency of successive flower visits to individual plants. We suggest floral colour change in P. monbeigiana may serve as a mechanism for enhancing inter-individual pollen transfer and reducing intra-individual pollen transfer.
23673230|Understanding how the mating system varies with population size in plant populations is critical for understanding their genetic and demographic fates. We examined how the mating system, characterized by outcrossing rate, biparental inbreeding rate, and inbreeding coefficient, and genetic diversity varied with population size in natural populations of the biennial Sabatia angularis. We found a significant, positive relationship between outcrossing and population size. Selfing was as high as 40% in one small population but was only 7% in the largest population. Despite this pattern, observed heterozygosity did not vary with population size, and we suggest that selection against inbred individuals maintains observed heterozygosity in small populations. Consistent with this hypothesis, we found a trend of lower inbreeding coefficients in the maternal than progeny generation in all of the populations, and half of the populations exhibited significant excesses of adult heterozygosity. Moreover, genetic diversity was not related to population size and was similar across all populations examined. Our results suggest that the consequences of increased selfing for population fitness in S. angularis, a species that experiences significant inbreeding depression, will depend on the relative magnitude and consistency of inbreeding depression and the demographic cost of selection for outcrossed progeny in small populations.
23664946|We combined reproductive and allozyme data to assess the levels and structuring of genetic variation and propose conservation guidelines in Limonium dendroides, a critically endangered Canarian endemic Plumbaginaceae featuring the floral and pollen pap/cob dimorphisms associated with the heteromorphic diallelic self-incompatibility system described for this family. Although seed germination has been reported in greenhouse conditions, the detection of individuals of only one morph in all wild subpopulations surveyed explains the extremely limited seed production and recruitment in nature. The geographical proximity and genetic closeness between some subpopulations, together with absence of inbreeding depression symptoms, and a higher allozyme variation in the cultured or reintroduced offspring than in their parental wild subpopulations indicate the viability of occasional compatible matings, thereby suggesting that even low levels of gene flow could mitigate the deleterious effects of fragmentation on subpopulation survival. However, our overall results indicate that L. dendroides is in a critical conservation situation where the utter scarcity of compatible mates within the subpopulations, radically low subpopulation sizes, poor inter-subpopulation gene flow, impoverished genetic variation, herbivore grazing, and the extreme habitat topography have overridden the reproductive capabilities of the species. According to our results, once moiph types in all wild and cultured specimens can be determined, inducing fertile crosses through mixed reinforcements is advisable only in the most extremely isolated and small subpopulations (Argaga and Guarimiar) using individuals from the nearest ones (Azadoe and Palmarejo), whilst nonmixed reinforcements seem viable in the remaining subpopulations. Only when the subpopulations attain higher seed production and recruitment rates will it be adequate to collect seeds for their storage at a germplasm bank facility.
23674169|The evolutionary relationships of 186 accessions of Capsicum from Mexico were studied through enzyme electrophoresis. A total of 76 alleles representing 20 genetic loci coding for nine enzyme systems were observed and the allelic variations of enzymes were studied for geographical distribution. Allele frequencies were used to estimate the apportionment of gene diversity within and between populations and to construct a dendrogram based on a similarity matrix containing Nei genetic distances.  The gene diversity estimates suggest that the structure of Capsicum populations in Mexico consists of predominantly homozygous genotypes presumably due to a self-pollinated breeding system and population bottlenecks. Significant genetic differentiation was found mainly between populations of differing geographical regions.  Based on the results of this study, three species of domesticated Capsicum can be identified in Mexico, C. annuum var. annuum, C. chinense, and C. pubescens. Semidomesticated and wild forms include two species, C. frutescens and C. annuum var. glabriusculum. A sharp geographical division results between the latter species; C. frutescens was collected exclusively in the southeastern states of Oaxaca, Chiapas, and Tabasco; whereas wild and semidomesticated forms from the rest of the country are C. annuum. Based upon the similarity of enzyme genotypes of semidomesticated and wild forms, the primary center of domestication of cultivated C. annuum was estimated to be the region comprising the states of Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon, San Luis Potosi, Veracruz, and Hidalgo in eastern Mexico. A possible second center of domestication is suggested to be localized in the state of Nayarit, western Mexico.
23655728|Although some species of Streptocarpus (Gesneriaceae) do not possess a layered shoot apical meristem (SAM), but three individual meristems, the basal meristem (BM), the petiolode meristem (PM) and the groove meristem (GM) on the petiolode from which additional phyllomorphs are formed. To gain insights into the processes involved, we examined the development of seedlings from germination to the formation of the primary phyllomorph in S. rexii, a rosulate species. Our specific focus was to examine the relationship between the functional activity of the GM and meristematic activity, which was assessed by a combined analysis of toluidine blue staining of histological sections and the incorporation of BrdU into meristematic tissues. The results were integrated into 3-D graphics, which suggests a complex spatial and temporal interaction within the GM. The significance of our observations is discussed and compared to the SAM observed in most other angiosperms.
23674103|The following three species of parastitic ascomycetes are described, illustrated and discussed in detail: Octosporella ptilidii spec. nova (Pezizales) on Ptilidium ciliare from Switzerland, Nectria mnii spec. nova (Hypocreales) on Plagiomnium medium from Switzerland, and Philobryon anuliferum gen. et spec. nov. (Dothideales) on Pleurozia gigantea from New Guinea. The species are known only from the type collections. It is shown that the hyphae present an array of important characters which deserve the same attention as the fruiting bodies.
23674655|Cytophotometric measurements of nuclear DNA contents and morphometric analyses in the antheridia of five species of Chara indicate that the level of endopolyploidy plays an important role in determining the maximum sizes that shield cells, manubria, and capitular cells attain at the final stage of spermiogenesis. Dioecious species with low DNA C-values  C. aspera and C. tomentosa  display higher values of endopolyploidy: their male sex organs are larger and the quantities of spermatozoids per antheridium are greater than those estimated for monoecious species C. vulgaris, C. fragilis, and C. contraria. Two types of "nucleotypic" effects were found to synchronize developmental traits in germ line cells and non-generative component parts within the antheridia; both are discussed in relation to the biological productivity of male sex organs in mono- and dioecious species of Chara.
23674086|The chromatin structure of six diploids species of Costus was analysed using conventional Giemsa staining, C-banding and DAPI/CMA fluorochromes. The interphase nuclei in all the species show an areticulate structure and the prophase chromosomes show large blocks of proximal condensed chromatin. After banding procedures, each chromosome exhibits only centromeric dot-like DAPI+/CMA- C-bands whereas the satellites (one pair at each karyotype) are weakly stained after C-banding and show a DAPI-/CMA+ fluorescence. Two chromocentres show bright fluorescence with CM A and weak staining after C-banding whereas the others chromocentres show only a small fraction of DAPI+ heterochromatin. These results were interpreted to mean that the greater part of the condensed chromatin has an euchromatic nature whereas two types of well localized heterochromatin occur in a small proportion. The Z-stage analysis suggests that heterochromatin and condensed euchromatin decondense at different times. The chromosome number and morphology of all species are given and the implications of the condensed euchromatin are discussed.
23669392|The Caryophyllales have the highest diversity in androecial patterns among flowering plants with stamen numbers ranging from 1 up to 4,000. Thanks to the recent progress in reconstructing the phylogeny of core Caryophyllales, questions of floral evolution, such as the origin and diversification of the androecium, can be readdressed. Caryophyllales are unique among core eudicots in sharing an androecial ring meristem or platform with centrifugal development of stamens and petals. Stamens are basically arranged in two whorls and evolution within the clade depends on the shift of either the antesepalous or the alternisepalous whorls to an upper position on the ring meristem and the reduction of the other. Four main developmental phenomena are responsible for the high diversity in androecial patterns: (1) the sterilisation of the outermost stamens through a division of common primordia; (2) the secondary addition of stamens by a centrifugal initiation of supernumerary stamens superimposed on a lower stamen number; (3) the pairwise displacement of alternisepalous stamens to the middle of the outer sepals and their potential fusion, or as part of a pluristaminate androecium; (4) the inversed sequence, reduction and loss of antesepalous stamens. Shifts in stamen numbers depend on pressures of the calyx and carpels and changes in the number of the latter. These patterns are expressed differently in the three main evolutionary lines of core Caryophyllales and are systematically relevant: (1) A basal grade of Caryophyllales, culminating with Caryophyllaceae, Amaranthaceae, Stegnosperma and Limeum, has the antesepalous stamens initiated in upper position on the ring meristem, and alternisepalous stamens are preferentially reduced. Among the antesepalous whorl there is a progressive loss of stamens following a sequence inversed to sepal initiation. Petaloid staminodes are formed by the radial division of outer stamens. (2) The raphide-clade and Molluginaceae are characterized by alternisepalous stamens in upper position on the ring meristem, with a trend to secondary stamen multiplication, and loss of antesepalous stamens. (3) The Portulacineae share the pattern of the raphide clade, but some taxa show shifts to an upper position on the ring meristem of either antesepalous or alternisepalous stamens, linked with secondary multiplications and reduction of either whorl. Different floral characters are plotted on a recent cladogram of Caryophyllales. The data show a consistent correlation between shifting carpel and stamen numbers independent of perianth evolution. Comparative data suggest that the basic androecium of Caryophyllales consists of two whorls of five stamens, linked with an absence of petals, and the evolution of the androecium is a combination of reductions and secondary multiplications of stamens with a highly predictive systematic value.
23673856|Agropyron bessarabicum (2n=14), A. rechingeri (2n=28), A. junceiforme (2n=28), A. elongatum (2n=14), A. flaccidifolium (2n=28) and A. scirpeum (2n=28) were studied by isoelectric focusing of seed soluble proteins.  The protein profiles obtained from the six taxa showed a striking degree of similarity; typically they consist of 40 bands. No qualitative but only quantitative differences (in the intensity of some bands) were found.  Combined with the cytological information available these protein data indicate that the two polyploid complexes must be placed in the recently erected genus Thinopyrum with the genome designations: T. bessarabicum Jj1 Jj1, T. sartorii (= A. rechingeri) Jj1 Jj1 Jj3 Jj3, T. junceiforme Jj1 Jj1 Jj2 Jj2, T. elongatum Je1 Je1, T. flaccidifolium Je1 Je1 Je1 Je1 and T. scirpeum Je1 Je1 Je2 Je2.
23660104|We examined the levels and apportionment of genetic variation of the 11 known subpopulations of Atractylis preauxiana at 95 RAPD loci to help streamline a conservation strategy for this Canarian endemic taxon, which is in a critical situation because of the constant exposure of plants to intensive, uncontrolled anthropic action in the last few decades. Our results revealed low genetic variation levels that match with the general picture of demographic and habitat degradation that this taxon is undergoing. Although geographic isolation between Tenerife and Gran Canaria is an effective barrier to gene flow, genetic heterogeneity within islands is also substantial, plausibly due to the negative impact of fragmentation on genetic variation. Our genetic results, together with declining population sizes, poor seedling survival, and recent population extinctions, compellingly indicate that A. preauxiana is undergoing an extinction ratchet, whereby every further local extinction will add up to the probability of total species' extinction. Our genetic results suggest that mitigating the deleterious consequences of this effect entails urgent mixed reinforcements of all sub-populations with sub-populations from the same island and urgent translocation of the two sub-populations from Tenerife that are doomed to extinction to ecologically suitable areas, together with seed collection and preservation in a convenient ex situ banking facility.
23643111|Genetic variation has been assessed in 30 populations (931 families) of Faidherbia albida (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae) from across its entire African range, using six isozyme loci identified by five enzyme systems. Among the populations studied a null allele was proposed to explain the absence of Lap-1 activity in populations from southern and eastern Africa. The mean percentage of polymorphic loci per population, the mean number of alleles per locus and the mean genetic diversity within populations were 31.7%, 1.6 and 0.127 respectively. Genetic diversity was greatest in populations from West Africa and lowest in populations from eastern/southern Africa, with Ethiopian/Sudanese populations intermediate. The overall degree of genetic differentiation between populations (GST) indicated that approximately 56% of the enzyme variation resided within populations. Clustering of Nei's unbaised genetic distances calculated between all populations produced a dendrogram that generally followed the geographic distribution of the populations. Two major groups were identified that may be considered the eastern/southern African and the Ethiopian/West African clusters. Within the Ethiopian/West African cluster two subclusters could be recognised, one broadly corresponding to those populations from Ethiopia/Sudan and the other to those populations from West Africa. The implications of these results for theories regarding the origin of F. albida in Africa are discussed.
23643097|Morphological and RAPD markers were used to assess the relationships among nodulating and non-nodulating species of African Acacia. Non-nodulating species of African Acacia are only found within subg. Aculeiferum sect. Monacanthea. African species of sect. Monacanthea examined were found to form a group distinct from the other African species examined on a morphological and molecular basis. All lack the ability to nodulate, suggesting that non-nodulation may be used as a taxonomic tool. The species of sect. Aculeiferum were separated by RAPD and morphological analysis into two groups depending on whether they were armed with prickles in pairs and/or prickles in threes, or solitary. A third group of species was identified within sect. Acacia: further subdivision of this group was achieved into subsectt. Pluriseriae and Uniseriae. The position of A. albida relative to other African Acacia species was found to be distinct but not totally independent of the genus. The partitioning and distribution of the genetic variability within the genus is further elucidated by the RAPD analysis of populations of Acacia species. A population analysis of A. polyacantha demonstrated geographical and site-specific variation.
23654201|The phylogenetic relationships within the tribe Colletieae (Rhamnaceae) were examined combining data from a previous morphological analysis with data from the trnL intron and trnL-F spacer. Previous studies have failed to confirm monophyly of the genus Discaria, the only genus of the tribe with an amphiantarctic distribution. The data set was analyzed using direct optimization as implemented in the computer program POY. Direct optimization searches for multiple optimal sequence alignments and is therefore well suited for analyzing DNA sequences including ambiguous alignable regions as found in the present study. Eight different costs were used for treating the indel information. Indels were treated as single events, equal to a fifth character state, or strings of gaps were treated as single events using different costs for opening a gap and extending the gap. The optimal cost set was selected by use of both character-based and topological congruence measures. Both congruence measures agreed upon a single optimal cost set. The resulting tree generally agrees with the current taxonomic treatment of the tribe Colletieae that recognizes six genera out of which three are monotypic. However. monophyly of Discaria was not supported and the results strongly suggest segregating D. nana and D. trinervis, and re-establishing the genus Ochetophila.
43496760|Annatto (Bixa orellana L.) is an important dyeyielding medium-sized tree occurring in the tropics. Investigations aimed at elucidating the reproductive characters as well as establishing a set of breeding parameters for genetic improvement of B. orellana was carried out. Records on pollen/ovule ratios of annatto showed that this species is xenogamous. The acetolyzed pollen of B. orellana was tricolporate. The fluorochromatic test showed 95% pollen viability. The viability of the pollen grains decreased sharply after 4 h from anther dehiscence. The optimum time range for artificial pollination was standardized between 12:00 and 13:00 h. A high in vitro germination rate (92%) of freshly collected pollen was recorded in modified Brewbaker's medium with 15% sucrose. Resource allocation studies showed that the construction of each flower cost 1.162 g. The floral vegetative cost was 75%. Of the total allocation, 21% was spent by the stamens. Based on identified reproductive characters, controlled pollination experiments were conducted by selecting four morphologically distinct parent plants: (1) green-fruited with reddish spines, (2) red-fruited, (3) brown large-fruited, and (4) with brown distorted fruits. In artificial cross-pollination experiments, wide variation ranges in fruit set (0-95%) and fruit maturation (0-85%) were observed in different crosses. The number of seeds per capsule also showed variation (0-40 per capsule). Germination studies of seeds raised from different crosses showed a maximum 93% germination. The present study proved that improvement in B. orellana could be achieved by adopting breeding techniques using specifically selected parents.
23673725|Meiosis and mitosis are described in cultivated Crocus sativus of Iran. This indicates that this species is an autotriploid and sterile. Karyotype analysis, rare inversions, laggard chromosomes and distribution of chromosomes in the first anaphase are described, and the reasons for its sterility are given.
23642090|The use of numbers by systematists is not new. Measurements to describe individuals and formal taxa have been used since the beginnings of our science. But the advent of electronic computers now permits a much more accurate understanding of the phenotypic relationships within and among populations and taxa. Furthermore, estimates of cladistic relationship also are being attempted with the help of computers. Computers can increase our understanding of speciation, but this requires us to think intelligently about the meaning of their results.
23642603|Aechmea itapoana is a new, conspicuous and distinct species from the coastal sand dune scrub of N.E. Brazil. Its possible relationships within subgenus Chevaliera, to A. multiflora and A. rodriguesia are discussed.
23674973|Restriction site maps and a clone bank of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) of Mahonia higginsae (Munz) Ahrendt (Berberidaceae) were constructed. The size of Mahonia cpDNA was about 167 kb. Precise mapping using gene probes revealed that cpDNA of M. higginsae has an inverted repeat (IR) 11.5 kb larger than the tobacco IR. The expansion of the IR into the large single copy region has resulted in the duplication of at least ten genes including psbB. The phylogenetic distribution of the expanded IR was examined in twenty-five species of Berberis and Mahonia, twenty species representing the fifteen remaining genera of the Berberidaceae, and four species from four allied families. Our survey indicates that only the species of the closely related genera Berberis and Mahonia share the 11.5 kb expansion of IR. This result supports their close phylogenetic relationship, which has been suggested previously by chromosomal, morphological, and serological data.
23674337|Different Triticum araraticum lines were studied by C-banding method. The intraspecific divergence of T. araraticum was shown to be caused mainly by large chromosomal rearrangements. Two main chromosomal types were distinguished among the studied lines: (1) a karyotype similar to that of T. timopheevii and (2) different one. The first type includes some lines of T. araraticum subspp. kurdistanicum and araraticum; the second comprises most lines of T. araraticum subsp. araraticum. The lines of the first type can give fertile F1 hybrids with T. timopheevii.
23655505|Interspecific and intergeneric hybridizations were carried out to evaluate the genomic relationships among species of Hystrix Moench and to study the relationships between Hystrix species and Psathyrostachys huashanica Keng (2n = 2x = 14, Nsh). Meiotic pairing in hybrids of Hystrix duthiei ssp. duthiei  P. huashanica (2n = 3x = 21), Hystrix duthiei ssp. longearistata  P. huashanica (2n = 3x = 21) and H. patula  P. huashanica (2n = 3x = 21) averaged 5.18, 5.11 and 0.29 bivalents per cell, while H. patula  H. duthiei ssp. longearistata (2n = 4x = 28) averaged 25.36 univalents and 1.32 bivalents per cell, respectively. The results indicate that (i) H. duthiei ssp. duthiei and H. duthiei ssp. longearistata have one set of Ns genome from Psathyrostachys; (ii) H. patula has no Ns genome; (iii) genomes of H. duthiei ssp. duthiei and H. duthiei ssp. longearistata are non-homologous to those of H. patula. The genomic relationships between H. patula and other Hystrix species are also discussed.
23674680|Morphometric karyotype characters were studied in 25 Angelica spp. (Umbelliferae, Apioideae) and in one species of the related genus Tommasinia. For three species the chromosome numbers are new. In our study the majority of the species investigated are diploids with 2 n = 22, some are tetraploids with 2 n = 44 (for these tetraploids also diploid cytotypes are reported in the literature). Among the diploid species, A. miqueliana has a distinct karyotype consisting of submetacentric and acrocentric chromosomes only, the remaining diploids with 2 n = 22 as well as tetraploids with 2 n = 44 have rather symmetrical karyotypes, consisting of metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes. The very different chromosome number 2 n = 28 has been found in A. gmelinii. Its karyotype includes two distinct groups of chromosomes: 8 pairs of rather large metacentrics and submetacentrics and 6 pairs of very short and asymmetrical chromosomes. Chromosome numbers and structures appear to be useful in the taxonomy of some intrageneric taxa in Angelica.
23673197|The genus Phaius is distributed mainly in pantropical areas, and most species reported are autogamous. In contrast, Phaius delavayi, an alpine plant endemic to temperate zones of China, is strictly pollinator dependent. Only female workers and males of the bumblebee species B. hypnorum and B. lepidus are effective pollinators. The pollinaria are deposited on top of the head or the prothorax of the pollinators. The different depositions of pollinaria are regarded as an adaptation of the chamber dimensions of the flower to the size of the pollinator. The natural fruit set reported here (24.637.1%) suggests that pollination is successful in the deceptive P. delavayi. The yellow perianth and sweet floral scent of P. delavayi are important cues in attracting pollinators, while flowering time and mass population are associated with the process of "learning and avoidance" of the rewardless flowers. This orchid, therefore, employs a deceptive pollination strategy with diverse pollinators and pollinaria depositions rather than autogamy as do its congeners.
23643072|Large hovering flies with elongated nectar-feeding mouthparts play an important role in the pollination of South African plants. Here we describe and illustrate the pollination of two long-spurred orchids  Disa oreophila H. Bolus subsp. erecta Linder and Brownleea macroceras Sond.  by the long-proboscid fly Prosoeca ganglbaueri Lichtwardt (Nemestrinidae).
23655607|Nuclear ribosomal sequences (ITS) were used to study species boundaries and to infer phylogenetic patterns in wild rosemaries (Rosmarinus officinalis, R. eriocalyx, R. tomentosus). Intragenomic polymorphisms (overlapping peaks and in some cases unreadable sequences) were found throughout the sequencing electrophoretograms of most Rosmarinus accessions. Sequencing the cloned ITS products from representative individuals resulted in 25 ribotypes differing at 59 variable sites. Average sequence divergence among clones was 1.75%, and the most divergent sequences differed by 3.48%. No single ribotype was shared between any two-paired species. The highest values of intragenomic divergence were similar in R. officinalis (1.63%) and R. eriocalyx (1.14%2.12%), and contrast with those shown by R. tomentosus (0.97%). Sequence data suggest that most divergent rDNA sequences within individuals belong to paralogous loci that apparently are not pseudogenes. A detailed inspection of direct and cloned sequences does not show evidence that the intragenomic polymorphism found is due to interspecific hybridization. Phylogenetic analyses of cloned sequences suggested that both R. officinalis and R. tomentosus were monophyletic, whereas R. tomentosus clones were nested within a paraphyletic R. eriocalyx.
23674797|The pollination biology and breeding systems of Eriotheca pubescens and E. gracilipes have been studied. These two species occur as trees in cerrado vegetation, the neotropical savannas of Central Brazil, with partially sympatric distributions. They have similar phenology and floral structure, although the flowers of E. pubescens are larger. Both species have nectar flowers pollinated by large Anthophoridae bees but the main pollinators of each species differ in size. The species have markedly different breeding systems: late-acting self-incompatibility in E. gracilipes and apomixis stimulated by pollination in E. pubescens.
43558207|Globally, bird-pollinated plants can be separated into two groups, one consisting of species pollinated by specialist nectarivores, and the other of plants pollinated by occasional nectarivores. There are marked differences in nectar properties among the two groups, implying that there has been pollinator-mediated selection on these traits. This raises the possibility that variation in bird assemblages among populations of a plant species could lead to the evolution of intraspecific variation in floral traits. We examined this hypothesis in Kniphofia linearifolia, a common and widespread plant in southern Africa. Although bees are common visitors to flowers of this species, exclusion of birds from inflorescences led to significant reductions in seed set, indicating that the species is primarily bird-pollinated. We showed that bird pollinator assemblages differ markedly between five different populations of K. linearifolia, and that variation in flower morphology and nectar properties between these populations are associated with the dominant guild of bird visitors at each population. We identified two distinct morphotypes, based on corolla length, nectar volume and nectar concentration, which reflect the bird assemblages found in each type. Further work is needed to establish if a natural geographic mosaic of bird assemblages are the ultimate cause of differentiation in floral traits in this species.
23674077|Slab gel electrophoresis techniques have been applied to the study of isozyme and kernel protein patterns in 20 accessions of Hordeum chilense and related species in order to elucidate their phylogenetic relationships. On the basis of our results we can conclude that: (1) Conventional classification based on morphological characters does not totally agree with biochemical data. (2) Sectt. Anisolepis and Critesion seem to be clearly differentiated. (3) The accessions classified as H. compressum present biochemical phenotypes quite different from the rest of the species. (4) H. stenostachys, H. muticum and H. chilense constitute a group of variable species with many biochemical similarities and close phylogenetic relationships. (5) The evolutionary pattern of these American species seems to follow a model of reticulate evolution.
23642827|The importance of ants for pollination in the dioecious Borderea pyrenaica (Dioscoreaceae), a Tertiary palaeoendemic plant of the Pyrenees (NE Iberian Peninsula) was studied. The frequency of different visitors (ants, lady beetles, and Diptera) to staminate and pistillate flowers was quantified, and their effectiveness as pollinators was examined by means of fruit and seed set in selective experimental exclusions. Although ants were less abundant on flowers than other visitors, they were the most effective pollinators. Some qualitative factors of this mutualistic ant-plant interaction may account for their effectiveness: the small size of the ants, their high visitation rate to pistillate flowers, and the lack of reduction in viability of the pollen transported on the integument. In addition, the sedentary nature of ants assures their presence during the flowering period. The most abundant floral visitors of B. pyrenaica were therefore not the most effective pollinators.
23655889|The reproductive interactions of a specialized plant/pollinator system involving Asplundia uncinata Harling (Cyclanthaceae) and a derelomine flower weevil (Coleptera: Curculionidae: Derelomini) were studied at La Selva, Costa Rica. The inflorescences of A. uncinata exhibit a suite of cantharophilous characters including a precisely synchronized anthesis, protogyny, thermogenesis, olfactory attraction of visitors via modified staminodes, and narrow interfloral entrances. The weevil pollinators use the inflorescences for feeding, mating, and oviposition. The larvae are detritivorous and develop either in the detaching staminate flowers or, at a more favorable rate, in the rotting infructescences. The rate of infructescence abortion was high and caused by low levels of pollination. Manual pollination treatments yielded significantly higher seed counts than obtained under natural conditions, and furthermore demonstrated the inflorescences' ability to reproduce via geitonogamy. In the longer term, the reproductive benefits of maintaining low levels of pollination may shift away from the weevils and towards the plants via an increase in the size of the pollinator population.
23642776|Polygala vauthieri and P. monticola var. brizoides have secondary pollen presentation from a basket-like structure on the style apex. This basket is loaded after the first visit by a bee. Pollen reception, therefore, can precede the issue of pollen. A sticky stigma secretion glues the pollen from the basket under the head of the bee visitor in an exactly predetermined spot on the left side only. This position mostly forms a kind of safe spot, where the bee can not remove the pollen. The exact position on the bee's head is determined by the species specific distance between style tip and nectary in the visited flower. In this way the two sympatric species deposit the pollen 2 mm apart on the visitor and so can avoid hybridization pollination, while being visited by the same group of bees.
23644064|Circumscription of Plumbaginaceae is evaluated using sequence data from three plastid regions (rbcL, the intron of trnL and the intergenic spacer of trnL-trnF) and a morphological dataset of 51 characters. Thirteen species representing the major genera of Staticoideae and Plumbaginoideae, as well as one species of Aegialitis, have been analysed using three species of Polygonaceae as an outgroup. Analyses of the molecular, morphological and combined datasets yield similar results. Plumbaginaceae are divided in two well-supported groups corresponding to subfamilies Staticoideae and Plumbaginoideae. Aegialitis is sister to the rest of Staticoideae. In the light of these data, we can conclude that the classification of Plumbaginaceae in two subfamilies is well supported. Moreover, Aegialitis should be regarded as a tribe in Staticoideae.
23654183|The thermo-osmotically driven air stream that temporarily ventilates the plant body of Nelumbo nucifera, supplying rhizome and roots with oxygen, takes its way through interconnected canals and caverns. The course of this circulation, starting with the uptake of gas through leaf stomata and ending with its expulsion via the specialized navel ("central plate") of the leaves, as well as organs regulating the circuit, were examined using anatomical, pneumatic, and silicone casting methods. The aerenchyma of the peltate leaf, closely paralleling the nervature, is divided into four separate domains: two mirroring lateral halves including halves of the central plate, and each half again separated into an adaxial (basal) and abaxial (distal) sector. Gas absorbed by the adaxial sectors flows through a definite pair of pipes down the petiole into three lateral pairs of the eight main tubes of the horizontal shoot. There it passes several nodes with adjoining leaves, where homologous ducts, arranged in series along the shoot, contribute to the gas flux in its basipetal course. A reverse gas flow, confined to another pair of cauline pipes and also arranged in series, enters in the nodes another pair of petiolar pipes that directly lead to the foliar central plates, where it is released through stomatal pores. These pores are three times as large as the laminal stomata and control the gas release by opening and closing. Each abaxial leaf sector is, apart from its ducts leading down the petiole, via a shortcut connected with the upstream pipes supplying the central plate, so that its air circuit, when active, is only intralaminar and does not joint the entirety of the system. The question where, and how, the two downstreaming currents merge into the two upstreaming ones remains unresolved. The structure of the two types of air canal diaphragms, petiolar and nodal, are documented by SEM.
23663575|Eight Orthotrichum species of subgenus Gymnoporus were compared using the internally transcribed spacer regions-1 and -2 and the chloroplast trnH-psbA region. A phylogenetic analysis did not reflect the current division of this subgenus into sections Affinia and Leiocarpa. The investigated sequences revealed a close relationship between O. striatum, a typical species of section Leiocarpa and O. affine, a typical species of section Affinia. An easily distinguishable group was formed by samples of the dioecious O. lyellii, placed into section Leiocarpa. A large number of fixed differences between O. lyellii and other species of subgenus Gymnoporus raises doubts concerning its position within this subgenus. No marker mutations enabling to differentiate O. fastigiatum from O. affine have been found. In absence of such mutations for O. affine and O. striatum, the status of O. fastigiatum cannot be determined unambiguously.
23655687|Genetic variation at 11 isozyme loci was used to explore the levels and apportionment of genetic variation in the eight known populations of Matthiola bolleana, an endemic Brassicaceae to the Eastern Canarian islands of Fuerteventura and Lanzarote. Within islands, ecosystem antiquity and uniformity, lack of evidence for selection or genetic bottlenecks, the high genetic identities between the populations, and the low values of FST converge to suggest that the high levels of variation detected have been maintained in a context of prolonged environmental stability through an overall predominance of outbreeding and unrestricted gene flow. Despite the geographical closeness between Fuerteventura and Lanzarote and the long range dispersal features of the propagules of M. bolleana, we detected a striking qualitative genetic differentiation between the two islands. We suggest that wind direction has made seed and pollen flow between Fuerteventura and Lanzarote much less likely than expected, and that the lack of inter-island dispersal has far overriden the influence of stochastic forces and of the reproductive attributes of M. bolleana in shaping the patterns of inter-island genetic differentiation. However, genetic similarity in M. bolleana is within the ranges defined by Canarian taxa for which the extent of genetic differentiation has also been assessed using the values of isozyme genetic identity.
23645297|Italian representatives of the Cardamine pratensis group were investigated using morphometric, karyological, and molecular (AFLP-fingerprinting) analyses. Focus was on resolving the taxonomic and evolutionary position of C. granulosa from Piemonte (NW Italy) and of populations from central Italy, previously included in C. granulosa or C. pratensis s. str. Results show that C. granulosa is a morphologically and genetically well defined diploid species, but is extremely rare and restricted to a small area in Piemonte. Central Italian populations differ from both C. granulosa and C. pratensis s. str., and, although the morphological differentiation is not strongly pronounced, they show marked molecular divergence, suggesting recognition as a new species, Cardamine apennina. Because of their restricted distribution and diploid chromosomal level, C. apennina and C. granulosa may represent basal and quite isolated lineages, whereas reticulation on diploid and polyploid level has affected remaining lineages of the C. pratensis group. Both Italian endemics are endangered due to rarity and habitat loss. A key for identification of the Italian taxa of the C. pratensis group is also provided.
23644978|We relate nectar sugar composition with floral visitors in samples from two biogeographic regions from Argentina: Chaco (99 spp. from its southern region) and Patagonia (48 spp. from its central region), using our own data published in earlier papers. The variables to be compared were sugar ratio and sucrose percentage. Differences in the sugar composition were observed when comparing both regions. Bee- and butterfly-visited Patagonian species showed lower sucrose percentages and sugar ratios than Chaquean species; i.e., a convergence in sugar composition was not verified. Moth-visited species showed a wide range of sucrose proportions and sugar ratios in both regions with no significant differences between them. As the differences found in sugar ratio between Chaco and Patagonia, according to the predominant pollinator guilds, may have been influenced by the sample size, we searched for similarities in sugar ratios between plants with the same visitor type in a comparative way, comparing our data pooled together against data by Baker and Baker's (1983a). Our data do not agree with theirs, i.e., no trends can be drawn for bees, moths, and butterflies sugar preferences. The exceptions were the hummingbird-visited species that showed a similar pattern in both cases, i.e., there is a convergence among plants offering nectar with a predominance of sucrose. To evaluate whether closely related species within a family have similar nectar composition and flower visitors, regardless of their region, sugar proportions were compared in several families. Hexose nectars were predominant in Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Solanaceae, and Verbenaceae, while sucrose nectars prevailed in Bromeliaceae and Onagraceae. Nectar composition seems to be a more conservative trait than flower morphology. This may be a reason to explain the absence of a convergence in sugar composition between plants growing in different biogeographical regions that share the same animal visitor guilds.
23645247|Nuclear ITS sequences and ISSR profiles provide evidence that Raoulia rubra is endemic to the Tararua Range in the southern part of the North Island of New Zealand. Populations in the South Island previously ascribed to R. rubra are better ascribed to R. eximia. Our findings suggest that glaciation of the central mountains of the South Island during the last ice age have had a major impact on the evolution of the South Island cushion Raoulia species in New Zealand. However, simple hypotheses accounting for the effect of Pleistocene climate change are insufficient to explain patterns of endemism in the group.
23674855|The nuclear-encoded small subunit ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences were determined for Genicularia spirotaenia, Mesotaenium caldariorum, and Staurastrum spec. (Zygnematales) to elucidate the evolutionary position of these green algae. Results of neighbour-joining and maximum parsimony phylogenetic analyses support a monophyletic origin of the Zygnematales within the evolutionary assemblage defined by the Charophyceae (sensu Mattox & Stewart) and land plants. The Zygnematales/Charophyceae/land plants are evolutionarily distinct from the monophyletic lineage defined by the Chlorodendrales, Pseudoscourfieldiales, and the Microthamniales/Chlorophyceae.
23656060|Floral ontogeny and morphology of the Leguminosae are of interest because of their potential to provide characteristics useful for phylogeny. To determine if these features corroborate the phylogenetic segregation of the section Ochopodium from Aeschynomene, this study used comparative analysis between Aeschynomene falcata and A. sensitiva, which are within the sections Ochopodium and Aeschynomene, respectively. Flower buds were analysed by use of scanning electron microscopy. Aeschynomene falcata has a unidirectional initiation of sepals from the abaxial side, and a tendency toward whorled initiation for petals and stamens. At maturity, it has a calyx tube with five lobes, a pubescent standard petal, keel petals with coherent (but not fused) margins above and below the stamens, and a carpel with a long hairy stipe. Aeschynomene sensitiva has a distinct initiation pattern of petals (1st abaxial, 2nd adaxial, and 3rd lateral) and a tendency toward whorled initiation of sepals and stamens. Overlap between sepals, petals, and antesepalous stamens initiation was observed. At maturity, A. sensitiva has a glabrous bilobed calyx and a glabrous standard petal, keel petals postgenitally fused above the stamens, and a carpel with a short and glabrous stipe. Floral ontogeny and morphology of A. falcata are very similar to those of Machaerium and Dalbergia species so far studied, corroborating the phylogenetic proximity of section Ochopodium to these genera. Important features of the floral ontogeny of A. sensitiva seem to be related to the origin of the bilobed calyx, which is shared with the rest of Aeschynomeninae except section Ochopodium, suggesting they are synapomorphies for those species.
23673672|The taxonomic position of Dianthus crinitus Sm. and D. orientalis Adam is discussed and a new subdivision of these two highly polymorphic species into subspecies (geographical races) is presented.
23656123|In this study, cytochemical staining methods were used to follow the cytochemical modifications of microspore cytoplasm and sporoderm in Campsis radicans (L.) Seem. from tetrad stage to mature pollen. Flower buds were collected at different stages of development, and the anthers were fixed and embedded in Araldite. To make cytochemical observations under light microscope, semithin sections were cut and stained with different dyes. Cytochemical methods provided the opportunity to localize the reserve material in the microspore and pollen cytoplasm, to distinguish the different layers of the sporoderm, and to determine its chemical structure at different developmental stages. Microspore cytoplasm contains variable amounts of proteins, lipids, and insoluble carbohydrates at different stages of microsporogenesis. Sporoderm formation starts at tetrad stage by the formation of primexine and is completed at vacuolated microspore stage by the addition of sporopollenin from tapetum. During the vacuolization and enlargement of the microspores, the structure and the chemical composition of the exine are modified. The endexine becomes chemically different from the ectexine. The ectexine is composed of sporopollenin and a small amount of protein, whereas the endexine is composed of sporopollenin, proteins, and traces of polysaccharides.
23664064|The genus Origanum is often referred to as an under-utilized taxon because of its complex taxonomy. Origanum vulgare L., the most variable species of the genus, is a spice and medicinal herb that is characterized by high morphological diversity (six subspecies). In this study, the relative efficiencies of two PCR-based marker approaches, amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and selectively amplified microsatellite polymorphic loci (SAMPL), were used for comparable genetic diversity surveys and subspecies discrimination among 42 oregano accessions. Seven assays each of AFLP and SAMPL markers were utilized. Effective multiplex ratio (EMR), average heterozygosity (Hav-p), marker index (MI), and resolving power (RP) of the primer combinations were calculated for the two marker systems. UPGMA and Structure analysis along with PCoA plots derived from the binary data matrices of the two markers depicted the genetic distinction of accessions. Our results indicate that both marker systems are suitable but SAMPL markers are slightly more efficient in differentiating accessions and subspecies than AFLPs.
23642761|A survey is made of the occurrence, nature and frequency of satellited chromosomes in the agamospermous genus Taraxacum. Species belonging to the 10 sections thought to be most primitive in the genus lack satellited chromosomes. In most other sections, a characteristic satellited chromosome is seen with a large euchromatic region distal to the presumed nucleolar oraniser region (NOR). In sections of a 'precursor' type, there is always one chromosome of this "Taraxacum type" per haploid genome. In sections thought to be of an 'advanced' type the number of such satellited chromosomes is very unstable, sometimes even within the same tissue. In section Hamata, two such satellited chromosomes are invariably found in triploids. This finding strongly supports the integrity of this section, suggests that the species of the section are monophyletic, and have evolved from a single ancestor subsequent to the occurrence of obligate agamospermy. In three sections of the genus, satellited chromosomes of the "conventional type" with a very small distal euchromatic region distal to the NOR are reported for the first time in the genus.
23664378|Molecular DNA based data sets are the most important resource for phylogenetic reconstruction. Among the various marker systems, which were introduced and optimized within the last decade, coding sequences played an important role, especially when molecular clock approaches and multi-gene datasets were assembled. However, non-coding DNA sequences do not only play a quantitatively dominant role, as demonstrated by the two examples nuclear ITS (Internal transcribed spacer regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA) and plastidic trnL-F region, but there is also a wide range of different marker systems that can be applied in different ways. Herein, we review the application of several non-coding nuclear DNA marker systems for phylogenetic reconstructions and summarize valuable information for future research.
23655130|The phylogeny of the Vanguerieae genera Fadogia, Rytigynia, Vangueria, and closely related genera is investigated using nuclear rDNA ITS sequences and plastid trnT-F and rpl16 sequences. Individual and combined analyses reveal several strongly supported clades. There are indications that Fadogia, Rytigynia, Tapiphyllum, and Vangueria are para- or polyphyletic and only Multidentia is strongly supported as monophyletic. Several taxa are found to have incongruent positions in the ITS and chloroplast phylogenies, and possible reasons behind these incongruencies are discussed. For Ancylanthos rubiginosus a chloroplast capture event can explain the incongruent position. In the Fadogia-Rytigynia group the incongruence is more widespread and cannot be attributed to a single taxon or a few taxa, but hybridization and introgression is the most likely explanation for the incongruence. It is concluded that the genera Ancylanthos, Lagynias, Pachystigma, and Tapiphyllum and the three species Fadogia agrestis, Rytigynia fuscosetulosa, and Rytigynia induta should be transferred to Vangueria.
23657044|Recent phylogenetic analyses position Nuphar as the basalmost genus in the Nymphaeaceae, a member of the ANITA grade that is constituted of the three most basal angiosperm lineages [Amborella, Nymphaeales, and Austrobaileyales (Austrobaileyaceae, Illiciaceae, Schisandraceae, and Trimeniaceae)]. In Nuphar the anther is tetrasporangiate. The endothecial cells elongate radially and develop fibrous thickenings. The glandular tapetum persists up to the two-celled pollen stage. Successive microsporogenesis results in the formation of tetrahedral and isobilateral microspore tetrads. Anasulcate pollen is two-celled when shed, with long stout echinae on the surface. A longitudinal ridge occurs in the center of the pollen furrow. The ovules are anatropous, bitegmic and crassinucellate. The inner integument arises as an annular ridge, whereas the outer one initiates as a semi-annular ridge interrupted on the concave side of the funiculus. Later the outer integument becomes a hood-shaped envelope. The micropyle structure is variable in various stages of ovule development. At anthesis the micropyle is formed by both integuments, while before and after anthesis it is formed by the inner integument. This contrasts with all previous reports, which state that the micropyle of Nuphar is formed by the inner integument alone throughout ovule development. Megasporogenesis forms a linear triad of megaspores. At the binucleate stage of female gametophyte ontogeny, the two nuclei are not separated by a large vacuole from the chalazal and micropylar ends. The wide distal region of stigma is covered with high density in unicellullar papillae whereas the narrow adaxial region has sparse unicellular papillae. The present study compares the reproductive morphological characters of Nuphar with those of other nymphaeaceous genera.
23655224|Phylogeny of the Calliergonaceae is reconstructed based on nuclear and chloroplast sequence data, and morphology. Depending on treatment of insertions and deletions, the total number of informative characters was 194 or 163. The study yielded good support for two major clades, one with Hamatocaulis, Scorpidium, and possibly Hygrohypnum ochraceum (Wils.) Loeske, and one with Calliergon, Loeskypnum, Straminergon, and Warnstorfia. Inclusion of H. ochraceum in the ingroup increased tree length, markedly decreased consistency and retention indices, and decreased support for the structure of the Hamatocaulis-Scorpidium clade, and its position within the family is challenged. When H. ochraceum was excluded, good support is found for the genera Hamatocaulis and Scorpidium. Within the other major subclade the monophyly of a clade with Loeskypnum, Straminergon, and Warnstorfia, of a portion of Calliergon, and of Warnstorfia fluitans plus W. pseudostraminea are well supported.
43558153|Mirabilis, a primarily American genus of 50-60 species almost restricted to the New World, is the most diverse within Nyctaginaceae. It not only has the greatest number of species, but also many life forms, with annual herbaceous, suffrutescent and shrubby species and with prostrate, decumbent to erect stems that are sometimes clambering. Stem anatomy has been studied only for M. jalapa, and its characteristics extrapolated to the entire genus. In this study we evaluated the taxonomic significance of stem anatomical characters from 24 species of Mirabilis, as well as their potential relation to habit evolution. Qualitative and quantitative characters of transverse and longitudinal sections were evaluated using light and scanning electron microscopy. Stem anatomy varies in several features. The phloem is arranged in short tangential spreading bands or in large tangential bands forming semicomplete rings; the conjunctive tissue is fibrous, with thinwalled sclereids and fibres, or parenchymatous; the vessels are solitary or grouped in radial multiples or clusters; the xylem fibres are very thin-walled or thin-to thick-walled with simple to minutely bordered pits; most species are raylessness; the pith has parenchyma or thin-walled sclereids or brachysclereids. The distribution of anatomical characters in Mirabilis does not correspond with the current infrageneric classification. We suggest that some stem anatomical characters are correlated with habit and that the vascular cylinder and pith characters are related to an increase in mechanical strength. This study provides new information and novel characters about the stem anatomy not only of Mirabilis, but of the family.
23671351|Pollen morphology is an important source of information to increase systematic resolution in Asteraceae, especially in Vernonieae. Aiming to investigate if palynological traits give support to Caatinganthus, Strophopappus and Xiphochaeta as separate genera from Stilpnopappus, we used cluster analysis followed by a test of group sharpness. Further, ordination analysis was applied to detect informative pollen traits associated with the revealed groups. The analyses evidenced five groups: (G1) Caatinganthus rubropappus as a single-species group; (G2) species of Stilpnopappus; (G3) Xiphochaeta aquatica as a single-species group; (G4) Strophopappus bicolor, S. glomeratus, S. villosus, S. ferrugineus, S. pohlii and S. speciosus; (G5) Strophopappus bullatus and S. regnelli. The interruption in the middle of the muri in apertural lacunae explains the single-species group Caatinganthus rubropappus. The thickness of sexine, the type of apertures (porate or colporate), and spine dimensions (length, thickness and distance from each other) are the traits explaining differences between species of Stilpnopappus and Strophopappus. Equatorial lacunae give support to Xiphochaeta aquatica as a single-species group, despite the smaller size of pollen grains of this species as compared to the others species analyzed. The differences among pollen morphology give support to Caatinganthus, Stilpnopappus, Strophopappus and Xiphochaeta as genera according to the taxonomic classification currently accepted. The used approach was efficient to reveal individual pollen traits informative to explain the sharp groups, and was an effective alternative to the use of "pollen types".
23642600|Chlamydomonas chlorococcoides, a morphologically most interesting new species with a lobate chloroplast was isolated from soils of the island Lavsa (Adriatic Sea, Yugoslavia). Description, pictures and remarks on the reproduction are given.
23642142|The shoot organization and inflorescence structure of Epithema is analyzed. On the main axis micro- and macrocotyledon (the latter falling off early) are followed by a  long epicotyl, then a large, solitary leaf (B3) and above this a dimerous leaf whorl (B4, B5). The last inter-node of the main axis is the "basic internode" of the "main florescence" (Troll). Peculiarly enough, the latter includes only one "partial florescence" which is embraced by its subtending bract (B6) and represents a capitulum-like, congenital, pair-flowered cincinnus. Paracladia arise from the axils of B3 to B5 (sometimes also from the macrocotyledon); they are either reduced to their co-florescence (with the same structure as the main florescence), or carry further shoots resp. co-florescences from the axils of a dimerous leaf whorl.Epithema can be interpreted as anisophyllous.From flower morphology and ontogenesis a number of new differential characters are revealed. Together with shoot and inflorescence characters their systematic and possible functional significance is discussed. Fr den Vegetationskrper von Epithema wird grundstzlich folgender Aufbau festgestellt: Die Hauptachse trgt ganz an der Basis den Mikro- und den Makrokotyledo. Der Makrokotyledo ist hinfllig und ist an der blhenden Pflanze nicht mehr vorhanden. Durch ein meist langes Epikotyl getrennt, folgt ein groes, solitres Blatt (B3) und ber diesem ein dimerer Blattwirtel (B4, B5). Danach setzt sich die Hauptachse in das Grundinternodium der Hauptfloreszenz fort, welche obligat nur eine einzige, von ihrem Tragblatt (B6) umhllte Partialfloreszenz ausbildet. Letztere stellt eine kopfig kondensierte, homaxone, paarbltige Wickel dar. Die z. T. rekauleszent verlagerten und in grerer Zahl (adventive Entstehung?) aus B3 bis B5 (selten auch des  abgefallenen  Makrokotyledos) entspringenden axillren Parakladien erscheinen in zwei Ausb ldungsformen : sie sind nmlich entweder auf die (strukturell der Hauptfloreszenz entsprechende) Co-Floreszenz reduziert, oder sie verfgen noch ber ein laubiges Blattpaar (Bereicherungszone 2. Ordnung), aus deren Achseln weitere Seitensprosse resp. Co-Floreszenzen sprossen knnen. Es wird Evidenz dafr erbracht, da sich die Spro organisation von Epithema von einer vierzeilig-anisophyllen (Acanthaceentyp) ableitet. Weiters werden unter Einschlu der Bltenontogenese zahlreiche neue Bltenmerkmale erhoben und ihre vermutliche funktionelle und  zusammen mit spro- und infloreszenzmorphologischen Merkmalen  systematische Bedeutung diskutiert.
23655756|DNA content was estimated by flow cytometry in seventeen taxa from the Dilatata, Quadrifaria and Paniculata groups of Paspalum and five synthetic hybrids. Results were compared to known genome constitutions and phylogenetic relationships. DNA 2C-values ranged from 1.24 pg in diploid P. juergensii to 3.79 pg in a hexaploid biotype of P. dilatatum. The I genome of three Quadrifaria diploids is 1.2 to 1.5-fold larger than the J genome of P. juergensii (Paniculata). The 2C-values of the IIJJ tetraploids of the Dilatata group are lower than expected based on putative genome donors. Reduction of genome sizes could have occurred after the formation of the allopolyploids of the Dilatata group. The DNA content of all synthetic hybrids is in accordance with the sum of parental C-values. The interactions driving genome downsizing may operate differently during the transition from diploidy to polyploidy than on subsequent increases in ploidy level.
23674099|In contrast to the well-known blue-green algal containing lichens several green algal containing lichens, belonging to very different genera, show regular connections to free-living or  lichenized blue-green algae, mainly Stigonema. Most of these lichens have squamulose thalli. This lichen-algal relationship, regarded as cyanotrophy, may be either facultative or obligate. Some of the species occur only on very poor, acidic rocks on Stigonema, while they occur independent of Stigonema in high nutrient biotops. Obligate species cover the blue-green algae with hyphae and some of these species cover the algae so extensively that one can call these connections paracephalodia.Two species and one variety are new to science from the mainly Himalayan genus Bryonora. They occur in high elevations in Nepal and are cyanotrophic. Bryonora selenospora has thick, halfmoon-shaped to slightly twisted ascospores. The other two new taxa are B. reducta and B. rhypariza var. cyanotropha. There are several other cyanotrophic lichen taxa besides the ones described here. They will be introduced at a later occasion.
23671735|Subtype PIII sieve-element plastids, anthocyanins, spinulose, perforate-tectate pollen grains and the specific seed-coat sculpturing found in two Macarthuria species (M. australis, M. neocambrica) consolidate their placement within Molluginaceae. The unique form of the sieve-element plastids, i.e. with cubic crystals and starch grains (PIIIcfs), finds its closest counterpart in Limeum. The multiple intertwinement of different genera of the Molluginaceae with many other centrospermous families led to a consideration of their more central position within Caryophyllales.
23671358|The aim of this research was to evaluate some old accessions of Cupressus sempervirens L. in Iran and identify any possible relationships exist among them based on phenotypical characteristics. A total of 17 Cupressus accessions mostly grown in situ, from Kerman and Yazd provinces were used. Twenty characteristics (11 quantitative and 9 qualitative) were measured for evaluating the chosen samples. Results from simple correlation analysis showed significant positive and negative correlations for certain important characteristics. Seed length and width were in significant correlation with cone width. There was a close relationship between seed length and width with cone width. Also seed length, seed width and number of total seeds were in significant correlation with cone circumference. The number of seeds per cone was in positive correlation with scale number per cone and number of seed per scale. Factor analysis was used to determine the effective characteristics and the number of main factors. For each factor, a loading value of more than 0.65 was judged as being significant. Effective characteristics were categorized into seven main factors that contributed to 85.5 % of the overall variance. Cone and seed characteristics were defined mainly by the first factor contributing to 25.62 % of the total variance. Cluster analysis divided the trees into two main clusters each consisting of genotypes with lanceolate leaves and ovate, respectively, exception to the thirty sub cluster of the first main cluster that had ovate leaves. The oldest accessions such as Y.A, Y.M, Y.Ch, Y.T 1 , Y.T 2 and K.J1 were located in the first cluster. Most of the accessions, especially the oldest ones, in main first cluster had the open growth habit or semi-open, so that growth habit was semi-closed in second main cluster.
23655626|The floral ontogeny of the Spurge olive (Cneorum tricoccon L.) is studied by means of scanning electron microscopic observations. Special attention is paid to the sequence of initiation of the floral parts, the occurrence of septal cavities, and the development of the nectariferous tissue. The nectary disc arises as a receptacular outgrowth below the ovary and independently from stamen development. By the extensive growth of this voluminous androgynophore, stamen filaments become enclosed by nectary tissue and as a result, they are seated in pits between the lobes of the disc. Between ovary and style, three lobes are present, which are covered with stomata  their function is unknown. The significance of the unusual trimery of the flower is discussed. Floral developmental evidence supports a Rutalean affinity, although more ontogenetic investigations are needed in Rutaceae, subfamily Spathelioideae.
23674771|We have used cDNA clones as probes on Southern blots to detect restriction fragment length polymorphisms among seven Ceratopteris thalictroides accessions, three C. richardii accessions, and one putative interspecific hybrid. We found that the stringency of post-hybridization washes was a critical parameter affecting the quality of our blots; even with homologous cDNA sequences low stringency conditions resulted in a smear of signal, but high stringency washes gave blots with distinct bands. Most probes showed hybridization with four or more genomic fragments. Similarities in the number and size of fragments between and within species indicated that (i) C. richardii shows limited polymorphism among accessions tested, (ii) C. thalictroides is highly polymorphic, and (iii) Hawaiian accessions of C. thalictroides are divergent relative to their continental cohorts and among themselves. The putative interspecific hybrid did not group closely with either of these species.
23673778|Calcium oxalate crystals are reported for the first time in five Geastrum species, G. badium, G. berkeleyi, G. pectinatum, G. pedicellatum and G. striatum, and are illustrated by SEM photographs. Crystal shape, distribution within the genus, precise position in the carpophore, and significance in respect to physiology and taxonomy are discussed.
23642500|The morphology and life history of Chroococcopsis epiphytica nova spec. is described, a German and Latin diagnosis is added. Cultivated plants display some differences in comparison with plants in their natural habitat: calcification occurs only in the natural medium, endosporangia are developed only by cultivated plants. At the basis, where single cells and thalli are attached, a special sort of jelly is produced; it is discernible only by elective staining with methylene blue. The systematic position of the new species is discussed.
23644345|Species of Armeria from the southern part of the Iberian Peninsula have been postulated to undergo extensive reticulate evolution based on ITS sequences as well as morphometric, eco-geographical evidence and crossing experiments. The hypothesis that a rare serpentine endemic (A. villosa subsp. carratracensis) originated from a cross between another serpentine tolerant endemic (A. colorata) and a widespread limestone species (A. villosa subsp. longiaristata) is tested with molecular markers. Sequences from two chloroplast regions [trnL (UAA)-trnF (GAA) and trnD (GUC)-trnT (GGU)], from nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS-1 + 5.8S + ITS-2) as well as RAPD data are used. Variation in chloroplast and nuclear sequence data shows a clear geographical structure irrespective of taxonomic ascription. The putative hybrid taxon shares locally restricted haplotypes and ribotypes both with A. colorata and populations of A. villosa subsp. longiaristata. Species specific markers for the progenitors have not been found and thus a divergent scenario cannot be conclusively excluded. A principal coordinate analysis as well as a UPGMA analysis of the RAPD data based on the Dice coefficient are consistent with the hybrid origin. A joint examination of the various markers together with the previous biological evidence and the geographical structure of the chloroplast and ITS markers raises the likelihood of the reticulate hypothesis. Reasons for inconclusiveness are discussed. Using PCR-RFLPs of artificially synthesized hybrids and backcrosses, evidence for a maternal inheritance of chloroplast DNA in Armeria is provided.
23642835|A survey of Luzula sect. Luzula (Juncaceae) with data on karyology, morphology and distribution in the Iberian Peninsula is provided. Names published from the region are evaluated. L. campestris subsp. campestris, L. c. subsp. nevadensis, L. sudetica, L.  heddae, L. congesta, L.  danica, L. alpina, L. multiflora, and L. multiflora s. 1. are discussed. A diploid taxon with agmatoploid karyotype, morphologically close to L. multiflora and L. alpina, has been revealed and is described as L. multiflora subsp. monticola. L. campestris subsp. iberica has been relegated to the synonymy of subsp. campestris, L. c. subsp. carpetana was found to belong to L. multiflora s. 1.
23673701|The genus Dendrosenecio ("giant groundsels"), encompassing three species and 12 subspecies, is endemic to the high mountains of East and Central Africa where it constitutes the most conspicuous components of the afroalpine vegetation. Two lifeforms, the arborescent and the prostrate rhizomatous, are regarded as the results of evolution from forest-living woody or herbaceous ancestors. Due to the uninterrupted growth period in the tropics, there are no anatomical or morphological features which allow conventional age determination. However, stem elongation rates have been determined (35.5 cm per year) and indicate an age of about 250 years for the tallest arborescent Dendrosenecios which may reach a height of 10 m. 30 to 120 large leaves are clustered in an enormous terminal rosette, justifying the term "giant rosette" plants. A leaf bud, consisting of about as many developing leaves as the rosette contains, is found in the center. During the nocturnal frost period the adult rosette leaves form a so-called night-bud by nyctinastic upwards bending and thus protect the leaf bud from freezing by insulation. The stem is surrounded by a mantle of persistent dead leaves; this ameliorates the microclimate of the pith-cells which greatly contribute to water transport into the leaves. Below the leaf rosette a zone of putrefaction is found, from where the decay of the dead leaves apparently provides nutrients directly to the growing stem. The population dynamics of the arborescent D. keniodendron is characterized by a simultaneous inflorescence development at irregular intervals of up to more than twenty years. Due to sporadic flowering and a seedling survival rate of less than 1%, oscillations of the population size are to be expected.
23674417|Variation patterns in phenotypic plasticity and broad sense heritability of 26 characters were examined within and among closely adjacent habitats of the bearded iris, Iris pumila. It was found that I. pumila has considerable differentiation for phenotypic plasticity and genetic variation over short distances. An analysis of relationships between character differentiation and phenotypic plasticity suggests that they could have evolved independently. Possible mechanisms for maintaining local differentiation of the observed plastic and genetic variation are also discussed.
23674882|Relationships between 9 Oryza species, covering 6 different genomes, have been studied using hybridization and nucleotide sequence information from the 5S Dna locus. Four to five units of the major size class of 5S DNA in each species, 55 units in all, were cloned and sequenced. Both hybridization and sequence data confirmed the basic differences between the A and B, C, D genome species suggested by morphological and cytological data. The 5S DNA units of the A genome species were very similar, as were the ones from the B, C, and D genome-containing species. The 5S DNA of O. australiensis (E genome) grouped with the B, C, D cluster, while the units of O. brachyantha (F genome) were quite different and grouped away from all other species. 5S DNA units from O. minuta, O. latifolia, O. australiensis, and O. brachyantha hybridized strongly, and preferentially, to the genomic DNA from which the units were isolated and hence could be useful as species/genome specific probes. The 5S DNA units from O. sativa, O. nivara, and O. rufipogon provided A genome-specific probes as they hybridized preferentially to A genome DNA. The units from O. punctata and O. officinalis displayed weaker preferential hybridization to O. punctata DNA, possibly reflecting their shared genome (C genome).
23642305|In Echinops the flowers are surrounded by several scales and initiated in an acropetal and spiral succession on a cone-like inflorescence axis (Figs. 16). The floral organs originate in the following sequence: petalsstamenscarpelspappus. The petals arise from a meristematic rim and therefore are already interconnected when they arise as primordia. This sympetalous zone remains rather inconspicuous for a long period, but eventually, the elongated corolla tube is formed through intercalary growth in a ring zone. Thereby, the stamens are moved upwards and form ledges on the corolla tube (Fig. 34). In the inferior ovary the usual zones of the typical angiospermous gynoecium can be distinguished, namely a "synascidiate", "symplicate" and "hemisymplicate" zone. The ovule is borne on carpellary tissue.
23655698|Morphological and cytological characters were analysed among thirty populations of the genus Dactylis L. from Algeria, to understand its infraspecific diversity. Principal Component Analysis using quantitative characters allowed discriminating the tetraploid populations into two subspecies, marina (Borrill) Greuter, localised on sea cliffs, and hispanica (Roth) Nyman, very widespread. Some individuals of these latest populations formed a distinct group, identified as subsp. glomerata Hayek. Three diploid taxa are described in the literature: subspecies santai Stebbins & Zohary, castellata Parker & Borrill and mairei Stebbins & Zohary that are considered as prevalent in Algeria, distributed in Tellian Atlas, in forest ecosystems within mesophytic habitats. Canonical Discriminant Analysis on natural populations and on experimental cultures showed two main groups: the first group corresponds to subspecies mairei, with a narrow distribution; the second one exhibits a wide morphological variability and belongs to santai type. Based on this study, a key to aid in identification of the subspecies is presented.
23674807|Floral scents of male and female inflorescences of three dioecious Salix species were collected by head-space adsorption, and analysed by GC-MS. In Salix caprea and S. cinerea 1,4-dimethoxy benzene was the main compound, and male and female scents showed a high degree of resemblance. No dominant compound was found in S. repens and male-female scent similarity was low. Floral scent in Salix is likely a strong orientation cue, guiding pollinators between male and female plants ensuring pollen transfer and pollination. We suggest that a high degree of male-female floral scent resemblance is coupled to a high degree of insect pollination. Floral scent does not promote reproductive isolation between S. caprea and S. cinerea.
23673753|DNA sequence organization patterns have been studied in four Cucurbitaceae plant species, namely, Luffa cylindrica (sponge gourd), L. acutangula (ridge gourd), Benincasa hispida (ash gourd) and Coccinia indica (ivy gourd). Extensive interspersion of repeat and single copy sequences has been observed in sponge gourd and ridge gourd. In ash gourd and ivy gourd, however, there is a limited interspersion of these sequences and a large portion of the single copy DNA remains uninterspersed. The interspersed repetitive sequences are composed of a major class (7580%) of short repeats (300 base pairs long) and a minor class (1520%) of long repeats (20004000 base pairs) in all the four species. The average length of single copy sequences dispersed among repeats is 18002900 base pairs. In spite of these gross similarities in the genome organization in the four species, the fraction of repeats and single copy sequences involved in short and long period interspersion patterns, and fraction of single copy sequences remaining uninterrupted by repeats are vastly different. The probable implications of these differences with respect to speciation events and rates of genome evolution are discussed.
23645177|We investigated the pattern of intrafruit seed production in Hormathophylla spinosa (Cruciferae) over a 7-yr period. H. spinosa fruit have two chambers, each chamber containing two ovules, and usually situate perpendicular to the infructescence axis with one chamber above the other. The percentage of ovules ripening to seeds is usually lower than 50%. In addition, we found a consistent position-dependence in seed ripening probability, since more than 90% of the ripe seeds are arranged in the lower chamber of the fruit. This pattern of seed production is not produced by the direct or indirect effect of seed predators, by pollen limitation or by nonrandom fertilizations. By contrast, fruit removal experiments showed that sibling rivalry can partially explain the seed production pattern, be the cause of the reduction in the seed number from the uppermost threshold of 50%. Moreover, experimental manipulations of fruit orientation suggest that the position-dependence in seed production is the cause but not the effect of seed ripening. We presume that some architectural effect is producing a significant increase in the ripening probability of the ovules arranged in the lower chamber, causing thus the observed pattern in the intrafruit seed production in H. spinosa and severely constraining the maximum number of seeds per fruit to two.
23655538|Genetic variation in 13 populations of a Balkan endemic, Serbian spruce (Picea omorika (Pan.) Purk.), was investigated using 16 isozyme loci. Serbian spruce is characterized by low levels of genetic variation (average proportion of polymorphic loci was 20.9% and average expected heterozygosity was 0.067). In most populations, a significant surplus of heterozygotes was observed, indicating a strong selection against inbreds. In the largest populations, fixation indices were positive, probably due to within-population differentiation and the associated Wahlund effect. Despite a strong overall differentiation (FST=0.261), no geographical trends in the genetic variation could be identified. Genetic drift caused by small effective population sizes and a strong fragmentation is the most plausible explanation for such variation patterns. A Bayesian analysis of population structure revealed the existence of two clusters, which are supposed to be possible remnants of ancient differentiation within a large range of the predecessor of Serbian spruce, Picea omoricoides Weber. Ex situ conservation measures, namely establishing seed orchards from trees of mixed origin, are proposed as a necessary complement to in situ protection of natural stands.
23673246|The anatomy of the seed coat of the European species of tribe Ericeae (Calluna, Daboecia and Erica) of the Ericaceae family was studied, and the taxonomic importance of their characters was analyzed. The seed coat is mostly formed by a one-cell layer with thick, pitted inner walls and thin outer walls that collapse at maturity over the inner walls. The cell junctions are either raised with anticlinal walls up to four times the height of the periclinal walls or are not raised with similar values for the height of both the anticlinal and periclinal walls. Three main cell junction types were found and described. The thickness of the inner walls is variable, but there is a large overlap among the results for different species. Calluna vulgaris is the only species with no pits, and E. multiflora has a pitted pattern on its inner walls, which is distinctive from the rest of the species. Our main results agree with the external seed morphology, and valuable new data were obtained for certain groups such as the E. cinerea-E. terminalis or the E. scoparia complex. The similarities that are found in seed coat characters are not in accordance with the classical taxonomic delimitation of infrageneric groups within Erica.
43558674|By use of Bayesian statistical inference and allelic data for 18 microsatellite loci, we analyzed the genetic structure of Chinese, Korean, and Japanese pear cultivars and of native populations of Pyrus ussuriensis. Although Japanese pear cultivars had a simple genetic structure, Chinese and Korean pear cultivars were admixures of Japanese pear and native P. ussuriensis from the Asian continent. Genetic differentiation between groups of native populations and those of cultivars was high, but cultivars were not well differentiated from each other. Chinese and Korean cultivars, which have traditionally been classified as either P. ussuriensis, P. bretschneideri, or P. pyrifolia, were much closer to Japanese cultivars, which have traditionally been classified as P. pyrifolia, than to native P. ussuriensis. We propose a new classification of cultivars by using the Group concept in accordance with the International Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants, namely, the Pyrus Ussurian pear group, the Pyrus Chinese white pear group, the Pyrus Chinese sand pear group, and the Pyrus Japanese pear group.
23673869|Chromosome numbers for 26 different species of the genera Piper, Peperomia and Pothomorphe (Piperaceae) are reported. The basic chromosome numbers are 2n = 26, x = 13 (Piper, Pothomorphe) and 2n = 22, x = 11 (Peperomia), polyploid series are characteristic for Piper and Peperomia. Piper has the smallest chromosomes and prochromosomal interphase nuclei, Peperomia the largest ones and mostly reticulate to euchromatic nuclei. Pothomorphe is intermediate in both characters. The karyomorphological differences between Pothomorphe and Piper underline their generic separation. Interspecific size variation of chromosomes occurs in Piper and Peperomia. Infraspecific polyploidy was observed in Piper betle. C-banding reveals different patterns of heterochromatin (hc) distribution between the genera investigated. The genome evolution is discussed.
23674901|Phytogeographical, morphological, and molecular evidence for the widespread but sporadic occurrence of sterile hybrids between Leucaena leucocephala subsp. glabrata and L. esculenta subsp. esculenta in South-Central Mexico is presented. Most morphological and DNA characters studied in the putative hybrids showed states intermediate between the proposed parental taxa. The occurrence of non-additive nuclear ribosomal DNA phenotypes is discussed and the need to use a suite of nuclear taxon-specific markers to determine hybridity is emphasized. The origin of the hybrid is discussed in relation to the disruption of the distributions of both parental taxa through use by man as minor food plants, providing another example of the important influence of human interference on the evolution of Leucaena. The successful use of dried leaf material as a source of DNA is highlighted as an efficient way to identify sterile hybrids at the molecular level.
23671742|In Porcelia goyazensis (2 n = 18) Giemsa C-banding patterns differ from those of Annona reticulata (2 n = 14) and reveal structural heterozygosity. The amplitude of karyological variation in the Annonaceae is greater than expected for a "primitive" woody family. In a comparison with other tropical angiosperm groups, the highly differentiated karyotype of Drimys brasiliensis (2 n = 86) is interpreted as being the end-point of numerous karyological changes.
23655482|The chlorococcalean genus Hemichloris is characterized by the possession of two chloroplasts per vegetative cell. The occurrence of a second species of the genus is reported (H. polyspora sp. nov.). Just as H. antarctica it grows cryptoendolithically in sandstone in Southern Victoria Land, Antarctica. In H. antarctica propagation by two autospores prevails over four, whilst in the new species H. polyspora in general four or eight (rarely 16 or 32) autospores are produced and Borodinella-stages do occur typically. Sexuality and zoosporulation do not exist in both species. Internal structures of chloroplasts can be observed by light microscopy more regularly in H. polyspora than in H. antarctica and under various conditions. Investigations of both Hemichloris species by transmission electron microscopy show them to go back to more or less extended assemblages of plastoglobuli. In both species the plastoglobuli are arranged around tubular inflations of thylakoids and apparently attached to the thylakoids. Keeping the cultures for three (even up to seven) months without light makes them survive and causes coming forth of the chloroplast structure throughout.
23654213|The orchid genus Calopogon contains five species, the widespread C. tuberosus containing three varieties. The members of this small genus have a history of circumscriptional uncertainty, suggesting the need for further taxonomic evaluation. To determine characters distinguishing different groups and to examine their circumscription, we performed morphometric analyses on two different subsets of Calopogon, one of all the currently recognized species of the genus and another of only C. tuberosus, based on 40 vegetative and floral variables measured from live plants. Principal components analyses (PCA) generally did not detect highly distinct groups, but canonical variate analyses (CVA) identified numerous characters that readily distinguish most of these groups, the least distinguishable of these being C. tuberosus var. latifolius. Furthermore, generalized patterns of similarity between taxonomic and geographic sub-divisions within C. tuberosus were further examined on a plant-by-plant basis using squared Mahalanobis distances determined from the CVA of this species. Finally, using three different tests, the degree of morphological diversity was examined for each of the different groups of C. tuberosus, finding that the northern range of the species contained less diversity whereas the southern range generally contained more. We maintain the recognition of all Calopogon taxa except C. tuberosus var. latifolius, and do not recognize any new taxa based on our examinations of geographic partitions of the typical variety of C. tuberosus. However, morphology was observed to vary substantially over the geographic range of the typical variety and this species overall.
23645176|Stem and leaf anatomy of Dendrosicyos socotrana, the only arborescent Cucurbitaceae, are examined for correlations with life form and ecology and are used to test hypotheses regarding features adaptive in scandent plants. The stem consists mainly of ray and conjunctive parenchyma with small strands of xylem forming an anastomosing net throughout the trunk. Xylem strands bear vascular cambia that produce secondary phloem, representing the first report of successive cambia in Cucurbitales. Some features characteristic of lianas, such as very wide vessel elements with thick walls, are absent from Dendrosicyos. Other features, such as very wide rays and abundant axial parenchyma, are present in both Dendrosicyos and lianas but appear to serve differing roles in these different life forms. It is suggested that lianas have numerous features that are readily co-opted in the evolution of pachycaul trees and that the evolution of pachycauls from lianas has happened repeatedly in the core eudicots.
23644176|Calceolaria uniflora and C. polyrhiza differ markedly in flower structure, color, and in their pollination mechanisms. Flowers of C. polyrhiza have a hidden glandular oil-secreting appendage that in the genus typically attracts bee pollinators, while in C. uniflora this is replaced by an external, white and fleshy structure that functions as food body and attracts a bird pollinator. Populations with intermediate flower morphology, presumably hybrids, were found in several sites over a large area of southern Patagonia, Argentina. The intermediate forms have so far been found always in contact or close proximity with typical populations of both presumed parent species. The distribution pattern and phenetic intermediacy in several independent flower characters strongly suggest widespread interspecific hybridization in the range of geographic overlap of the two species. The pattern of variation of intermediate forms in some sites is indicative of a hybrid swarm and possible introgression. Of particular interest is the range of intermediate structures and positions of the flower appendage, between oil gland and food tissue, that can be found in hybrid populations. The observed phenomenon raises several questions concerning the biological mechanisms generating it and its evolutionary consequences.
23674273|The genus Holarrhena, described by Robert Brown in 1811, has had a problematic taxonomic history, in part due to a suite of characters that does not conform with accepted concepts within the Apocynaceae. In a number of important taxonomic characters Holarrhena is typical of subfam. Apocynoideae. But due to the relatively unspecialized structure of the anthers most recent authors have placed Holarrhena, together with Carruthersia and Spirolobium, as the subtribe Holarrheninae in subfam. Plumerioideae. For the present investigation the floral structure and pollen morphology of Holarrhena, Carruthersia and Spirolobium were analyzed. From the chemical literature reports of the occurrence of steroidal alkaloids in the Plumerioideae were evaluated. Our results indicate that the three genera belong to subfam. Apocynoideae in the tribe Nerieae, but that the "Holarrheninae" is an unnatural group, and that the three genera should be accommodated individually within the tribe.
23674887|Estimates of the phylogenetic relationships among cultivated and wild Allium species would benefit from identification of molecular characters. Restriction enzyme analysis of the chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) of the bulb onion (Allium cepa), Japanese bunching onion (A. fistulosum), wild Allium species in sect. Cepa and Phyllodolon, and the outgroups A. ampeloprasum and A. tuberosum detected 39 polymorphisms. Allium cepa and A. vavilovii were identical for all characters. Cladistic analysis generated three most-parsimonious Wagner trees of 44 steps differing only in a zero-length branch. Allium fistulosum and A. altaicum (sect. Phyllodolon) comprised a monophyletic lineage separated from the A. cepa and A. vavilovii of sect. Cepa. The unresolved node was composed of A. galanthum, A. roylei, and the lineage containing A. cepa, A. vavilovii, A. fistulosum, and A. altaicum. The clade containing A. altaicum, A. cepa, A. fistulosum, A. galanthum, A. roylei, and A. vavilovii remained resolved for strict consensus of Wagner trees of 48 steps or less. Allium pskemense and A. oschaninii were increasingly distant. Allium oschaninii has been proposed as the progenitor of the bulb onion, but was more closely related to the common progenitor of all species in sect. Cepa and Phyllodolon. Phylogenies estimated from cpDNA characters using Dollo parsimony resulted in a single most-parsimonious tree of 46 steps and agreed with phylogenies based on Wagner parsimony. Polymorphic restriction enzyme sites in the 45s ribosomal DNA were not used to estimate phylogenies because of uncertain homologies, but are useful for identifying interspecific hybrids. The maternal phylogenies estimated in this study help to distinguish wild Allium species closely related to the bulb onion. Although not in agreement with classifications based on morphology, the phylogenies closely reflected crossability among species in sect. Cepa and Phyllodolon.
23642486|Actively dividing cells from parsley (Petroselinum crispum) and carrot (Daucus carota) (both Apiaceae) and Acer pseudoplatanus (Aceraceae) were used to detect the primary gene product of the rDNA in plant cells. Parsley and carrot cells were labelled with [32P] orthophosphate. In both cases only one high molecular weight rRNA precursor was present on polyacrylamide gels under non-denaturing conditions. Its molecular weight did not exceed 2.5  106 daltons. The component emerged from the heterogenous material after a labelling period of 5-10 min. In parsley cells 45 min after onset of incubation labelled mature rRNA (25S and 18S) arrived in the cytoplasm. In Acer pseudoplatanus (incubation period 60 min) two rapidly labelled components did emerge from polyacrylamide gels; their molecular weights were 2.3 and 3.23.4  106 daltons. After electrophoresis under denaturing conditions the larger component was no longer present, thus indicating that it was an aggregate of different RNA molecules. The molecular weights of the rRNA precursors of D. carota and P. crispum determined after electrophoresis in formamide gels were about 2.1  106 daltons. From these results we have no evidence for the existence of rRNA precursors exceeding the molecular weight of 2.5  106 daltons.
23642680|In Liriodendron tulipifera the Giemsa C-banding pattern differs remarkably from the distribution of condensed chromatin in prophase as revealed by conventional methods. The nature of proximal bands in metaphase chromosomes is interpreted to be different from the terminal ones. A comparison of Liriodendron with some C-banded karyotypes of  related taxa indicates a relatively high degree of karyomorphological differentiation in some woody Polycarpicae. This has to be considered in karyosystematic comparisons.
23674785|Phytogeographic, ecological, morphological, anatomical, cytological, isozyme, and endonuclease restriction site evidence is presented demonstrating that Poa labradorica is of intergeneric hybrid origin between Dupontia fisheri subsp. psilosantha (pistillate parent) and Poa eminens (staminate parent). Poa labradorica is endemic to recently deglaciated areas of northern Quebec and Labrador which are within the overlapping range of the putative parents. Incapable of sexual reproduction, P. labradorica dominates large areas of coastal marsh through vigorous production of rhizomes. Most morphological, anatomical, cytological, isozyme, and DNA characters studied in P. labradorica showed states intermediate or additive to those of the putative parents.
23671774|From a comparison of phytosterol and triterpenoid patterns of several Symphytum officinale cytotypes, S. asperum and their interspecific hybrids, S.  uplandicum, which were obtained from thin layer chromatography and gaschromatography (also in combination with mass spectrometry), the hybrid character of the latter taxon is clearly shown. The specific value of the triterpenoid isobauerenol as a chemotaxonomical marker within this group is discussed in some detail.
23642723|The population variability of Orchis israelitica, O. caspia, and their intermediates, from two localities in Israel, was analyzed and illustrated by scatter diagram and hybrid index. It is suggested that the hybrids are a result of introgression and are closer to O. caspia. Aspects of isolating barriers between these two species are discussed.
23655663|In order to construct a molecular phylogeny of Indonesian Dipterocarpoideae (Dipterocarpaceae), PCR-RFLP of the chloroplast regions rbcL, petB, psbA, psaA, and trnL-F was performed with seven restriction enzymes in 129 samples including 58 species from nine genera. In the strict consensus tree with Monotes kerstingii as outgroup Indonesian Dipterocarpaceae were divided into two major clades. One clade (bootstrap value = 71) consisted of Upuna, Cotylelobium, Anisoptera, Vatica, Dipterocarpus (tribe Dipterocarpeae, bootstrap value = 83) and Dryobalanops (tribe Shoreae, bootstrap value = 99) in a basal position. The second clade consisted of Hopea, Parashorea, and Shorea (tribe Shoreae) with 95% bootstrap support. Tribe Dipterocarpeae is monophyletic, tribe Shoreae is polyphyletic since Dryobalanops is sister to tribe Dipterocarpeae. In the neighbour-joining tree the sister group position of Dryobalanops to tribe Dipterocarpeae is not supported by the bootstrap analysis. Alternatively, we used Upuna borneensis as outgroup. The effect of outgroup selection on tree topology, taxonomic classification and the interpretation of character evolution is discussed.
43558071|The diversity of crystal types is studied in fruiting calyces of 435 out of the c. 7,200 species, and 184 out of the c. 236 genera of Lamiaceae, mainly in the subfamilies Nepetoideae and Lamioideae. Calcium oxalate crystals are found in about half of the studied calyces, and belong to the following main types: prismatics in the inner epidermis, prismatics in fibres, prismatics in sclereids, prismatics in the mesophyll and druses in the mesophyll. Presence of epidermal prismatics may constitute a synapomorphy of the subfamily Nepetoideae or of a subclade within this subfamily consisting of the two largest tribes Mentheae and Ocimeae. The presence of narrow mesophyll prismatics seems to support a large clade of Lamioideae genera in a recent molecular phylogeny of the subfamily. Epidermal prismatics are found to be particularly frequent in closed calyces, calyces with a narrow mouth and internally hairy calyces. These findings and the position of the crystals in the calyces are regarded as supporting the hypothesis that calcium oxalate crystals protect the fruit against insect predators.
23643028|We report the first example of identification of an unknown flowering plant to family level using comparison of DNA sequences. The newly-discovered New Zealand plant had not been identified by traditional methods, but has been placed in the Gondwanic family Cunoniaceae on the basis of the sequence of its chloroplast rbcL gene. It has not flowered, but its vegetative characters are typical of the family. However, it is clearly unusual in several morphological and anatomical features and appears to match no known genus. We consider that, although it probably represents an unnamed new genus, it could possibly be a mutant dwarf form of Weinmannia racemosa, so it is not prudent to name it at this time.
23642210|The distribution of interchange heterozygotes is analysed in one population of each of three species in the tribe Aloneae (Liliaceae). While one population is shown to be clonal the other two indicate that natural selection eliminates interchange homozygotes and maintains the chromosomal uniformity of the tribe. Analysis of a fourth population containing aneuploids and chromosome deletions shows that mutant plants are capable of interbreeding, but that spread of the aberrations is limited.
23657052|Karyotypes of the seven Pyrrhocactus species were studied for the first time with Feulgen staining and CMA/DAPI banding. All showed 2n = 22 (x = 11). The karyotypes were symmetrical with 9m + 2sm pairs, excepting P. catamarcensis with 8m + 2sm + 1st pairs. They had a terminal microsatellite on short arms of pair #1. Pyrrhocactus bulbocalyx possessed a second satellited pair (#2) exclusively detected with Feulgen. Increasing asymmetry was associated with a decline in karyotype size. Fluorochrome banding, applied for the first time in Cactaceae, revealed that nucleolar chromosome pair #1 had one CMA+/DAPI- terminal band in all species related to the nucleolar organizing region; additional pericentromeric bands were found. A pattern of homogeneous sized chromosomes with median and submedian centromeres is conserved in the genus. However, karyotypes can be distinguished by a combination of cytogenetic features. Species diversification in Pyrrhocactus has not been associated with large chromosome rearrangements or polyploidy, but with cumulative small and cryptic structural changes.
23654235|A comparative anatomical and morphological study on the petioles and leaves of 10 neotropical Rondeletia species (representing 10 sections) has been made in order to investigate interspecific variations which may be useful in species identification. All species have bifacial and hypostomatic leaves, contain tannins and crystal sand. The central vascular bundle in the petiole and the midrib are open to the upper side and are collateral. The species differ in presence or absence of non-glandular trichomes, in the structure of the petiole and leaf blade. A combination of these characters may be useful in species identification. The results, however, do not support the classification into 10 sections but provide a comprehensive petiole and leaf anatomical and morphological character-set typical for the genus.
23674228|Pothos crassipedunculatus Sivadasan & Mohanan (Araceae), a new species closely related to the SW. Indian endemic and little known species P. thomsonianus Schott is described. It is characterized by the the non-ligulate, shortly vaginate petiole, thickly peduncled inflorescence, broadly ovate spathe and a sessile spadix. It is included in ser. Brevivaginati Engler of sect. Allopothos Schott.
43558170|Knowledge of variation in ploidy levels and reproductive behaviour in natural populations is essential in order to understand the functioning of agamic complexes. The aim of this study was to analyse the ploidy level and mode of reproduction in several wild Paspalum populations. A total of 19 populations representing five different species (P. alcalinum, P. denticulatum, P. lividum, P. nicorae, and P. rufum) were collected. Ploidy level was determined in 1,187 individuals by using flow cytometry. Among these individuals, 2x, 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x, and 7x chromosome constitutions were observed. Diploid sexual cytotypes of P. denticulatum were detected for the first time; this will allow the development of future breeding strategies for this particular species. Flow cytometry seed screen (FCSS) in bulked and single seeds revealed the reproductive diversity of these species, ranging from complete sexuality in diploids and varying levels of facultative apomixis in most tetraploids, to obligate apomixis in pentaploids and hexaploids. A fully sexual tetraploid plant was never detected. Nevertheless, most tetraploid genotypes produced both maternal (by apomixis) and non-maternal (by sexuality) progeny. This residual sexuality is very interesting from an evolutionary point of view, since it would allow the creation of new genotypic combinations in natural populations. In addition, the residual sexuality found in some apomictic tetraploid populations can be used as a source of variability for genetic improvement.
23643716|The primary pollinator of Polynesian heliconias, Heliconia laufao and H. paka, is the Wattled Honeyeater, Foulehaio carunculata. This report is the first documentation of pollination by honeyeaters in the genus Heliconia and the first record of F. carunculata as a pollinator of a plant species. The Polynesian heliconias bear inflorescences that produce 24 hermaphroditic flowers per day for a period of 23 months. Each flower secretes abundant nectar (125184 l) with low sugar concentration (1518% sucrose-equivalents, weight per weight basis) which is available at anthesis just before dawn. Ninety percent of flower visits occur between anthesis and mid-morning. The honeyeaters perch on inflorescence bracts, and probing of the flower results in pollen deposition on the head and bill from where pollen is transferred between flowers. No statements on compatibility can be made for Heliconia paka; however, Heliconia laufao appears to be self-compatible. Calculations of energetic values of nectar of the Polynesian heliconias and Daily Energy Expenditures of F. carunculata suggest that populations of H. laufao and H. paka serve as rich energy resources for their pollinators.
23642805|The remarkable diversity of fruits in Valerianella and Fedia is revealed by a comparative morphological and anatomical analysis. Characters are evaluated in regard to a new systematic grouping. The knowledge on dispersal biology is summarized and supplemented. Finally, salient features of fruit differentiation are discussed.
23660125|Forty-eight species of Astragalus L. sections Onobrychoidei DC., Uliginosi Gray and Ornithopodium Bunge (Fabaceae) in Turkey were studied in order to describe and investigate their seed morphologies and to evaluate the diagnostic value of this character using a stereoscopic microscope and a scanning electron microscope (SEM). SEM pictures of seeds were taken as a whole and in detail. The systematic implications of the findings are discussed. Six main seed types were observed. A key to identifying the different seed types is provided.
23660118|We have tested whether Scabiosa columbaria s. str. could have originated by recent homoploid hybrid speciation because it is of intermediate morphology and is distributed in areas under glacial influence. Existing morphological and new RAPD data for 11 ingroup populations were analysed using multivariate statistics. Most methods indicated that S. columbaria s. str. could be the first example for a homoploid hybrid origin from Central Europe although a rigorous proof was missing partly because of ongoing introgression. Sequence variation was absent for 5,000 bp from 11 regions supporting a postglacial origin of S. columbaria s. str. An analysis of realized macroclimatic niches using GIS data showed that the niches of S. columbaria s. str. were partly intermediate between its putative parental species rather than extreme as often found in other homoploid hybrids. This could be due to geographical preconditions: large new habitats were available in postglacial Europe while in the case of most other homoploid hybrids only ecologically challenging habitats were not occupied by parental taxa.
23674529|Structural members within the exospore of Selaginella galeottii suggestive of those present at maturity are first detectable when the exospore is approximately 5 m in thickness. Subsequent changes in successively larger sporangia involve a gradual size increase of the component units simultaneously throughout the exospore. Concomitantly, non-membrane bound material present at the inner surface of the tapetum (and the persistent megasporocytes) and throughout the sporangium locule changes from primarily droplets and weft-like material (including beaded wefts) to coarse fibrous material. The taxa which possess this unusual wall pattern cut across presently accepted taxonomic schemes. This is not the case with the other wall ultrastructural types in the genus. The possibility exists that this megaspore wall type defines a separate lineage within the genus which, by virtue of its large megaspores, was able to compete well and radiate to produce a variety of life forms.
23655718|We studied the floral and pollination biology of Amomum maximum. Our observations suggest that flexistyly is present in this species, and stigmatic behavior is similar as reported for Alpinia species. Two phenotypes occur in a ratio of 1:1 in natural populations. No fruit set occurred in the unpollinated bagged plants. Significant differences in seed set between selfing and crossing manipulations demonstrate that inbreeding depression or partial self-incompatibility is apparent in this species. Despite the resemblance in floral behavior, there are still some differences between the previous studies and ours: with special floral design, the body size of legitimate visitors ranged wider in Amomum maximum than in Alpinia species; the presence of anther appendage is suggested to prevent competing and delayed selfing. This is the first report of flexistyly in a wild cardamom species, which is the second largest group in ginger family (Zingiberaceae).
23673946|Dynastid scarab beetles are the main or exclusive pollinators of Annona spp. with large flowers and wide floral chambers. These nocturnal beetles are attracted by the characteristic odours which are caused by measurable temperature elevation of the flowers up to 10C or even 15C above the ambient air temperature. The Annona spp. investigated showed different floral rhythms varying from one to three days. The elaborate and well-coordinated flowering processes, along with floral heating and olfactorial attraction of the night-active Cyclocephala spp., result in a very precise and effective pollination. The floral chamber provides alimentation for the beetles in the form of nutritious food-tissues and pollen and offers a mating place and a well developed shelter against predation and environmental changes. A staggered flowering period and an alternative attraction of different beetle species seems to be more a device for diminishing competition between the co-occurring Annona spp. than a hybridization barrier.
23643645|Karyotype attributes and heterochromatin distribution were used to characterize fourteen taxa of the subtribe Limodorinae (Orchidaceae). The karyotypes were established using morphometrical parameters following Feulgen staining and C-banding. No significant differences in heterochromatin content were found between specimens collected from various sites. Four species of the Epipactis helleborine group possess some chromosome pairs with quite similar heterochromatin patterns; some differences were found in E. distans with respect to other species of this group. Epipactis palustris differed significantly from other Epipactis species in its different karyotype and its numerous terminal C-bands. The largest differences from the other genera were shown in Limodorum as far as karyomorphology and heterochromatin patterns were concerned. C-band distribution indicated similarity among non-homologous chromosomes, supporting a possible palaeo-polyploid origin for the Cephalanthera and Epipactis karyotypes.
23642731|The DNA of Blue-Green Algae may be specifically and most efficiently elucidated by the combined use of the fluorochrome DAPI and DNAse treatment. In Chroococcus turgidus and Synechococcus aeruginosus it forms a network which usually is positioned at the periphery of the centroplasm. At the beginning of cell division it seems to be invaginated by the ingrowing cell wall. Later it must be distributed by other means because two equal parts are connected by a number of fine and straight DNA threads. In Oscillatoria limosa usually all parts of the centroplasm are interspersed with the DNA network. In surface view, the DNA occasionally seems to consist of a number of independant rods, but in reality these are connected to the general network. Division apparantly occurs by ingrowth of the crosswall and usually results in equal daughter nuclear equivalents although occasionally they are unequal. Four strains of Microcoleus vaginatus were found to have nuclear equivalents of the same general appearance as in Oscillatoria limosa.
43496784|A comparative study of Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich. and Taxodium mucronatum Ten. was carried out on the basis of pollen morphology and wood anatomy by light and scanning electron microscopy. We describe a detailed analysis of the anatomical characteristics of the wood, including the tracheids, ray parenchyma, axial parenchyma and number of cross-field pits. Palynological characters were also studied to reveal the shape, size and ultrastructure of the pollen grains. These studies give taxonomic support for the recognition of T. distichum and T. mucronatum as two different species.
23642821|Artificially formed clonal gametophytes of Dryopteris filix-mas (L.) Schott were able to grow and reproduce, although growth rates, proportions of hermaphrodites and reproductive efforts were low. Variable density and nutrient levels appeared to affect gametophytic life histories and they continued to influence the viability of the developing sporophyte generation. Differences between populations and sporophytes were discovered in life histories. Hermaphroditic gametophytes were considerably larger and possessed higher viability than did males. Clear differences between clones in the level of phenotypic plasticity in gametophyte size were observed. No neighbor effect on gametophyte sex expression was detected with the densities and nutrient levels used.
43558332|The objective of this study was to exploit the molecular and morphological variability present in Malus domestica to clarify the confused characterization of apple plantations in the Azores. Most Azorean apples are grown in orchards. They are usually given a local name, and sometimes the same name is used for different cultivars and varieties which share morphology and should be known by different names. Two-hundred samples of apples cultivated in the Azores were analyzed by use of ten microsatellites. The total number of aleles per locus ranged from 10 to 24, with a mean of 15.2. Heterozygosity was high, reflecting the high variability of the samples. Expected heterozygosity varied within a narrow range, from 0.74 to 0.88, whereas observed heterozygosity ranged from 0.41 to 0.98. The high genetic variability contributed to the high discriminating power, which ranged between 0.84 and 0.93. These microsatellites were used to unambiguously discriminate most of the tested apple cultivars on the basis of their allelic profiles. The rooted UPGMA tree organized most of the samples into thirteen main clusters, often with high bootstrap values. We identified 60 synonyms and 32 homonyms among the samples. Moreover, it was possible to relate each individual to its originating population and detect likely parent-offspring groups.
23644976|Insect attraction of flowers in apple cultivars is an essential question from the viewpoint of fruit yield, since apple flowers are autosterile and entomogamous. Therefore, it is important to study the two most significant factors of primary attraction, pollen and nectar production. The composition of nectar in apple cultivars on different rootstocks was investigated, putting an emphasis on sugar components. It was stated that the composition of nectar and the ratio of mono- and disaccharides was almost identical and constant in trees on rootstock M.4, whereas on other rootstocks the effects of the season were more pronounced. In triploid cultivars on rootstocks M.9 and M.26 nectar can be characterised by the dominance of sucrose. Relationship was found between free fertilisation rate of cultivars and sugar amount of nectar. In triploid cultivars nectar sugar content was usually lower than in diploid ones, and reached the bee visitation threshold only in some years, influenced also by the effect of rootstocks.
23643967|Nucleotide variation of the internal transcribed spacer 2 region of nuclear ribosomal DNA was used to estimate the phylogeny of the moss family Hylocomiaceae. Both parsimony and neighbour-joining analyses support the monophyly of this family, as well as all seven of the genera within the family. Rhytidium appears as the basal taxon and a North American clade comprising Rhytidiopsis and Thelia is indicated. The analyses suggest that Hylocomium s. l., a polyphyletic genus, should be divided into three separate genera. The rate of nucleotide substitutions of the ITS-2 region in the Hylocomiaceae is consistent with the hypothesis of a molecular clock based on a relative rate tests. A nearly constant rate of 6.42  1010 substitutions per site and per year is postulated for the family, a rate close to that of the Winteraceae and slower than that of Lopezia.
43558179|We conducted phylogenetic analyses of the sect. Caprini and its closely related sections within Astragalus. Analyses of a combined dataset including nrDNA ETS and three cpDNA markers using maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference from 44 species of sect. Caprini and its allied taxa yielded congruent relationships among several major lineages. These results largely disagree with previously recognized taxonomic groups, most notably in the following ways: (1) subsects. Caprini and Purpurascentes of sect. Caprini are not natural groups; (2) sects. Alopecuroidei and Laxiflori are nested within sect. Astragalus; and (3) subsect. Chronopus constitutes a separate phylogenetic lineage. Representatives of sects. Astragalus, Alopecuroidei, and Laxiflori share a common ancestor with that of sect. Caprini. Our studies indicate that Astragalus annularis is an outlier species for the genus Astragalus and sect. Caraganella is the first-diverging clade within the genus Astragalus. Results of these analyses are supported by morphology and suggest the need for new taxonomic delimitations, which are forthcoming. Key morphological characters were mapped onto the phylogenetic tree and discussed.
23643973|Representatives of the C. pratensis complex were analysed for allozymes, ITS, non-coding cpDNA, and RAPDs to elucidate phylogenetic relationships and the historical biogeography of this species group. Our concepts differ in some important aspects from current ideas. Two diploid species from southeastern Europe form the Basal Group of the complex. A diploid from the Iberian Peninsula represents another old lineage. The phylogenetically younger Derived Group comprises diploid taxa and all known polyploid taxa. The two old lineages represent pleistocene relicts which were not involved in the formation of the Derived Group. All polyploids evolved in postglacial time from diploids of the Derived Group which may have survived the glaciations in refugia centered around and within the Alps. The arctic-circumpolar C. nymanii is of young age and migrated to Scandinavia in postglacial times from south to north.
23669765|NORs and interphase nucleoli have been silver stained in Allium cepa, A. fistulosum, reciprocal crosses between both species, and in different strains of top onions which originated from hybridization between A. cepa and A. fistulosum. The variability observed in size, number, and position of active NORs and correspondingly in number (and size) of interphase nucleoli is at least in part strain-specific. These data are taken to indicate that NORs in Allium behave like movable genetic elements.With respect to the staining specifity of silver nitrate, it was found that AgNO3 labels (1) nucleoli, (2) NORs (i.e., actively transcribed "ribosomal genes") inside the achromatic secondary constrictions, and (3) sometimes (but less pronounced) centromeres; Giemsa banding labels heterochromatin surrounding the NOR but not the nucleolus organizing secondary constriction.
23673708|The somatic chromosomes of Limnobium spongia have been studied for the first time. Its number is 2n = 24; the karyotype is composed of 5 m pairs + 3 sm pairs + 4 st pairs. Pairs 3 and 11 bear microsatellites. Results are compared with previous chromosome reports for the family, mainly as regards the taxonomic status of Limnobium versus Hydromystria; our findings seem to support the point of view of those who favour the independence of both generic entities.
23660107|A clinal range of morphological variation between two coastal endemic species of the Genus Armeria in Portugal (A. pseudoarmeria and A. welwitschii) was investigated to test the hypothesis of hybrid advantage in contact zones between species. The putative F1 hybrids morphotypes could be submitted to endogenous selection as most of them show deficiencies in pollen fertility and seed setting in comparison with the parental species. Reciprocal transplant experiments in three sectors along the cline revealed that the intermediate F1 morphotypes are less productive in biomass than the parents even in their sector of origin. These data do not show evidence for the Hybrid Bound Superiority Model. Rather they are in favour of the Tension Zone Model where a dynamic balance is obtained between the continuous production of hybrids and the selection against them. Nevertheless the Tension Zone Model postulates similar fitness for the parents along the cline, which is not the case as the parents are clearly differentiated for nutrient uptake. Soil and plant leaf elemental analysis revealed that, in transplantation, some of the hybrids correspond to a geochemical specialisation diverging from that of the parents suggesting a local adaptation. Owing the high frequency and the healthy developmental aspect of the intermediate morphs in central and northern sector selection must be weak against hybrids. It is concluded that in natural situations the two models could not be strictly exclusive.
43558186|In this paper, we studied the floral biology of Tecoma fulva ssp. garrocha and T. stans in Vaqueros (Salta, Argentina), where both species coexist. We tested the idea that floral traits are associated with the pollinator types that visit them. According to our results, T. fulva ssp. garrocha presented traits common to bird flowers and were visited by two species of Trochilidae (Colibr serrrostrs and Chiorostilbon lucidus). In addition, T. stans exhibited traits common to hymenoptera flowers and were visited principally by Apis mellifera and Bombus atratus. This study showed that floral traits are predictive of animal visitors.
23645153|Sequences of the nuclear region ITS and the variable molecular markers ISSR were used to estimate the phylogeny of the section Melanium of the genus Viola. We confirm that the so-called pansies form a derived and monophyletic group. Two floral characters, the upturned side petals and the large size of pollen grains appear to be synapomorphies in Melanium. The Melanium species are very closely related, as shown by the reduced genetic variation compared to the other sections of Viola. Our analyses suggest x = 5 or x = 7 as the possible base chromosome number of the section Melanium. Polyploidy and hybridization would have played an important role in the evolutionary history of this clade resulting in a wide range of chromosome number. The low genetic differentiation and the complex cytological evolution suggest that diversification in Melanium is the result of a reticulate evolution and rapid radiation in Europe and Northern Africa.
23642772|The Vicia sativa aggregate contains plants with different chromosome numbers karyotypes; they are still cross-compatible and have partially fertile F1-hybrids. There is also wide adaptive radiation and geographic distribution. The seed protein profiles of V. sativa agg. are remarkably variable but no band or bands could be related to a specific karyotype, chromosome number or taxon, and variation within and between karyotypes are of the same magnitude. It is suggested that variation in the seed proteins of V. sativa agg. might be an important agent for acquiring ecological flexibility, and that it is probably enhanced by interkaryotypic hybridization.
23642191|All North American annual species of the genus Microseris have a five-part pappus, the one South American annual, M. pygmaea, has ten pappus parts. The pappus develops over a constant number of ten provascular bundles with or without inhibition between alternate sites of pappus development. Each natural population contains a predictable proportion of achenes with aberrant pappus part numbers. Hybridization between M. bigelovii (5 parts) and M. pygmaea results in F 1 and F 2 plants with many aberrant achenes. In each plant either five or ten can be shown to be the basic number with aberrant numbers following a Poisson distribution for numbers added to 5 or deleted from 10. Occasional plants show no basic number but have a random distribution of numbers about an intermediate mean. The evolutionary genetics of this character is discussed.
23660155|Phylogenetic analyses of sequence data from two plastid genes (rbcL and ndhF) and two single-copy nuclear genes (DMC1 and EF-G) are used to elucidate the origin of the tetraploid, monotypic Hordelymus europaeus. Previous data have mostly shown an allopolyploid origin of Hordelymus, but very recently it was suggested that Hordelymus is autoploid. The present analysis, including representatives from all basic genome types accepted in the Triticeae, lends support to an alloploid origin. There is substantial support for the progenitor of Psathyrostachys as female genome donor of Hordelymus. Individual nuclear gene trees disagree about the male genome donor, but combined analysis of all data weakly supports the common progenitor of Pseudoroegneria and Henrardia as the male genome donor.
23673650|Infraspecific cytogenetical variation was studied in a diverse collection of five non-cultivated and cultivated Cucumis sativus accessions. The individual chromosomes of different accessions could be identified by the C-banding pattern and chromosome measurements. About 4050% of the genomic area are made up of heterochromatin in C. sativus. The non-cultivated accessions exhibit more heterochromatin and lower chiasma frequencies per pollen mother cell than cultivated accessions. There is infraspecific variation in C-banding pattern, karyomorphology and multinucleolate cells. The use of C-banding in infraspecific classification is discussed.
23642339|Chromosomes with active nucleolus organizer regions (NORs) were visualized in root tip metaphases of Phaseolus coccineus using the silver staining technique. A mean number of 5.5 Ag-NORs per cell was observed in 54 cells from eight plants. In the endopolyploid nuclei of the suspensor the silver technique did not demonstrate the reported specificity for nucleolus organizer activity, because there was usually pale staining of nucleoli and preferential staining of heterochromatic regions in the polytene chromosomes including pericentromeric material, telomeres and NORs. The mean number of NORs per nucleolus as detected by this method was 5.8 (28 nucleoli analysed). Using a modified preparation technique, giant chromosomes stained pale, but nucleoli of suspensor cells displayed darkly silver staining internal domains, each of which originating from a nucleolus organizer.Giemsa C-banding of endopolyploid suspensor nuclei revealed C-positive nucleolus organizers with darkly staining intranucleolar fibrils. The latter were frequently involved in inter-NOR associations. In 34 nucleoli analysed, the mean number of Giemsa C-positive NORs per nucleolus was 6.0.
23643116|Opuntia brunneogemmia and O. viridirubra occur sympatrically in the Serra do Sudeste, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Their flowers have 450600 thigmonastic stamens and provide large amounts of pollen and nectar for bees. Bees of 41 species were registered at the flowers of O. brunneogemmia and 30 at the flowers of O. viridirubra. Females of three oligolectic species are the only effective pollinators: Ptilothrix fructifera (Anthophoridae), Lithurgus rufiventris (Megachilidae), and Cephalocolletes rugata (Colletidae). During their visits in Opuntia-flowers, bees touch the filaments and stimulate the movement of the stamens to the centre of the flower. At the end of this movement, the anthers are densely packed around the style. As a consequence the pollen is presented in an easily accessible upper layer of anthers and various, nearly inaccessible lower layers. The lower layers contain about 80% of the pollen reward. Only females of the three oligolectic pollinators exploit the pollen from the lower layers and reach the nectar furrow. Therefore, through their stamen movements, Opuntia flowers hide most of their pollen from flower visitors but favour effectively pollinating, oligolectic bees.
23644334|This paper reviews the literature concerning digestion and nutrient content of pollen. Four topics are addressed in detail: 1) The mechanism of pollen digestion by animals; 2) The efficiency of mechanical and digestive removal of pollen content by various animals; 3) Range and taxonomic distribution of pollen nutrients, and 4) Adaptive hypotheses proposed to associate pollen chemistry with pollinator reward. Studies on the mechanism(s) of pollen digestion remain inconclusive, but suggest that differences in digestibility among pollen types may reflect differences in pollen wall porosity, thickness, and composition. Although hummingbirds reportedly digest pollen very poorly, most animals studied, including those that do not regularly consume pollen, can digest 100% 50of ingested grains. Overlooked and recent research of pollen protein content shows that pollen grains may contain over 60% protein, double the amount cited in some studies of pollen-feeding animals. Adaptive hypotheses that associate pollen starch and pollen caloric content with pollinator reward remain unsubstantiated when critically viewed through the lens of phylogeny.
23644060|The hybrid Potamogeton  fluitans Roth is thought to have resulted from hybridization between P. lucens L. and P. natans L. This hybrid has only been recorded at a few locations in the British Isles. At most of these sites the number of individuals found have been quite low. The one exception to this being a population in the Moors River, Dorset and South Hampshire, England, where a substantially larger population exists. Using seven different enzyme systems, this study provided support for the putative parental origin of this hybrid. In addition, the population in the Moors River was shown to contain numerous multi-locus phenotypes suggesting that these individuals may be partially fertile and may backcross to one of its parental species, or alternatively undergo selfing or crossing to produce an F2 generation.
23669989|Electrophoretic examination of allozymes from 189 Camellia japonica cultivars revealed some banding patterns not explainable by codominant diploid genetics. At several loci encoding dimeric enzymes, 5 and 6 banded patterns were observed in 7 cultivars. These patterns are interpreted as resulting from triploidy or aneuploidy, where three variant alleles code for products which are electrophoretically distinguishable and associate to form three homodimers and three heterodimers. The presence of allozyme multiplicity in these clones suggests a sexual rather than a somatic mode of triploid origin.
23659853|Pilosella alpicola subsp. ullepitschii (Asteraceae) is a strictly allogamous, diploid Carpathian endemic. Its distribution range comprises two areas separated by about 600 km. While in the Western Carpathians (Slovakia and Poland) the taxon occurs in numerous sites, only four localities of man-made origin are known from the Eastern and Southern Carpathians (Romania). We used allozyme markers to test two likely possible scenarios for the origin of this disjunction: long distance dispersal and vicariance. Our data indicate a significant loss of genetic diversity in the isolated Eastern and Southern Carpathian populations in following genetic parameters (averaged per region): percentage of polymorphic loci (38.9% found in the Eastern and Southern Carpathians versus 58.3% in the Western Carpathians), allelic richness (1.4 vs. 1.6), expected heterozygosity (0.134 vs. 0.235), mean number of distinguishable multilocus genotypes (4.3 vs. 10.6) and proportion of distinguishable multilocus genotypes (0.34 vs. 0.68). Higher proportion of homozygous loci found in the Eastern and Southern Carpathian populations might indicate a higher rate of inbreeding due to non-random mating. We assume that these genetically depauperate populations have experienced a very strong genetic bottleneck, probably due to a founder effect. Although our data suggest that the long-distance dispersal model is most likely, more discriminate genetic markers should be used to test this further.
23674622|The anatomical and morphological structure of the lichen Caloplaca coralligera (Hue.) Zahlbr. was investigated in connection with mechanisms of colonization and adaptation to the special conditions of maritime Antarctic. Caloplaca coralligera seems to be endemic to the antarctic region. The lichen is unique in its morphology, growing like a crustose lichen with a prothallus, but the very thallus being composed of many vertical, frutescent branches not higher than large isidia. Due to fusions of the distal parts of the branches the morphology is characterized by air-filled cavities between the erect thallus parts where the phycobionts are located only close to the outermost surface. But also anatomically a system of air-filled cavities is developed by a net-like structure of hyphae. This may result in an insulation from temperature exchanges with the rocky substrate. It is speculated that this peculiar thallus structure might be advantageous to a lichen growing on compact substrates by buffering the diurnal temperature extremes which are characteristic for rocks under a strong radiation exchange with the atmospheric surrounding.
23642848|Twenty-six accessions of wild Arachis species and domesticated peanuts, A. hypogaea, introduced from South America were analyzed for random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). The objective of the study was to investigate inter- and intraspecific variation and affinities among species of sect. Arachis which have been proposed as possible progenitors for the domesticated peanut. Ten primers resolved 132 DNA bands which were useful for separating species and accessions. The most variation was observed among accessions of A. cardenasii and A. glandulifera whereas the least amount of variation was observed in A. hypogaea and A. monticola. The two tetraploid species could not be separated by using RAPDs. Arachis duranensis was most closely related to the domesticated peanut and is believed to be the donor of the A genome. The data indicated that A. batizocoi, a species previously hypothesized to contribute the B genome to A. hypogaea, was not involved in its evolution. The investigation showed that RAPDs can be used to analyze both inter- and intraspecific variation in peanut species. Southern hybridization of RAPD probes to blots containing RAPD of the Arachis species provided information on genomic relationships and revealed the repetitive nature of the amplified DNA.
23673814|Phagnalon rechingeri spec. nova from S Baluchestan (Iran) is described as a species new to science and illustrated; its relationships to other species of the genus, in particular to the Ph. woodii group from S Arabia, are discussed.
23642996|Species boundaries and phylogenetic relationships of 17 taxa of Anthriscus (Apiaceae), with special emphasis on the critical sect. Cacosciadium, were explored using morphological data with principal component analysis, phenetics, and phylogenetics. The analyses did not provide satisfactory resolution of taxa from sect. Cacosciadium and only four species were retained. The total number of species was reduced to nine. Sect. Cacosciadium is distinguished by only two synapomorphies while sects. Anthriscus and Caroides are better supported. Present geographic and ecological variation suggests that the radiation of Anthriscus occurred through divergence of peripheral isolated populations adapting to different habitats: high montane meadows and screes, shady climax forests, and seasonally dry habitats at lower altitudes. The adaptive significance of particular morphological traits is discussed.
23643190|Variation at six polymorphic enzymatic loci was studied in 50 populations of the selfing annual Polygonum aviculare from Belgium. The results show that the P. aviculare complex has an allopolyploid origin and comprises two main genetic entities, viz. P. aviculare subsp. depressum (2n = 4x = 40), restricted to urban sites subject to trampling stress, and P. aviculare subsp. aviculare (2n = 4x = 40, 2n = 6x = 60), with a wider ecological amplitude. The latter had a higher genetic diversity and a higher frequency of fixed heterozygosity than the former. Within P. aviculare subsp. aviculare, genetic diversity and ecological amplitude correlated positively with ploidy level. Additionally, stronger genetic differentiation among and lower variation within populations was found in urban areas than in cultivated fields.
23674838|Morphological and karyological investigations as well as crossing experiments were carried out with R. cacuminis, R. crenatus, and R. alpestris. A key is presented including all 6 taxa of the R. alpestris-group. Ecological and geographical data for the Balkan Peninsula are also presented. R. cacuminis is diploid with 2n = 16 chromosomes as all taxa of the group, its karyotype exhibits no statistically significant differences to those from the 5 other taxa. In crossing experiments between R. cacuminis and R. alpestris, no hybrids could be obtained, whereas those between R. cacuminis and R. crenatus were slightly successful. According to its morphology, geographical distribution, and crossing behaviour, R. cacuminis is closely related to R. crenatus, and probably has originated from R. crenatus by quantum speciation.
23643741|The stapeliads (Apocynaceae  Asclepiadoideae  Ceropegieae) form a group of highly succulent, practically leafless plants with a very diverse floral morphology. They are found in the drier parts of the Old World from southern Africa eastwards to Burma. 55 characters are selected on which a cladistic analysis is based and these are discussed in detail where necessary. From this a phylogeny is produced for the stapeliads. It is shown that they are monophyletic and that they are nested within a larger group among the tribe Ceropegieae of the subfamily Asclepiadoideae. Several of the important innovations that have led to the diversification of the stapeliads in semidesertic regions are discussed. The stapeliads appear to be mainly fly-pollinated. The methods of attraction of flies are mentioned and it is suggested that there are four basic floral types among the stapeliads.
23673959|C-band patterns are described for 20 Lilium spp. distributed across six sections. All species have a similar basic karyotype (n = 12) but C-bands differ markedly between them. The patterns are characterized by a dispersed scattering of thin intercalary bands as well as centric and NOR bands. Only one species, L. canadense, shows a clear equilocal pattern with intercalary C-bands occurring proximally in all of the longer chromosome arms. Comparing species, similar patterns are revealed for L. regale and L. sulphureum, for L. formosanum and L. longiflorum (all in sect. Leucolirion) and to a lesser extent for L. hansonii, L. martagon, and L. tsingtauense (sect. Martagon). The pattern for L. henryi (previously classed in sect. Sinomartagon) matches those of L. regale and L. sulphureum quite well and its transfer to sect. Leucolirion is proposed. This is consistent with results from interspecies hybrids between L. henryi and L. regale (and related species) which are reportedly fertile. No other clear similarities in C-band patterns were seen across species. It seems that C-band patterns change rapidly in Lilium and hence their usefulness in classification will be restricted to identifying closely related species.
23642234|This study investigates the influence of host plants on the expression of floral variability in the hemiparasite Orthocarpus densiflorus (Scrophulariaceae), to determine if interaction with host plants can facilitate the expression of normally hidden genes. Style extension in O. densiflorus is highly uniform in natural populations, with less than 1% of the individuals exhibiting an aberrant extended-style condition. Both seed treatment with giberellic acid and parasitic development with host plants significantly facilitates the expression of extended-style in progenies that show only minimal expression when grown autotrophically. Artificial selection experiments demonstrate the range of potential phenotypic variation to be under genetic control, and differentially influenced by the host environment. Although the biochemical basis of the host influence is unknown, some host plants produce stimuli that apparently disrupt buffering in O. densiflorus and expose normally unexpressed genetic variability to selection. If variation in other traits is similarly affected, the influence of host chemistry may provide parasitic plants with a greater than normal opportunity for rapid selectional change.
23656015|We studied the variation on floral traits of Narcissus cyclamineus, a species endemic to the northwestern Iberian Peninsula. We analyzed the effect of different breeding systems and the degree of herkogamy and stigmatic exertion on female reproductive success. Results showed that, while variation on floral structures is relatively low (i.e. less than 25% for all sterile structures), CVs for herkogamy and stigmatic exertion are much higher. We also found a considerable variation among populations in the relative position of stigmas and anthers and a significant effect of breeding system (facilitated autogamy, spontaneous autogamy or xenogamy) on fruit set and seed production. The number of seeds per fruit bears no relation with corona size, degree of stigmatic exertion or herkogamy. However, herkogamy showed a marginally significant effect on mean seed weight per fruit. The results highlight the need to analyze the influence of continuous variations in the position of floral organs on the reproductive success of the monomorphic species of the genus Narcissus.
23643076|The internal transcribed spacer region of the 18S25S nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat was sequenced from 28 populations of the aureoid Senecio complex as well as two populations from the Lugentes group and one from the Tephroseroid group. Divergence levels for populations within the aureoid complex are very low (0.0 to 4.1%). Phylogenetic trees generated from the sequence data provide no support for the recognition of Aurei, Tomentosi and Lobati subgroups within the aureoid complex. With two Lugentes and one Tephroseroid species as outgroups, Senecio glabellus is the sister group of the rest of the aureoids. The high level of divergence between the aureoids and the three outgroup species indicates that the Lugentes and the Tephroseroids may not be closely related to the aureoids.
23643725|Floral organogenesis and development of the tropical legume trees Dalbergia brasiliensis, Machaerium villosum, Platymiscium floribundum, and Pterocarpus rotundifolius were studied using scanning electron microscopy. The aims were to compare ontogenies and to elucidate if floral ontogenetic data will provide new character states diagnostic of the tribe Dalbergieae, which is considered a basal papilionoid tribe and primarily defined on fruit characters. Organ inception is principally acropetal in all taxa studied. Carpel inception is, however, consistently precocious. In D. brasiliensis sepals are initiated in an order not previously reported in Papilionoideae. It may be considered modified helical. In P. rotundifolius the inner whorl of stamens initiate in an unusual way, this is lateral two stamens first, then the two abaxial ones, and last the adaxial one, opposed to the unidirectional order usually seen in Papilionoideae. Generally the differences in flower development among the studied genera appear at initiation and late stage in ontogenesis, rather than at midstage.
23657066|A phylogenetic survey of representatives from all New World and several Old World supraspecific groupings of Cleome, as well as from the closely related Podandrogyne and Polanisia, was conducted based on separate analysis of nuclear ribosomal ITS sequences and of morphological characters. Parsimony analysis of the molecular data recognized this group of cleomoid taxa as a strongly supported monophyletic lineage. Podandrogyne was imbedded within a highly supported Andinocleome clade, whereas Polanisia was placed as a member of a North American/Old World Cleome s. l. clade but with low support. The ITS data also indicated the sequential divergence of several basal Old World (sects. Cleome, Gymnogonia, Ranmanissa and Rutidosperma) and North American (subg. Physospermon, sect. Peritoma) lineages followed by more recent splittings of Central and South American lineages (the Andinocleome (sects. Pterosperma and Rimosperma) group, and sects. Melidiscus and Tarenaya). The morphological data showed extensive homoplasy and did not resolve the phylogeny of these cleomoids, although the cladistic analysis distinguished two poorly supported (subg. Eucleome and sect. Tarenaya) clades. Despite this, several sets of morphological and chromosomal secondary synapomorphies served to characterize the main sectional clades recovered in the molecular tree. Based on the strong support of the Cleome + Podandrogyne + Polanisia clade and the insufficient resolution and low support of the basal branches of this tree, and on the inherent homoplasy and unsatisfactory resolution of the morphological diagnostic traits used to characterize these taxa, a reunification of the three cleomoid genera under a large genus Cleome s. l. would be advisable. A biogeographical interpretation of our molecular phylogeny indicated and earlier origin of the ancestral Cleome lineages in the Old World, followed by colonization of North America and then a subsequent expansion towards central and South American with more recent secondary radiations in these subcontinents.
23674386|The anther wall layers of Cypripedium cordigerum are six to eight. The glandular tapetum is 2- or 3-layered and its cells are uninucleate. Simultaneous cytokinesis results in decussate, isobilateral and tetrahedral pollen tetrads. Ripe pollen grains are 2-celled. The mature ovules are anatropous, bitegmic and tenuinucellate. Both the integuments are dermal in origin and 2-layered. The inner integument alone forms the micropyle. The female gametophyte is 6-nucleate and bisporic. The reduction of nuclei is due to the "strike" phenomenon. Double fertilization occurs. The primary endosperm nucleus divides to form two free endosperm nuclei. The mature embryo is undifferentiated. The cells ca, m and n contribute to the embryo. The suspensor is single-celled. The seed coat is formed entirely by the outer layer of the outer integument. There are three sterile and three fertile valves in the ovary. In the prefertilization stages these valves consist of parenchymatous cells with starch and raphides. After fertilization, the sterile valves develop sclerotic cells whereas the fertile valves remain parenchymatous. The pericarp structure and embryological features support the retention of tribe Cypripedieae within the Orchidaceae.
23655901|Reiteration is a widespread component of plant growth whose evolutionary importance in ferns is not recognized widely. We introduce and discuss the growth architecture of Kaplanopteris clavata, a fossil filicalean fern from the Pennsylvanian (ca. 305 million yeas old), focusing on types of reiteration exhibited by this species and on the adaptive and phylogenetic significance of reiteration for ferns in general. Kaplanopteris clavata combines two types of reiterative growth where growth modules are borne on fronds: (1) entire fronds derived from primary pinnae, and (2) epiphyllous plantlets. This combination of reiterative pathways, unique among fossil and living ferns, allowed K. clavata to explore ecospace through an opportunistic combination of scrambling, climbing and epiphytic growth. Kaplanopteris clavata underscores the organographic importance of fronds (as opposed to stems) in the adaptive architecture of ferns, emphasizing functional convergences between the different Bauplne of ferns and angiosperms. This unique combination of reiterative pathways is interpreted as a derived condition illustrating the structural and developmental complexity achieved by some filicaleans during the first major evolutionary radiation of leptosporangiate ferns.
23657320|Crystal macropatterns in Fagaceae and Nothofagaceae were examined from cleared herbarium leaves (eight genera, 122 spp.) by polarizing microscopy. Prisms and druses dominate, but previously undescribed intermediate forms occur in 25 species of Fagaceae. Sixty-two species had only prisms associated with vein orders 14, but smallest orders 5 and 6 had few or no crystals. In mesophyll, 98 species had small druses in spongy parenchyma and larger but fewer druses in palisade parenchyma. Subfamily Fagoideae conformed closely to this macropattern, Castaneoideae less so. Six Castaneoideae species lacked vein crystals. Two Fagoideae species and seven Nothofagus species lacked mesophyll crystals. Druses with prominent cores occur throughout Fagaceae but none were seen in Nothofagaceae. Tabular presentation of results shows significant although overlapping trends from Fagoideae to Castaneoideae to Nothofagaceae, with the latter taxon deviating most from Fagaceae.
23643360|A ribosomal DNA region, including the entire 5.8S RNA gene and the internal transcribed spacers ITS 1 and ITS 2, was used for studying the phylogeny of Salicaceae and the relationship between Salicaceae and Flacourtiaceae. The length of the ITS regions within Salicaceae and Flacourtiaceae was similar to that found in other angiosperms. The GC content of both ITS regions was high, varying 62.772.2%. The most parsimonious tree clusters the wind-pollinated Chosenia bracteosa among the Salix species, suggesting that it should be included in the genus Salix. The grouping within Salix leaves subg. Salix as paraphyletic, for which reason the subgeneric division is questionable. Populus was monophyletic and formed a sister group to Salix. The interspecific variation of the ITS sequences was very small in Salicaceae, which is in contradiction to the age of the group according to the evidence from fossil data. Idesia polycarpa from Flacourtiaceae shows great sequence similarity with Salicaceae, but the analysis of 5.8S rDNA supports monophyly of the four species of Flacourtiaceae sampled for this study.
23674870|Studies on chromosome numbers and karyotypes in Orchid taxa from Apulia (Italy) revealed triploid complements in Ophrys tenthredinifera and Orchis italica. In O. tenthredinifera there is no significant difference between the diploid and the triploid karyotypes. The tetraploid cytotype of Anacamptis pyramidalis forms 36 bivalents during metaphase I in embryo sac mother cells. Aneuploidy was noticed in Ophrys bertolonii  O. tarentina with chromosome numbers n = 19 and 2n = 38. There were diploid (2n = 2x = 36), tetraploid (2n = 4x = 72), hexaploid (2n = 6x = 108) and octoploid (2n = 8x = 144) cells in the ovary wall of the diploid hybrid Ophrys apulica  O. bombyliflora. Evolutionary trends in Ophrys and Orchis chromosomes are discussed.
23656138|In Croatia and the surrounding area, the genus Iris is represented with about 20 Alpine-Dinaric, Mediterranean and Pannonian taxa from the subgenera Iris and Limniris. We researched pollen morphology of all taxa by using scanning electron microscopy. All pollen grains are sulcate with few palynological features, which could have taxonomic importance on different classification levels: shape of dry pollen grains; shape, outline and approximate size of hydrated pollen grains, approximate size of the sulcus, and ornamentation of the sulcus membrane and of the exine. At least four pollen types were recognised and taxonomically delimited to the series level: two characterise the subgenus Iris, section Iris (series Elatae and Pumilae), and two the subgenus Limniris, section Limniris (series Laevigatae, Sibiricae and Spuriae). Taxonomic implications of pollen morphology of their critical groups and taxa have been evaluated. Possible phylogenetic implications of pollen morphology of the genus Iris on the Southern European area were suggested: the subgenus Iris is more advanced than the subgenus Limniris; I. graminea seems to be the most primitive member of the subgenus Limniris on the Southern European territory; and pollen morphology of the population of the subspecies I. sibirica subsp. erirrhiza from the Mountain Bjelolasica could represent a link between the subgenera Limniris and Iris in the territory of Southern Europe. The possible pathway of evolution of the genus Iris on the territory of Southern Europe was suggested: from the subgenus Limniris, through the "linked taxon" I. sibirica subsp. erirrhiza from the Bjelolasica Mountain, to the subgenus Iris, series Pumilae, and finally to the series Elatae.
23657065|We use the information provided by 36 RAPD loci and 15 morphological traits to describe and construe the population differentiation in A. arbuscula, a Canarian endemic Asteraceae threatened with extinction that exhibits a disjunct distribution in the islands of Gran Canaria (var. schizogynophylla) and Lanzarote (var. arbuscula). Our evaluation of morphological characters and the extent of RAPD differentiation found sets the stage for a taxonomic restructuring to hoist both var. arbuscula and var. schizogynophylla to subspecies category. Our genetic results suggest that fragmentation and generally low population sizes are jeopardising the survival of this species through a predominance of stochastic processes in microevolutionary dynamics, especially in Gran Canaria, where subpopulations exhibit the lowest levels of genetic variation and gene flow. If, as most Asteraceae, these plants have a sporophytic self-incompatibility system, the scarce reproductive turnover observed in the much smaller subpopulations from Gran Canaria (ssp. schizogynophylla) is possibly more influenced by a deficiency of S-alleles (that would be provoking the unavailability of compatible mating types, and a cascade of deleterious effects associated with the Allee effect) than by a reduced pollinator visitation frequency. Based on the depauperated values of genetic parameters for this subspecies, urgent mixed subpopulation reinforcements and reintroductions (with specimens belonging to the same subspecies) seem advisable on the grounds that they might allow the isolated habitat remnants to retrieve from inbreeding through the introduction of a new stock of S-alleles and the subsequent production of genotypes that may have a higher selective value.
23673909|The embryology of Crocus thomasii is described. Male meiosis is of simultaneous type, and gives rise to starchy microspores which develop into lipoid pollen grains; these are two-celled and show a spinulate acolpate, abaculate exine lacking apertures. The tapetum is glandular and its cells become bi- or sometimes multinucleate. The ovule is anatropous and bitegmic; the inner integument forms the micropyle. Megasporogenesis is heteropolar with starch accumulation in the functional chalazal megaspore. Embryo sac development conforms to the Polygonum type. The endosperm development is nuclear. The embryo develops according to the Caryophyllad type. In the ripe seed it is differentiated and enveloped by a starchy cellular endosperm.The embryological characters observed strongly favour a close relation between C. thomasii and C. sativus.
43558339|The molecular population structure of 20 populations of the subalpine plant Gentiana pannonica was studied by use of amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and sequencing of non-coding regions of plastid DNA. Of the populations sampled, 18 were native (11 were from the Eastern Alps, which is the distribution centre of the species, and seven were from the Bohemian Forest, which is on the margin of the distribution range), and two were from the Giant Mts and of unclear status. No plastid DNA polymorphisms were found within the entire 6,185 bp investigated. The AFLP data revealed grouping of populations at the regional level. However, differentiation at the regional level (10.3 %) and at the interpopulation level (14.2 %) was low. Even though current populations are isolated and contain small numbers of individuals, the within-population variation (75.511 %) was high. Genetic variation was higher for alpine populations than for Bohemian Forest populations, probably because of fundamental differences in historical changes in population size between these regions. Within-population variation was intermediate for populations in the Giant Mts. The results indicate the possibility of a large distribution of species in the unglaciated areas of Central Europe, irrespective of altitude, during the late Pleistocene and early Holocene. Our results do not confirm that G. pannonica was introduced in the Giant Mts, and native status in the Giant Mts is possible.
23654203|Considerations of colonization history of an oak species across multiple populations would provide insight into whether different population histories generate near random or significant finescale spatial genetic structure. This study used multilocus allozyme genotypes mapped from three populations of Quercus dentata in South Korea: one population, in Mt. Sobaek (SOB), is considered to be recently established from "off-site" seed sources; the second population, located in Dongraedo (DON), Jollanamdo Province may have been established from "on-site" old individuals; and the last population, in Haegumgang (HAE), Gyeongsangnamdo Province, is probably in an intermediate stage between SOB and DON. Coancestry measures (fij), Ripley's L-statistics, and Wright's F statistics were calculated to examine the distribution of individuals and spatial genetic structure both within and between populations. Ripley's L-statistics indicated significant aggregation of individuals, and patterns varied depending on populations. A significant positive fine-scale genetic structure at 10 m distance was detected in population DON, whereas SOB and HAE populations mostly showed very weak patterns and indeed genotypes were essentially randomly distributed. These results appear to be consistent with the proposed histories of population establishment. The levels of genetic diversity within populations of Q. dentata examined in this study (He = 0.103) were lower than in most of the oaks, which may reflect rarity and discontinuity in the distribution of Q. dentata. A small but significant deficit of heterozygosity was detected within populations (pooled FIS = 0.040), which is also consistent with most of the examined oaks. Low but significant differentiation between the three populations of Q. dentata (mean FST = 0.030) agrees with that found for other oaks in South Korea, reflecting long-distance pollen movement by wind.
23674876|The DNA sequence properties of 5S DNA (5S RNA gene plus spacer) from a wide range of families of plants is reviewed with particular reference to the possibility of using the information for phylogenetic inference. Although the data-base is extremely limited, the available evidence suggests that within a subclass or tribe phylogenetic inference can be made, provided that a knowledge about the number of chromosomal locations of the gene loci (5S Dna loci) is available. The evidence suggests little, if any, exchange occurs between the 5S DNA units at different chromosomal loci and the available data favour a mechanism involving amplification/deletion processes for creating structural changes at the 5S Dna loci. Sequences originating from species in the families Rosaceae, Poaceae, and Brassicaceae tended to group together in cladistic analyses but with low confidence limits. Surprisingly little of the spacer region showed conservation of sequence that may relate to a function in the control of transcription by RNA polymerase III.
43558188|Solanum species were cytogenetically analysed to localize species-specific markers. Solanum atropurpureum Schrank, S. dulcamara L., S. gilo Raddi., S. melongena L., S. nitidibaccatum Bitter and S. paniculatum L. showed 2n = 24, whereas S. luteum Mill., S. nigrum L. and S. laciniatum Ait. showed 2n = 48, 2n = 72 and 2n = 92, respectively. All species demonstrated a symmetrical karyotype. The average chromosome size varied between diploid (1.95 m) and polyploid (1.31 m) species. Application of the CMA/DAPI technique showed two CMA3/DAPI terminal blocks in S. dulcamara, S. atropurpureum and S. luteum, indicating one homologous pair. In S. nitidibaccatum two large CMA/DAPI segments were observed apart from several terminal blocks in almost all chromosomes. The same CMA telomeric standard was also found in prometaphases of S. luteum. Similar results were obtained with FISH with 45S rDNA probes: fluorochrome CMA3 telomeric blocks associated with satellites, with two blocks in S. atropurpureum, S. dulcamara, S. nitidibaccatum and S. luteum and four blocks in S. nigrum and S. lacinatum. Localization of speciesspecific markers was successful, allowing recognition of particular cytological features in most of the species analysed.
23643655|The systematics and phylogeny of the genus Cochlearia and allied genera are unsettled. There are no clearly defined genera and subtribal structures to determine subtribe Cochleariinae in respect to subtribe Thlaspidinae. The use of morphological data, such as fruit form or embryo characters have resulted in contradictory taxonomic concepts in the past due to their homoplastic nature. We investigated all sections of genus Cochlearia recognised in the most common concepts, as well as some genera such as Ionopsidium, Bivonaea, Pastorea and Thlaspi s. l. pro parte. Previous studies based on molecular data and morphological studies have shown close relationships between taxa from subtribe Cochleariinae and Thlaspidinae. The Internal Transcribed Spacer regions of the nuclear encoded ribosomal DNA operon and the plastidic trnL intron were sequenced from a number of genera. A molecular phylogeny was derived and compared to traditional classification systems. These data grouped sections of Cochlearia outside the Cochlearia/ Ionopsidium core group and integrated them either closely to genus Noccaea in subtribe Thlaspidinae (sect. Pseudosempervivum) or positioned them outside both the Cochlearia core group and the Thlaspi s. l. clade (sect. Hilliella). The molecular data indicate that subtribal arrangements in tribe Lepidieae are artificial and do not reflect evolutionary history. The genus Cochlearia is represented by sections Cochlearia and Glaucocochlearia and the genus Ionopsidium should be integrated into Cochlearia.
23671499|The ultrastructure of the flagellar apparatus of the naked, biflagellate green alga Spermatozopsis similis Preisig & Melkonian has been studied in detail using an absolute configuration analysis. The two basal bodies are displaced by 350nm in the 1/7 o'clock direction and do not overlap proximally. They are interconnected by a principal distal connecting fibre consisting of a bundle of 58 nm filaments and possibly two proximal striated connecting fibres. The flagellar root system is cruciate (5-2-5-2 or 4-2-4-2 system) and contains a prominent continuous system I fibre overlying the two opposite two-stranded roots. A system II fibre is absent. Pronounced structural differences have been observed in the flagellar apparatus ultrastructure at two types of flagella orientation: During backward swimming basal bodies are parallel, the distal connecting fibre is extremely contracted; during forward swimming basal bodies assume various angles (from 20 to 180) and the connecting fibre is about five times longer compared to the contracted state. The function of the connecting fibre as a contractile organelle and the mechanism of its contraction are discussed. On the basis of the flagellar apparatus ultrastructure, Spermatozopsis similis is related to Chlamydomonas-type green algae.
23674224|All members of the investigated genus Coryanthes (subtribe Stanhopeinae) are pollinated by male euglossine bees. The different fragrance profiles are the primary reproductive isolating mechanisms, because the flowers are interfertile. The fragrance patterns of 17 species of Coryanthes were analyzed by gas chromatography as a means to improve the classification of this genus. A first amine (2-N-methylaminobenzaldehyde) was found to be the main fragrance compound of an as yet unclassified Coryanthes species.
23644305|Flower development, pollination and breeding system of the high alpine cushion plant, Eritrichium nanum (Boraginaceae), were investigated in nine populations from the European Alps at altitudes of 2700 m3200 m. Peak flowering period lasts longer than a month, from mid-June to the end of July. In contrast to statements in the literature that flowers are protogynous and nutlets remain in their calyx until spring we found a distinct protandry and nutlets being dispersed before mid-September. Various insects from 12 families, but mostly Diptera, frequently visited E. nanum flowers, with flies from the families Anthomyiidae and Muscidae being the predominant visitors. Under optimal conditions (max. solar radiation, min. wind force), visitation rates of 200 simultaneously observed flowers reached 32.546.7 insects per hour, i.e. 0.160.24 insects per flower per hour. However, the commonly observed Anthomyiidae and Muscidae clearly preferred the white-yellowish flowers of Saxifraga exarata and Saxifraga bryoides which are abundant at E. nanum sites and which are certainly also pollinated by species of these two fly families. The flowers of these Saxifraga species offer plenty of nectar and may compete for pollinators with E. nanum, when they are flowering in its proximity. however, various other insects like Pontia callidice and Psodos sp. (Lepidoptera) as well as Andrena sp. (Hymenoptera) and especially Eristalis tenax and closely related hoverflies showed a higher degree of flower constancy to E. nanum, often flying from a blue Eritrichium cushion to the next and hence causing outcrossing. The five fornices of E. nanum flowers which obstruct the tube containing stamens and nectar, are a feature which differs distinctly from the syndrome of flypollinated flowers with easily accessible nectar. Consequently pollination by flies in E. nanum seems to be caused mainly by the unfavorable ecological conditions at high altitudes, where flies are the most frequent insects. Bagging experiments showed that outcrossing and geitonogamy are the prevailing pollination modes, and autogamy, although possible, plays only a minor role.
23673262|Parsimony-based phylogenetic analyses of the genus Guizotia were undertaken based on DNA sequence data from the following chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) regions: trnT-trnL, trnL-trnF, trnY-rpoB, trnC-petN, psbM-trnD and rps16-trnQ intergenic spacers, trnL, rps16 and matK-5trnK introns and matK gene. Out of the 26 primers used in this study, 14 were newly designed. The study was conducted to determine (1) the closest relative of Guizotia abyssinica, (2) the taxonomic status of some Guizotia taxa and (3) the subtribal placement of Guizotia in the tribe Heliantheae. The analyses of the sequence data showed that G. abyssinica, G. scabra ssp. scabra, G. scabra ssp. schimperi and G. villosa are phylogenetically closely related. However, G. scabra ssp. schimperi appeared as the most closely related taxon to G. abyssinica. Based on this phylogenetic analysis, we suggest that the two subspecies of G. scabra are better treated as separate species. The analysis also clearly demonstrated that "Chelelu" and "Ketcha" are distinct Guizotia species. The trnT-trnL and trnL-trnF intergenic spacer-based phylogenetic analysis of various subtribes of the tribe Heliantheae strongly supports the placement of the genus Guizotia within the subtribe Milleriinae.
23670058|Stereoscan investigations of more than 350 leaf epidermis samples from Annonaceae, Myristicaceae and Monimiaceae reveal that primary and secondary cuticular sculptures in some cases are stable markers on the generic level. A comparison between Asimina and Deeringothamnus shows the two genera to be systematically distinct but apparently closely related.
23642612|The highly specialized, two-celled hairs fringing the anthers of Cyclanthera pedata (L.) Schrad. and its relatives aid in pollination by producing a glue which sticks the coarse pollen grains onto insect visitors. This was proven by direct observations, confirming older assumptions. The adhesive is extruded from the big basal cell which bursts upon the slightest touch to the small top cell.Turgor and, possibly, swelling pressure of the sticky material, are responsible for plasmoptysis and ejaculation. Cell contraction is due to tension of cuticular clips and, to a minor degree, to elasticity of the pectinic wall. A preformed apical dehiscence line disrupts when the top cell is bent aside.The anthers hairs of a flower develop synchronously. From light and electron microscopic observations, the adhesive appears not to be a product of internal secretion. It originates from the endopolyploid giant nucleus of the basal cell, which finally degenerates by liquefying and swelling. The numerous peculiar elaioplasts apparently do not contribute to the hair's function.The anther hairs are homologous to, and possibly have evolved from the so-called explosion hairs occurring on the green parts of many Cucurbitaceae. 1) Die hochspezialisierten, zweizelligen Antherenhaare von Cyclanthera pedata und Verwandten sind Hilfsorgane der Bestubung. Ihre Hauptzelle wirft bei Berhrung Klebstoff aus, der den sprlichen, grobkrnigen Pollen an Besucher (Apiden, Vespiden) anheftet. Damit wird eine Vermutung lterer Autoren besttigt. 2) Der die Plasmoptyse und Klebstoff-Ejaculation bewirkende Binnendruck beruht auf Turgor, vielleicht zugleich auf Quellungsdruck des Klebstoffs; hohe Zellwandspannung wird durch die Einkrmmungstendenz von Cuticularspangen und die Elastizitt der Pektinwand erzeugt. An der Hauptzelle ist eine apikale Dehiszenznaht prformiert, die beim Abbiegen der kleinen Endzelle aufreit. 3) Alle Antherenhaare einer Blte entwickeln sich synchron. Nach den licht- und elektronenoptischen Befunden entsteht der Klebstoff nicht durch Sekretion, sondern durch Degeneration und Verquellung des hoch-endopolyploiden Riesenkerns der Hauptzelle. Die auffallenden Elaioplasten des Haares lassen keine Beteiligung erkennen. 4) Auf die Homologie der Antherenhaare mit den sogenannten Explosionshaaren im vegetativen Bereich der Cucurbitaceen wird hingewiesen.
23643100|A project-independent data model for the entire range of karyological information provides a comprehensive picture of all data items presently used in karyological research and characterizes their logical inter-relation. It is presented in the form of a hierarchical decomposition of the subject matter down to attribute-level data items. The applied analytical methods are relevant for the structuring of information in other branches of biology. Only sporadic and inconsistent efforts have previously been made to make the huge amount of available karyological information accessible in electronic form. In the view of growing demand for the availability of scientific data on computer networks, further attempts are to be expected presently. The present data model provides a framework for the design of individual databases and ensures compatibility of the resulting datasets.
23674344|Phylogenetic relationships between sympatric, morphologically indistinguishable diploid and tetraploid plants of Dactylis glomerata L. (Gramineae) in Galicia (Spain) were assessed using allozyme markers for 6 distinct systems. The study exploited recent introduction in Galicia and subsequent hybridization of an alien 4x Dactylis subspecies possessing distinct allozymes from those of all the native plants. Opportunities for gene exchanges between the ploidies were estimated from in situ observations of flowering, examination of progenies in 2x/4x natural and experimental crosses, and enzyme analyses. Results show a high genetic similarity between the Galician diploids and tetraploids, which possess peculiar alleles in common. Although the ploidy levels usually have distinct flowering periods, interploidal crosses do occasionally occur. Gene flow is likely much more important from the diploid to the tetraploid level. A good genetic intermixing occurs between the Galician and the alien tetraploid entities which have simultaneous flowering. Autopolyploidization of the diploids followed by various rates of hybridization is proposed as one very probable origin of natural tetraploids in Dactylis.
23674633|Meiosis was studied in a T. turgidum  Ae. longissima hybrid (ABS1, 2n = 21) and in backcrosses of its amphidiploid to T. turgidum. Analysis of PMCs of the hybrid showed that non-reductional meiosis led to the production of a large number of non-reduced male gametes. The hybrid showed high seed set. All progeny had 2n = 42. The BC1 plants (2n = 35, AABBS1) showed the expected meiotic pairing of 14II + 7I. At anaphase I, univalents behaved in a non-reductional way. The possible role of meiotic non-reduction is discussed in terms of the evolution of the Triticum-Aegilops complex.
23673755|Six closely related taxa of the sect. Eusideritis of the genus Sideritis (S. leucantha, S. pusilla, S. flavovirens, S. granatensis, S. biflora and S. osteoxylla) are analysed to elucidate their phylogenetic relationships and position within the sect. Eusideritis. Meiotic behaviour, karyotype features, size and fertility of pollen grains, DNA amounts and seed protein profiles are reviewed. A polyploid origin of the group (from x = 7) and the further diversification through dysploidy and chromosome repatterning is postulated. S. osteoxylla is apparently of hybrid origin.
23669760|The lengths of the A, B, and D genomes of common wheat, Triticum aestivum, were measured from the karyotype. Relative to the B genome, standardized as length 1.000, the lengths of the A and D genomes were 0.835 and 0.722, respectively. The lengths of the chromosome arms in the A and D genomes were then multiplied by the appropriate constants so that the total lengths of each genome also equalled 1.000. These calculations revealed that homoeologous chromosomes in wheat, with a few exceptions, have similar sizes and arm ratios. The arm lengths of the three homoeologues in each homoeologous group were then averaged. These average chromosomes turned out to be remarkably similar, in size and arm ratio, to their homoeologues in the E genome of Elytrigia elongata. This evidence and data on cross-compatibility and morphological characteristics suggested that the genus Triticum is a result of adaptive radiation from the perennial genus Elytrigia, specifically from the complex of species possessing the E genome or one closely related to it.
23671503|The stomatal types (i.e. the arrangement of epidermal cells in the vicinity of a stomatal pore in superficial view) have been examined in more than 150 taxa of Cactaceae, mostly using documented material. Preparations have been made by mazerating pieces of tissue with modified Jeffrey's Solution and staining with chlore-zinc-jodine.  The examined members of the subfamily Cactoideae showed parallelocytic stomata with only minor deviations in a number of cases. Members of the subfamilies Pereskioideae and Opuntioideae show parallelocytic stomata on the leaves, but the stomatas of the stem represent a different type, which apparently is not yet described. It is termed opuntioid here. In most cases the stomata are superficial but a few taxa show markedly sunken or "hidden" stomata.  In taxa of the subfamilies Pereskioideae and Opuntioideae the stomata are generally oriented parallel to the stem axis with only minor deviations. The stomata of taxa of the subfamily Cactoideae do in general not show a particular orientation with the notable exception of a number of epiphytic genera from the tribe Hylocereeae.  The results of these investigations in general coincide well with the generic classification of the Cactaceae by Hunt (1967). A few cases where stomatal characters suggest a differing classification merit further investigations.  Additionally, the possibilities to distinguish between paracytic and parallelocytic stomata are discussed and an amended definition for the latter is given.
23660119|Seed protein subunits of 75 accessions belonging to ten species of buckwheat (seven species of the big-achene group and three of the small-achene group) were studied by means of SDS-PAGE. The subunits varied greatly both within a species and among different species. The seven buckwheat species of the big-achene group have 42 different subunits whereas those of the small-achene group have only 16. Each buckwheat species has at least a few unique subunits, which could be used for species identification in the genus Fagopyrum. In the small-achene group, F. gracillipes and F. pleioramosum are closely related. Based on the number, distribution, and cluster analysis of the seed protein subunits, common buckwheat, wild common buckwheat, F. esculentum var. homotropicum, F. zuogongense, and F. megaspartanium are close to one another and tartary buckwheat, wild tartary buckwheat, F. plius, F. cymosum, and F. giganteum are also close to each other, supporting the hypothesis that F. megaspartanium and F. pilus are ancestral species of common buckwheat and tartary buckwheat, respectively.
23669042|Hebanthe eriantha (Poir.) Pedersen, a climbing species of the Amaranthaceae increases in stem thickness by forming successive cambia. The family is dominated by herbaceous species and is constantly under discussion due to its disputed nature of the meristem. In the young stem small alternate segments of vascular cambium cease to divide and new arc of cambium initiates outside to it. The newly formed arcs connect with pre-existing alternate segments of cambium to complete the ring. On the contrary, in thick stems, instead of small segments, complete ring of cambium is replaced by new one. These new alternate segments/cambia originate from the parenchyma cells located outside to the phloem produced by previous cambium. Cambium is storied and exclusively composed of fusiform initials while ray cells remain absent at least in the early part of the secondary growth. However, large heterocellular rays are observed in 15-mm diameter stems but their frequency is much lower. In some of the rays, ray cells become meristematic and differentiate into radially arranged xylem and phloem elements. In fully grown plants, stems are composed of several successive rings of secondary xylem alternating with secondary phloem. Secondary xylem is diffuse-porous and composed of vessels, fibres, axial parenchyma while exceptionally large rays are observed only in the outermost regions of thick stems. Vessel diameter increases progressively from the centre towards the periphery of stems. Although the origin of successive cambia and composition of secondary xylem of H. eriantha remains similar to other herbaceous members of Amaranthaceae, the occurrence of relatively wider and thick-walled vessels and large rays in fully grown plants is characteristic to climbing habit.
23671346|Genetic analysis of 90 mango genotypes including juicy, table, dual and pickle types from different parts of Andhra Pradesh of India was carried out employing 143 mango-specific microsatellite markers. Of the 143, 34 were new mango-specific microsatellite loci isolated in the course of the present investigation by constructing an (CA) n and (TG) n -enriched genomic library. Characterization of the 90 genotypes resulted in the detection of 301 alleles from 106 polymorphic loci with an average of 2.87 alleles per locus and polymorphism information content of 0.67. UPGMA cluster analysis grouped all the genotypes into two major groups with a genetic similarity range of 4788 %. Grouping of the genotypes based on the utility type was observed only at sub-cluster level. Study of population structure by a model-based STRUCTURE analysis revealed the germplasm to exist in four gene pools. Overall F st of 0.11 indicated genetic differentiation between the populations to be low. Analysis of molecular variance revealed that major proportion of the variation was within the individuals (62.25 %). The molecular marker-based study of genetic diversity suggests that the germplasm studied representing the kind of variability would be a valuable genetic resource for future breeding and association mapping in search for new and novel alleles.
23642085|The only concrete basis for the discontinuous and hierarchical organization of extant organisms lies in their genealogical (i. e. germ line) relationships. Individuals and populations of common descent are called "sib" or "stirps". Ideally, systematic classification is based on the formulas: (1) sib + taxonomic category + name = taxon, and (2) divergent genealogy of sibs + hierarchy of taxonomic categories + names = taxonomic system (Fig. 1).
43558241|The Sino-Himalayan Mountain Region is a major center of diversity of Heracleum (Apiaceae, Tordylieae, Tordyliinae), yet the phylogenetic relationships among its rich diversity of endemic taxa are largely unknown. In this study, we (1) investigate the monophyly of Heracleum and ascertain the phylogenetic placements of those species of Heracleum from China that fall outside of the group; (2) estimate phylogenetic relationships within Heracleum sensu stricto, particularly among those species occurring in the Hengduan Mountain Region of southwestern China; and (3) reconstruct the biogeographic history of Heracleum sensu stricto. To achieve these objectives, Bayesian inference and maximum-parsimony analyses of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and five noncoding chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) loci (rps16-trnK, rps 16 intron, trnQ-rps16, rpl32-trnL, and psbA-trnH), Separately and in combination, were carried out. Fruit morphology of the Chinese Heracleum species was examined. Statistical dispersal-vicariance analysis (S-DIVA) was used to reconstruct the biogeographic history. In total, 114 accessions were considered, which included 88 species representing eight genera of subtribe Tordyliinae, 28 of the 29 species of Heracleum occurring in China, and 4 species of Angelica as outgroups. The genus Heracleum is monophyletic upon the exclusion of nine species of Heracleum from China and the inclusion of the Caucasian monotypic genera Mandenovia and Symphyoloma. These nine excluded species show affinities to Tetrataenium, Semenovia, and Angelica. The species of Heracleum endemic to southwestern China form a moderately to strongly supported clade; however, major discordance between the ITS- and cpDNA-derived phylogenies, lack of resolution in the trees, and polyphyly of several species preclude unequivocal hypotheses of phylogenetic relationship. The distinctly clavate vittae, shorter than the length of the mericarp, is a diagnostic feature for Heracleum sensu stricto. Heracleum originated in the West Palearctic, with three possible migration routes leading to its present-day distribution. Major topological conflicts between the ITS and cpDNA trees may be due to interspecific hybridization and/or incomplete lineage sorting. The taxonomic limits of many Chinese Heracleum species remain unclear, possibly because of recent radiation in the Hengduan Mountains.
23674888|The aim of the present investigation is to compare two geographically well separated populations of C. afra with different mating systems with emphasis on (1) factors controlling the length of the male phase with special attention paid on the pollen collecting hairs, (2) crossing ability among populations with different mating systems; should C. afra be regarded as one or several species?, and (3) correlations between pollen germinability and mating system; how does pollen germinability vary with anthesis and stigma development? From the results it can be concluded that the length of the male phase and the development of the stigma depend on the stimulation of the pollen collecting hairs rather than on the amount of pollen removed. Furthermore, the length of the male phase was found to be correlated with the mating system, i.e., in the population with a mixed mating system, the differences between treated and untreated flowers were less pronounced than in the population being obligately outcrossing. I also found correlations between mating system and pollen germinability, where the population with a mixed mating system had a high germinability at stigma receptivity, whereas for the xenogamous population, the germinability approached zero at stigma development. No crossing incompatibility was found between the two populations of Campanula afra in any of the combinations.
23674035|Besides tectate and columellate, 3-layered exine types, in the Annonaceae, one also finds very fragile, thin exine types. Their single exine layer corresponds either to a former tectum (including infratectal layer) or a former basal layer. The interpretation of the different origin of the remaining layers is based on their different structure and position within the intine. The fact that reduced exine types are obviously not always homologous should be regarded in systematic interpretations.
23655681|The physical mapping of three abundant tandemly repeated DNA sequences, CON1, CON2, and COM2, and the distributional pattern of AT- and GC-rich regions in the chromosomes of 32 species of the grass family Poaceae have been established by means of fluorescence in situ hybridization and fluorochrome banding with chromomycin and DAPI. Additionally, locations of 5S, 35S rDNA, and the C-banding pattern were examined. All satellite DNAs (satDNA) tested are situated predominantly subtelomerically in the chromosomes, but occur also colocalized with 35S and 5S ribosomal DNAs (rDNA). Especially, CON2 is most often colocalized with the 5S rDNA, but is evolutionarily not derived from it. Subtelomeric heterochromatin bands are frequently, but not always correlated with satDNA bands. Moreover, the DAPI- or rarely chromomycin-positive stainability of heterochromatin is not caused by these satDNAs as revealed by their sequence organization, showing too few clusters of AT or GC base pairs as required for binding of the fluorochromes. The occurrence of satDNAs is not correlated with that of other components of the heterochromatin. Proportions of satDNAs and other sequences of the heterochromatin relative to the entire genome appear subjected to a much faster evolutionary change than the rather stable proportions of the rDNAs. Heteromorphism in banding patterns found in many species is related in most instances with breeding system and life form. The independent evolution and amplification of different satDNAs is discussed in relation to molecular phylogenetic data. The value and limitations of satDNA data in addressing systematic questions in grasses is exemplified for several grass subfamilies and tribes.
23644084|A field-based revision of the polymorphic Nonea pulla complex in Turkey was carried out in view of the poor systematic knowledge of Nonea in the Middle-East. The taxonomic treatment relies on a wide comparative basis including macro- and micromorphology, karyology, chorology and ecology. Nomenclatural types, synonyms, original distribution maps, descriptions and iconographies are provided for each entity, along with an analytical key allowing identification of the treated taxa. Five species are recognized, N. persica, N. atra, N. macrantha, N. monticola stat. nov., and the newly described N. polychroma. N. persica, described from Iran and never reported for Turkey, is a strongly polymorphic, polyploid species in whose range of variation are to be included other taxa subsequently described. N. polychroma is related to N. caspica rather than to N. pulla, while N. macrantha and N. monticola are mesophytic species showing relationships with other taxa of alpine habitats, such as N. intermedia and N. anchusoides. Systematic relationships between these and other congeneric taxa are discussed in the light of morphological, ecological, karyological and chorological aspects.
23672612|Two new species of non-colonial silica-scaled chrysophytes were discovered in Ontario and were assigned to the genus Spiniferomonas (Chrysophyceae) owing to their solitary cell habit. Scale structure in the two new species is distinctive but includes features common to both Spiniferomonas and Chrysosphaerella. The use of scale structure as the main diagnostic feature to distinguish the two genera is no longer acceptable. A more expedient separation of the two genera based on cell habit (solitary vs. colonial) is proposed and includes the transfer of Chrysospharella salina Birch-Andersen and Chrysosphaerella coronacircumspina Wujek & Kristiansen to the genus Spiniferomonas as new combinations. The proposed revision is consistent with existing generic circumscriptions of other ochromonadalean forms with either solitary or colonial cell habit.
23674621|This paper deals with the problem of homology between the translators in Periplocaceae and Asclepiadaceae. Since most differences between the flowers in both families are based on the functional differences in the pollination process, it seems that the question of common ancestry can best be solved by clarifying the problem of the evolution of the translator itself. Ontogenetic investigation has revealed that the central element of the periplocoid translator is the adhesive disc together with the base of the stipe. The translator in Secamoneae (the most primitive tribe in Asclepiadaceae) is homologous to this element, and in Secamone the adhesive disc is transformed into the corpusculum while the stipe is represented by the dorsal process to which the pollinia are attached. The translator in the genus Fockea represents an intermediate stage in the further phylogenetic elaboration of the asclepiad translator. It corresponds to Secamone in the development of a dorsal process for the attachment of the pollinia and in the special mode by which the corpusculum is attached to the anther wings. On the other hand, the elongated shape and the formation of a floor in the corpusculum are derived traits pointing to the more highly evolved Asclepiadaceae, such as the Asclepiadeae. The question of the derivation of the caudicles is discussed and a hypothesis concerning their development from pre-adaptive elements in Fockea is put forward. General conclusions are 1. that Periplocaceae and Asclepiadaceae are sister groups and that the common ancestor possessed a primitive translator composed of at least the two elements adhesive disc and stipe; 2. that the morphological difference of the translators between Periplocaceae and Secamone is smaller than between Secamone and the more advanced Asclepiadaceae.
23644982|In the flowers of Platanthera chlorantha nectar is secreted and accumulated in a spur. Previous studies of this species revealed that after the period of secretion and cessation, rapid nectar resorption occurs. The aim of this study was the observation of nectar resorption on the structural level using tritium labelled sucrose. For this purpose, during the peak of nectar secretion, 10 l of nectar accumulated in the spur was replaced with the same volume of labelled sucrose (10 Ci). Small fragments of spurs were sampled between 1236 h of incubation, at the resorption phase. Afterwards, they were fixed and embedded in epoxy resin. Material for the microautoradiographic study was prepared with the dipping technique. The cells of secretory epidermis and unicellular secretory papillae had dense, strong stained cytoplasm, a large nucleus and small vacuoles. A characteristic feature of these cells was the presence of numerous starchless plastids, mitochondria and ER profiles. Many vesicles occurred in the close vicinity of the cell wall. In the cuticle covering cell walls no pores or cracks were observed. Presence of [3H] sucrose was detected mainly in the walls of the nectary cells, which would indicate an apoplastic route of resorbed nectar.
23657316|The island of Madagascar ranks second to the neotropics in diversity of Bignoniaceae. Tribe Coleeae (Bignoniaceae) is a monophyletic group of tropical trees endemic to Madagascar and surrounding islands. The Masoala assemblage of Coleeae, in north-eastern Madagascar, utilizes four mechanisms for avoiding competition via niche specialization: (1) morphologically via characters that comprise syndromes, explaining part of the pattern in this system  although the syndrome concept is not perfect; (2) spatially via vertical stratification and potentially pollen placement; (3) temporally via phenological stagger; (4) ethologically via flowering duration and display. The 13 sympatric species of understory treelets and canopy trees did receive low flower visitor numbers. Contrary to the prevailing view of pollination systems where generalized systems predict equivalency between floral traits and pollinators, I found that different pollinators pollinated the 13 species of trees, that floral characters of different trees did not overlap in multidimensional phenotype space, and that few species of trees were visited by more than two pollinator groups. The use of multiple niches is potentially important in understanding both the origin and maintenance of tropical tree diversity.
23643074|The new species belongs to Festuca halleri agg. (F. ovina s. latiss.) and is diploid. Its habitat are alpine snow bed communities (Arabidetalia caeruleae) of the southern Alps, between the Brenta and Mt Cadria in the W and Mt Cavallo near Belluno in the E. Morphological, anatomical, epidermal, and ecological comparisons with related species suggest that it is closest to the vicarious F. rupicaprina in the N Alps.
23656019|Since high levels of genetic diversity may ensure long-term survival of a plant species, it is essential to preserve the genetic diversity of the species. Tipularia japonica and Epipactis papillosa are rare terrestrial orchids in southern Korea with fewer than 50 mature individuals in a population and southern Japan and considered to be threatened (endangered or vulunerable). To obtain knowledge of how the genetic variation of these species is partitioned within and among populations in Korea, I used enzyme electrophoresis to examine the genetic diversity of each eight known populations of the two species from South Korea. Twenty-three (E. papillosa) and 24 putative loci (T. japonica) resolved from 15 enzyme systems revealed no variation either within or among populations of each species (0.0% of the percentage of polymorphic loci, %P). Previous studies, in contrast, showed that their more widely distributed disjunct congeners T. discolor and E. helleborine harbored high allozyme-based genetic diversity within populations in eastern United States (%P = 75%) and in Denmark (%P  73.6%), respectively. In theory, small population size leads to allelic fixation at many loci over generations within a population, resulting in population genetic divergence or differentiation. In this regard, the complete lack of genetic differences between conspecific populations of T. japonica and E. papillosa cannot be explained by genetic drift. Instead, the present allozyme data suggest that recent origin from the same genetically depauperate ancestral or source population could result in this observation. The current status of T. japonica and E. papillosa (rarity and lack of genetic variation) significantly threatens the long-term survival of the species in Korea.
23673118|The diploid Emila sonchifolia (2n = 10) and the tetraploid E. fosbergii (2n = 20) species are widely distributed throughout tropical and subtropical America, and are the only two Emilia species occurring in Brazil. Emilia fosbergii displays two sets of ten chromosomes, one slightly larger than the other. The smaller chromosome set is similar to the chromosome complement of the diploid, which agrees with the suggested participation of E. sonchifolia in the formation of E. fosbergii. To elucidate this hypothesis, the relationship between the genomes of the two species was investigated using chromomycin A3 (CMA)/4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) double staining, distribution of 5S and 45S rDNA sites by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and whole genome comparison by genomic in situ hybridization (GISH). CMA/DAPI staining and FISH revealed the occurrence of one pair of CMA bands in E. sonchifolia and three pairs in E. fosbergii, all of them co-localized with 45S rDNA sites. Additionally, E. fosbergii displayed a fourth, small 45S rDNA site in its larger subgenome which was not detected as CMA band. Surprisingly, the euchromatin of the smaller subgenome of E. fosbergii stained less intensely with CMA than the larger one. The GISH procedure demonstrated the similarity between the genome of E. sonchifolia and the smaller chromosome set of E. fosbergii. GISH and CMA staining clearly demonstrate that E. fosbergii is an allotetraploid species and suggest E. sonchifolia as one of its ancestors. The maintenance of at least one pair of 5S and 45S rDNA sites per subgenome of E. fosbergii and the differentiation between its subgenomes by CMA staining seem to indicate that post-polyploidization changes are still incipient, probably because the polyploidization event and the origin of E. fosbergii were relatively recent.
23643187|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) was assessed for its suitability as a tool to be used in the identification of taxa from the genus Stylosanthes (Fabaceae, Papilionoideae, Aeschynomeneae). Five random primers were used to 'fingerprint' accessions from seven species in the genus, and generated RAPD profiles that were species-specific. Data were used to examine evolutionary relationships between taxa, employing both clustering and ordination techniques, and the results were compared with those from a previous cladistic analysis of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction fragments. Both multivariate approaches indicated relationships that were generally similar to those obtained by RFLP analysis of cpDNA. However, while cluster analysis grouped together all accessions within species, ordination placed certain accessions of S. humilis, S. macrocephala and S. capitata into separate groups. Experiments to test the assumed homology of comigrating RAPDs estimated 85.7% homology for accessions within species, and 53.8% homology for accessions between species. The value of RAPD data in systematics is discussed.
23673662|Data on pollen nuclear number are presented for 74 of the 111 currently accepted genera of the Araceae  one of only three monocot families in which both bi- and trinucleate pollen are known to occur. Binucleate pollen, which characterizes 65% of aroid genera, is regarded as the primitive type in Araceae and monocots as a whole. The trend toward the trinucleate condition appears to be irreversible, and to have occurred many times within the family. Syngonium becomes the sixth angiosperm genus in which both character-states are known to occur; otherwise, the character is highly conservative at the generic level. Pollen nuclear number shows no evident correlation with pollen size, starch content or pollinator type.
23643166|Porella platyphylla and P. cordaeana are genetically well differentiated in Europe (I = 0.486). Isozyme data from 156 European colonies reveal that P. baueri is polyploid and could be an interspecific hybrid between these two species. It is characterized by large lobe cells, toothed margins of the female bracts, and ciliate perianth mouth. Correspondence analysis using morphological characters revealed that its colonies cluster into two geographically separated groups, similar to one or other of the putative parental species. These results agree with the genetic analysis, that also revealed two main allelic associations, each with a distinct geographical range. We hypothesize that this pattern was produced by introgression subsequent to hybridization, or by gene silencing. The discovery of this new, allopolyploid species suggests that hybridization is an important evolutionary process in liverworts.
23674889|In the Iberian Peninsula and Balearic Islands pollen dimorphism was found in Teucrium fruticans L., T. pseudochamaepitys L., and T. rotundifolium Schreber. Generally, this dimorphism shows two sizes of pollen grains, the smaller more or less collapsed. The percentage of pollen viability is calculated. Differences in size between viable and nonviable pollen grains are similar, being about 40% in T. fruticans and T. pseudochamaepitys, and about 26% in T. rotundifolium. With regard to pollen viability, the percentage of male sterility is higher in T. fruticans, in which from male sterile (ms) plants, 100% nonviable pollen was obtained from every flower observed. In T. pseudochamaepitys and T. rotundifolium with rare exceptions, the percentage of nonviable pollen does not seem to be significant.
23660124|On Kilimanjaro, Tanzania two rather different forms of Chlorophytum comosum were observed. One form occurred on higher altitudes, the other on lower altitudes. Morphological, molecular and ecological studies conclude that the two forms both are entitled to species recognition. The high altitude form must still be referred to C. comosum s.l., while the low altitude form is a new species and it is described as C. rhizopendulum Bjor & Hemp sp. nov. The two species inhabit mutually completely exclusive habitats on Kilimanjaro. Whereas C. comosum has a wide ecological potential, C. rhizopendulum has narrow ecological demands as a highly adapted specialist. The two species are easily distinguished morphologically. Molecular studies show that C. comosum is of polyphyletic origin, and the species complex needs revision.
23643642|The pollination process is documented in three sympatric orchids found in Curitiba, Paran State, southern Brazil. In Campylocentrum aromaticum (Epidendroideae: Angraeciinae) and Prescottia densiflora (Spiranthoideae: Prescotiinae) halictid bees act as main pollinators with minor contributions from other insects, such as Syrphid flies. Because of the pollinarium and column structure in Cyclopogon diversifolius. (Spiranthoideae, Spiranthinae), halictid bees are the only insects capable of performing pollination. In the three studied species pollinarium removal and deposition are achieved by interaction between the column and bee's mouth parts. Morphological and ecological flower features in agreement with this pollination mode are discussed and pollination by halictid bees is suggested to occur in a number of South American orchids.
23644292|Pollen morphology of the four subfamilies of Thymelaeaceae sensu Domke (1934) was examined using LM, SEM and TEM. The variation of the exine architecture allows to distinguish four pollen types and three subtypes. Distribution of pollen types proves to be widely correlated with the occurrence of characters from wood anatomy and flower morphology. If pollen types are connected with subfamilies sensu Domke (1934), Gonystyloideae, Thymelaeoideae and Synandrodaphnoideae are stenopalynous, whereas Aquilarioideae are eurypalynous. Based on pollen morphology as well as on other characters it is evident that Aquilarioideae are not monophyletic. Its genera Aquilaria and Gyrinops are more closely related to Thymelaeoideae and Synandrodaphnoideae than to other genera of Aquilarioideae sensu Domke (1934). The remaining genera of Aquilarioideae Deltaria, Solmsia and Lethedon are most similar to Gonystyloideae and therefore are included in this subfamily, as it was suggested by Airy Shaw (1979). Furthermore, palynological and other characters favour the transfer of Octolepis from Aquilarioideae to Gonystyloideae. The re-circumscribed Aquilarioideae together with Thymelaeoideae and Synandrodaphnoideae are shown to form a monophyletic group.
23643444|Studies of geographic distribution and physiological adaptations in the Bromeliaceae of coastal Chile and Peru provide insights into the ecological patterns of habit selection and speciation. The hyperarid coastal Atacama and Peruvian Deserts along the Pacific coast of South America contain a surprisingly rich flora of bromeliad species. These include representatives of all three Bromeliaceae subfamilies: two terrestrial Bromelioideae and two terrestial Pitcairnioideae, all with rooted growth morphologies, and 14 species of Tillandsioideae (all Tillandsia) with epiphytic and unrooted, terrestraial representatives. The Bromelioideae are represented by two species of Puya Molina, one each in Peru and Chile. The Pitcairnioideae are represented by two genera, Deuterocohnia and Pitcairnia, with one species each. The 14 Tillandsia species are distributed in five subgenera which have successfully invaded the coastal deserts, and include both widespread and local endemics with xeromorphic adaptations. All the Tillandsia species are epiphytic in the broad sense, but in addition to growing on plants, they are found growing on rocks (i.e. saxicolous or epilithic). Six species (T. purpurea, T. latifolia, T. capillaris, T. marconae, T. werdermanii, and T. landbeckii) have evolved a highly specialized substrate ecology where they grow essentially unrooted on sand (i.e. epiarenic). Nowhere in the world are bromeliads more dominant or have more biomass than in these coastal species growing on sand. Many of these species grow at the absolute limits of vascular plant tolerance, with the entire community consisting of a single Tillandsia species. Rooted, terrestrial bromeliads in the coastal lomas formations (all Pitcairnioideae) include CAM, C3, and C3-CAM flexible taxa in their metabolic systems, the CAM species growing in the most arid sites along the coast and C3 species growing in the most mesic habitats within the center of the coastal fog belt where fog moisture input is highest. All of the epiphytic Tillandsia species of the coastal desert region utilize CAM metabolism entirely or in part. At least two species, T. latifolia and T. tragophoba, utilize a flexible C3-CAM mode of carbon fixation. Whereas most of the desert-inhabiting Tillandsia species have relatively narrow leaves covered by water absorbing trichomes on their surface, T. multiflora in northern Peru and T. tragophoba in northern Chile are tank-forming species where the bases of the leaves form a water-containing reservoir. The occurrence of the latter as a local endemic in hyperarid northern Chile is remarkable since it occurs thousands of kilometers south of its closest potential relatives in the central Andes.
23659858|Reproductive morphology and development are described in the Brazilian grass Streptochaeta spicata, in order to assess the homologies of the characteristic grass inflorescence, termed a spikelet, and other reproductive organs. Streptochaeta possesses some features that are commonly found in Poaceae, including a well-differentiated embryo. It also possesses some relatively unusual, presumably derived features, such as non-plumose stigmas, which indicate that it could be insect-pollinated. It shares some features with other early-divergent grasses, such as Pharus, which could represent plesiomorphic conditions for grasses. The inflorescence unit in Streptochaeta has been interpreted as a compound branching system or pseudospikelet. The present data suggest that it is a highly modified spikelet, with a modified flower borne either on a different axis to the basal bracts (glumes) or on the same axis as the basal bracts. The three bracts below the stamens are interpreted as homologous to the lodicules. The Streptochaeta spikelet could be considered as morphologically intermediate between the true spikelet of grasses and reproductive units of close grass relatives.
43558069|A phylogenetic analysis of Neocinnamomum H. Liu and related genera was conducted using psbAtrnH, trnK cpDNA regions, and the ITS nrDNA segment. Neocinnamomum was confirmed to be monophyletic, and an evolutionary series of inflorescence development within the genus was recognized. The compound thyrse seen in N. caudatum is reduced to the few-to manyflowered condensed inflorescences with a poorly defined branching system seen in most species and ultimately to the 1-flowered inflorescence seen in N. atjehense. Consensus network analysis (CNA) suggested that long-branch attraction is responsible for the observed close relationship between Neocinnamomum and Cassytha L. in a combined analysis of the complete data. In contrast, the sister relationship of Neocinnamomum and Caryodaphnopsis seen in the Bayesian analyses of the partial combined matrix was supported by CNA and is also supported by morphology and wood and bark anatomy. The close similarity of the compound thyrse of less derived Neocinnamomum species to the thyrsoid inflorescences of some Caryodaphnopsis species is also seen as strong support for their affinity.
23674485|Plant species that secrete oil as their primary floral reward are are and sporadically found in the angiosperms. We report here that Monttea, a genus previously unsuspected of being an oil-plant, produces lipids from trichome elaiophores on the inside of the lower (anterior) lip. The discovery of the production of oils by species of this S. American genus explains the occurrence of unusual dual-function collecting structures in Argentine Centris (Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae) and explains the presence of oil-collecting bees in regions where oil-secreting flowers were previously thought to be absent. The behavior of these centridine pollinators on Monttea flowers parallels that of oil-collecting bees on Diascia (Scrophulariaceae) in S. Africa.
23654254|Analysis of PCR/RFLP variation in 57 Nordic populations of the herb Silene dioica, revealed 13 composite chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) haplotypes. The geographic distribution of the haplotypes suggests that the postglacial colonization of Fennoscandia by S. dioica may have involved immigration of populations from two main directions. The commonest cpDNA haplotype dominates in populations throughout most of Finland and northern and central Sweden, but is absent from southern Sweden. The distribution of this haplotype is interpreted in terms of immigration from an eastern or northern direction. In contrast, eight haplotypes that are absent from northern Fennoscandia are represented in populations in southern Sweden and in Denmark, suggesting colonization by populations derived from one or several refugial areas further to the south in Europe. The overall NE-SW pattern of cpDNA haplotype variation is similar to, but less diffuse than, the pattern revealed by allozyme markers.
23674777|Crosses of Hordelymus europaeus (2n = 4x = 28) with four genera in the Triticeae were attempted. Adult hybrids were obtained in combinations with Hordeum bogdanii (2x), Hordeum depressum (4x), and Secale cereale (2x). The meiotic pairing was very low in the hybrids with H. bogdanii and Secale cereale (0.12 and 0.30 chiasmata/cell, respectively), whereas high pairing (9.90 chiasmata/cell) was found in hybrids with H. depressum due to autosyndetic pairing of H. depressum chromosomes. The chromosome complement of Hordelymus europaeus comprised 16 metacentrics, 8 submetacentrics, and 4 SAT-chromosomes. The Giemsa C-banding patterns of the chromosomes were characterized by small to minute bands at no preferential positions. It is hypothesized that Hordelymus europaeus may genomically be closest related to Taeniatherum and Psathyrostachys spp.
23654169|Current patterns of floral design in Pedicularis must have undergone an evolutionary process of interacting among components of floral traits, and then formed internal relationships among these traits. To detect such correlations, which may provide insight to understand flower evolution, 40 Pedicularis species representing all corolla types of the genus were studied. Results show that, interspecifically, pollen size correlates negatively with pollen number, but positively with pistil length. This suggests that plants evolve an optimal pollen size, which balances the advantages of large pollen size for gametophytic competition against the fecundity disadvantages of fewer pollen grains. In contrast to sex allocation theory, this study does not find a trade-off, but an interspecific positive correlation between pollen and ovule number. This is consistent with the hypothesis that genetic variation for resource acquisition may in part be responsible for the lack of negative correlation between male and female function.
23674858|Morphological differentiation of diploid accessions of Hordeum marinum Huds. s.l. into two varieties, var. marinum and var. fouilladei (Rouy) Nevski is associated with isoenzyme differentiation. The tetraploid form of H. marinum s.l. exhibited fixed heterozygosity of several heterozymes with one homoeozyme shared with var. fouilladei and the second homoeozyme not found in the two diploids. It also differed from both diploids in the mobility of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. All three taxa differed in morphs of EST-A. It is concluded that the tetraploid is an allopolyploid with one genome closely related to the diploid var. fouilladei and with the second genome divergent from those of both diploids by genes for unique morphs of eight homoeozymes. On the basis of the isoenzyme data, three phylogenetic sibling species  H. marinum Huds. s.str. (2x), H. geniculatum All. s.str. (= var. fouilladei, 2x), and H. caudatum Jaaska, spec. nova (4x), are proposed within the H. marinum s.l. complex and a key is given.
23659856|Horticulture is one of the most important pathways for plant invasion. We used microsatellite markers to reveal the impact of plant breeding on Mahonia aquifolium, an invasive ornamental shrub. Since it was bred by hybridization with the related species M. repens and M. pinnata, we compared populations of the three native species, various commercial cultivars and invasive populations. Invasive populations and cultivars were genetically differentiated from the native groups, but differences did not result from genetic bottlenecks. In cultivars but not in invasive populations, we proved genes from M. pinnata. No significant amount of M. repens genes were found in cultivars and invasive populations, but this result has to be viewed with caution because of the close relationship between native M. aquifolium and M. repens. We conclude that the evolution of invasive Mahonia populations was a result of restriction of gene pool during introduction, secondary release, and artificial selection, in combination with an increase of genetic diversity by plant breeders and by extensive gene flow.
43558198|In this study, pollen morphology of 11 taxa of Hosta in China, three Chinese species, five introduced species, and three cultivars, was observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and compared with that of related genera (Hemerocallis, Agave, and Yucca). Pollen grains of Hosta were long-ellipsoidal or ellipsoidal, 20-65  52.5-142.5 m in size, bilaterally symmetrical, and monosulcate on the distal face. Reticulate and rugulate exine ornamentation was observed in different taxa, and the rugulate type can be further divided into rugulate, rugulatebaculate, and rugulategranulate subtypes. The exine ornamentation may have evolved in the order: reticulate  rugulate rugulatebaculate  rugulategranulate. Furthermore, the rugulate exine ornamentation was the predominant ornamental type in Hosta except for one species with the reticulate type; this is markedly different from that of Hemerocallis, Agave and Yucca. Thus, our data support the proposal by Dahlgren and Clifford (The Monocotyledons: a comparative study. Academic Press, London, 1982) that these Hosta species constitute an independent familyHostaceae.
23674218|MOBCENTR is a classification algorithm combining features of classification about mobile centres, Ward algorithm and of the Hard-Isodata method. The results of this new algorithm and of Ward algorithm are compared by morphological characters of species of Solidago and Pimpinella.
23645089|Relationships within Magnolioideae have been the subject of persistent debate; the main point at issue mostly being the disposition of tribes, genera and sections. A morphological cladistic analysis of the subfamily using Liriodendron as the out-group showed that Magnolioideae consisted of a large basal polytomy, but with five resolved and variously supported clades. Manglietia constituted a clade with sect. Rytidospermum of Magnolia subg. Magnolia. Kmeria and Woonyoungia formed a pair. Pachylarnax, Parakmeria and Manglietiastrum were grouped together, and sect. Splendentes and Dugandiodendron also formed a pair. The largest and best supported clade consisted of Magnolia subg. Magnolia sects. Oyama and Maingola, Magnolia subg. Yulania, Michelia, Aromadendron, Alcimandra, Elmerrillia, Paramichelia and Tsoongiodendron, with sect. Oyama of Magnolia subg. Magnolia is sister to the remainder. Although Magnolia sect. Maingola, Aromadendron, Alcimandra and Elmerrillia constituted a poorly resolved subclade, Aromadendron formed a monophyletic clade with Alcimandra. Within the Michelia/Magnolia subgen. Yulania subclade, Paramichelia was sister to Tsoongiodendron. These results are supported by similar placement of taxa within various molecular analyses of the family, but the low level of resolution indicates that more morphological data are needed to improve phylogenetic signal. Our results support the molecular analyses in suggesting that Magnolia is best considered to be a large and diverse genus, but that the relationships between the taxa within it require more detailed clarification, with more extensive sampling and a combined molecular and morphological approach being needed.
23644163|A phylogenetic analysis of Panax was performed using restriction site variations of eight PCR-amplified chloroplast regions. Twenty populations were examined, representing 13 of the 14 species of Panax. Aralia cordata was used as the outgroup. The 11 restriction endonucleases produced a total of 105 restriction sites and length variations from the large single-copy region of cpDNA. Forty restriction variations are polymorphic. The cpDNA tree is largely congruent with the nuclear ribosomal ITS phylogeny. Similar to the ITS tree, the cpDNA dataset suggests the following relationships: (1) P. trifolius from eastern North America is sister to the clade consisting of all other Panax species; (2) P. ginseng and P. japonicus from eastern Asia form a clade with P. quinquefolius from eastern North America; (3) the Himalayan P. pseudoginseng is most closely related to P. stipuleanatus of southwestern China; and (4) the medicinally important P. notoginseng forms a clade with the closely related P. bipinnatifidus, P. ginseng, P. japonicus, P. major, P. quinquefolius, P. sinensis, P. wangianus, and P. zingiberensis. Two biogeographic disjunctions are detectable within Panax. One is the connection of the eastern North American P. trifolius with the rest of Panax species. The other is the more recent disjunction between the North American P. quinquefolius and the eastern Asian P. ginseng and P. japonicus. The active orogenies caused by the collision of the Indian Plate with Asia may have facilitated the diversification of Panax taxa in Asia in the late Tertiary.
23655616|Phylogeography allows to reconstruct the history of genealogic lineages at the intra- and interspecific level. Previous studies on the distribution of minisatellite and microsatellite plastid haplotypes in populations of the Mediterranean marsh orchid Anacamptis palustris revealed that populations from the Salento peninsula (Apulia region, west coast of Otranto strait) formed a distinct and isolated lineage. To further explore the peculiarity of this biogeographic region, in the present study we examined both fresh samples and herbarium specimens of the rare orchid Anacamptis palustris from populations located on the eastern coast of the Otranto strait (i.e. on the Greek-Albanian side). All the investigated samples exhibited a unique combination of chloroplast microsatellites, which was previously found exclusively in populations from the Salento peninsula. Samples from Corfu, Igoumenitsa and Durazzo showed a novel minisatellite repeat type, while those of Zakynthos possessed the widespread ancestral repeat type. Interestingly, the novel repeat type and those previously found in Salento populations clustered together on a well-differentiated evolutionary branch in a minisatellite repeat type network of the A. palustris lineages. This finding indicates a close relationship between the populations from both sides of the Otranto strait and supports the geological evidence for the occurrence of an ancient land-bridge connection between the southern most part of Italy and Greece during the Messinian desiccation and/or the "Lago-Mare" period.
23672616|A new intracellular parasite in Cryptomonas spp. div. previously known is described as Proteromonas steinii spec. nova. The flagellate (infectious) stage is Bodo-like, with a distinct kinetoplast. The immobile parasitic stage occurs in the cells of Cryptomonads as a multinucleate trophocyst with a thin mucilage envelope (pseudocyst), while the hypnocyst is uninucleate, walled and bearing two horned projections.
23643096|Floral evolution in the tribe Veroniceae was examined using phylogenetic analysis combining 24 adult morphology and chromosome number characters with 22 qualitative and quantitative floral development characters. Taxa sampled included nine species of Veroniceae and as an outgroup one species each of Digitaleae and Verbasceae. Veronica, Besseya, and Synthyris formed one clade, subtended by Pseudolysimachion and then by the Hebe group; Veronicastrum or Wulfenia represent the basal-most branch of the tribe. The ancestral flowers of the Veroniceae may have been small with moderately short corolla tubes and lobes; long corolla tubes arose four times in the tribe and large corolla lobes twice.
23654269|The flowers of Mammea (Clusiaceae) have been reported to be androdioecious, a rare condition in the angiosperms. Pollen from eight taxa from most of the geographic range of the genus was examined to clarify the type of flowers, and thus the breeding system, of the genus. In six of these taxa pollen from both morphologically perfect and male flowers was examined, while in the other two, only pollen from the perfect flowers was used. In all cases pollen from perfect flowers was inaperturate, while that from the staminate flowers was aperturate. Since the inaperturate pollen probably cannot germinate, it is concluded that the perfect flowers are functionally female. Therefore, Mammea has a cryptic dioecious breeding system.
23642481|Varicellaria carneonivea is lichenized with Asterochloris phycobiontica, a new member of the Chlorococcales. In the free-living state this species reproduces by zoo- and aplanospores; autospores are lacking. Sporangia develop an internal local thickening of the wall, which marks the later aperture. A group of dictyosomes apparently contributes to the formation of this thickening. Secondary carotenoids dissolved in droplets or irregular masses of oil are deposited around and within the pyrenoid. Varicellaria carneonivea ist mit Asterochloris phycobiontica, einer neuen Chlorococcale, lichenisiert. Die Vermehrung der Alge erfolgt durch Zoo- und Aplanosporen, nicht durch Autosporen. An ihrer Entwicklungsgeschichte fllt die Ausbildung einer lokalen, nach innen vorspringenden Wandverdickung in den Sporangien auf, welche offenbar unter Mitwirkung einer Gruppe von Dictyosomen entsteht und die sptere ffnung markiert. Sekundre Karotinoide werden gelst in l in Form von Ballen oder Trpfchen rund um die Pyrenoide und auch sie durchsetzend abgelagert.
23642767|The sporoderm ultrastructure of some genera in the Lauraceae, Hernandiaceae and Gomortegaceae (Laurales) was re-investigated. This and a comparison with some Zingiberalean genera (Canna, Heliconia, Strelitzia) leads to a re-interpretation of the peculiar pollen wall structure of the Lauralean families recently described in this journal (Kubitzki 1981). Their pollen is now interpreted as being nearly exine-less: The (sporopollenin-containing) exine consists only of a thin, skin-like, coherent layer ornamented with spines and globules. The (cellulosic) intine is composed of an unstratified inner and a thick, channelled outer layer. The striking similarity of the pollen ultrastructure between the Laurales studied and some members of the Zingiberales can be interpreted as an example of convergent evolution in angiosperm pollen walls.
43558359|The morphology of Salix herbacea leaves was examined to find possible reasons for the observed intraspecific morphological variation. Seventeen samples were collected from the following regions: the Southern and Eastern Carpathians, the Northern Carpathians, the Alps: Eastern, Central and Western, the Pyrenees, Western Scandinavia, and Northern Scandinavia. The leaves were dried in an herbarium, scanned and measured. A total of 3,890 leaves from 503 individuals were statistically analyzed.The analyses were based on the shape-describing characters. A notable variation of shape characters of leaves of S. herbacea was found on different levels: intra- and inter-individual, between samples and between regions. The local environmental conditions did not affect the leaf shape much, but the regional climatic factors influenced them statistically significantly. The most important factorthe summer precipitationwas positively correlated with leaf elongation, while the mean wind velocity was negatively correlated with leaf elongation.The latter was also positively correlated with the tooth number. The hypothesis that glacial migrations and isolations of S. herbacea populations were responsible for the contemporary morphological differentiation of the species was not confirmed; however, some similarities between the biogeographical structures revealed in the previously published results of molecular analyses and in the present morphological study were also noticed.
23673846|Chromosome counts are presented for 12 genera and 20 species of Australian Annonaceae (all diploid with 2n = 16 or 18; Table 1) and two species of Eupomatiaceae (2n = 20, partly from Papua New Guinea). Detailed studies on interphase nuclear structure, condensing behaviour of chromosomes, and fluorochrome and Giemsa C-banding patterns also include Himantandraceae (Galbulimima) and Austrobaileyaceae.  Eupomatiaceae completely correspond with Annonaceae karyologically, their base number 2n = 20 is interpreted to have evolved from 2n = 18 by ascending dysploidy from common ancestors. Eupomatia laurina and E. benettii differ in DNA and constitutive heterochromatin (hc) quantity; their evolution from high to low DNA content probably corresponds to general progressions in Magnoliidae. Austrobaileya has nuclei of the presumably primitive "Tetrameranthus type" which is closely related to that of Galbulimima and several other primitive taxa in Magnoliidae. Karyomorphology and other characters support the maintainance of two main branches within the Magnoliidae, Laurales and Magnoliales, with Austrobaileya probably intermediate; the Winteraceae appear more remote.  In Annonaceae the reestablishment of Ancana is underlined by its chromosome number (2n = 18) the unexpected and specialized disulcate pollen, and various morphological characters which point to a close alliance with the Australian endemic genera Fitzalania and Haplostichanthus (also disulcate) and the American genus pair Sapranthus/Desmopsis; they are united in the provisional Sapranthus tribe, with a more distant position to Fissistigma s. str. (2n = 16). Australian Annonaceae exhibit a high generic and a low species diversity; they can be considered as an  old and partly impoverished outpost of the family with phytogeographical relationships to Asia, Africa and America.  On the base of field observations three main types of floral development in Annonaceae are proposed, the most elaborated one found in the fly pollinated genus Pseuduvaria. The growth form change from shrubs to lianas during the ontogeny of Desmos and Melodorum, the vegetative propagation of an Ancana species and the ecological and evolutionary patterns of the taxa investigated are discussed.
23643258|Chlorophyll and carotenoid pigment composition was determined for ten species of putatively achlorophyllous angiosperms using high-performance liquid chromatography. Four families were represented: Lennoaceae (Pholisma arenarium); Monotropaceae (Allotropa virgata, Monotropa uniflora, Pterospora andromedea, Sarcodes sanguinea); Orobanchaceae (Epifagus virginiana, Orobanche cooperi, O. uniflora); Orchidaceae (Cephalanthera austinae, Corallorhiza maculata). Chlorophyll a was detected in all taxa, but chlorophyll b was only detected in Corallorhiza maculata. The relative amount of chlorophyll and chlorophyll-related pigments in these plants is greatly reduced compared to fully autotrophic angiosperms.
23643637|The spatial configuration of the flagellar apparatus of the biflagellate zoospores of the green algal genus Microspora is reconstructed by serial sectioning analysis using transmission electron microscopy. Along with the unequal length of the flagella, the most remarkable characteristics of the flagellar apparatus are: (1) the subapical emergence of the flagella (especially apparent with scanning electron microscopy); (2) the parallel orientation of the two basal bodies which are interconnected by a prominent one-piece distal connecting fiber; (3) the unique ultrastructure of the distal connecting fiber composed of a central tubular region which is bordered on both sides by a striated zone; (4) the different origin of the d-rootlets from their relative basal bodies; (5) the asymmetry of the papillar region which together with the subapical position of the basal bodies apparently cause the different paths of corresponding rootlets in the zoospore anterior; (6) the presence of single-membered d-rootlets and multi-membered s-rootlets resulting in a 7-1-7-1 cruciate microtubular root system which, through the different rootlet origin, does not exhibit a strict 180 rotational symmetry. It is speculated that the different basal body origin of the d-rootlets is correlated with the subapical implant of flagella. It is further hypothesized that in the course of evolution the ancestors of Microspora had a flagellar papilla that has migrated from a strictly apical position towards a subapical position. Simultaneously, 'ancestral' shift of flagella along the apical cell body periphery has taken place as can be concluded from the presence of an upper flagellum overlying a lower flagellum in the flagellar apparatus of Microspora. The basic features of the flagellar apparatus of the Microspora zoospore resemble those of the coccoid green algal genera Dictyochloris and Bracteacoccus and also those of the flagellate green algal genus Heterochlamydomonas. This strengthens the general supposition that Microspora is evolutionarily closely related to taxa which were formerly classified in the traditional Chlorococcales.
23674681|Allozymic and morphometric variation was studied in 28 clones of Lemna minor. This variation was compared with the corresponding variation in four clones of Lemna gibba and four clones of Spirodela polyrrhiza. A high level of allozymic variation was observed among the clones, despite having been grown under uniform laboratory conditions for several years and despite its quasi-exclusive clonal means of propagation. Based on degree of allozymic similarity, Spirodela polyrrhiza was distinguished from the two Lemna species but the latter species were genetically indistinguishable. Allozymic similarity among clones of Lemna minor was not related to morphometric similarity, nor was it related to the degree of geographic separation or climatic similarity of their sites of origin. The results suggest that allozymic variation among these clones of Lemna minor may be largely neutral and not a consequence of differential selection.
23643001|We have analysed samples from Sweden, Denmark, and Germany of six facultatively apomictic blackberry species to investigate the accordance between a taxonomy based on morphological characters on the one hand, and distribution of genetic variation estimated by DNA fingerprinting on the other hand. DNA fingerprint variation was found to be quite restricted in all species investigated. The first taxonomic group included three species related to Rubus nessensis, two being characterized by one very widespread DNA fingerprint in all three countries and a few rare ones, whereas the third species differed between Sweden and Germany. The second taxonomic group included species related to R. gracilis. Two of these species exhibited very similar DNA fingerprints, whereas the third species deviated clearly. The utilization of DNA fingerprinting as a tool in taxonomy is discussed; most likely this method could become a useful complement to morphology, especially in plant groups with reduced levels of genetic recombination.
23673799|Some of the factors governing seed-set in three populations of Lythrum salicaria are examined during two seasons. Plants spatially segregated from legitimate neighbours by distances exceeding 1 m set few seeds. Plants with small inflorescences set fewer seeds than those with medium or large inflorescences. Flowers having self pollen applied to the stigma before legitimate pollination set fewer seed per flower than those pollinated with legitimate pollen only. Seeds of the mid-style morph germinated more effectively than those of the long style morph and seeds of the short-style morph showed very low levels of germination.
23669987|The seed coat morphology, investigated in taxa representative of the main European groups of Aconitum, are in good agreement with the current taxonomy of the genus. The seed coat microcharacteristics (warty epidermal cells) are very constant. There is a trend for the reduction of longitudinal wings on the edges concomitant with the development of ridges and transverse wings on the faces. Another morphological progression leads from smooth to rugulose and eventually to transverse wing-bearing seed faces. A working hypothesis suggests an ecological adaptative significance to these changes.
23645346|Parsimony analyses based on DNA sequence data of the plastid group II intron rps16 and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) were performed in order to examine the relationship of the pantropical subfamily Alpinioideae in Zingiberaceae (Zingiberales). Special emphasis was given to the large genus Etlingera placed in the tribe Alpinieae. A total of 50 taxa were included in the analysis. The strict consensus tree obtained by combining all data (280 parsimony informative characters of ITS, rps16, and coded indels) is well resolved with strongly supported clades. The subfamily Alpinioideae (excluding Pommereschea and Rhynchanthus) is strongly supported as monophyletic. The basal part of the tree is unresolved but a clade containing the derived genera of Alpinieae (Geocharis, Amomum, Homstedtia, and Etlingera) is strongly supported. The establishment of Etlingera as the inclusive name for Achasma, Geanthus, and Nicolaia is also strongly supported: Etlingera is monophyletic with Hornstedtia as sister group.
23645213|Zeylanidium olivaceum (Podostemaceae-Podostemoideae) is the only crustose-rooted species of the genus that still develops prominent primary shoots from the seedling in addition to the secondary (root-borne) shoots forming the clonal plant body. The primary shoots are articulated into an up to 8.5 cm long and 4 mm thick stalk (hypocotyl) and a copiously foliated paint-brush-like shoot which is sympodially branched in the form of a helicoid cyme. The helicoid branching pattern indicates a transversal prophyll position, typical of the dicotyledons, but replaced in most other Podostemoideae by a median prophyll position. The short stems within the leafy "head" do not separate, but are fused to a dense aggregate (coenosome). Branches are mainly vegetative with a rosette of about 20 elongate subulate leaves. The primary shoots branch in the vegetative stage and thus differ from other Podostemoideae where ramification is confined to the floriferous shoots. The leaves adhere together at the base, forming an apical furrow-like hollow surrounding the shoot tip. The tiny shoot apex is one-layered, radially symmetrical, and develops leaf primordia in a decussate pattern. The erect primary shoots thus differ from the distichously foliated plagiotropic secondary shoots by the decussate phyllotaxis, and by the presence of more than 20 leaves on a shoot as compared to the about six leaves on the vegetative and floriferous secondary shoots. The features observed in the primary shoots are interpreted as primitive as compared to those of the secondary shoots. Z. olivaceum is thus characterised by heterobathmy, i.e., the occurrence of plesiomorphic (primary shoots) and apomorphic features (secondary shoots). The primary shoots exhibit primitive features that apparently have been lost in secondary and primary shoots of most other members of subfamily Podostemoideae.
23674731|The Irvingiaceae generally possess large intrastaminal receptacular disc nectaries of the mesenchymatic histo-type, which receive numerous small phloematic bundles directly from the central stele. The non-glandular epidermis bears some 10 to 15 strictly localized stomata that are deeply sunken in the parenchyma. The nectar is assumed to be exposed on the disc surface. Flowers are of simple construction, lacking specialized organs to attract pollinators. A wide range of pollinators is thus expected. The Irvingiaceae have more characters in common with Simaroubaceae than Ixonanthaceae and should therefore be retransferred as a family of their own next to Simaroubaceae.
23673798|Aspects of the life history of Kyllinga monocephala are described. Anther wall development corresponds to the Monocot type. The endothecium shows spiral thickenings. The tapetum is glandular and has uninucleate cells. Ubisch granules are present. Mature pollen grains (pseudomonads) are 3-celled at maturity. Ovules are bitegmic, crassinucellate and develop a funicular obturator. The embryo development conforms to the Juncus-variation of the Onagrad type. Endosperm, seed coat and pericarp are described.
43558155|Harsh environment at high altitude may affect the mating system of plant species, especially those with wide ecological amplitude. Smaller effective neighbourhood size, less pollen and seed production, higher rate of inbreeding and a shift towards vegetative propagation may be involved. These changes can be reflected in spatial genetic structure (SGS). Populations of Norway spruce [Picea abies (L.) Karst.] were analysed along an altitudinal cline to verify whether SGS increases with altitude. Three putatively autochthonous populations in Tyrol (Austria) at 800, 1,200 and 1,600 m above sea level (asl) were studied. Six highly polymorphic DNA markers (expressed sequence tag-derived simple sequence repeats, EST-SSRs) were used to genotype a total of 450 contiguous trees (150 trees per population). Loiselle's kinship coefficient was used to quantify SGS. Against expectation no significant SGS was found in any of the populations, indicating a random spatial pattern. Significant SGS was observed when all populations were treated as a single one conforming to an isolation-by-distance pattern. Nearly identical allelic frequencies were found resulting in very small population differentiation (FST = 0.002). The fixation index decreased with diameter at breast height (a proxy for age) indicating natural selection against inbred trees. The results of this study indicate that seed and pollen dispersal mechanisms in Norway spruce are strongly counteracting spatial aggregation of similar genotypes even at high elevations.
23654159|Parsimony analysis of matK sequence data from 81 taxa representing 68 genera of Myrtaceae sensu lato, and a representative of each of three related families as outgroups, produced an estimate of the phylogeny of the family with little basal resolution but a number of well-supported clades containing most of the genera. Monophyly of Myrtaceae sensu stricto has moderate support but a broader circumscription, including the small genera Psiloxylon and Heteropyxis that are frequently placed in monogeneric families, is more strongly supported. Analysis of matK plus available sequences for the 5 spacer region for a subset of 56 taxa resolved 14 major clades that received strong jackknife support. Relationships between these were, for the most part, incompletely resolved or poorly supported. A new infrafamilial classification is proposed which recognises two subfamilies (Myrtoideae, Psiloxyloideae) and 17 tribes (Backhousieae stat. nov., Chamelaucieae, Eucalypteae stat. nov., Heteropyxideae, Kanieae, Leptospermeae, Lindsayomyrteae trib. nov., Lophostemoneae trib. nov., Melaleuceae, Metrosidereae stat. nov., Myrteae, Osbornieae trib. nov., Psiloxyleae, Syncarpieae trib. nov., Syzygieae trib. nov., Tristanieae trib. nov., Xanthostemoneae trib. nov.).
23674619|Within the genus Plantago, subg. Psyllium is characterized by the accumulation of the iridoids plantarenaloside and bartsioside. The latter compound was identified as constituent of P. sempervirens for the first time. The structures of iridoids were determined by UV, IR, 13C-NMR and 1H-NMR. Both compounds are of chemotaxonomic value, as they are typical only of subg. Psyllium within Plantago. The distribution of plantarenaloside within subg. Psyllium suggests the heterogeneity of this taxon.
23673813|88 species and 20 subspecies of Carex, altogether 94 taxa, occur in the area of Rechinger's Flora Iranica. Of these, 48 taxa, have an Euro-Siberian, 11 an Irano-Turanian and 35 a Central Asiatic distribution, the last including five species with connections to E. and tropical SE. Asia. The Saharo-Sindian element is missing. Endemic taxa are found in all groups. Eight taxa, endemic to the NW. Himalayas occur in the E. part of the area. The Euro-Siberian taxa are concentrated in the NW. of the area, but have connections to the east; similarly, Central-Asiatic taxa are concentrated in E. Afghanistan and N. Pakistan, but have connections to the west. Some Euro-Siberian taxa are widely distributed in the area, but avoid the most arid regions. The Irano-Turanian taxa are few and extend from Egypt through the area of Flora Iranica to Kazakhstan SSR and Central China.
23644159|There have been few DNA sequence-based studies of phylogenetic relationships within the Festuca-Lolium complex. Here we infer the phylogeny of 31 Festuca-Lolium taxa with a dataset of 116 ITS sequences. The results are consistent with previous studies that resolved two major Festuca clades: one clade of fine fescues and another clade that contains Lolium and associated Festuca species. This study is unique in suggesting a third, basal Festuca clade, but support for the basal position of this group is low. Extensive sampling permitted investigation of the effects of lineage sorting and reticulate events on the evolution of the complex. Roughly half of the taxa show evidence of lineage sorting or reticulation, and the monophyly of Lolium has likely been obscured by reticulate events. Overall, polyploid species harbor higher levels of ITS sequence diversity than diploids; ITS sequence variants may provide clues to the identity of allopolyploid parents.
23642319|The Feulgen-DNA content of 3558 nuclei from 21 different tissues and organs of Scilla decidua (Liliaceae) was measured by a scanning cytophotometer interfaced to a computer. The basic nuclear DNA content (2 C value) was 13.62 pg, and 71 per cent of the nuclei were polyploid. The highest DNA values were found in the antipodal cells of the ovule, and the elaiosomes of the seeds (512 C). In addition to polyploidy, the 2 C values exhibited tissue-specific variation which was statistically significant (0.05% level of probability), It is suggested that differential DNA replication and endopolyploidization may be basic factors in the complex mechanism of cell and tissue differentiation.
43558357|Generally, the family Nartheciaceae is thought to comprise Narthecium (7 spp.), Nietneria (2 spp.), Lophiola (2 spp.), Metanarthecium (1 sp.) and Aletris (ca.30 spp.), but the taxonomy is quite controversial. To clarify nartheciaceous taxonomy, we conducted molecular phylogenetic analyses of four regions (atpB-rbcL, trnL, trnL-F and 18S rDNA; 4,048 bp in total) using 38 samples, and five regions (plus trnK; 6,337 bp in total) using 26 samples.The four- and five-region analyses indicated that Metanarthecium was the first to diverge from the Nartheciaceae, followed successively by Aletris, Lophiola, Nietneria and Narthecium. Metanarthecium has sometimes been considered congeneric with Aletris, but should be recognised as an independent genus. Aletris follata, A. fauriei, A. formosana, A. glabra and A. sikkimensis have sometimes been considered conspecific, but this conclusion is not robustly supported. Originally, bifacial leaves and septal nectaries were present in the Nartheciaceae, but the leaves evolved to become unifacial and the septal nectaries were lost within the family, i.e. at the lineage of Narthecium, Nietneria and Lophiola. The ovary frequently shifted from the superior position to somewhat lower positions, and vice versa, in the Nartheciaceae.
23673747|A modified method for obtaining surface spread synaptonemal complexes (SCs) from pollen mother cells has been developed. Silver-stained SC-preparation of one monocotyledonous species, Ornithogalum flavovirens, and one dicotyledonous plant, Paeonia tenuifolia, were analysed by light and electron microscopy. The SCs in both species frequently broke into roughly equally sized SC pieces with staggered or blunt breakpoints. The telomeric ends of the SCs normally were lacking attachment organelles and, therefore, were hardly distinguishable from blunt breakpoints. Interstitially, shorter stretches of SCs often exhibited unpaired lateral elements. This phenomenon is discussed with regard to segmental incomplete homology and as it relates to the normal sequence of SC morphological changes during the course of meiotic prophase.
23642503|Leaf monoterpenes from 166 provenances representing 71 species of the genus Artemisia were identified by gas-liquid (using 3 columns with different polarity) and thin layer co-chromatography with authentic samples. Cineol and thujane and camphane derivatives together with small quantities of pinanes, monocyclic and acyclic monoterpenes apparently characterize sect. Artemisia and sect. Abrotanum (pro parte), and probably also the North American sect. Tridentatae. The subg. Dracunculus and the ser. Laciniatae and Latifoliae of sect. Abrotanum are clearly distinguished by only small amounts of pinanes, monocyclic and acyclic monoterpenes together with a nearly complete reduction of all major components, i.e. cineol and thujane and camphane derivatives. Different trends towards -thujone or myrcene accumulation appear to be of some systematic relevance within the ser. Frigidae of sect. Absinthium.
23674540|Pterostylis plumosa (Neottioideae) is an orchid with monosulcate monad pollen. Tetrads may be isobilateral, decussate, tetrahedral, rhomboid or T-shaped, but all pollen grains have a similar shape. Those belonging to the same tetrads are contiguous from microspore release to opening of the anther, with the furrow oriented inwards. Sporophytic proteins are present outside the furrow. The tapetum is of the parietal type without orbicles. The increase in pollen grain size between meiosis and maturity is only three-fold. The generative cell is spherical when the pollen is mature. These features are discussed in relation to the primitive nature of the species.
43558352|The almost cosmopolitan distribution of Samolus valerandi is unique in the genus Samolus L. (Samolaceae), which also includes 12-15 taxa with distributions restricted to smaller areas of the Southern Hemisphere. Recent molecular phylogenetic studies based on chloroplast and nuclear DNA sequences showed that the widespread S. valerandi and the North American S. parviflorus are both part of a strongly supported clade, together with the North American S. vagans, S. spathulatus, and S. latifolius. To better understand the origin, distribution, and diversification of S. valerandi and to clarify the relationships within this clade, we performed molecular phylogenetic analyses based on the plastid trnS-G intergenic spacer and the nuclear ribosomal ITS region. We have also sought further support for relationships by examining flower and leaf characters.On the basis of new results, we propose that S. valerandi, S. parviflorus, and S. vagans are considered as part of a widespread "species complex", with its centre of diversity in North America. No clear vicariance patterns were found regarding the phylogeography of S. valerandi, which thus seems to have dispersed secondarily to various places around the world, possibly as a result of human activities.
23674497|Micromorphology and distribution of trichomes (both secretory and not) in different parts of plants of the five Italian species belonging to Teucrium sect. Chamaedrys have been studied. These characters neatly evidence the differences between the taxa considered; of particular interest are the observations concerning the dense coverage of peltate hairs on the abaxial face of the leaves of T. flavum subsp. glaucum and the characters contributing to a better identification of T. marum and T. subspinosum. The importance of the calyx indumentum as distinctive taxonomical character of the genus Teucrium is confirmed, stressing at the same time the necessity of completing the observations at micromorphological level.
23643119|Earlier analyses of rbcL sequences clarified phylogenetic relationships of 16 of 17 subfamilies of Saxifragaceae s. l. This study investigates the affinities of the monotypic Eremosynoideae, the only subfamily of Saxifragaceae s. l. not examined previously for rbcL sequence variation. Our analyses suggest that Eremosyne is only distantly related to core members of Saxifragaceae s. l. (i.e. Saxifragoideae = Saxifragaceae s. str.); it is allied instead with members of Asteridae. A particularly close relationship is indicated between Eremosyne and Escallonia, another traditional member of Saxifragaceae s. l. that also appears as part of Asteridae. Inclusion of Eremosyne within Asteridae is in agreement with embryology, as well as with 18S rDNA sequence data.
23642775|A new subtype (PV) of protein-containing sieve-element plastids was found to contain a uniquely large number of polygonal protein crystals, sometimes with (PVcf) and sometimes without (PVc) protein filaments. These plastids do not accumulate starch. The PVcf-plastids occur in Cyrillaceae only, while the PVc-plastids are limited to Erythroxylaceae and Rhizophoraceae. The significance of the new P-subtype with respect to the systematic position of the three families is discussed.
23674505|The acid phosphatase activity during carposporogenesis in Gigartina and tetrasporogenesis in Chondria was studied using the Gomori technique. During the first steps of gonimoblast maturation of Gigartina, portions of cytoplasm are ensheathed by ER cisternae with acid phosphatase activity, giving rise to autolysosomal concentric membrane bodies. In a similar way large mucilage sacs are severed. They extrude their contents in a kind of exocytosis. Multivesicular bodies, concentrically arranged cisternae and extracytoplasmic compartments, each with acid phosphatase activity, remain in young carpospores for some time, probably as remnants of the autophagocytotic and exocytotic events. The Golgi apparatus is poorly developed in gonimoblast cells and young carpospores. It becomes a prominent cell component in maturing carpospores and then participates in cell wall formation. Only some of the dictyosomal cisternae contain acid phosphatase; these are irregularly distributed in the dictyosome.  In pre- and postmeiotic tetraspore mother cells of Chondria massive lead deposits are found in the dictyosomes and in adjacent Golgi vesicles. Finer lead precipitates occur in ER cisternae, especially in those which are sequestering starch-grain-containing portions of the cytoplasm to give rise to autolysosomes. During cell cleavage, the dictyosomes aggregate. They become devoid of acid phosphatase activity with the exception of vesicles at the trans face. Later, Golgi stacks associate and have common, Gomori positively reacting, narrow cisternae at the cis face. The Golgi apparatus derived "cored vesicles" do not contain lead precipitates whereas the Golgi cisternae in the final stage of tetrasporogenesis show acid phosphatase activity. Variations in acid phosphatase distribution are explained in the light of current models of membrane flow.
23664940|Somatic chromosome numbers and karyological features in 22 taxa of the genus Canna (Cannaceae) were investigated and are presented here for the first time. The chromosome numbers were primarily reported for C. bangii, C. indica var. sanctae-rosae and C. tulianensis. A triploid somatic chromosome number of 2n = 27 was found only in C. discolor, while the remaining taxa were diploids with 2n = 18. Chromosome numbers are considered to be remarkably stable within the Cannaceae. Canna shows a symmetric karyotype that consists mostly of median chromosomes, but with some subterminal or submedian chromosomes, and a karyotype homogenous in variation in chromosome length. The karyotype of some taxa of Canna, furthermore, is characterized by median chromosomes with a secondary constriction in the centromeric region. Cytotaxonomical characteristics of the family Cannaceae and the related groups in the Zingiberales are discussed.
23674073|The reproductive biology of the genus Damasonium was studied in cultivation and in nature. A correlation was shown between flowering time and latitude. All species are self-compatible but the N. American member of the genus (D. californicum) is strongly protandrous and probably experiences high levels of outcrossing in nature. In the European taxa the stamens and the stigmas mature simultaneously but the levels of inbreeding appear to be greater in the southern species (D. bourgeai, D. polyspermum) than in the northern (tetraploid) species D. alisma. The Australian member D. minus resembles the southern European species in being strongly autogamous and bud-pollination was shown to occur. Floral morphology, stigma exertion, pollen/ovule (P/O) ratio and seed weight each show a strong correlation with the degree of autogamy. Vegetative reproduction occurs only in D. californicum and D. alisma through the production of corm-buds. This study suggests that autogamy in Damasonium is accompanied by a shift in resource allocation from male (pollen) toward female (seed) function. However, further studies are required to assess the quality of seeds and their survivorship in nature.
43498294|Density of taxon sampling and number/kind of characters are central to achieving the ultimate goals in phylogenetic reconstruction: tree robustness and improved accuracy. In molecular phylogenetics, DNA sequence repositories such as GenBank are potential sources for expanding datasets in two dimensions, taxa and characters, to the level of "supermatrices." However, the issue of missing characters/genomic regions is generally considered a major impediment to this endeavor. We used here the angiosperm order Caryophyllales to systematically address the impact of missing data when expanding taxon sampling and number of characters in phylogenetic reconstruction. Our analyses show that expansion of taxon sampling by ~13-fold resulted in improved phylogenetic assessment of the Caryophyllales despite up to 38% missing data. Expanding number of characters in the dataset by allowing for up to 100-fold increase in amount of missing data and inclusion of entries with about 40% missing genomic regions did not negatively impact tree structure or robustness, but to the contrary improved both. These results are timely regarding the ongoing efforts to achieve detailed assessment of the tree of life.
23673900|The greening of the upper part of the outer Allium cepa L. bulb scales, in particular along the vascular regions, is limited to the hypodermal cells in which typical leucoplasts are transformed to normal and functional chloroplasts. This process is light dependent and cannot afterwards be reversed or modified by darkness. The changes in fine structure are described and briefly discussed.
23643050|A revisionary treatment of Brazoria is rendered. Three taxa are recognized: B. arenaria and B. truncata, the latter with two intergrading morphogeographical varieties: var. truncata and var. pulcherrinma (Lundell) M. W. Turner, comb. nova. A fourth taxon, orignally described as B. scutellarioides, is separated as a new monotypic genus, Warnockia, resulting in the new combination Warnockia scutellarioides (Engelm. & A. Gray) M. W. Turner. Descriptions, illustrations, a phylogenetic analysis, dot-maps, keys to species and complete synonymy are presented. The relationship of Warnockia to its most closely related genera, Brazoria, Physostegia and Macbridea, is discussed.
23673910|Five Hypochoeris spp. from Sicily have been investigated: H. glabra L. (2n = 10), H. radicata L. (2n = 8), H. cretensis L. (2n = 6), H. laevigata L. (2n = 12), H. robertia Fiori (2n = 8). Basic chromosome numbers are very variable, x = 3, 4, 5, 6. The karyotype of each species is presented. Geographical origin (S. America or Mediterranean region) of the genus Hypochoeris and the taxonomic position of H. robertia are discussed.
23660157|Flow cytometry, morphometry and molecular markers [plastid DNA and internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA] were used to determine taxonomic and phylogeographic patterns in Dactylorhiza maculata s.l. from Scandinavia. A total of 238 individuals from 27 populations from throughout all of Scandinavia, including the adjacent Kola Peninsula of Russia, were analyzed. Diploid D. maculata ssp. fuchsii and autotetraploid D. maculata ssp. maculata are morphologically differentiated. Fragment size variants from 10 plastid DNA loci (seven microsatellite loci and three loci with indel variation) were combined to give 43 haplotypes. Three major groups of haplotypes were found. Group I haplotypes were prevalent in the north and the northeast, whereas Group II haplotypes were prevalent in the south and the southwest. Group III was represented by only a single haplotype and appeared to be the result of introgression from D. incarnata s.l. Group I and Group II haplotypes did not correspond with cytologically and morphologically defined D. maculata ssp. fuchsii or D. maculata ssp. maculata. Past introgressive gene flow rather than recent hybridization is envisaged. Intermediate Group I haplotypes between Group II and the rest of Group I were detected in a zone of contact in central Sweden, which may suggest plastid DNA recombination. The six ITS alleles scored showed strong positive correlation with taxonomy. All data sets obtained for ssp. maculata were significantly correlated with geography. Three different autotetraploid lineages are hypothesized. One lineage may represent postglacial immigration from the south and the other two lineages may represent eastern immigration routes. Morphology and ITS data suggested that subarctic populations of ssp. maculata should be recognized as var. kolansis.
23645206|The genus Chamaecyparis comprises five species and one variety native to Taiwan, Japan, Canada, and USA, which demonstrates a classical eastern Asian, western North American, and eastern North American disjunct distributional pattern. The phylogenetic relationships of the species of Chamaecyparis were inferred by comparing 1130 bp of the combined data set of chloroplast trnV intron and petG-trnP intergenic spacer. The phylogenetic tree shows that Chamaecyparis nootkatensis (Cupressus nootkatensis or Xanthocyparis nootkatensis) is clearly diverged from other Chamaecyparis species. For Chamaecyparis species, C. thyoides is sister to C. formosensis and C. pisifera and these together form a monophyletic group. C. lawsoniana is sister to C. obtusa and C. taiwanensis; and these form another monophyletic group. Homogeneity in evolutionary rates was found among species in these two monophyletic groups. Results indicate the divergent evolution of C. taiwanensis and C. formosensis and molecular evidence in this investigation supports C. taiwanensis as a variety of C. obtusa. Utility of cpDNA intergenic spacer petG-trnP in Chamaecyparis is also discussed. Several biogeographical implications were inferred: (1) at least two divergence events have produced the eastern Asian, and both western and eastern North American disjunct distribution in Chamaecyparis; (2) intercontinental sister species pairs are found in Chamaecyparis; (3) cpDNA divergence between two intercontinental sister pairs of C. thyoides and C. pisifera, and C. lawsoniana and C. obtusa is 2.8% and 1.1%, which suggest an estimated divergence time of 14 and 5.5 million years ago during middle and late Miocene, respectively; (4) cpDNA divergence of two Asian Chamaecyparis groups between C. obtusa and C. taiwanensis, and between C. pisifera and C. formosensis is 0.25% and 0.57%, which suggest an estimated divergence time of 1.3 and 2.9 million years ago during Pleistocene and late Pliocene, respectively; these estimated divergence times suggest a relatively recent migration of Chamaecyparis to Taiwan from the Japanese Archipelago; (5) that climatic deterioration caused the disappearance of Chamaecyparis in continental Asia is probable.
23655678|Orchids of the genus Ophrys are pollinated by males of solitary bees and wasps through sexual deception. Flowers mimic the odor of a receptive female and thus attract males that seek to copulate. Visual stimuli have been assumed so far to play only a minor role in male attraction. We investigated the role of the perigon as a potential visual signal in attracting pollinators in the orchid Ophrys heldreichii and its pollinator, the males of the long-horned bee Tetralonia berlandi (Apidae). In contrast to many other Ophrys species, O. heldreichii exhibits a large and bright pinkish perigon that appears visually conspicuous to a human observer. In a dual choice test we presented two flowers from a single plant and counted visitation rates. We then removed the perigon of one flower and retested the relative attractiveness of both flowers. For 292 male visits in ten trials we found a significant decrease of visitation rate for flowers with the perigon removed. In a second experiment we repeated the dual choice test using photos of the flowers. Males also significantly chose the picture of an intact flower over the picture of a modified flower where the perigon was digitally removed. From our data, we conclude that T. berlandi males respond to and are attracted by the bright pink perigon of the orchid in addition to other stimuli. A bright colorful perigon occurs almost only in the Ophrys holoserica-oestrifera group, a large sub-group of the genus. We hypothesize that this kind of visual signal is adaptive particularly in those Ophrys species where the targeted males patrol resourced-based encounter sites and strongly rely on their visual system while searching for their females.
23642762|Aphyllanthes monspeliensis is an isolated member of the Liliiflorae endemic to the Mediterranean region. It is herbaceous, but in its rhizome possesses a secondary thickening meristem (STM). The secondary tissues produced are similar to those known in various arborescent Monocotyledons. Ultrastructural features of the STM cells are described. A relictual intrafascicular cambium also occurs in the bundles of the primary system of the rhizome.
23645040|The genus Hippophae comprises 7 species and 8 subspecies according to the latest classification, and has shown enormous ecological, nutrient and medicinal values. Here we analyzed the phylogenetic relationships among 15 taxa of the genus by comparing sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA). ITS sequences in Hippophae varied in length from 651 bp to 666 bp. The aligned sequences were 690 bp in length and 269 (39.0%) were variable sites with 150 being parsimony-informative. The amount of polymorphism observed within a taxon was extremely low in most taxa except for two putative hybrid species. The aligned sequences were analyzed by maximum parsimony (MP) and neighbor-joining (NJ) methods. In the strict consensus trees of parsimony analysis, the monophyly of Hippophae was supported by 100% bootstrap value. H. tibetana was at the basal position of the genus, and the remaining taxa formed two clades with high bootstrap support. The first clade included subspecies of H. rhamnoides and the other one consisted of remaining species. Parsimony analysis also suggested that the species H. tibetana, H. neurocarpa and H. salicifolia were all distinct. Although the sequence divergence among subspecies of H. rhamnoides was also remarkably high, the molecular data supported the monophyly of H. rhamnoides when H. rhamnoides subsp. gyantsensis Rousi was excxluded. The NJ trees showed essentially the same topology. The taxonomical arrangement that divided the genus into two sections was not supported based on the ITS sequences. However, the hybrid origin of H. goniocarpa and H. litangensis proposed previously was supported by the present ITS data.
43558219|The aim of this study is verification of the taxonomic usefulness of the pollen grain features studied, based on pollen morphology of 32 wild species from all 4 subgenera and all 10 sections of the genus Rosa, mainly for delimitation of subgenera, sections, and species. The measurements and observations were carried out with both light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Only correctly formed pollen grains (30 per specimen) were measured, and 960 pollen grains were examined in total. They were analyzed for 14 quantitative features of pollen grains and exine sculpturing and the following qualitative ones: outline, shape, and operculum structure. Our study revealed that the diagnostic features of pollen grains studied were: exine sculpture, length of polar axis, and pollen shape (P/E ratio). On the basis of the above characters, five species were isolated and the remaining ones were included in several groups isolated on the basis of exine sculpture types. The following three exine sculpture types occurred in the species studied: granular-verrucate (in R. stellata), striate-psilate (in R. multibracteata and R. multiflora), and striate (the remaining species).R. banksiae is characterized by small pollen grains, while R. setigera has strongly elongated pollen with P/E ratio > 1.5. Exine sculpture features considered to be diagnostic should be treated as auxiliary because they fail to differentiate individual species, although they can be helpful in distinguishing groups of species of similar exine sculpture.The arrangement of the species examined on a dendrogram only slightly corroborates division of the Rosa genus into subgenera and sections currently adopted in taxonomy (Rehder 1940). An interesting result was reported for the species studied from the Caninae (R. agrestis, R. canina, R. dumalis, R. jundzillii, and R. rubiginosa) section which, despite hybrid nature, with the exception of R. villosa, grouped in the same, most separated group of species.
23642169|The basic (2 C) nuclear DNA content has been determined for the first time in four primitive angiosperms by means of scanning densitometry of Feulgen-stained nuclei. The mean values obtained are the following: Liriodendron tulipifera L. (2 n = 38): 1.58 pg; Magnolia soulangiana Soul-bod. (2 n = 76): 11.95 pg; Cinnamomum camphora T. Nees (2 n = 24): 1.18 pg; Illicium anisatum L. (2 b = 28): 6.72 pg. These values do not represent extremes, but rank among low DNA amounts. All species display at least low degress of endopolyploidy.
23644964|The geographic distribution of allozyme variation within the Eurasian boreo-nemoreal woodland grass Melica nutans L. has been investigated together with a minor subset of other Melica species. Twently alleles were found at nine polymorphic loci in M. nutans. Allelic richness was highest in areas central in the species' European distribution, i.e. in southern Fennoscandia. High population densities, reducing the effects of genetic drift, as well as accumulation of variation through long-distance gene-flow from different marginal populations, is proposed to explain high allelic richness in this area. Several alleles showed geographic patterns in distribution and frequency variation. However, these patterns were not congruent, e.g. some alleles appear to have migrated to northern Europe from the south-west whereas others may have spread from the east. Genetic distances between geographic regions, each consisting of 26 populations, were generally low between all Fennoscandian, Russian and Siberian regions, but much higher between western and continental European regions. On the population level, cluster analysis grouped populations from Siberia, Russia, coastal and lowland areas in Fennoscandia and British Cumbria into one subcluster whereas other subclusters contained mainly south-west European populations or populations from almost throughout the distribution range. A scenario with several independent glacial refugia in central Europe, south-western Siberia and possibly western Norway, and subsequent colonisation of Fennoscandia mainly from the east, but with some long-distance gene-flow from central Europe, is proposed.
23643766|Complex geographical distribution patterns and agamospermy have united to obscure systematic relationships in the genus Erigeron (400+ species). Sequence data were analyzed from the internal transcribed spacer region of nrDNA (ITS) and 5.8S cistron for 77 taxa including 63 Erigeron species. Results support the North American origin of Erigeron and document that Aphanostephus, Conyza, and three small genera restricted to South America (Apopyros, Hysterionica, Neja) are all derived from within Erigeron. Phylogenetic data indicate that agamospermy has arisen at least three times in Erigeron and that autogamy has evolved independently in Conyza and in E. sect. Trimorpha.
43496791|Plants of the genus Caragana (Fabaceae) are dominant shrub species of high ecological and economic importance on the Ordos Plateau in China. Due to natural environmental variability and anthropogenic impacts, Caragana pastures have experienced severe degradation, which has decreased their carrying capacity. In this study, we investigated the genetic diversity of eight Caragana species (C. purdomii, C. opulens, C. stenophylla, C. intermedia, C. korshinskii, C. roborovskyi, C. tibetica and C. brachypoda) on the Ordos Plateau by using ISSR markers. The results reveal high genetic diversity of all the species, with the percentage of polymorphic bands (PPB) reaching 100%. However, interspecific differences in genetic diversity within the genus were significant, as indicated by higher levels of genetic diversity of C. stenophylla, C. tibetica, C. intermedia, C. korshinskii and C. roborovskyi (PPB > 86%) when compared to the C. brachypoda with the lowest genetic diversity (PPB = 42.86%). Caragana brachypoda showed the lowest genetic similarity with and largest genetic distance from other taxa of the genus. Caragana tibetica had higher genetic diversity than roborovskyi. A large genetic distance was found between C. roborovskyi and C. tibetica, although the two species belong to Ser. Tragacanthoides and grow in a semidesert area. Such differences in genetic structure may be the reason for large areas occupied by C. tibetica, whereas C. roborovsky has rather limited distribution in the semidesert area. Caragana intermedia had high genetic diversity and a large genetic differentiation between intraspecific populations implying strong adaptability of the species to environmental fluctuations and selection capabilities. There was an obvious gene flow between C. intermedia and C. korshinskii, suggesting possible hybridization between these species is consistent with ecological variability, which may be important characteristics of Caragana plants in terms of molecular variation in the ecotone of Ordos plateau. Our results provide a molecular basis for sustainable management, utilization and conservation of Caragana plants on the Ordos plateau.
23645367|Comparative sequencing of the chloroplast rps4 gene was used to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships within the family Pottiaceae (Musci). The results confirm that Ephemerum spinulosum, Splachnobryum obtusum, Goniomitrium acuminatum and Cinclidotus fontinaloides are clearly positioned within the Pottiaceae and that Hypodontium dregei is not a member. At subfamily level, the data support the subfamily Pottioideae as being a monophyletic clade. The Trichostomoideae are probably paraphyletic. Neither the subfamily Chionolomideae, represented in this study by Pseudosymblepharis schimperiana, nor the subfamily Erythrophyllopsoideae, represented by both known species, Erythrophyllastrum andinum and Erythrophyllopsis fuscula, are supported by the sequence data. The Timmielloideae should be excluded from the Pottiaceae. The Merceyoideae, represented in this study by Scopelophila cataractae, might form a sister clade to all other Pottiaceae, but their position is not fully resolved. At the genus level, Barbula is clearly polyphyletic since Barbula bolleana and Barbula indica appear in a clade clearly separated from Barbula unguiculata. Pottiopsis caespitosa and Leptobarbula berica are placed within the Trichostomoideae. Likewise, the genera Gymnostomum and Anoectangium are excluded from the Pottioideae and placed within the Trichostomoideae. Leptophascum leptophyllum is closely related with Syntrichia; Aloina is not closely related to Tortula or Crossidium. Evidence of a clade within the Pottioideae, formed of Leptodontium and Triquetrella, is provided.
23664359|Meiotic behavior in pollen mother cells and in vitro pollen germination were examined in a sample of small-flowered anemone type chrysanthemum cultivars. Bivalent formation predominated at metaphase I in all the cultivars although some univalents and multivalents (mainly quadrivalents) were observed. Lagging chromosomes, chromosome bridges, micronuclei and polyads were observed at anaphase I/telophase I and anaphase II/telophase II. Pollen germinability ranged from 0.3 to 25.6% and was below 10% in 15 of the 22 cultivars. A significant positive correlation was established between disk floret length (tube + lobe)/style length and the frequency of chromosome bridges at anaphase II/telophase II, and negative ones both between disk floret length/style length and pollen germinability, and between the frequency of univalents at metaphase I and pollen germinability.
23674847|Phylogenetic relationships within the angiosperm order Campanulales were investigated by comparative sequencing of the chloroplast gene rbcL. Complete rbcL sequences were obtained for ten species in six families within the order. These data were analyzed along with previously published rbcL sequences from other taxa (for a total of 117 species) within the subclass Asteridae and outgroups, producing 32 equally parsimonious trees. A subset consisting of 44 of these taxa was then chosen and more rigorous analyses performed, resulting in four equally parsimonious trees. Results indicate that two major clades roughly corresponding to traditionally circumscribed Asterales and Campanulales exist as sister taxa. In particular, the rbcL trees indicate that Sphenoclea is not a member of Campanulales or Asterales, that Pentaphragma is more closely allied to Asterales than Campanulales, that the Cyphiaceae are not monophyletic, that Campanulaceae and Lobeliaceae are not sister taxa, and that Stylidiaceae are correctly placed within Campanulales.
23674109|The reproductive biology of the genus Baldellia was studied under cultivation and in nature. B. ranunculoides subsp. repens is self-incompatible whereas B. ranunculoides subsp. ranunculoides and B. alpestris are self-compatible. Bud-pollination occurs in the B. alpestris. Self-incompatibility correlates with the production of fewer, larger, more showy flowers, higher pollen production (but reduced pollen grain size), fewer carpels and smaller seeds. Resource allocation to sexual reproduction is inversely correlated with the degree of vegetative growth. B. ranunculoides subsp. repens produces more ramets than subsp. ranunculoides, which reproduces mainly by seeds. B. alpestris is intermediate between the two since it is self-compatible, produces fewer, larger seed than subsp. ranunculoides and is also able to propagate by vegetative means.
23673947|Dynastid scarab beetle pollination appears basic within the genus Annona. Those species of Annona which are more morphologically derived, as well as all Rollinia spp. possess reduced floral chambers and attract small beetles like Nitidulidae or Staphylinidae. Pollination of the primitive species of Annona by Dynastinae would imply that the genus had not evolved before the Tertiary. The fossil record is in congruence with this hypothesis. Once again it is stressed that the cantharophilous syndrome, as it is found in the Annonaceae, Magnoliaceae, Eupomatiaceae and Calycanthaceae, with beetles being exclusive pollinators, is a secondary and derived condition and obviously different from the expected basic entomophily of the original angiosperms.
23674486|Investigation of chromosome numbers of all Azolla species, and for the first time of hybrids, has been undertaken. Removal of wax from the leaf surface proved invaluable in achieving clear cytological preparations and providing unambiguous chromosome numbers. In contrast to previous records, the species A. pinnata, A. filiculoides, A. filiculoides var. rubra, A. caroliniana, A. microphylla, and A. mexicana were found to be 2n = 44, and A. nilotica to be 2n = 52. Several triploids (2n = 66) and one tetraploid (2n = 88) were identified. No geographical pattern could be observed in the distribution of triploids which probably derive from the function of unreduced gametes. The chromosome number of hybrids occasionally deviates from the diploid chromosome number (2n = 44). The small chromosome size limits karyotypic analysis and only differences in overall chromosome size can be observed. Taxonomic implications of chromosome numbers and sizes are discussed.
23673669|Osbertia, a stoloniferous group confined to the montane regions of Mexico and adjacent Guatemala, was first proposed as a genus by Greene (1895), but most workers have retained the taxon as part of Haplopappus. It is clearly closer to Noticastrum, Erigeron or Heterotheca than it is to Haplopappus sensu stricto. The present treatment recognizes two species, a widespread highly variable Osbertia stolonifera and a newly described O. chihuahuana from northwestern Mexico. Distribution maps, distinguishing features, full synonymy and illustrations are presented.
23672595|In hermaphrodite neotropical Lauraceae a highly evolved dichogamous system is present which represents a kind of temporal dioecy. This system involves the existence of two flower morphs which are characterized by reciprocal phases of receptivity of the stigmas and pollen release. In some genera (Persea, Cinnamomum), nectar is produced as a reward for the flower visitors, while in other genera (Aniba, Clinostemon, Licaria), nectar is absent and pollen seems to be the only reward. This implies that in this case the flowers in the female stage must be deceptive flowers. In dioecious species of the genera Ocotea and Nectandra, both the male and female flowers attract the visitors with nectar. The pollen-ovule ratio of the Lauraceae is comparatively low.  The type of reproductive system that characterizes the Lauraceae, comprising functional dioecy, small, inconspicuously coloured flowers, pollination by small bees, and large, one-seeded fruits dispersed by birds, is quite prominent among trees of various families in the tropical lowland forest. The relationship between the different modes of flowering within the Lauraceae and the causes for the correlation of their reproductive traits are discussed.
23671504|The chromosome numbers of several species of Zamia from Mexico are reported. Z. paucijuga, distributed from central Oaxaca to Nayarit, has been found to have 2n = 23, 25, 26, 27 and 28. 2n = 28 is the highest chromosome number yet found in the cycads. Karyotypes of this species differ principally in the number of telocentric and metacentric chromosomes present in each; 2n = 23, 25, 26, 27 and 28 were found to have 5, 3, 2, 1 and 0 metacentric and 8, 12, 14, 16 and 18 telocentric chromosomes, respectively. Z. fischeri has been found to be 2n = 16, Z. furfuracea and Z. loddigesii 2n = 18. Zamia paucijuga on the basis of morphological and ecological characteristics, is considered to be an advanced member of this genus. Chromosome and karyotype evolution in Z. paucijuga may have occurred by centromeric fission of metacentric chromosomes; the karyotypes of Z. paucijuga are strongly asymmetrical, suggesting that they evolved recently.
23642609|Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of aspartate aminotransferase (AAT, EC 2.6.1.1) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH, EC 1.1.1.1) isoenzymes reveals intraspecific differentiation of Aegilops tauschii Coss. ( = Ae. squarrosa auct., non L.) into two groups of biotypes which essentially correspond to its two morphological subspecies, subsp. tauschii and subsp. strangulata (Eig) Tzvel. Subsp. tauschii which is characterized by a slower electromorph of AAT-B and a faster electromorph of ADH-A is identified as the contributor of its D genome to the tetraploid Ae. cylindrica Host and the hexaploid Ae. crassa Boiss. subsp. crassa. Subsp. strangulata, being distinguished by a faster electromorph of AAT-B and a slower electromorph of ADH-A, has contributed the D genome to the hexaploid bread wheats (Triticum aestivum L. emend. Thell.), the tetraploids Ae. crassa subsp. macrathera (Boiss.) Zhuk. and Ae. ventricosa Tausch, and the hexaploid Ae. juvenalis (Thell.) Eig.  Aegilops comosa Sibth. et Sm. s. lat. is questioned as the contributor of the M genome to Ae. crassa. Furthermore, the S genome diploids Ae. bicornis (Forsk.) Jaub. & Spach, Ae. longissima Schweinf. & Muschl. s. lat. and Ae. searsii Feldman & Kislev are all considered unsuitable as the wheat B genome donors on the basis of the AAT isoenzyme data.
23662389|The genus Dahlia (AsteraceaeCoreopsideae) is monophyletic according to a recent DNA phylogeny (ETS and ITS of rDNA). Traditionally, the genus has been divided into sections, but these have been shown not to be monophyletic. We have studied variation in genome size (DNA C-values) in a sample of species to investigate the possible effects of secondary metabolites on flow cyto metry and Feulgen densitometry, and to see whether genome size variation has any systematic or phylogenetic significance. Using a range of cultivars, secondary compounds from corollas were shown to have only minor effects on the Feulgen method; the floral pigments were found to be relatively inert and seemed to have been extracted on fixation with acetic methanol. Freshly expanded corollas showed apparent apoptotic DNA decay in epidermal cells, so need to be used with caution. Flow cytometric measurements with propidium iodide in some cultivars resulted in a very similar average genome size (2C = 8.62 pg) as compared with Feulgen densitometry (2C = 8.84 pg). Leaf cytosol of D. variabilis has a demonstrable inhibitory effect on propidium iodide fluorescence, which may explain some of the intraspecific variation of C-values observed. DNA 2C-values ranged from 3.30 pg in D. dissecta (2n = 34) to 9.62 pg in a D. variabilis cultivar (2n = 64). The D. variabilis cultivars had broadly similar C-values showing a 1.16-fold range between cultivars. Some of this variation probably results from technical variables and the extent of genuine variation is uncertain. The highest 2Cx-value occurred in one D. coccinea accession (2.47 pg, 2n = 32; x = 8). D. coccinea with 2n = 64 showed slightly reduced Cx-values compared to D. coccinea with 2n = 32. Artificially produced interspecific hybrids had C-values that corresponded closely with expectations from the measured values obtained from their parents.
23643391|Intron sequences of the chloroplast gene rps16 from 46 species were used to examine phylogenetic relationships indicated by nrDNA ITS sequence variation in the tribe Sileneae (Caryophyllacaeae, Caryophylloideae). This region has previously not been utilized for phylogenetic purposes but the results presented here suggest that it is a consistent and valuable complement to the ITS sequences. The rps16 intron trees are largely congruent with the ITS trees. All the major hypotheses suggested by the ITS data are supported, often at similar bootstrap levels. The joint usage of rps16 intron and ITS sequences provides a powerful tool for resolving many of the difficult taxonomic issues in the tribe Sileneae.
23673757|Detailed C-banded karyotypes of eight diploid Artemisia species from three different sections are reported together with preliminary observations on three additional related diploid species. In the majority, the overall amount of banding is relatively low. Bands are mostly confined to distal chromosome regions; intercalary banding is virtually absent and centromeric heterochromatin is also scarce. With the exception of A. judaica there is in general great uniformity in karyotype structure but considerable interspecific variation in total karyotype length (and hence DNA content) ranging from 44 m in A. capillaris (2n = 18) to 99 m in A. atrata (2 n = 18). A. judaica (2 n = 16; total karyotype length 97 m) was distinguished by its karyomorphology, with one large non-banded metacentric chromosome pair and 7 pairs of smaller terminally banded meta- or submetacentric chromosomes.
23655753|We investigated the phylogeny, taxonomy and biogeography of the Eritreo-Arabian genus Echidnopsis Hook. f. (Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae). Phylogenetic reconstructions based on nrITS sequence data were obtained using maximum likelihood and parsimony analyses. The results reveal two weakly supported clades, each with a mix of African and Arabian taxa, including the genus Rhytidocaulon, and with four Socotran species forming a subclade of their own. Rather than a vicariance origin of these island elements, our data suggest a single dispersal event from eastern Africa. Echidnopsis thus parallels biogeographic patterns found for other Socotran endemic plants. Our revised taxonomy recognizes 28 species and 4 subspecies in the genus. Two new combinations, E. planiflora subsp. chrysantha and E. sharpei subsp. bavazzani are proposed.
23645210|The floral biology and breeding system of Alpinia blepharocalyx were studied in Yunnan province, southwest China. Our results indicate that populations of A. blepharocalyx have two floral morphs, which differ in flowering behaviour: the cataflexistylous morph in which the stigma is held erect above the dehiscent anther when anthesis begins in the morning and becomes curved under the anther at afternoon, and the anaflexistylous morph in which the receptive stigma is curved under the indehiscent anther first and moves into a reflexed superior position above the anther as it begins to shed pollen in the afternoon; the flowering period of both floral morphs is 12 hours; the stylar movements in the two floral morphs are synchronous, and they have similar traits to those found in other Alpinia species previously reported. Also, on average, cataflexistylous flowers are larger than anaflexistylous flowers, especially the labellum and corolla tube length; moreover, the P/O ratio of the two floral morphs is significantly different: the cataflexistylous morph has more pollen grains and fewer ovules than the anaflexistylous morph; the evolutionary significance of this comparison is discussed. Cataflexistylous flowers were observed to produce a lower concentration of nectar than that of anaflexistylous flowers before 11:00 a.m., but they then have higher nectar concentration; cataflexistylous flowers always have more nectar than anaflexistylous flowers. Flowers of A. blepharocalyx were visited by fewer insects at a lower frequency, including honey bees (Apis cerana cerana) and two species of carpenter bees (Xylocopa spp.). No significant differences were found in the fruit set among the hand-pollination treatments regardless of selfing (geitonogamy and autogamy) or crossing (intermorph and intramorph); but all hand-pollination treatments exhibited much higher fruit set than the controls; meanwhile, no fruit set occurred in the unpollinated bagged plants. Pollen tube growth was examined using fluorescence microscopy following self, intramorph, and intermorph hand pollinations at different times of the day; the pollen tubes of both floral morphs have the same growth rate and the capability to reach the ovary. Both the results of pollen tube growth and fruit sets under different pollination conditions show that A. blepharocalyx is self-compatible and dependent upon insects for pollination. The distinctive flexistyly mechanism of A. blepharocalyx is likely a floral mechanism that promotes effective intermorph pollen transfer.
23669052|Ipheion, as recognized by Guaglianone (Darwiniana 17:159242, 1972), is a small genus of the family Amaryllidaceae, subfamily Allioideae, tribe Gilliesieae endemic to South America. Since 1800, the species of Ipheion were treated under Beauverdia, Brodiaea, Milla, Nothoscordum, Tristagma or Triteleia. Nowadays, some species of Ipheion are treated as Tristagma and some other under Nothoscordum. In this paper, we analyzed the morphological variation among species of Ipheion and related genera using a numerical taxonomic approach based on overall similarity, to investigate the intergeneric and infrageneric variations to the circumscribed groups. Based on 141 operational taxonomic units and 51 morphological characters, multivariate analyses were performed. Results showed that Ipheion separated into two groups according to Guaglianone's sectional treatment: Ipheion sect. Ipheion is morphologically more similar to the studied species of Tristagma, while I. sect. Hirtellum can be separated from Nothoscordum/Zoellnerallium and from Tristagma and allies. These a priori groupings were tested using discriminant and univariate analyses. Diagnostic characters were selected to differentiate groups. Previous taxonomic treatments are discussed and results are also evaluated using additional karyological and geographical data.
23656133|A selection of Boraginaceae genera was used to obtain a framework for the phylogenetic position of some tribes belong to subfamily Boraginoideae and genera within tribe Eritrichieae (Heterocaryum, Rochelia, Eritrichium, Lappula, Lepechiniella, and Asperugo) and related species. Our results were produced on the basis of nrDNA ITS and cpDNAtrnL-F sequences. The combined nrDNA ITS trnL-F data confirm four main clades of Boraginoideae comprising Echiochileae, Boragineae, Lithospermeae, and Cynoglosseae s. 1. (including Eritrichieae, Cynoglosseae s. str., and Myosotideae). The tribe Eritrichieae itself at the current status is paraphyletic; some members, for example Asperugo procumbens, Lepechiniella inconspicua, Myosotidium hortensia, and Cryptantha flavoculata are placed out of the core tribe Eritrichieae. The genus Heterocaryum is monophyletic and allied with a subclade of genera Lappula, Lepechiniella, Eritrichium, and Rochelia. Rochelia is monophyletic, but Eritrichium and Lappula are non-monophyletic. Lepechiniella is nested among a group of Lappula species.
23673198|There are still controversies regarding differentiation between Baccharis species (sect. Caulopterae). In the present work, we compare three species: Baccharis articulata, Baccharis gaudichaudiana and Baccharis trimera, emphasising the importance of anatomy, polypeptide profiles and ultravioletvisible spectrophotometry as taxonomic characters, utilizing multivariate analysis. Seventy-two populations of the three species were examined. The first two principal components of morphoanatomical data gathered relevant information to classify species (61% of the total variability), with the largest contribution from the stomata density variable (2.105). PCoorA based on protein analysis enabled separation of the species with the first two principal coordinates (67.20% of the total variability). Regarding spectrophotometrical data, the second and third principal components only separated B. trimera from the rest (22.7% of total variability).
23642975|Liparis molendinacea is related to L. deistelii and known so far only from the type locality in Kawambwa district in the Northern Province of Zambia. L. nyikana likewise is related to L. deistelii, it is distributed in E. and SW. Tanzania and in N. Malawi. L. chimanimaniensis is related to L. nervosa and known so far only from the Chimanimani Mountains in the Eastern Province of Zimbabwe.
23674644|Electrophoretic studies on seed storage proteins of various gymnosperm species showed that both salt soluble and insoluble protein fractions give taxonomic information. Among species of the genus Pinus evident differences are found between the subgenera Haploxylon (Strobus) and Diploxylon (Pinus). In sect. Strobus the two subsectt. Strobi and Cembrae are readily distinguished from P. bungeana (sect. Parrya) which appears to fall in an intermediate position between haploxyl and diploxyl pines. Among the species of subg. Diploxylon, "mountain pines" show very similar protein patterns in agreement with their recent speciation (Quaternary).
23642892|Chromosome complements and 2C DNA amounts of six species of Terminalia have been studied. Terminalia oliveri, T. myriocarpa and T. arjuna are diploid (2n = 24), T. chebula and T. bellirica are tetraploid (2n = 48), T. muelleri shows a triploid number (2n = 36). Two well demarcated groups of species are recognizable on the basis of chromosome length and 2C DNA values which range from 3.60 pg (T. oliveri) to 12.80 pg (T. bellirica) showing a 3.5-fold difference. Differences of DNA per basic genome or per chromosome are greatest (1.97-fold) between T. oliveri and T. arjuna. Two species groups (1) T. oliveri and T. chebula, and (2) T. myriocarpa, T. arjuna, T. muelleri, T. bellirica, therefore are well differentiated by DNA per basic genome, irrespective of polyploidy. The mean values of the two groups are 1.81 pg and 3.34 pg, respectively, showing a 1.84-fold difference. Within diploids and tetraploids there is 1.97-fold and 1.76-fold variation, respectively.
23643334|The floral development of representatives of six genera of Cistaceae has been studied. Calyx development involves the formation of a ring primordium in several taxa. Androecium development in species with intermediate or higher stamen numbers starts with the formation of a ring meristem on which the stamens are initiated in a centrifugal direction. In many taxa five alternipetalous leading stamen primordia can be observed. In the apetalous (cleistogamous) flowers of Tuberaria inconspicua androecium development appears to be unordered; this is probably due to the lack of petals. In Lechea intermedia (also cleistogamous) the corolla is trimerous and three complex stamen primordia are produced, which give rise either to one or three stamens. Relationships within Cistaceae are discussed. Floral development in Cistaceae is compared with that in other Malvanae. Among the eight families of Malvanae from which information on floral development is available Cochlospermaceae and Bixaceae exhibit the greatest similarities to Cistaceae. In Cistaceae the leading stamen primordia are alternipetalous. In Bixa the same condition seems to be present. In Malvales s. str. most Tiliaceae also show earliest stamen initiation in alternipetalous sectors, whereas the stamens of the innermost alternipetalous position are retarded early or even suppressed in Sterculiaceae, Bombacaceae, and Malvaceae. Within Malvales s. str. the diversity of androecial developmental patterns seems to decrease in Bombacaceae and Malvaceae due to increasing synorganization in the mature androecium. The derivation of polyandry in Malvanae from diplo- or obdiplostemony is discussed by comparison with the sister clades of Malvanae as shown in recent rbcL studies (i.e. Sapindales, Rutales, the glucosinolate producing clade, and Myrtales).
23655131|Evidence indicates that sexually deceptive Chiloglottis R.Br. (Orchidaceae) taxa specifically attract their thynnine wasp (Tiphiidae) pollinators through the floral odour mimicry of female wasp sex pheromones. We use amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) to reconstruct the species-level phylogeny of Chiloglottis, make a preliminary evaluation of genetic distinctions between species, and compare the historical association among orchids and their pollinators using wasp sequence data from a previous study. AFLPs show large differences between three subgeneric clades relative to that found among species within each clade. Interspecific genetic barriers are indicated by AFLP discontinuities among species unlike in previously reported DNA sequence data. However, such barriers are demonstrated clearly in only one of the two pairs of sympatric species sampled more intensively. We interpret these patterns as indicating either (i) a rapid and recent radiation of species within each clade following histories of stasis or extinction, or (ii) alternating cycles of divergence and gene flow acting to homogenize genetic differences among species within each of the three clades.
43558607|After detailing the exine ontogeny, our purpose was to find out whether the sequence of sporoderm developmental events corresponds to self-assembling micellar mesophases, initiated by genomically determined physicochemical parameters and induced by surfactant glycoproteins at increasing concentrations. Indeed, a scaf-folding of the future exine, i.e., the glycocalyx, initiates with scattered clots, which then appear as clusters of spherical and worm-like micelles, derived from surfaceactive glycoproteins. At the middle tetrad stage, a continuous layer of the glycocalyx emerges, consisting of parallel, tightly packed cylinder-like units, which we interpret as a layer of cylindrical micelles, the so-called middle mesophase. These units bear dark-contrasted particles, arranged in strings or columns. These sites of the glycocalyx units-micelles accumulate initial sporopollenin, hence the term "sporopollenin acceptor particles" (SAPs). This process leads to the appearance of procolumellae at the late tetrad stage. The glycocalyx units are rooted into callose and into the microspore cytoplasm. After formation of the tectum and the foot layer, the endexine initiates as a thin layer, and the latter develops into a very thick layer in the post-tetrad period. When callose disintegrates, "bouquets" of SAPs become evident on the tectum, which were evidently hidden inside the callose layer; these structures self-assemble into supratectal gemmae. An unusual, "hybrid" type of tapetum was observed. What is observed in Symphytum exine development allows us to obtain more evidence for the hypothesis of the participation of micellar self-assembly in sporoderm development and to bring together the concepts of micelles and of SAPs.
23673744|In the F2-progeny of hybrids from crosses between Oenothera biennis or suaveolens and Oe. hookeri with the Renner-complexes albicans and hhookeri, the development of callose pattern in meiocytes and megaspore tetrads is the same as in the F1 and the parent Oe. hookeri. During the development of the megaspore tetrads and the embryo sacs primary and secondary heteropolarity as well as homopolarity is observed. Estimates for the initial frequency of homo- and heteropolar tetrads at the end of the degeneration of megaspores in the tetrads immediately before the start of embryo sac development could be calculated. The F2-plants can be arranged in three groups, distinguished by the frequency of the two polarity types. One of these groups behaves similar to the parent Oe. hookeri, the two others have more homopolar tetrads. The segregation can be interpreted as recombination of genes, which influence the development of the polarity in the ovules. This is possible by crossing-over of genes between the two Renner-complexes of the hybrid.
23642995|Phenakospermum guyannense is a monotypic, arborescent, long-lived monocot that is widespread in Amazonian South America. This outcrossing species is pollinated primarily by phyllostomid bats. Given these life-history characteristics, P. guyannense is expected to exhibit high levels of genetic variation and gene flow. We used isozyme electrophoresis and randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) to characterize genetic variation in populations of P. guyannense from French Guiana. Both measures detected a surprisingly low level of genetic variation, with only five out of twenty (25%) allozyme loci polymorphic (P), 1.35 alleles per locus (A), and an expected heterozygosity (He) of 0.090 at the species level. Isozymic genetic variation was even lower within populations (P = 17.5, A = 1.24, He = 0.074), and was corroborated by a RAPD assay that used 26 arbitrary primers (P = 3.61, A = 1.04, He = 0.014). Although overall levels of variation were low, the detectable variation was distributed as would be expected for an outcrossing species with extensive gene flow (mean GST = 0.230). We suspect that P. guyannense is depauperate in genetic variation because of a series of bottlenecks that affected the species over this portion of its range.
23673679|The Antennaria neodioica polyploid agamic complex is a polymorphic species occurring across North America mainly north of the terminal margin of the Wisconsin glacier. This taxonomically difficult group has recently been treated as consisting of the four subspecies A. neodioica subsp. canadensis, subsp. howellii, subsp. neodioica, and subsp. petaloidea. The A. neodioica agamic complex has been considered of hybrid origin with several sexual diploid species constituting its parentage. Crosses were made among five sexual diploid species of Antennaria, morphologically similar to A. neodioica s.l., in an attempt to discover its origins. Representative specimens of the five diploid species, A. neodioica s. l., and the synthetic interspecific F1 hybrids were subjected to various analyses including PCA, cluster (UPGMA), and discriminant analyses. Results suggest that the A. neodioica complex is of multiple hybrid origin involving the four diploid species A. neglecta, A. plantaginifolia, A. racemosa, and A. virginica. Because A. neodioica is the result of diverse origin it is more desirable to consider the agamic complex as a separate, distinct species from its sexual diploid relatives. Several morphological characters in the diploid species were determined to be polygenically inherited.
23674701|A phylogenetic analysis was conducted on chloroplast DNA restriction site variation in 34 genera of grasses (family Poaceae), including 28 genera from subfam. Pooideae (representing tribes Aveneae, Brachypodieae, Bromeae, Meliceae, Poeae, Stipeae, and Triticeae) and representatives of three other subfamilies, Arundinoideae, Oryzoideae, and Panicoideae. Analyses of all 34 genera always distinguished Pooideae as monophyletic, regardless of which nonpooid genus functioned as outgroup; six separate analyses of all 28 pooid genera, each including one of the six nonpooid genera as outgroup, resolved five identically-constituted clades within Pooideae (in four cases), or (in the other two cases) yielded results that were less well resolved, but not in conflict with those of the other four analyses. The four best-resolved analyses distinguished Meliceae as the earliest diverging lineage within Pooideae, and Stipeae as the next. Above the point of divergence of Stipeae is a dichotomy between supertribe Triticodae (including tribes Brachypodieae, Bromeae, and Triticeae), and a clade comprising Poeae and Aveneae. The analysis supports some tribal realignments, specifically the assignment of Briza, Chascolytrum, Microbriza, and Torreyochloa to Aveneae, and Arctagrostis, Catabrosa, and Sesleria to Poeae. The analysis also suggests that the pooid spikelet (i.e., glumes shorter than lemmas and florets two or more) is plesiomorphic in Pooideae, and that spikelets with one floret, and those with glumes longer than the first lemma, each have evolved more than once within Pooideae. Results also indicate that small chromosomes and chromosome numbers based on x = c. 10  12 are plesiomorphic within Pooideae. Alternative states of these characters (chromosomes large, chromosome numbers based on x = 7) are interpreted as synapomorphies or parallelisms of clades that include Triticodae, Aveneae, and Poeae. Lanceolate lodicule shape may be a synapomorphy of the clade that includes Stipeae, Triticodae, Aveneae, and Poeae, and loss of lodicule vascularization a synapomorphy of the entire Pooideae.
23673680|The four genera investigated show solitary sulcate pollen grains. The structure and sculpture of the sporoderm is very similar in Bocageopsis and Unonopsis, and supports the close relationship of both genera; their flower morphology also is very similar. In contrast, the sporoderm of Ephedranthus, and especially that of Malmea, is different in some characters and suggests more remote relationships; this is also confirmed by differences in flower morphology. Within this group of genera a distinct exine progression can be recognized from non-columellate (Malmea) to granular (Unonopsis guatterioides), further to somewhat irregularly (Bocageopsis, some Unonopsis species), and finally to very regularly columellate (Ephedranthus). The sculpture of the tectum varies from a reticulum with large lumina (Malmea) to one with small perforations (Ephedranthus). Within the Annonaceae the genus Malmea is among the most primitive in respect to pollen structure. The sulcus of the four genera is very large and runs over  of the pollen grain. It is characterized by a reduction of the exine and a bulgy thickening of the intine.
23655774|Phylogenetic relationships among 88 genera of Rosaceae were investigated using nucleotide sequence data from six nuclear (18S, gbssi1, gbssi2, ITS, pgip, and ppo) and four chloroplast (matK, ndhF, rbcL, and trnL-trnF) regions, separately and in various combinations, with parsimony and likelihood-based Bayesian approaches. The results were used to examine evolution of nonmolecular characters and to develop a new phylogenetically based infrafamilial classification. As in previous molecular phylogenetic analyses of the family, we found strong support for monophyly of groups corresponding closely to many previously recognized tribes and subfamilies, but no previous classification was entirely supported, and relationships among the strongly supported clades were weakly resolved and/or conflicted between some data sets. We recognize three subfamilies in Rosaceae: Rosoideae, including Filipendula, Rubus, Rosa, and three tribes; Dryadoideae, comprising the four actinorhizal genera; and Spiraeoideae, comprising Lyonothamnus and seven tribes. All genera previously assigned to Amygdaloideae and Maloideae are included in Spiraeoideae. Three supertribes, one in Rosoideae and two in Spiraeoideae, are recognized.
23655683|Laccopetalum giganteum (Ranunculaceae) is a rare endemic buttercup from the montane regions of the Peruvian Andes. The systematic position of this monotypic genus within Ranunculaceae was investigated using cpDNA matK sequence data. Our findings indicate that L. giganteum forms a highly supported clade together with Krapfia. Several morphological characters are shared by these genera; large subglobose and fleshy flowers, presence of androgynophore with a separated staminal and carpellate region and many tiny achenes. The Laccopetalum-Krapfia clade is sister to the core Ranunculus group with a high bootstrap support. The number of sepals and similar characteristics of achene morphology support an affinity of Laccopetalum with Ranunculus s.s tr.
43498311|The genetic diversity among ten Indian cultivars of cowpea was analyzed using 18 sets of RAPD markers. A total of 181 bands with an average of 15 bands per primer were obtained. Out of 181 bands, 148 showed polymorphism (81.7%). The variation in genetic diversity among these cultivars ranged from 0.1742 to 0.4054. Cluster analysis based on Jaccard's similarity coefficient using UPGMA with high bootstrap values revealed two distinct clusters I and II comprised of two and seven cultivars, respectively. Cluster II was further differentiated into various subclusters. Cultivar IC-9883 was found to be unique based on its altogether distinct position in the dendrogram and two-dimensional space projections.
23642555|This study surveys the micromorphological surface structure of the leaves of the conifer genus Agathis (Araucariaceae) from throughout the range of the genus (Malaysia to New Zealand and Fiji) as seen with the scanning electron microscope. These data confirm that the vegetative parts of Agathis are taxonomically highly conservative, but suggest the Melanesian and New Zealand elements to be distinctive from those of the rest of the genus, and from one another. Conclusions are compared with those that have been derived from studies based on other characters.
23673896|Soredia of the cyanobacterial lichen Peltigera didactyla were cultivated on soil substratum in the natural environment. Various developmental stages (germination, formation of a soredia field, differentiation of thallus lobes with soralia and fruiting bodies) were attained during a cultivation period of 6  7 months. Our field experiments revealed that the ephemeral pioneer lichen Peltigera didactyla has a short life cycle. Thus this lichen is a well-suited object for further investigations on thallus morphogenesis of lichens with cyanobionts.
23654215|Triaperturate pollen are known in at least twenty seven genera of monocotyledons. Differences between aperture type and polarity indicate that the development of three apertures has occurred a number of times. Mode of cytokinesis during microsporogenesis is compared with differences in aperture configuration, to assess the extent to which this appears to influence aperture arrangement. Triapertury in monocot pollen tends to fall into one or another of three situations: 1) it is the normal state, 2) it is fairly common, but pollen with more or less apertures also occur in the taxon or sample, 3) it is a rare, or abnormal state for pollen which usually has less than three apertures. The various forms of triaperturate pollen are described, as well as monosulcate pollen of the orchid genera Cypripedium and Paphiopedilum, often misinterpreted as tri-sulcate, and the unusual extended trichotomosulcate pollen of Agrostocrinum (Hemerocallidaceae). Monosulcy, trichotomosulcy, and zonasulcy, with unusual and rare exceptions of zonasulcy in the eudicots, are aperture states shared exclusively with the basal dicots. Furthermore, to some extent all have links with the triaperturate condition in monocots and basal dicotyledons. This is discussed, as well as the association of tripory with polypory in monocots and basal dicots. The fossil pollen record is considered.
23662374|Several species of the genus Rhipsalis (Cactaceae) are extremely important as ornamentals and are endangered in their natural habitat. However, only a few studies have addressed its taxonomy, morphology (including anatomy), phylogeny and evolutionary history. Consequently, the limited knowledge of the genus coupled with the problematic delimitation of species had led to problems in the identification of taxa. In the current work six species of Rhipsalis, R. cereoides, R. elliptica, R. grandiflora, R. paradoxa, R. pentaptera and R. teres were studied to evaluate the relevance of anatomical characters for the taxonomy of the genus. An anatomical characterization of the primary structure of the stem of Rhipsalis is provided highlighting the differences between species. Features of the stem epidermis are found to discriminate best between species and therefore provide clear and useful characters for the separation of species.
23643720|An organismic concept of land plants is outlined, which is based on a synthesis of plant morphology and plant anatomy. The entire plant, the living unity, is conceived as the organism being subdivided into cells, which cannot be interpreted as organisms themselves in the sense of elementary organisms. The evolution of land plant tissue systems is discussed in the introductive chapter. To test the proposed concept, some frondose plants were selected from liverworts (Pellia epiphylla, Metzgeria furcata, Pallavicinia lyallii) and comparable fern gametophytes (Dryopteris filix mas, Vittaria lineata, Stenochlaena tenuifolia) and studied with respect to their organization and the principles of development. They all have an archetypic, two-dimensional, open construction, which is described as the "repens-type" of plant construction. Primary form growth occurs in the marginal blastozone, which controls cell wall integration. One of the most significant processes of form generation is blastozone fractionation. The tissues leaving the blastozone differentiate during extension growth and maturation of the vegetation body. While the plant grows continuously in the blastozone, it decays steadily in the necrozone. The implications of the two-dimensional repens-type are discussed. It appears as a perfect plant construction, fit to start plant evolution on the land surface. Growing upwards into the atmosphere, the repens-type is obscured. But is reappears in all groups of higher land plants. This demonstrates the existence of evolutionary cycles in plants. It is argued that mutation and selection do not suffice to understand cyclical evolutionary patterns. The influence of organismic construction seems to predetermine evolution because of the limited options to change an appropriately functioning construction. Via construction analysis evolutionary options can be detected and thus, evolution becomes predictable to some extent. Instead of being object of mutation and selection, living organisms should be conceived as subjects in evolution (Weingarten 1993).
23644407|The polyploid peat moss Sphagnum majus shows considerable phenotypic plasticity along ecological gradients in mires. It is considered taxonomically heterogeneous, and two subspecies have been described. Isozyme analyses were carried out on populations of S. majus from Central Norway and from eastern coast of North America in order to assess the origin, taxonomy and population structure of this species. High levels of fixed heterozygosity in the populations demonstrate that S. majus is a genetic allopolyploid. At all `loci' screened, extant populations of S. cuspidatum shared enzyme bands with S. majus. The other most likely progenitor based on morphology, S. annulatum, was fixed for enzyme bands not found in S. majus. The progenitor genotype of S. annulatum may have been missed because of inadequate sampling or extinction. Alternatively, another extinct or undetected taxon may constitute the second progenitor. The observed patterns of genetic variation and linkage disequilibria were uncorrelated with the previously proposed subspecific classification of S. majus. Lack of genetic divergence between continents suggests that the origins of S. majus in Europe and North America were not independent. Low mutation rates and large effective population sizes may be important causing populations to diverge slowly, and may explain the observed patterns without hypothesising frequent long-distance dispersal.
23655887|To better understand the relationships within the Asteroideae and Inuleae, the structure of the pollen exine was investigated in seven genera and nine species of the subtribe Inulinae using LM, TEM and SEM. All taxa have a senecioid pattern of exine. The tectal complex consists of three main layers that differ in thickness and morphology: a tectum, a columellar layer, and a layer consisting of the basal region of the columellae. The absence or the vestigial condition of the foramina is considered as a plesiomorphy within the Asteroideae. All taxa have a complex apertural system that consists of an ecto-, a meso-, and an endoaperture. These apertures intersect respectively the tectal complex, the foot layer and the upper part of the endexine, and the inner layer of the endexine. A continuous transition among the different species of Inulinae was found for all the quantitative characters examined. This relative homogeneity of the pollen morphological characters enhances the naturality of the subtribe Inulinae.
23642462|Sites of 18/25 S RNA genes and those of secondary constrictions have been located in metaphase chromosomes of V. narbonensis and V. sativa by RNA/DNA in situ hybridization and Feulgen staining. In V. narbonensis the rRNA genes are located in median position on one pair of chromosomes, which is the shortest of all in the genome. In V. sativa rRNA genes are located in two pairs of chromosomes. The two heterologous sites differ markedly in the level of labeling. Strong labeling is found in a submedian position of a short pair of chromosomes. Weaker labeling is found in a median position on the longest pair of chromosomes. In V. narbonensis and V. sativa the position of the grain clusters correlate with the position of the secondary constrictions in chromosomes stained by Feulgen. The implications with respect to karyograms of V. narbonensis and V. sativa known from the literature are discussed. 1) Die Lage von SE und die Orte der 18/25 S RNA Gene auf den Metaphasechromosomen des Wurzelspitzenmeristems von V. narbonensis (2 n = 14) und V. sativa (2 n = 12) wurden beschrieben. SE und Centromere wurden durch Feulgen-negative Reaktion bestimmt und die 18/25S-RNA-Genorte mittels in-situ-Hybridisierung lokalisiert. Der Vergleich der Ergebnisse beider Methoden fhrt zu einer eindeutigen Identifizierung von Strukturen der SAT-Chromosomen. 2) Bei V. narbonensis liegen 18/25S-RNA-Genort und eine von zwei Einschnrungen auf dem krzesten Chromosomenpaar median. Bei V. sativa tritt auf einem Chromosomenpaar eine krftige Markierung in submedianer Lage auf und auf einem zweiten Chromosomenpaar, dem lngsten im Satz, eine schwchere Markierung in medianer Lage. Die Markierungsorte koinzidieren mit SE. 3) Diese karyologischen Befunde werden mit den Ergebnissen bereits bekannter Karyogramme verglichen. Bei V. narbonensis besteht bereinstimmung darin, da das krzeste Chromosomenpaar das SAT-Chromosomenpaar darstellt. Dagegen kann der Meinung einiger Autoren, die in der median gelegenen Einschnrung nicht die SE, sondern das Centromer sehen, nicht zugestimmt werden. Bei V. sativa besteht dahingehend bereinstimmung, da es sich bei Chromosom IV um ein SAT-Chromosom handelt, das distal den Satelliten abschnrt. ber die Eigenschaft des lngsten Chromosoms (I) als SAT-Chromosom gehen die Meinungen vieler Autoren auseinander. Wir knnen nicht entscheiden, ob die Unstimmigkeiten methodisch bedingt sind oder auf Variettsunterschieden beruhen.
23645093|Bromus arvensis, B. japonicus and B. squarrosus are morphologically similar diploid annual grasses with largely overlapping species descriptions and inconsistent taxonomy. To evaluate the breeding system, genetic diversity and differentiation in the species complex, 70 seed accessions of different geographic origin were analyzed for isozymes. Estimates of outcrossing rate (t) in two accessions of B. arvensis equalled 0.88 and 1.09, indicating nearly complete allogamy with random mating, whereas B. japonicus and B. squarrosus (t = 0.00) are extreme selfers. It is suggested that B. japonicus and B. squarrosus are autogamous relatives of the outcrosser B. arvensis which have been diverged and are distinguishable from the latter by two species-specific allozymes, MDH-A2 and PRX-F4. In total, 24 multilocus isozyme lineages (MLILs) were detected among the 42 accessions of B. japonicus and B. squarrosus, with some MLILs containing accessions of both taxa. The neighbor-joining and UPGMA cluster analyses of the isozyme data showed that accessions of B. japonicus and B. squarrosus do not form separate clusters, but were intermingled in several clusters, supporting morphometric evidence that they actually belong to the same species B. squarrosus. No geographic pattern was found among the accessions or MLILs of B. japonicus and B. squarrosus.
43558394|In the present study, male meiosis was investigated in Lotus corniculatus from different geographical areas of the Kashmir Himalayas. The 2n = 4x = 24 in one cytotype of var. minor is reported for the first time worldwide, whereas 2n = 2x = 12 for var. corniculatus, var. japonicus and var. minor are reported for the first time in India. The meiotic course in the three populations of var. minor is highly abnormal as shown by chromatin transfer between different pollen mother cells (PMCs) which is associated with other meiotic abnormalities affecting pollen fertility and pollen size. Further, in the diploid population of var. minor, due to cytomixis, a few PMCs have been observed with a double chromatin mass and two nucleoli at diakinesis as well as almost double the size of normal PMCs. However, the frequency of these PMCs is very low (1.81 %). As a result of cytomixis, such PMCs might have played a role in the production of infraspecific polyploidy in the species.
23643801|Nucleotide sequences from rbcL were used to infer relationships of Lophosoriaceae and Hymenophyllopsidaceae. The phylogenetic positions of these two monotypic fern families have been debated, and neither group had been included in recent molecular systematic studies of ferns. Maximum parsimony analysis of our data supported a sister relationship between Lophosoria and Dicksonia, and also between Hymenophyllopsis and Cyathea. Thus, both newly-examined families appear to be part of a previously characterized and well-supported clade of tree ferns. The inferred relationships of Lophosoria are consistent with most (but not all) recent treatments. However, Hymenophyllopsis includes only small delicate plants superficially similar to filmy ferns (Hymenophyllaceae), very different from the large arborescent taxa. Nevertheless, some synapomorphic characteristics are shared with the tree fern clade. Further studies on gametophytes of Hymenophyllopsis are needed to test these hypotheses of relationship.
23655148|Annual alpine species rely on selfing rather than on cross-pollination for successful reproduction. However, insect visits may occasionally cause cross-pollination not only within but also between closely related species. The aim of this study was to investigate four species of Euphrasia for their efficiency in spontaneous selfing and their success in intra- and interspecific crossing. We used the seed sets that followed spontaneous selfing and artificial cross- and selfpollination to measure the breeding success. We compared the morphological characters of species and hybrids and determined their ploidy level using flow cytometry. We verified the hybridogenous origin of plants resulting from interspecific crosses using RAPD banding patterns. While spontaneous seed set was high in the two small-flowered species, seed set in the largeflowered species was small and affected by external circumstances. We obtained F1 and F2 hybrids from interspecific crosses of two diploid species and detected polyploid individuals in both generations.
43496743|Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. from Ambrosia of the Heliantheae of the Asteraceae family is a recognized harmful weed worldwide and one of the major invasive foreign plants in China. In this study, we investigated its reproductive features, focusing on its microsporogenesis, microgametogenesis, and pollen morphology. The results show that (1) Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. is a dicotyledonous plant and has spherical, incolpate pollen grains with spiny outer wall; (2) its anther wall comprises four layers, namely epidermis, endothecium, middle layers, and amoeboid tapetum; (3) cytokinesis of microspore mother cells is successive; (4) most of tetrads are tetrahedral; and (5) mature pollen grains are three-celled. In conclusion, although Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. is a dicotyledonous plant with tricolpate pollen, its microsporogenesis is successive, which is different from typical dicots.
23642725|The effect of increased copper concentration in solution on the rooting of seven copper tolerant populations of Agrostis tenuis has been examined using the regression technique of Finlay & Wilkinson (1963). Three types of response to increased copper concentration have been detected, and it is suggested that these reflect a different genetic control of copper tolerance in different populations.
23673724|The purpose of this paper is to produce a classification of the Hordeum murinum complex. Using an experimental design to account for the environmental component of the phenotypic variation, material from sources throughout the old-world range of H. murinum was grown in a common environment. Eight morphological characters were measured on the resulting triplets (i.e., the central and lateral florets, glumes and rachis internode). Clustering, variance and discriminants analyses of these data suggest that there are three distinct groups. This classification is then examined for consistency with hypotheses obtained from the work of other researchers and discussed in light of the known biology of the plants. An identification key to members of the complex using the triplet characters is provided.
23643512|The Solanum brevicaule complex is a group of morphologically very similar wild and cultivated potato taxa (Solanum sect. Petota). This study uses single to low-copy nuclear RFLPs and RAPDs to investigate their species boundaries and relationships. Cladistic analyses of both data sets are largely concordant with each other and with a recently published phenetic analyses of the same accessions using morphology. All three data sets separate members of the complex into populations from Peru and immediately adjacent northwestern Bolivia, including most cultivated species accessions, and populations from northwestern Bolivia to Argentina. The molecular results suggest that the complex is paraphyletic as currently circumscribed. Many species of the S. brevicaule complex should be relegated to synonymy.
23644235|Genetic variation in 42 populations throughout the range of Biscutella laevigata L. (Brassicaceae), a morphologically variable central European species, has been investigated by enzyme electrophoresis with three loci (Amy1, Amy2, and Gpi2). Genetic identities and the Fitch-Margoliash tree suggest differentiation into four regional groups: 1) a northwestern diploid group (northern France and northern Germany), 2) a northeastern diploid group (southern Germany, Upper Austria, northern Lower Austria, Poland, and Romania), 3) a central diploid group in southern Lower Austria corresponding to subspecies austriaca, and 4) a southern tetraploid group in Alpine areas of France, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, and Slovenia corresponding to subspecies laevigata. Geographically isolated diploid relic populations that are genetically depauperate are found in the NW and NE diploid groups. On the other hand, the diploid relic subspecies austriaca from the NE Prealps and Alps is highly variable. Subspecies laevigata appears to be a genetical autotetraploid with multiple origins involving several diploid progenitors (the NW diploids, subspecies austriaca and B. prealpina).
23673236|It has been suggested that the eastern Asian temperate flora have responded to Quaternary climatic changes in a different way compared with temperate plants in Europe and Northern America. However, knowledge about their phylogeographic structure and evolutionary history is still limited. In this study we investigated mitochondrial DNA variation in 17 populations of Pinus kwangtungensis, a five-needled pine inhabiting in isolated mountains of southern China and northern Vietnam. A total of ten mitochondrial haplotypes (mitotypes) were characterized by the polymorphisms of two fragments (cox-1-2 and nad7 intron1), and total genetic diversity was high (hT = 0.847). The construction of phylogenetic relationships of the ten mitotypes detected three major, well-distinct clades, largely corresponding to four population groups identified by SAMOVA analysis. SAMOVA also indicated that most genetic variance should be attributed to among-group differentiation (FCT = 0.868), consistent with the substantial genetic structure found within P. kwangtungensis (GST = 0.751). The genetic distances of P. kwangtungensis weakly but significantly correlated with geographical distances (R = 0.228, P = 0.03), revealing a pattern of isolation-by-distance. Demographic analysis did not detect any bottleneck events in the recent history of P. kwangtungensis. These results clearly suggested that there were three major refugia for this montane temperate conifer during warm stages (along with other minor refugia), and that the species would have tracked Quaternary climatic changes by expanding to nearby lowlands in the glacial periods, and by retreating to mountaintops (the refugia) during interglacial warmer stages, experiencing fragmentation and isolation among refugia.
23643038|Artificial second generation and backcross hybrids involving Echinocereus dasyacanthus (Texas rainbow cactus), E. coccineus (a species of claret-cup cactus), and E.  lloydii (Lloyd's hedgehog cactus) were examined for morphological and reproductive characteristics. The hybrids grew from seed to flower in about four years, and they exhibited high fertility as measured by pollen stainability, crossability, and fruit-set. A rare breeding system in Cactaceae, dioecy, was further examined in E. coccineus, using field and controlled pollination tests. Functional dioecy was documented for E. coccineus in Trans-Pecos Texas. All results suggested that E.  lloydii in eastern Pecos County, Texas, is a complex and dynamic population probably comprising first and later generation hybrids, including backcross hybrids. The experimental hybridizations also tended to support the occurrence of introgression into both putative parental species.
23657041|Ovule development and gynosporogenesis (megasporogenesis) of two Rubiaceae, Chomelia obtusa (CinchonoideaeGuettardeae) and Ixora coccinea (IxoroideaeIxoreae) were studied. Based on the new results it is proposed that the 'Ixora type' of ovule development is established because of the convex nucellus and the presence of several archesporial cells. This result supports the close relationships of Cinchonoideae and Ixoroideae established by molecular systematic studies.
23656044|Arachis pintoi accessions were morphologically characterized using a list of descriptors prepared by IBPGR/ICRISAT. Data from stems, leaves, flowers, pegs, pods, and seeds were collected. Phenotypic correlations were calculated among descriptors, and diversity indices were computed to access the genetic diversity among accessions. Principal component analysis was executed, and a cluster analysis was performed to group the germplasm. The germplasm presented great morphological variability with most of the descriptors showing polymorphism. From 595 correlations computed, 96 were statistically significant. Biologically meaningful correlations (r  0.71) were found between leaf length and pod weight; leaf length and pod width; leaf length and seed weight; leaf length and seed width; and leaf length and seed length. Diversity values were variable among traits, but in general all morphological features expressed high genetic diversity. Total genetic diversity was estimated as 0.71. Principal component and cluster analysis was able to differentiated four distinct groups.
23673789|Electrophoretic analysis of 26 enzyme coding genes was conducted on accessions of three Citrullus species and the related Praecitrullus fistulosus and Acanthosicyos naudinianus. The isozyme phylogeny of the genus Citrullus and the related species was constructed based on pairwise measurements of the respective genetic distances between the species and races. P. fistulosus and A. naudinianus form two distinct outgroups to Citrullus which is characterized by two main clusters: The first includes two C. colocynthis races and the second, C. lanatus and C. lanatus var. citroides, which are more closely related to each other than they are to C. ecirrhosus. The isozyme phylogeny is consistent with the variability in six seed protein bands and with the crossability relations among the examined species.
23659857|In Anagyris foetida, the fruits are disseminated by fall under gravity. No dispersing agent is as yet known, so that the fruits are located near the mother plant. The species presents an important seed bank that differs between the two populations studied, probably due to their different production of seeds/individual and to the livestock pressure. The germination of control seeds was found to be null or very low, with no improvement following exposure to high temperatures, but reaching high values following scarification in all the populations studied. This indicates that the failure in germination must be attributed to the hardness of the testa, with the seeds presenting physical dormancy. Also, the browsing of sheep on ripe fruit increases germination to 48% due to mechanical scarification, with this being the only positive effect those animals have on these plants. There were differences in germination after scarification between populations and years which could have been due to intrinsic characteristics.
23674776|Echinochloa (Poaceae) includes two domesticated species, Echinochloa utilis (Japanese barnyard millet) and E. frumentacea (Indian sawa millet) and 2030 wild species. The two millets are morphologically very variable and overlap in spikelet and inflorescence characteristics. Both species are hexaploids based on x = 9. Cytogenetic studies point to the hexaploid wild species E. crusgalli and E. colona as possible progenitors of E. utilis and E. frumentacea, respectively. The tetraploid E. oryzoides is considered as a possible genome donor to wild and domesticated barnyard millet. Markers from Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA method were used to assess the proposed phylogeny and examine the genetic diversity in both domesticated and wild species. The data were analyzed numerically. Echinochloa utilis and E. frumentacea appear very distinct, but grouped with E. crusgalli and E. colona, respectively. The tetraploid E. oryzoides show strong genetic affinity to the E. utilis  E. crusgalli group. The data are in general agreement with the cytogenetic information; however, some disagreements on the interpretation of some of the cytogenetic information is raised. The variability in DNA markers observed in the domesticated species, particularly E. frumentacea, points to the feasibility of using RAPD markers in cultivar fingerprinting and breeding programs of these millets.
23643375|The flowers of Dillenia are highly elaborate pollen-flowers adapted to buzz-pollination by Xylocopa bees. Two major forms of floral architecture (revolver flowers and roundabout flowers) are associated with two different pollination modes. In the first (e.g., D. suffruticosa), the pollination organs are connivent to a cone; the pollinator grasps the entire cone with its legs and buzzes it; it revolves around its axis and repeats the buzzing in different positions. In the second (e.g., D. alata, D. philippinensis), the stylar branches are spreading and the stamens are arranged in two sets of two different forms and colourations. The inner set has fewer and longer stamens that are cryptic pollination stamens; those of the outer set are shorter but optically conspicuous feeding stamens. The pollinator squeezes itself under the stylar branches and handles only the outer set by grasping part of the set at a time; it moves tangentially around the flower with several buzzing-stops; when buzzing pollen is sprayed onto its side and back from the inner stamen set. Centrifugal polyandrous androecia are a constitutive feature of flowers in Dilleniaceae. In Dillenia the centrifugal initiation of stamens proceeds for an unusually long time and is still not finished when the gynoecium is completely closed (in contrast to Tetracera). The differentiation of heteranthery seems to be functionally correlated with the extended centrifugal inception. The latest formed stamens are small and sterile in many species. Generic features of Dillenia flowers can be understood from the roundabout architecture: big size, increased number of carpels, syncarpy forming a firm pedestal and spreading firm stylar branches with small, concave stigmas at the end, stamens with short, stout filaments and much elongated poricidal anthers, heteranthery, recurved stamens of the inner set.
23674638|A phylogenetic analysis of the family Sphaerophoraceae (Caliciales, lichenized ascomycetes) has resulted in a new generic classification. Notes on character evolution are given. The genera Sphaerophorus s.str., Bunodophoron and Leifidium, gen. nov., are accepted. Pleurocybe and Pseudosphaerophorus are considered synonyms of Bunodophoron and Thysanophoron is considered synonym to Sphaerophorus. The following new combinations are proposed: Bunodophoron coomerense (Ohlsson) Wedin, B. diplotypum (Vain.) Wedin, B. dodgei (Ohlsson) Wedin, B. flaccidum (Kantvilas & Wedin) Wedin, B. formosanum (Zahlbr.) Wedin, B. imshaugii (Ohlsson) Wedin, B. insigne (Laurer) Wedin, B. kinabaluense (M. Sat) Wedin, B. macrocarpum (Ohlsson) Wedin, B. madagascareum (Nyl.) Wedin, B. microsporum (Ohlsson) Wedin, B. murrayi (Ohlsson) Wedin, B. notatum (Tibell) Wedin, B. ohlssonii (Wedin) Wedin, B. patagonicum (C. W. Dodge) Wedin, B. ramuliferum (I. M. Lamb) Wedin, B. scrobiculatum (C. Bab.) Wedin, B. tibellii (Wedin) Wedin, B. whakapapaense (Wedin) Wedin, and Leifidium tenerum (Laurer) Wedin.
23673788|The chromosome numbers of the five European seagrasses have been determined in material from several sites along the coasts of the Atlantic Ocean, the North Sea and the Mediterranean: Zostera marina L., 2n = 12; Z. noltii Hornem., 2n = 12; Posidonia oceanica (L.) Delile, 2n = 20; Cymodocea nodosa (Ucria)Aschers., 2n = 14, 2n = 28; Halophila stipulacea (Forsk.)Aschers., 2n = 18. The difference in chromosome morphology between Z. marina and Z. noltii supports the division of the genus into two subgenera.
43498300|Micromorphology of the achene surface of 26 Brazilian species of Eleocharis was studied by scanning electron microscopy in order to evaluate its usefulness in the taxonomy of the genus. The results point out two patterns of cell organization according to silica structures of achenes. The first corresponds to a group of species (group A) that have small to medium cells arranged vertically. The second is found in those species (group B) with medium to large cells arranged horizontally. These data were useful in separating species of Eleocharis subgenus Scirpidium and E. subgenus Limnochloa (group B) from E. subgenus Eleocharis (group A). However, group A shows considerable variation in silica wall arrangement. Eleocharis squamigera, previously considered as part of E. subgenus Eleocharis, shows features rather similar to those of Scirpidium, confirming recent phylogenies. The subgenus Limnochloa was clearly distinguished from others by achenes with large cells (over 55 m width), presence of crenate or repand anticlinal walls, and some orifices near the wall in some species. The silica wall ornamentation seems to be a useful morphological tool for studying relationships between subgenera and distinguishes Limnochloa from the other subgenera.
23655190|Nuclear DNA content (2C) is used as a new criterion to investigate all species of the genus Gasteria Duval including the three recently described species Gasteria polita van Jaarsv., G. pendulifolia van Jaarsv. and G. glauca van Jaarsv.. The 122 accessions investigated have the same chromosome number (2n = 2x = 14), with exception of three tetraploid plants found. The nuclear DNA content of the diploids, as measured by flow cytometry with Propidium Iodide, is demonstrated to range from 32.843.2 pg. This implies that the largest genome contains roughly 1010 more base pairs than the smallest. Based on DNA content the species could be divided in five groups: G. rawlinsonii Oberm. with 32.8 pg, 13 mostly inland species with 34.336.0 pg, five coastal species with 36.539.0 pg and Gasteria batesiana Rowley with 43.2 pg. The thirteen species with 34.336.0 pg could be divided further, in a group of eight species occupying mainly very restricted areas with 34.335.1 pg and a second group of five species with 35.236.0 pg mainly occupying large areas. These five groups did not coincide very well with the two sections and four series of Gasteria based on a cladistic analysis by van Jaarsveld et al. (1994). Based on its long leafy branches, location in the centre of Gasteria species distribution and its by far lowest DNA content, G. rawlinsonii might be the most primitive member of the genus. Nuclear DNA content as measured by flow cytometry is shown to be relevant to provide additional information on the relationships between Gasteria species.
23674783|Chromosomal studies of Medicago lesinsii (n = 8) and its close relative M. murex (n = 7) have led to the competing hypotheses that the latter is derived directly from the former, or that both originated from a common ancestor. In contrast to the relatively variable M. murex, M. lesinsii proved to be almost uniform isozymically, except that most populations of Greece differed by one allele from plants of the remainder of the range. This Greek variant of M. lesinsii was indistinguishable from one of the isozyme variants of M. murex. The greater level of allozyme variation in M. murex was consistent with its greater ecological amplitude and competitive ability. Also, this suggests that M. murex is unlikely to have originated directly from the less variable M. lesinsii. The data suggest that either both species originated from a common ancestor, or that the n = 8 species evolved from the n = 7 species, a mode of chromosome evolution not previously hypothesized for the genus.
23669401|Prunus azorica is an endangered tree endemic to the Azores Archipelago, considered as a top priority species for conservation. Although propagation measures have been studied in detail, and a broad phylogeographic study on P. lusitanica was recently published, a detailed population genetics study devoted to Azorean taxon was lacking. To determine extant patterns of population genetic structure in P. azorica, we analysed eight populations from the five Azorean islands where the species presently occurs and the only extant individual from Flores Island. We also included samples of P. lusitanica subsp. hixa from the Canary Islands and Madeira, and of P. lusitanica subsp. lusitanica from mainland Portugal. Genotyping was undertaken for eight nuclear microsatellite polymorphic loci specifically isolated for P. azorica. Accessions of the different geographic regions were used to sequence ITS and trnL DNA regions. Regarding SSRs, the number of alleles ranged from 5 to 37 (mean = 12.6) per locus and from 2 to 64 per population (mean = 24). Our analysis showed a clear separation between samples from the Azores and those from other regions. Overall, So Miguel populations seemed to encompass the majority of the variability found within the archipelago. Regarding the Azorean populations only, the highest percentage of genetic variation was found within populations (92 %). Still, about 7 % of the variation was found among populations within islands. Expected heterozygosity ranged from values near 0 in the most depauperate populations up to 0.18. With a few exceptions, the level of differentiation between Azorean populations was generally low and gene flow was clearly above 1. Analysis of ITS sequences also detected differences between the Azores and the remaining regions but the trnL region did not reveal any variation. The genetic identity of P. azorica was recognised and thus should be preserved; however, the present results suggest that the Azorean taxon should be reinstated at the subspecies level.
43558238|Pollen morphology can be useful in the determination of phylogeny and mating systems of plants. Pollen ovule ratios can give an indication of the mating system of plant species, and there are a number of theories as to reductions in response to pollination strategies. Pollen tetrad segregation occurs when a number of pollen grains within a tetrad abort; this process has evolved a number of times in the family Ericaceae. Pollen ovule ratios along with the total number of tetrads, number of viable grains and proportions of each of the tetrad types were investigated in six species of Acrotriche (Styphelioideae: Ericaceae).Pollen ovule ratios were used in comparison with related species to give indications of mating systems and to examine theories regarding reductions in pollen production.The study species can be arranged into distinct groupings based on the proportions of tetrad types that correlate with floral morphology and may be indicative of phylogentic associations.
23673776|The pollination of Vigna vexillata (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae) by a carpenter bee, Xylocopa gualanensis (Hymenoptera-Anthophoridae) was studied in a secondary vegetation in Costa Rica. The bees were observed foraging on V. vexillata only in early mornings. Visits on individual flowers lasted about 78 seconds. Flower  pollen vector interactions are described and illustrated. By its pressure on the left-hand wing- and keel-petal in the asymmetrical flower, the weight of the bee causes the upper bearded part of the style along with the upper free parts of the stamens to slip out of the rigid keel-beak, "hugging" the bee over the dorsal part of its head and thorax. The occurrence of nototribic pollination in Vigna and related genera is discussed.
23645043|The structure of and the calcium distribution in the ovary-ovule transmitting tracts of Crocus were examined by using conventional and antimonate fixation methods for electron microscopy, and fluorescence microscopy as well. The ovarian locules are bordered with epidermal cells and transmitting cells. The epidermal cells are extensively cutinized, and the cytoplasm is rich in the organelles and vesicles prevalently engaged in thickening the exposed wall. The transmitting cells have uncutinized walls with numerous labyrinthine ingrowths, and the cytoplasm is rich in organelles and vesicles engaged in the secretion of the extracellular matrix (e.m.). The micropylar tissue of the ovule consists of largely vacuolated cells with scarcely structured cytoplasm, the e.m. appears to be of gametophytic origin. Both the ovary and ovule e.m. have a glycosidic and proteinic nature, and are rich in loosely bound Ca2+ ions. In the embryo sac, Ca2+ ions are concentrated in one synergid. The results are discussed in relation to the guided growth of pollen tubes.
23642831|Pericarp structure was investigated in 158 species of the families Lamiaceae and Verbenaceae. Data from 221 out of 262 genera of Lamiaceae s.l. and a few of Verbenaceae s.str. were collected in a table. A cladistic analysis was performed on the basis of pericarp characters only. The abandonment of subfam. Pogostemonoideae as a taxonomic unit is considered. Examples of groups given additional support by similarities in pericarp characters are: (1) the gynobasic-styled labiates (subfamilies Pogostemonoideae, Lamioideae, Nepetoideae); (2) a Lamioideae-Pogostemonoideae-group; (3) Nepetoideae; (4) a Westringia-Hemigenia-Hemiandra-Microcorys group (in subfam. Chloranthoideae); (5) a Lepechinia-Chaunostoma-group (in Nepetoideae); (6) a Prunella-Cleonia-group (in Nepetoideae).
23673689|Pollen viability has been investigated in 20 blackberry species using 3 methods, (1) cotton blue, (2) TTC, and (3) germination in a sucrose solution. Significant differences were found between species. Correlations between high pollen viability and high seed set were also obtained.
23673729|The phenetic variation in L. tenuifolium s.l. was assessed using multivariate analyses of 27 characters found to be variable within the species. These results are discussed and interpreted in the context of the reproductive biology, chromosome number and ecological responses of the taxa. Evidence suggests that both the self-compatible and tetraploid races were derived independently from a self-incompatible, diploid type. Although no taxonomic scheme is compatible with all of the evidence presented, the study supports a recent decision to recognize four taxa at subspecific level.
23642716|In Licmophora gracilis var. anglica two auxospores are produced per pair of mother-cells, through the allogamic fusion of migratory and stationary gametes. Both active gametes are produced from the same mother-cell and hence both zygotes are formed in the other mother-cell. Pairing can occur between two stalked cells, or between a stalked cell and a detached cell; in the latter case the migratory gametes derive from the detached cell. The auxospores expand parallel to one another and to the apical axis of the donor mother-cell. Behavioural anisogamy of this kind, which may be termed the cis-type, seems to be characteristic of most araphid pennates and contrasts with the trans-type exhibited by Cymbella, Gomphonema and some other raphid taxa, where each mother-cell produces one migratory and one stationary gamete.
23672641|T. marconae is described as a new species from the Peruvian coastal desert. Its systematic position between T. paleacea Presl em. L. B. Smith and T. purpurea Ruiz & Pavon is discussed.
23642197|The homozygous Oenothera hookeri Torr. et Gray shows the typical pattern of Onagraceae with  callose on the external walls of megaspore mother cells and tetrads. Megasporogenesis is heteropolar, and the micropylar megaspore is the mother-cell of the 4-celled embryo sac. The complex-heterozygous Oenothera biennis L. during megasporogenesis generally has callose not on the external cell walls but only on the transversal walls of the tetrad. In 95% of the ovules both the external chalazal and the micropylar megaspores develop to embryo sac mother-cells. Megasporogenesis is homopolar, and competition between two developing embryo sacs for nutrition in the ovule occurs. The embryo sac with the "stronger" genotype wins the race against the other one. Polarity phenomena during ontogeny of the female gametophyte are related to nutritional supply and hormonal induction from the ovule. The introduction of a developmental-physiological point of view into the discussion about the evolution of the embryo sac in Onagraceae is therefore justified.
23674659|Contrary to most other bee species honeybees are highly eusocial and hold extremely long-lived societies. Their all-season activities force them to use whatever plants available and prevent any specific adaptations  in the flowers, in honeybees, and in all competing bees. This flexible behaviour in flowers has been a precondition for perennial colony life. But as bees evade becoming contaminated by pollen their visits often do not result in pollination. Honeybee monocultures thus must be avoided by all means.
23644403|Internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) were used to examine the phylogeny of East Asian aconites. Individual aconites were discovered to contain as many as eight different ITS sequences after cloning and PCR-SSCP (single-stranded conformational polymorphisms) analysis. We identified eight putative ITS pseudogenes from four taxa with low predicted secondary structure stability and high substitution rates. Maximum likelihood (ML) and neighbor-joining (NJ) methods were used for phylogenetic reconstruction. The ITS trees agree with the previous chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) tree for the vast majority of the taxa. We found two East Asian clades in the ITS trees: 1) a clade with the Chinese diploid, Aconitum volubile and East Asian tetraploids, and 2) a clade of East Asian diploids and Siberian tetraploids. In the former clade, most tetraploid taxa appear to be polyphyletic; sequences from individual plants did not correspond to recognized taxonomic units. This indicates a recent divergence of the East Asian tetraploids.
23644198|Molecular phylogenetic analyses of the genus Globba, Zingiberaceae, using the trnK gene (including the matK gene) of chloroplast DNA and the internal transcribed spacers of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) sequence data, were carried out in order to understand whether triploid formation was a rare event in Globba. The topologies of both the trnK gene and the ITS trees were almost identical except the position of G. patens var. costulata. Triploids were scattered into several clades. These results suggest that multiple triploid formations had taken place and that such formations may be one of the most important force for speciation of Globba. The monophyly of both sects. Ceratanthera and Globba was not positively supported.
23673190|The edible berry species Vaccinium sieboldii, Vaccinium ciliatum, and Vaccinium oldhami are deciduous shrubs found growing at low altitudes in Japan. They are classified in the same section. Of these, the former two species are listed as endangered species. The present status of these two species was surveyed. V. sieboldii was found in a very limited range, 65 km wide, in central Japan. Many plants are thought to have been lost because of habitat destruction in the past 50 years. Loss of pine forests from pine-wilt disease is thought to be a major threat to this species. In contrast, V. ciliatum was found over a range of more than 300 km in western Japan. Habitats of both species were heavily fragmented. The genetic diversity and phylogenetic relationships of the three species were studied using nine simple-sequence repeat loci. V. sieboldii and V. ciliatum have a close genetic relationship, although their present growth ranges are widely separated. Despite its limited growth range and the limited number of remaining plants, the genetic diversity of V. sieboldii is similar to that of another endangered species, V. ciliatum, and that of the widely grown species, V. oldhami. Seven populations of the former two species were used to create populationbased dendrograms. They were separated into three groups: three populations of V. sieboldii, two mountainous populations of V. ciliatum, and two coastal populations of V. ciliatum. The separation was supported by high bootstrap values. Isolation factors of the two population groups in V. ciliatum are discussed.
23656062|Cuscuta (dodders) is the only genus in Convolvulaceae and the Solanales more broadly in which corolla-stamen structures called infrastaminal scales (IFS) have reached a high degree of elaboration and diversification in a great number of species. Historically, morphological diversity of IFS has provided some of the most useful taxonomic characters at the species-level. However, their function has not been determined. We have performed a comparative study of the IFS in 147 Cuscuta taxa using light, scanning and transmission electron microscopy, and results were analyzed in relation to a Cuscuta phylogeny obtained from a combined analysis of nuclear ITS and plastid trnL-F sequences. The morphology and histochemistry of scales and/or trichomes on the staminal filaments were also examined in several other Convolvulaceae genera to provide a preliminary foundation for homology interpretation. To test the hypothesis that the role of IFS in Cuscuta is connected to sexual reproduction, we analyzed the correlations between scale characters and previously published values for pollen/ovule ratios and the number of stomata found in the nectary at the base of the ovary. While the correlations at the level of the entire genus were very low, subgeneric partitions revealed a strong relationship between scale characters and sexual reproduction indicators in subgenus Monogynella. However, this connection declined drastically in the subgenera Cuscuta and Grammica. Our results strongly suggest that scales in Cuscuta evolved in connection to a modification of their function in the flower: from nectar protection and holding in the first diverged subgenus Monogynella, to ovary/ovule protection against herbivorous insects in the derived subgenera Cuscuta and Grammica. Thus at least in the case of the latter subgenera, the protective/repellent role of the IFS may conflict with the attractant/rewarding function of the nectary found at the base of the ovary. In subgenus Monogynella, IFS fimbriae are similar to uniseriate glandular hairs, with the secretory cells entirely exposed. In the subgenera Grammica and Cuscuta, the fimbriae become more complex, with an internal distal laticifer, and a precise mechanism of latex release. Our study elaborates further on the development and ultrastructure of scales in C. gronovii, and provides details on the anatomy of the IFS in other species. The new morphology and micromorphology data confirm the significance of these structures for species-level systematics.
23664808|The genus Podophyllum (common name: May Apple) has high medicinal value due to the presence of anticancer molecule, podophyllotoxin. A total of 35 individuals belonging to three species of Podophyllum viz. P. hexandrum Royle, P. sikkimensis R. Chatterjee and Mukherjee both Indian species, and their American counterpart, P. peltatum L. have been investigated with a view to ascertain variation in their (1) podophyllotoxin content, and (2) molecular profiles generated through AFLP markers. The active principle content varied within the representative individuals of different populations of a species and between species; the species-wise podophyllotoxin content (% of dry wt) ranged as follows: P. hexandrum-Munsyari populations: 0.391.20 %, P. hexandrum-Kullu populations: 0.581.50 % (highest), P. peltatum: 0.501.30 %, and P. sikkimensis: 0.060.73 % (lowest). Detection of podophyllotoxin in P. sikkimensis, although at low levels, would appear to be the first report of its occurrence in this species. The genetic diversity and relationship amongst 35 sampled individuals of three species have been analyzed using 20 AFLP markers, which resulted into 1,358 loci of which 595 were polymorphic revealing 44 % polymorphism. High level of genetic diversity was observed (percent of polymorphic bands, PPB = 88.01 %; PIC = 0.813) among the species, while it was low within the individual species (PIC = 0.57 %; Marker index, MI = 4.77). Genetic similarity among the species (calculated with Euclidean coefficient) showed two major clusters. Cluster one contained all the individuals of P. peltatum (American May Apple) whereas cluster two grouped together individuals representing various populations, belonging to both the species of Indian May Apple (P. hexandrum, and P. sikkimensis). The observed paired relationship (4550 % similarity; calculated from AFLP data) of intercontinental species in the Podophyllum group (P. hexandrum, and P. sikkimensis vs. P. peltatum) would appear to be paraphyletic. The AFLP data of the analyzed representatives have been used to examine the sister relationships among these species, and would be beneficial to find ways to strengthen the gene flow among populations to maintain the natural genetic variation within the populations of Podophyllum species.
23643825|Phylogenetic relationships within the tribe Antirrhineae (Scrophulariaceae) are analysed and discussed on the basis of parsimony analyses of morphological and ndhF gene sequence data. The results indicate that the tribe Antirrhineae consists of four major groups of genera, the Anarrhinum clade, the Gambelia clade, the Maurandya clade, and the Antirrhinum clade. The Anarrhinum clade, consisting of the Old World bee-pollinated genera Anarrhinum and Kickxia, is sister to the rest of the tribe. The Gambelia clade consists of the New World genera Gambelia and Galvezia, which are very closely related and pollinated by hummingbirds. The Maurandya clade consists of one subclade including Maurandya and a number of related bee- or hummingbird-pollinated New World genera and another subclade with the Old World bee-pollinated genera Asarina and Cymbalaria. The Antirrhinum clade consists mainly of bee-pollinated Old World genera, such as Antirrhinum, Linaria, Chaenorhinum, and their segregates, but also includes the New World genera Mohavea and Howelliella, of which the latter is known to be partly pollinated by hummingbirds. It is concluded that hummingbirdpollination has evolved independently within Antirrhineae at least three times from bee-pollinated ancestors.
23642151|Giemsa C-banding allows the differentiation of six, otherwise very similar karyotypes from the small genus Anacyclus. "Banding style"with stable centromeric and nucleolar bands, and diverse specific banding patterns in distal chromosome segmentscontributes significantly to generic demarcation and systematic grouping. The amount of banding corresponds to heterochromatic chromocentres and increases from perennials to annuals. Relationships with other nucleotype parameters and evolutionary mechanisms are discussed.
23674604|Plants were regenerated from cultured excised leaf segments of Turnera ulmifolia (2n = 6x = 30). Cytological studies have demonstrated that chromosome doubling occurred in 100% of the regenerated plants. Probably it was produced by endomitosis, induced by excess of auxins in relation to cytokinins. High bivalent and low quadrivalent frequency, and univalents to octovalents were observed in metaphase I; lagging chromosomes were also found. Probably, the presence of multivalents may be due to the pairing among homoeologous chromosomes because the mother plant is a segmental allohexaploid. The high bivalent frequency may have been caused by preferential pairing of identical chromosomes against the homologous.
23656118|The main aim of the present study was testing the value of the morphological and anatomical characteristics of the needles in distinguishing Cedrus atlantica, C. libani and C. brevifolia. Nine populations were sampled in their natural habit and 25 characters were used to describe the variation of the brachyblast needles and to analyze the differences between species. The results indicated that morphological and anatomical needle characters provide valuable tools in discrimination of the taxa. The scored differences were statistically significant, as revealed in the Tukey's t test, discrimination analysis and hierarchical analysis of variation. The results support treating C. libani, C. atlantica and C. brevifolia as independent species.
23644182|Fossil vegetative and reproductive structures from deposits of the Raritan Formation in New Jersey (Turonian, Upper Cretaceous, 90 MYBP) include ferns, gymnosperms, and angiosperms. Gymnosperms collected from this formation have been known since the beginning of the 20th century. Fossil leaves, wood and seed cones have been are identified as belonging to the Cupressaceae, Pinaceae, and Taxodiaceae. In the present contribution, we describe a series of fossil dwarf shoots, leaves and a pollen cone belonging to the family Pinaceae. Fossils are charcoalified with preserved three-dimensional structure and excellent cellular detail. The dwarf shoots are assigned to a new species Prepinus crossmanensis sp. nov. and to the previously described Pinus quinquefolia Jeffrey. The new species Prepinus crossmanensis differs in size, shape, presence of hypodermis, sclerenchyma and stomata in the cataphylls, and number and shape of needle leaves from previously known species. Also, isolated leaves were found that were assigned to the new species, Prepinus raritanensis sp. nov. The new species is differentiated by the size and shape of stomata, the presence of number of layers of the hypodermis; and the cell-shape and number of layers of the mesophyll and transfusion tissue. A previously undescribed male cone, Amboystrobus cretacicum gen. and sp. nov., has an axis with spirally attached microsporophylls, each bearing two abaxial ovoid microsporangia. The pollen grains are monosulcate and bisaccate (eusaccate), with an elliptical corpus, granulate exine sculpture, and honeycomb-like wall structure.
23673707|From 114 accessions of wild emmer wheat from 11 sites in Israel, known for their allozymic variation (Nevo & al. 1982), individual genotypes were tested for resistance to one isolate of stripe rust both in the seedling stage in a growth chamber and in the adult plant stage in the field. The results indicate that resistance to stripe rust in seedlings and adults are significantly correlated (rs = 0.40, p < 0.001). Genetic polymorphisms of resistance to stripe rust vary geographically and are predictable by climatic, as well as allozymic markers. Three variable combinations of rainfall, evaporation, and temperature explain significantly 0.400.53 of the spatial variance in disease resistance to stripe rust, suggesting the operation of natural selection. Several allozyme genotypes are significantly associated with disease resistance. We conclude that natural populations of wild emmer wheat in Israel contain large amounts of disease resistance genes. These populations could be effectively screened and then utilized by the phytopathologist for identifying resistant genotypes and producing new resistant cultivars.
23642211|Among the morphological variation in wild annual populations of sect. Beta only tepal characters show a geographic pattern, and hence can be used to distinguish different taxa. Two morphological types correspond with taxa already described: B. macrocarpa (incl. B. bourgaei) has a Macaronesian and W. to E. Mediterranean and B. adanensis an E. Mediterranean distribution area. A third type in the Aegean region is not well known yet and possibly has to be included in B. macrocarpa. Both diploid and tetraploid (x = 9) cytotypes are found within B. macrocarpa, the latter exclusively on the Canary Islands.
23642088|Eucalyptus is recognised as containing somewhat more than 450 species, but this number could reasonably by either decreased or increased considerably by slight variations of species concept. Recognition of taxa, at least in the wild, is less difficult than supposed but their ranking depends on degree and nature of discontinuities or steepened gradients of correlated variation, in this group of diploid sexual outbreeding trees of the dominant stratum. Some 810 rather distinct lines marked by different character constellations are discernible in Eucalyptus s. lat. (incl. Angophora), and it is clear that the floral operculum is of diverse nature and multiple origin. The advisability of recognising several distinct genera depends on the wideness of polyphylesis in relation to other Myrtaceous genera, and (unfortunately) on practical convenience.
23673812|On the basis of new floristic works a distribution map of the genus Cousinia is given and discussed. The generic distribution area of Cousinia is nearly identical with the Irano-Turanian Region, but most of the 662 species are concentrated on the Iranian and Turkestanian mountain regions. Here, both in the eastern and in the western parts of the distribution area, four centres of diversity with high numbers of  mostly endemic  species are found: The western Tienshan (61 species), Pamiro-Alaj (169), NE-Afghanistan (80), NW-Afghanistan (44); Kopetdagh (66 in Iran, 33 in Turkmenia), Elburz (66), the northern part of Zagros (44), Azerbaijan (36). The outlines of the generic area are formed by genetic-historical and by climatic factors. The distribution patterns of Cousinia species confirm the close connections between the Iranian and the Turkestanian mountains as centres of origin and conservation of palaeo-xeromorphic mountain floras, contrasting with the Turanian lowland flora.
23642638|On the basis of the present concept of the Chlorophyta, a new class, the Chlamydophyceae, is established and described. It includes all Volvocales with cell walls, the Tetrasporales and those Chlorococcales with zoospores of the Chlamydomonas-type. The diagnostic features of the Chlamydophyceae are as follows: Both, flagellates and zoospores have a cell wall with specific ultrastructure which lacks cellulose. The cell wall of the gametes is thrown off before or during fusion. Protoplast divisions are multiple (schizogonic); binary (schizotomic) fissions do not occur. Sporangia and gametangia are formed already on the monadoid level. In asexual resting stages the old cell wall is incorporated into the cyst wall. The polarized structure of the Chlamydomonas-like flagellate is  maintained in non-motile stages. Contractile vacuoles occur in freshwater species, and only sometimes disappear in adult and old non-motile cells; proper central vacuoles are lacking.From the morphological point of view Chlamydophyceae can be derived from stages in the life cycle of Chlamydomonas. Relationships with the Chlorophyceae s. str. and the other Green Algae are discussed. Es wird die Problematik der heutigen Gliederung der Chlorophyta behandelt und mit der frheren, der einfachen Aufeinanderfolge von Organisationsstufen, wie sie von Pascher ausgearbeitet wurde, verglichen. Hierbei wird betont, da der Bauplan sowohl der vegetativen Flagellaten als auch der Schwrmer ebenso wie die brigen spezifischen Gestaltungen der Zellen oder des Thallus das grundlegendste Merkmal der Klasse im Rahmen der Grnalgen sind. Auf Grund dieser Auffassung der Algenklassen wird eine neue Klasse, die Chlamydophyceae, aufgestellt und beschrieben. Diese enthlt alle Volvocales, deren Zellen zeitlebens mit einer Zellwand umgeben sind, auerdem die Tetrasporales und den Teil der Chlorococcales, bei denen Chlamydomonas-artige Zoosporen und Gameten gebildet werden. Die Klasse Chlamydophyceae wird durch folgende Merkmale charakterisiert: Die Flagellaten sind stets behutet, ebenso wie die Schwrmer der unbeweglichen Algenzellen, wobei die Zellwand eine spezifische Ultrastruktur und Zusammensetzung zeigt. Die Gameten sind primr ebenfalls von einer Zellwand umgeben; sie wird erst knapp vor oder whrend der Gametenverschmelzung abgestreift. Die Protoplastenteilung erfolgt als Vielfachteilung (Schizogonie); eine einfache Lngsteilung (Schizotomie) kommt bei Flagellaten nie vor. Dabei werden schon auf der Ebene der monadoiden Ausbildung Zoosporangien und Gametangien gebildet. Asexuelle Dauerstadien entstehen intrachlamydisch. Der polare Zellbau eines Chlamydomonas-artigen Flagellaten bleibt auch bei den unbeweglichen Algenzellen mehr oder weniger deutlich erhalten. Pulsierende Vakuolen sind bei Swasserarten vorhanden, verschwinden nur vereinzelt bei voll erwachsenen und alten unbeweglichen Zellen; echte Saftvakuolen fehlen. Vom morphologischen Gesichtspunkt knnen alle Sippen der Chlamydophyceae mit gewissen Stadien im Lebenszyklus der Chlamydomonaden verglichen werden. Die Unterschiede gegenber den Chlorophyceen s. str. werden auseinandergesetzt, insbesondere im Bereich der monadoiden und der zystren Gestaltungsstufen. Zuletzt wird ein kurzer berblick ber das heutige System der Chlorophyta gegeben.
23642887|A multivariate morphometric study of the Cardamine pratensis group is presented, based on 84 population samples collected from the Carpathian and Pannonian area in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Ukraine, Hungary, and Romania. Among the multivariate methods, principal component analysis, cluster analysis, and classificatory and canonical discriminant analysis were used. The analysis of chromosome numbers from all populations studied showed wide variation. The morphometric study showed that not all groups of populations characterised by their chromosome numbers and geographical criteria are morphologically, and thus taxonomically, distinguishable. Besides the morphologically well characterised species Cardamine dentata and C. rivularis, the following species were recognised in the area studied: C. matthioli, C. majovskii and C. pratensis. Within the last species, besides the typical populations, two diploid "types" are provisionally recognised: type "ucranica" and type "rivularis auct."
23642990|Melaleuca alternifolia and M. linariifolia are commercially important Australian species harvested for their essential oils. Both species have relatively narrow and disjunct distributions on the central coast of eastern Australia. Variation in the chloroplast genome was assessed for eight individuals from each of twelve populations, representing the species' geographic range. Low nucleotide diversity within M. alternifolia contrasted with high nucleotide diversity in M. linariifolia. CpDNA data are consistent with the southern population of M. alternifolia being a hybrid population with M. linariifolia. The two species are sympatric in this region. Variation in M. linariifolia was geographically structured, with northern populations differing from southern populations by seven restriction site mutations, five length mutations and an inversion. There was no evidence of hybridisation of the cp genome of northern M. linariifolia with the partially sympatric species M. trichostachya. Intra- and interspecific variation in the chloroplast genomes of M. alternifolia, M. linariifolia, and M. trichostachya indicate considerable potential for the use of intraspecific cpDNA studies in examining phylogenetic relationships in melaleucas.
23673222|The breeding system, floral morphology, morph frequency, biomass allocation to floral whorls, pollination and reproductive efficiency were examined in four distylous and three monomorphic Melochia species. Monomorphic species were self-compatible and distylous species were self-incompatible. Flowers of homomorphic species were longer than those of distylous species. Herkogamy was significantly higher in pin than in thrum morphs of the two distylous species, and monomorphic species exhibited the lowest values of herkogamy. Pollen/ovule ratios were similar between monomorphic and dimorphic species, irrespective of the self-incompatibility level. Biomass allocation to flowers was biased toward non-sexual structures, attraction and support. Androecium biomass and androecium/gynoecium biomass ratio were larger in thrum than in pin flowers of distylous species indicating maleness in the thrum morph and femaleness in the pin morph. There was no clear difference between fruit set of monomorphic and dimorphic species; however, the greatest fruit set was found in the monomorphic species, M. pyramidata, which is a self-compatible species. Fruit set was significantly higher in pin than in thrum morphs in three out four distylous species and fecundity was only significantly higher in pin morphs of M. caracasana and M. parvifolia. Melochia species have generalist pollination systems. According to the taxonomic classes and number of pollinator species, M. caracasana and M. parvifolia have similar generalist pollination systems. Our comparative analyses of the characters between floral morphs of distylous species and the relationship with these characters in monomorphic species allow divergences and similarities to be established and different evolutionary trends to be postulated in the breeding systems of Melochia species. Specifically, M. parvifolia and M. caracasana are apparently biased toward monomorphy and dioecy, respectively.
23656127|The study observed the pollen morphology and ontogeny of Maianthemum bifolium (L.) F.W. Schmidt and explored the development and structure of its anther wall using conventional paraffin section and histochemical techniques. The results showed that it has four anthers, consecutive cytokinesis, tetragonally arranged microspore tetrads, two-celled mature pollen grains, and a secretory tapetum. Fascicular crystals were found in the connective tissues and anther wall during pollen ontogeny. The distribution of carbohydrates and lipids changes regularly in the process of pollen development and is related to their physiological activities such as cell division and material synthesis. Under a light microscope, its pollen grains are ellipsoid and have a sulcus and exine with fine, reticulate ornamentation.
23662376|Factors enabling and limiting self-fertilization were examined in populations of Epipactis palustris, E. helleborine and E. atrorubens located in NE Poland. In these species we found self-compatibility within the same flower (even 100% of fruit set from induced autogamy) and the same inflorescence (reaching 90100% of fruit set from induced geitonogamy). Facultative autogamy was found only in E. palustris (even 82.5% of fruit set in a bagged inflorescence), due to underdevelopment of the clinandrium and projection of pollinia over the rostellum. Allogamy was predominant in E. helleborine (maximum to 2.8% of fruits set spontaneously) and E. atrorubens (maximum to 3.4%), attributable to a well-developed rostellum and clinandrium and to the position of pollinia. Autonomous selfing takes place during flower wilting, when the viscidium becomes evanescent and the pollinia are fragile. Selfing is enabled mostly by pollinator behaviour, promoting both geitonogamy and autogamy, and influencing mixed-mating.
23642117|The present circumscription of Centrospermae, including the "central position" of the closely related Molluginaceae-Aizoaceae-Phytolaccaceae, and the divergence of the other centrospermous families are discussed. The group appears to be monophyletic and may have been derived from "Polycarpicae" (reminiscent of Illiciales?). Flower reduction, a trend towards anemophily, and loss of anthocyanin pigments appear significant for primitive Centrospermae. Development of showy flowers, secondary polyandry and betalain pigments characterize later evolutionary stages towards zoophily (e.g. Portulacaceae, Cactaceae). Further reductions are again connected with anemophily (e.g. Achatocarpaceae, Chenopodiaceae).
23656115|Aiming to complement the group's taxonomy, the objective of this work is to describe and characterise, searching for morpho-anatomical patterns, the leaf anatomy of the Manilkara species occurring in the northeast region of Brazil. The leaves of all Manilkara species were analysed, using herbaria specimens and collections made in the field by the authors. The characterisation of the leaf blades was performed according to the usual protocols in vegetal anatomy. As diagnosed by anatomical characters, the Manilkara Adans. genus presents petioles with a thick cuticle, a uniseriate epidermis, a sclerenchymatous sheath involving the vascular bundle, and laticifers on the cortical and medullar regions. The anatomical data increase the M. elata and M. huberi synonymisation and show the importance of the anatomy as a complementary tool to the taxonomy based on external morphology.
23673733|Six new species are described: Gagea anonyma, G. Staintonii, G. siphonantha, G. Grey-Wilsonii, G. chloroneura. All belong to subgen. Platyspermum (Boiss.) Miscz.
23642355|By isolation and separate culture of 10 clones the former amplified discription and taxonomical transfer of Chrysocapsa granifera Mack to the genus Sarcinochrysis as S. granifera (Mack) Tsch.-Woess is shown to have been based on a mixture of this and a second species, probably Chrysotila lamellosa Anand. The correct name of the former should be Pavlova granifera (Mack) Green.
23671563|A taxometric analysis of Limonium species in Western Europe has provided evidence for the subgeneric groupings proposed by other authors. A cluster analysis suggests that the origin of sexual and agamospermous species has taken place separately. Sexual and agamospermous species are usually clustered separately. The lack of a sexual process in many agamospermous species, as indicated by the distribution of incompatibility morphs and by very low pollen fertility, suggests that the evolution of sexual and agamospermous taxa has been by different processes. It is suggested that following the origin of agamospermous species or species groups by hybridisation, subsequent evolution in the agamospermous taxa has occurred by asexual means. Evidence from the distribution of pollen/stigma incompatibility morphs, especially the existence of self-compatible agamospermous species supports this hypothesis.
43558583|Ploidy distributions in L1, L2, and L3 apical or meristematic layers of 56 different plants (79 accessions) from vegetative and sexual progeny of the triploid Hosta 'Sum and Substance' were determined. Nuclear DNA contents (2C) of each apical layer were measured by flow cytometry with propidium iodide, and inferred ploidies are calculated. During tissue culture, the triploid (L1-L2-L3 = 3-3-3) Hosta 'Sum and Substance' exhibited chromosome losses resulting in somaclonal variants such as DNA aneuploids (e.g., 2.7-2.7-2.7) and aneuploidy chimeras (e.g., 3-2.7-2.7). Most interestingly, some chimeras exhibited even an increase in genome size as in plants with 3.5-3-3 configuration. Hybrids of H. 'Sum and Substance' show only losses of nuclear DNA compared with the original triploid. This gives rise to fully aneuploid plants and no chimeras. The measurements of Hosta 'Sum and Substance' lineages of sports and hybrids indicate that chromosome losses or gains are an important source of new cultivars. The complexity of chromosomal distribution in derivatives from the triploid Hosta 'Sum and Substance' is discussed.
23655994|Relationships among Scorpidium cossonii and Scorpidium scorpioides haplotypes from most of the species' distribution areas were analyzed based on ITS and rpl16. The haplotype networks were produced by TCS and were rooted by neighbor joining (ITS, recombination present) or maximum parsimony analysis. The haplotype closest to the root of the ITS network and some poorly represented haplotypes close to this have S. cossonii morphology and are arctic to subarctic, suggesting a northern origin of the complex. Additionally, two major lineages evolved from the root haplotype; one with S. cossonii morphology samples and one with all S. scorpioides morphology ones. The basal haplotypes in these major lineages include numerous temperate zone representatives, suggesting that adaptations for relatively warmer environments are present. Among haplotype groups that evolved later, one group in each major lineage is absent from America. rpl16 provides a scenario similar to that revealed by ITS for S. cossonii (no variation in S. scorpioides). Fossil and molecular evidence suggest that ancestral populations of S. cossonii evolved at least almost 4 Myr BP.
23644999|Maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of the combined data sets of two chloroplast genes, rbcL and rps4, demonstrate that the monotypic genus Gymnogrammitis is part of the polygrammoid clade (Polypodiaceae + Grammitidaceae), and not the Davalliaceae as proposed in most studies. The genus forms a clade together with two Asiatic genera of the Polypodiaceae, Arthromeris and Selliguea. These last two genera have either simple or once-pinnate leaves, whereas Gymnogrammitis has highly divided (3- to 4-pinnate) blades. Two characters of this genus, the basic chromosome number of x = 36 and the absence of indusia, support a relationship with the Polypodiaceae. Neither feature is found within Davalliaceae. Three morphological characters support the placement of Gymnogrammitis within the selligueoid lineage of Polypodiaceae: spores with a thick perine extending in microspines, sclerenchymatous strands in the rhizome, and non-clathrate rhizome scales. These results demonstrate that molecular and morphological data are phylogenetically congruent with the exception of blade dissection. Our study clearly shows the pitfalls of classifications based on single characters, and illustrates the importance of phylogenetic assessment of all taxonomic conclusions.
23674264|Pelargonium otaviense Knuth and P. spinosum Willd. are excluded from sect. Glaucophyllum, while P. grandiflorum (Andr.) Willd., P. patulum Jacq. and P. tabulare (Burm. f.) L'Hrit. of sect. Eumorpha are included. Sect. Glaucophyllum is characterized by green to glaucous vegetative organs and zygomorphic white to pink corolla with five narrow petals. All the species have an identical pollen and chromosome morphology, the same basic chromosome number (x = 11) and similar flavonoid patterns. A close relationship between sect. Glaucophyllum and sect. Pelargonium is indicated by the occurrence of natural hybrids and concordant characters. Isorhamnetin and luteolin have been detected in the genus for the first time.
23673943|Cytogenetical studies were carried out on the successive generations of offsprings from the induced tetraploid hybrid (2 n = 32) between Ranunculus silerifolius (2 n = 16) and R. chinensis (2 n = 16). Aneuploids, 2 n = 30 to 35, frequently occurred. In latter subsequent generations the deviation of aneuploids increased, but the proportion of euploids decreased, accompanied by the reduction of fertility of pollen grains and seed sets. F2 and F4 PMCs constantly exhibited meiotic abnormality, i.e. formation of quadrivalents and univalents. The speciation process of R. cantoniensis (2 n = 32), which was presumed to arise from tetraploid hybrids between the above two species, is discussed on the basis of the above evidences.
23645022|Two new species of the Asiatic genus Polypleurum (Podostemaceae  Podostemoideae), Polypleurum prostratum and Polypleurum disciforme from Kerala, India are described. They differ in the shape of the thalloid plant body from the other species of Polypleurum. A key to the species occurring in India is provided. Though sharing the habitat with some other species of the Podostemaceae, the new species inhabit special niches in the rocky riverbed.  The chemical components of the (hard) water in which they grow differ considerably from what is known from black water rivers of the New World. The results thus widen considerably our knowledge of the ecological needs of Podostemaceae.
23644417|A scanning electron microscope study of 81 species of Plagiochilaceae revealed the presence of superficial waxes on the leaves and stems of Plagiochilion mayebarae and 5 species of Plagiochila. The waxes are not visible in the light microscope and were unknown in Plagiochilaceae. Plagiochila fuscolutea and P. longiramea (= P. sect. Fuscoluteae) are characterised by the predominant occurrence of membraneous wax platelets; Plagiochila aerea, P. rudischusteri and P. tabinensis (= P. sect. Bursatae) predominately form various types of wax rodlets. Our findings show for the first time the systematic usefulness of leaf surface waxes in the liverworts. P. tabinensis contains surface waxes in amounts of ca. 1.4% dry weight composing of steryl esters, triacylglycerols and free fatty acids.
23643798|Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site analysis was used to assess relationships among samples of Eupatorieae from eastern North America. A total of 270 cpDNA variants was recorded from 35 species using 13 restriction enzymes. Phylogenetic analysis using Galinsoga, Flaveria, and Helianthinae as outgroups indicated that samples of Ageratina, Hofmeisteria, Mikania, and Stevia, each of which have relatively high base chromosome numbers, formed an unresolved basal polytomy. The remaining samples examined formed a well-supported clade, within which there was a split between Brickellia, which has x = 9, and a number of genera with x = 10. Within the x = 10 clade, there was an unresolved trichotomy, with one group of Ageratum, Conoclinium, Fleischmannia, and Critonia, a second of Liatris and Trilisa, and a third of Eupatorium s.s. Within the Eupatorium s.s. clade there were three further clades, with E. sect. Verticillata diverging first, and a subsequent split between species originating from North America and those from Asia. The cpDNA restriction site data provided support for a relatively narrow interpretation of Eupatorium, and indicated that a high chromosome base number is plesiomorphic for Eupatorieae.
23642809|Rhodoleia has long been believed to be the only member of the Hamamelidales lacking stipules, and its systematic position has been doubtful. The present investigation shows, in contrast, that Rhodoleia championi Hook. f. produces conspicuous stipules which are, however, restricted to a few leaves of the transition region between bud scales and foliage leaves. In the foliage leaves stipules are apparently reduced, except sometimes in the outermost leaf. The presence of stipules and other correspondences clearly shows that Rhodoleia belongs to the Hamamelidaceae.
43558039|Ten microsatellite loci are described in Araucaria cunninghamii, the first reported in the Araucariaceae. Eight were tested in sections Eutacta and Bunya, which diverged more than 200 MYA, and to the sister genus Agathis. Specific amplification products within the expected size range were obtained for six to eight loci in section Eutacta (depending on species), five loci in section Bunya and three loci in Agathis. Two of the loci (CRCAc1 and CRCAc2, both GA repeats) produced specific amplification products in all taxa, with orthology confirmed by sequence analysis. The repeats were perfect in all taxa. The flanking sequences were extremely conserved, with sequence divergence of 0% to 2.0% within Araucaria species and 2.9% to 7.5% between Araucaria and Agathis. These microsatellites represent some of the most conserved microsatellite loci reported in plants. This may be due to a low evolutionary rate in Araucariaceae genome or the loci may be closely associated with highly conserved, unreported genes.
23660109|The adaptive significance and mechanism of patterns in floral sex allocation and female success within inflorescences has attracted attention recently, whereas few studies have examined genetic variation of intra-inflorescence pattern. The purpose of this study is to investigate patterns of reproduction within racemes in protandrous Aconitum gymnandrum Maxim., and illuminate potential mechanisms and genetic variation of such patterns. Data from pot experiment on 40 maternal families were collected in field. Anther number, pollen:ovule ratio and seed germination rate increased from bottom to top flowers within racemes, but other traits, such as gynoecium mass, carpel number, sepal galea height and seed production decreased significantly with flowering sequence. Variation in floral sex allocation within racemes in A. gymnandrum fitted entirely the prediction of protandry, which was not a result of architectural effect. Such selected pattern may result from a variety of factors influencing the mating environment, such as pollinator directionality, display size and flower longevity. Decline of female success within racemes in A. gymnandrum also resulted from male-biased allocation selected by variation in the mating environment, not resource competition or pollen limitation. Moreover, there was genetic variation for most reproductive traits and the position effect, as evinced by significant variation among families.
23645272|We report the discovery of a new mechanism of pollination in orchids: transfer of pollinaria on the feet of birds. Observations carried out in South Africa and Malawi showed that the orchids Disa chrysostachya Sw. and Disa satyriopsis Kraenzl. are pollinated by sunbirds. Pollinaria of these orchids become attached firmly to the birds' toes when they perch on the tall narrow inflorescences which are packed tightly with numerous small orange flowers. Birds typically perch on the lower part of an inflorescence while reaching up to feed on nectar in flowers on the upper part, but occasionally reverse this position to probe the lower flowers. The nectar is contained within a short bulbous spur with a narrow entrance that permits entrance of a sunbirds' slender tongue. Contrary to expectation, the pollination mechanism in D. chrysostachya is remarkably efficient with about 6.1% of pollen reaching stigmas on other plants and fruit set occurring in 95% of flowers at one site. Birds seldom move their feet once perched, thus minimizing the incidence of self-pollination, either within or between flowers on an inflorescence.
23643035|The ovary of Rutidea is bicarpellate and incompletely bilocular (septum between locules not continuous). A solitary campylotropous ovule, ascending from a basal placenta, occurs in each locule. Based on their orientation and degree of curving, three ovule types are distinguished. As a consequence of the abortion of one ovule, the drupaceous fruits are one-seeded. The incomplete septum allows the spherical seed to fill out the entire interior of the fruit. The seeds are deeply ruminate (Spigelia type). They grow very fast, producing folds and undulations (ruminations) which invade and totally occupy the second locule, almost enveloping the aborted ovule. Comparisons with other Rubiaceae (especially Pavetteae), show that hemianatropy and campylotropy occur more often in the Rubiaceae than hitherto accepted. The study corroborates the close affinity between Rutidea and Nichallea.
23664071|Flowers of Malpighiaceae have a flag petal with a sturdy base that Centridini bees clasp with their mandibles to free their legs and thus be able to harvest oil. We found that the yellow, nectariferous flowers of Schizolobium parahyba (Fabaceae) have a forward-flexed upper petal with a sturdy claw and an adnate filament. Two Centris species were among the most frequent bee visitors to S. parahyba flowers. These bees clasped the adnate filament and the claw of the upper petal with their mandibles and extended their mouthparts into the corolla to take nectar. During the visit they leaned on, or loosely grabbed, the stamens. Blooming in the same area and period were two yellow-flowered Stigmaphyllon species (Malpighiaceae) whose pollen was also found on loads carried by the Centris bees. The flexion and the sturdiness of the upper petal claw of Schizolobium parahyba flowers may be viewed as a trait that suits the mandible clasp of Centris bees. Although this clasp is not needed when the bees visit S. parahyba flowers, it is vital when the bees exploit flowers of the Malpighiaceae. We suggest that the sturdy claw and the adnate filament of S. parahyba may be viewed as an instance of presumed functional convergence with the upper petal of Malpighiaceae.
23674773|4C DNA values have been estimated in 16 cultivars of Cajanus cajan by cytophotometry. The values range between 6.19 pg to 7.97 pg, a 23.6% variation. The cultivars form four groups which differ significantly from each other but have insignificant difference within them. The implications of this variability with respect to the heterogeneity and origin of this legume crop are discussed.
23670127|The ontogeny of the gynoecium of Rochelia disperma has been investigated by LM and SEM. From the floral apex only one carpel primordium arises abaxially and eventually shifts into a subterminal position. Neither an initial stadium of a second carpel nor an adaxial vascular strand in gynobase and style could be observed. In R. stylaris two vascular strands run through the style and two undifferentiated lobes in adaxial position may be regarded as rudimentary mericarps. Only from comparison with related taxa the conclusion can be drawn that Rochelia is really pseudomonomerous, more so in R. disperma than in R. stylaris. The primary gynoecial bulge splits up into three parts in R. disperma: style/stigma, nutlets with gynobase, and disc. While the mericarps originate in most Boraginoideae from the symplicate region and the ascidiate one is restricted to the very basal parts, in R. disperma the ascidiate part extends and forms the nutlets. The hood-shaped mouth of the carpel (the plicate zone) is closed to a triangular slit in lateral position, the stigma. The nutlets are triangular with broad base and do not surround the adaxial part of the gynobase in R. disperma, R. persica, R. bungei, R. stylaris, and R. macrocalyx. In contrast, R. peduncularis, R. cardiosepala, and R. cancellata have nutlets clasping the gynobase; they may be more closely related than was assumed up to now. The glochids of Rochelia are fascicled unicellular hairs (with different shapes) and not emergences as in the Cynoglosseae. There is an evolutionary trend towards fruit formation with only one mericarp, especially in R. disperma.
23642889|In Asphodelus aestivus the large number of showy flowers opened per inflorescence, high nectar and pollen production, and absence of automatic self-pollination, so that insect visitation is necessary for pollination, indicate that cross-fertilization is favoured. Large Hymenoptera are the main pollinators. Hand self-pollinations result in some degree of fruit-set, but cross-pollination also yield low fruit- and seed-set. The perennial habit and polyploid status are in agreement with the breeding system of this species, with sexual reproduction being rather inefficient and active vegetative propagation.
23674391|In Rubus L. a connection seems to exist between the degree of meiotic disturbances on the one hand, and the production of unreduced embryo sacs, pollen fertility and relative seed set on the other hand. Severe meiotic disturbances commonly encountered in apomictic taxa decrease pollen fertility and thereby seed set since pollen is necessary for endosperm development. By contrast interspecific hybrids between apomictic taxa appear to be sexual and exhibit high pollen fertilities, probably due to an improved meiosis. Thus, apomixis leads to a decreased fertility in Rubus, not the opposite, as often discussed.
23645295|We present a survey of moth pollination in woody species of the Cerrado of Central Brazil. Although with the exception of Roupala montana (which has simple polysepalous flowers arranged in dense cymes) all moth pollinated species in this community have tubular flowers, or a pseudo-tube formed from a single folded petal in Qualea grandiflora, settling moth flowers (tube less than 15 mm) vs. hawkmoth flowers (tube more than 50 mm) are markedly different in size. Moths visit some 20 woody Cerrado species, but they are probably effective pollinators of only 13 species or ca. 14% of the woody taxa studied, and even in these latter species they are often very sparse visitors. Nevertheless, it is notable that moths are pollinators for 21% of the 38 most commonly distributed woody Cerrado species. Moreover, the reproductive efficacy of the studied moth pollinated species was similar to that of species pollinated by other kind of vectors.
23669029|AFLP fingerprinting, nrDNA sequencing, and HPLC of phenolic compounds from bark samples was used to assess the intensity of hybridisation in two mixed stands of Salix alba, S. fragilis, and their hybrid S.  rubens (Salicaceae) along the Danube in the vicinity of Regensburg (SE Germany). AFLP analyses of 130 individuals from two mixed and two pure strands of the parental species resulted in a matrix of 337 polymorphic loci that was analysed with Bayesian cluster algorithms implemented in the software programmes Structure and NewHybrids. The results, together with sequence polymorphisms of the nrDNA ITS1 + 5.8S region, indicate that the three taxa are distinctly separated and that only a few F2-hybrids and no backcrosses to the parental species are present in the surveyed mixed stands. These findings were corroborated by HPLC studies of the phenolic compounds from bark samples that were carried out for the same individuals. A multivariate statistical analysis of relative peak areas of chromatograms (PCA, principal component analysis) indicates the clear separation of parental and the intermediate position of S.  rubens individuals.
23642501|The phycobiont of Catolechia wahlenbergii belongs to a new genus of the Chlorococcales. It has mostly ellipsoidal, more rarely spherical cells with one bilobate through-shaped chloroplast and in general alveolar cytoplasm. Reproduction occurs by 2 or 4 autospores as well as by 16 or 32 motionless, small rodlike spores, which are formed and released in the same way as zoospores. They are aplanospores, and their formation apparently is fixed genetically, and not modificatorily, as in other species.
23643762|Electrophoretic data show that Polytrichastrum pallidisetum, P. ohioense, and P. sexangulare are allopolyploids. They display fixed, heterozygous banding patterns at five to six of the 11 enzyme loci that we screened. In total, we sampled 304 populations representing three genera (Polytrichastrum, Polytrichum, and Pogonatum) and 18 species in our examination of the allopolyploids and their putative haploid progenitors. There were no extant species that fit perfectly as a progenitor of any allopolyploid. Both P. pallidisetum and P. ohioense appear to have originated as intergeneric hybrids between one progenitor with a Polytrichastrum-type genome and another with a Polytrichum-type genome. The extant haploid species with the most similar genomes to the putative progenitors of P. pallidisetum were Polytrichastrum appalachianum and Polytrichum commune, whereas for Polytrichastrum ohioense the species were Polytrichastrum formosum (or P. longisetum) and Polytrichum commune. Polytrichastrum sexangulare was genetically more similar to species of Pogonatum, as was one taxon that appears to be one of its progenitors, P. sexangulare var. vulcanicum (=Polytrichum/Pogonatum sphaerothecium). The other progenitor also must have possessed alleles that are common in species of Pogonatum. The Polytrichaceae are a relatively ancient group of mosses, and the hybridizations that gave rise to these allopolyploids may have occurred long ago. It is likely that the genomes of the original progenitors have changed over time or that those progenitors are now extinct.
23673683|Thottea ponmudiana sp. nova from Kerala (India) can readily be distinguished from its closest ally Th. siliquosa and all the other known species of the genus by its yellow flowers with purple eyes, deeply lobed perianth with strongly reflexed margins, uniseriate stamens united in three bundles and strongly 4-angled, green, glabrescent fruits.
23674033|Samples from eleven populations of wild barley were examined for metric growth and reproductive traits in a "common garden" field trial. Descendants of these plants were examined for electrophoretically determined genotypes. In most cases each population had one or more predominant electrophoretically detectable genotypes and many infrequent genotypes. Analysis of variance of Hordeum spontaneum shows that the between-population variance component contributed the bulk of the observed variation in metric traits, with only a small proportion of the total variation contributed by the between-genotype within-population variance component. Nevertheless, a full 20% of the F values for the among genotype analysis were significant at the 5% level. In addition, using discriminant analysis, electrophoretically determined genotypes could be easily distinguished on the basis of trait (i.e., metric) measurements. The joint use of electrophoresis (to identify genotypes) and of trait measurements is a powerful tool for investigating intrapopulation genetic variation.
23660117|Dactylorhiza orchids are known for their high variation in morphology and distinct varieties have been named in D. incamata s.l. However, it is not known how these varieties interact in mixed populations and why they remain stable. We conducted three field experiments in West-Estonian populations of D. incarnata to examine if the two most common varieties co-occurring these are separated from each other either by pre-pollination or post-pollination reproductive barriers. We found that pollinia were far more frequently transferred between the purple-flowered var. incarnata and the pale-flowered var. ochroleuca than between plants of the same variety. Furthermore, in hand-pollination and germination experiments concerning the same two varieties, we found that pollen source (self-pollination, within- or between-varieties pollination) did not affect seed production or probability of fungus infection of the germinating seeds. These two varieties of D. incarnata thus had no pre-pollination or early functioning post-pollination reproductive barriers. Post-pollination barriers may, however, act later in seedling or adult stage.
43496724|Fifty natural Datura populations, belonging to eleven species (D. ceratocaula, D. discolor, D. inoxia, D. kymatocarpa, D. lanosa, D. metel, D. pruinosa, D. quercifolia, D. reburra, D. stramonium, D. wrightii) from Mexico and adjacent USA, were investigated using starch gel electrophoresis. A total of 64 alleles were scored at 17 loci (DIA1, DIA2, GOT1, GOT2, G6PDH, IDH, MDH1, MDH2, MDH3, ME, PGD1, PGD2, PGM1, PGM2, PHI, SAD, SOD). The heterozygosity among the species ranged from 0.166 (D. ceratocaula) to 0.276 (D. wrightii). Most genetic diversity was found within populations (average Hs = 0.242), while values between populations are relatively low (average Dst = 0.066, Gst = 0.171). The analysis of the genetic distance suggested new taxonomic relationships among the species. Rather than supporting the conventional infrageneric classification with three sections, the results revealed that the herbaceous members of the genus Datura form four groups. One group included four of the eight species of the section Dutra and was more similar to the section Ceratocaulis than it was to the other group that contained the remaining taxa of Dutra.
23674557|The relationship between nuclear 1 C DNA content and cell cycle progression throughout successive stages of antheridial filaments were studied among five taxa of Chara: two dioecious species (n = 14): C. aspera (7.2 pg DNA), C. tomentosa (7.4 pg DNA), and three monoecious species (n = 28): C. vulgaris (13.5 pg DNA), C. fragilis (19.3 pg DNA), and C. contraria (19.6 pg DNA). With the use of double 3H-thymidine labelling and morphometry a number of characteristics common to all of the investigated species were determined within the "proliferative periods" preceding spermiogenesis. These include: (1) simplified type of the cell cycle (S + G2 + M), due to complete lack of G1 intervals, (2) constant duration of S phase, (3) progressive shortening of G2 + M periods, and (4) gradual reduction of cell lengths at successive mitotic divisions. Nucleotypic dependence was found between genome size and several time parameters estimated for consecutive stages of antheridial filaments: the higher the DNA C-value, the longer the cell cycles, their component phases, the total duration of "the proliferative period", as well as the lower the rate of growth of interphase cells. Differential Giemsa staining of late G2 phase nuclei revealed that the higher content of C-heterochromatin is connected with prolonged cell cycle durations in species with similar DNA C-values.
23642953|Taxa endemic to North-western Europe are rare, but the orchid genus Dactylorhiza contains several species restricted to this area. Evidence from morphological and cytological studies have indicated that some species may have arisen recently and may be of hybrid origin. In the present report, I use allozymes to characterize the genomes in various species of Dactylorhiza and evaluate the possibilities for rapid evolutionary change in the genus. Allotetraploid species have evolved repeatedly from two principal diploid ancestral lineages. These lineages include extant diploid and autotetraploid species, from which allotetraploid derivatives may still arise. It is suggested that allotetraploidization dominates over introgression as speciation mechanism in the genus. The more common and widespread allotetraploid species could be characterized by their allozyme characters over considerable distances, indicating that each of them may have a unique origin and that they have spread from their ancestral populations to the present distribution areas. However, it is also possible that some allotetraploid species contain local populations that have been independently derived from the ancestral lineages.
23643349|Breeding systems and mating systems of plants in a previously studied secondary deciduous forest were reanalysed in the context of new data. In this analysis, we increased the number of plant species (up to approximately 25% of the plant species in the community), included other life forms (23 annual and perennial species, plus habitat disturbance categories), and considered information about pollinator specificity. The frequencies of species with different sexual systems in a sample of 51 species were 82% hermaphrodite, 14% monoecious, and 4% dioecious. The frequencies of breeding systems in the sample of 49 hermaphroditic and monoecious species were 53% self-incompatible and 47% self-compatible. Self-compatible species included seven partially self-compatible, three self-compatible non-autogamous, and 13 self-compatible autogamous species. None of the species evaluated proved to be agamospermous. Fifty-five percent of the species tested were obligate outbreeders. The proportion of self-incompatible species was higher among trees and shrubs than among annual herbs. The proportion of self-compatible species for perennial herbs and lianas was not different. The association between annual herbs and autogamy was not strong: seven of 13 species were autogamous, five were partially self-compatible, and one was self-incompatible. The main characteristics or factors associated with breeding system were life cycle and successional stage. Short-lived species were mostly self-compatible, and xenogamy tended to be associated with forest and forest-border. In contrast, pollination specificity and life form were not consistently related to breeding system (self-compatibility or self-incompatibility) and mating system (xenogamy or autogamy).
23642738|The sequence of subfamilies, Cinchonoideae, Antirheoideae and Rubioideae, attemps to show their natural affinities and phylogeny. The subfamilies are those of Verdcourt, and the order in which they are presented is that of Bremekamp. A list is presented of the subfamilies, tribes and genera of the Rubiaceae to be utilized in the "Catlogo Ilustrado de las plantas de Cundinamarca", Colombia.
23645109|The pattern of variation in characters closely connected with reproductive fitness and in a presumably weakly selected character, leaflet shape, was studied in the forest-herb Lathyrus vernus. Plants from twenty populations, representing three geographically distinct regions (C. Europe, S. Sweden and C. Sweden), were transplanted to a common garden. Leaflet shape, described using elliptic Fourier coefficients and moment invariants, showed significant variation between regions and between population within regions, and a tendency for differences in leaflet shape to increase with the geographic distance separating the populations. Pairwise comparisons of populations also revealed a positive association between the difference in leaflet shape (when quantified using moment invariants) and the genetic distance based on allozyme data from an earlier study. There were significant between-population and between-region differences for most of the reproductive characters, whereas the association between the between-population distance in reproductive characters and geographic or genetic distance failed to reach significance. Leaflet shape and reproductive characters generally showed higher levels of differentiation than the allozymes. L. vernus did not show any significant differences in fitness-related characters between small and large populations measured in cultivation, although individuals from small populations flowered earlier and had a higher mortality during four years in cultivation.
23643521|Genomic in situ hybridization offers a powerful tool for investigating genome organisation and evolution of taxa known, or suspected, to be allopolyploids. The question of the diploid progenitors of cultivated peanut (Arachis hypogaea, 2n = 4 = 40) has been the subject of numerous studies at cytogenetical, cytochemical, biochemical and molecular levels, but no definitive conclusions have been reached. The biotinylated total genomic DNA from potential diploid Arachis species were separately hybridized in situ to root tip chromosomes of A. hypogaea and wild species A. monticola (2n = 4 = 40) without or mixed with an excess of unlabelled DNA from the species not used as a probe. Among the range of different species combinations used, the strong and uniform signals given by labelled A. ipaensis DNA when hybridized to A. hypogaea and A. monticola in combination with unlabelled A. villosa DNA indicates that overall molecular composition of twenty chromosomes of A. hypogaea and A. monticola is very similar to A. ipaensis chromosomes. Probing A. hypogaea and A. monticola chromosomes with labelled genomic DNA from A. villosa mixed with unlabelled DNA from A. ipaensis likewise labelled strongly and uniformly the other twenty chromosomes. Barring A. ipaensis, all the diploid Arachis species presently investigated had characteristic centromeric bands in the twenty chromosomes within the complement indicating a clear division of A. ipaensis from other species. In A. hypogaea and A. monticola only twenty chromosomes showed centromeric bands. These results (i) confirm the allopolyploid nature of A. hypogaea and A. monticola, (ii) strongly support the view that wild A. monticola and cultivated A. hypogaea are very closely related, and (iii) indicate that A. villosa and A. ipaensis are the diploid wild progenitors of the tetraploid species studied. The present results also reveal that the nucleolus organizing region (NOR) originating from A. villosa alone is expressed in the two tetraploid species.
23663564|While several plant species are initially described as androdioecious, upon more thorough investigation, many of these are found to be cryptically dioecious with functionally male flowers and perfect flowers that produce inaperturate pollen or are otherwise functionally female on separate plants. The change in function of pollen produced by perfect flowers opens up the possibility for the evolution of sexual dimorphism in pollen grain size. We found that Thalictrum macrostylum (Ranunculaceae) is cryptically dioecious, and produces apparently inaperturate pollen in perfect flowers. In four field sites throughout North Carolina, inaperturate grains are larger than grains from staminate flowers and also show a greater variance in size. We also found substantial variation in pollen grain size among plants. The sites with lower soil nutrient content also had smaller pollen grains of both types, although local adaptation or genetic drift may also be causing among-site variation.
23656091|Karyotypes of three Larix species (L. sibirica, L. gmelinii, and L. cajanderi) were analyzed using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with 45S and 5S ribosomal RNA gene probes and 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining. Two major 45S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) loci (per haploid genome) have been observed in the intercalary regions of two metacentric chromosomes, III and IV, of L. sibirica; in addition to them, minor nucleolus organizing regions (NORs) were mapped in pericentromeric regions of chromosomes I, II, VI, and XII. Two closely related species, L. gmelinii and L. cajanderi, showed similar hybridization patterns; both species possessed an additional major locus of 45S rDNA in the distal region of the long arm of submetacentric chromosome VII that is absent in L. sibirica. Only one locus of the 5S rDNA was found in all larch species we studied; it was located in the distal region of the chromosome III short arm, which also carried the major NOR in the opposite arm. This chromosome containing major loci of the two ribosomal RNA gene families can serve as a marker of the genus Larix. The intra- and interspecific karyotype diversity in the genus Larix is discussed.
23674726|The variation in two sets of morphological characters of the flowers of the highly inbreeding Scleranthus annuus (Caryophyllaceae) was assessed using 15  20 plants from each of 20 natural populations from the southernmost region of Sweden. The stamen fertility data set consisted of 10 characters describing the degree of fertility of the ten stamens/staminoids, while the sepal/gynoecium data set comprised 10 sepal characters, together with style and stigma length. Substantial variation was found in both the degree of development and the fertility of the stamens, the degree of variability in stamen fertility being related to stamen position within the flower. Considerable variation was found in the characters of the sepal and the gynoecium. Hierarchical analyses of variance indicated that 29% of the variation in total male reproductive effort was distributed among populations, 28% among plants within populations and 43% represented within-plant variation. The corresponding averages for the characters from the sepal/gynoecium data set are 26, 38, and 35%: a greater proportion of the total variance in female reproductive characters is accounted for by among individual variation than is the case with the male reproductive characters. Significance tests of Mahalanobis' distances derived by canonical variate analyses indicated that all populations were significantly separated using the sepal/gynoecium data set, while only 50% of the pairwise comparisons on the basis of the stamen fertility data set were significant. Cluster analysis did not reveal any aggregation of the populations. The incongruence of the two data sets and their ability to discriminate between the populations is discussed.
23642876|Nicolaia elatior is used as an example to demonstrate that the "mucronate" tepals of Zingiberaceae correspond to hypsophylls (bracts) consisting of a leaf sheath and a rudimentary "Oberblatt" ( = leaf petiole + lamina) represented by the "mucro". Evidence for this interpretation is furnished by all available criteria: leaf sequence (exhibiting a complete continuum of forms from foliage leaves over cata- and hypsophylls to the tepals), nervature, and ontogeny. The present conception is compared with the well-founded thesis of Leinfellner that the perigone of Liliaceae is derived from the androecium. The different morphological status of the perigone in both families is not regarded as the result of different phylogenetic origin, but as a manifestation of "morphogenetic transgressions" from one phyllome category to an adjacent one: In the Liliaceae the perigone is under a strong morphogenetic influence of the androecium, and therefore displays staminal characters, in the Zingiberaceae it is under the dominating influence of the extrafloral region, and thus appears as a hypsophyllous structure. If this assumption of a morphologically "oscillating" perigone is correct, it will be fundamentally impossible to demonstrate unequivocally the phylogenetic origin of the monocotyledonous perigone.
23655672|Recent investigations in Gesneriaceae have indicated that the cycloidea homolog, gcyc, remains functional at the DNA level and rates of sequence divergence in this gene are not statistically different across all taxa regardless of floral symmetry. A duplication of gcyc has been detected within Coronanthereae, a tribe that has phylogenetic affinities to subfamily Gesnerioideae and includes two genera with radially symmetrical corollas. Duplication of gcyc has been detected in all Coronanthereae except Sarmienta. All paralogs appear functional at the DNA level. Likewise, there is no increased sequence divergence between the two copies, nor between species with radially symmetrical flowers to those with bilateral symmetry. The duplication of gcyc in Coronanthereae is most likely a result of polyploidy since Coronanthereae have the highest chromosome counts of all Gesneriaceae.
23642584|Twenty enzyme loci were examined in the diploid species of Triticum and Aegilops for allelic variation by starch gel electrophoresis. Section Sitopsis, including the five species, Ae. speltoides, Ae. lingissima, Ae. sharonensis, Ae. bicornis and Ae. searsii form a close subgroup with Ae. speltoides slightly removed from the others. T. monococcum s. lat., was found to be closest to the species of the Sitopsis group. Ae. comosa, Ae. umbellulata and Ae. uniaristata form a second subgroup with Ae. caudata most closely related to these species. Ae. squarrosa appears almost equally related to all of the species, showing no special affinity for any one species group. Nineteen out of twenty loci examined were polymorphic with a mean of 6.7 alleles per locus. Species could be, for most loci, characterized by the presence of predominant alleles. A conspicious genetic characteristic of Triticum-Aegilops is the sharing of these predominant alleles between species. Within species variation is characterized by a diffuse distribution of secondary alleles.
23655547|In contrast to a majority of angiosperms showing porogamous fertilization, several fagalean families such as Betulaceae and Casuarinaceae are known to show chalazogamy, where fertilization is effected by a pollen tube passing through the chalaza instead of the micropyle. Our developmental study of pollen-tube growth in pistils of Myrica rubra (Myricaceae, Fagales) further shows that pollen tubes reached the nucellus before the micropyle is formed by the integument. Since fertilized ovules appeared as if the pollen tube had passed through the micropyle for fertilization, we propose the new term 'pseudoporogamy' to this mode. By mapping diverse modes of fertilization, dependent or independent of the micropyle, onto a phylogenetic tree of Fagales, it appears that fertilization mode evolved from porogamy to chalazogamy and then further from chalazogamy to pseudoporogamy. Possible reasons for the evolution of fertilization modes independent of the micropyle in Fagales are discussed.
23642961|Narrow endemism is a poor predictor of genetic potential in the six taxa that conform the Androcymbium gramineum complex, as shown by the unexpectedly high values of variability associated with ten allozymic loci and 13 biometrical variables. Although both levels are shown not to be correlated, variability is always concentrated within populations. This result, together with environmental, reproductive and historical data strongly suggests differentiation in local isolates, where changes can be quickly assimilated by stochastic processes. A key implication for conservation is that sampling within the largest population will save effort while neglecting only very low frequency alleles.
23643236|Nucleotide sequences from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of the 18S26S nuclear ribosomal DNA have been studied from ten species of Quercus (representing four subgenera), Castanea sativa and Fagus sylvatica, as a preliminary molecular contribution to the still poorly understood systematics and evolution of Fagaceae. The resulting matrix has been used to calculate pair-wise sequence divergence indices and to construct a maximum parsimony tree for Quercus coding indels as a fifth state. Divergence is greater for Quercus vs. Fagus than for Quercus vs. Castanea. The tree for the Quercus taxa studied reveals two clearly divergent clades. In clade I the evergreen W Mediterranean Q. suber appears in a basal position as sister to more distal deciduous taxa, i.e. the E Mediterranean Q. macrolepis and the E Asiatic Q. acutissima (all formerly united as different sections under the apparently polyphyletic subg. Cerris), and Q. rubra (a representative of the N American subg. Erythrobalanus), forming a pair with Q. acutissima. In clade II the evergreen southeastern N American Q. virginiana is basal and sister to the remaining three branches, i.e. a pair of evergreen Mediterranean taxa with Q. ilex and Q. coccifera (subg. Sclerophyllodrys), the deciduous but otherwise plesiomorphic SE European/SW Asiatic Q. cerris (type species of subg. Cerris), and the related but more apomorphic European pair Q. petraea and Q. robur (subg. Quercus). These results partly conflict with current taxonomic classification but are supported by some anatomical and morphological characters. They document polyphyletic lines from evergreen to deciduous taxa and suggest Tertiary transcontinental connections within the genus.
23674662|A paper by Wilson & al. (1990) on the taxonomy of Fumaria is commented upon. It is concluded that the lack of congruence between the authors' results and evidence from morphology, chemistry, and crossing experiments renders their approach questionable.
23662384|The study deals with similarity among 25 species of the genus Trifolium represented by 134 accessions. Clustering of the species based on isozyme banding pattern of five enzymes revealed that T. repens was distinctly different from other species. T. repens and T. retusum formed independent clusters. The group of species comprising of T. pratense, T. cherleri, T. spumosum, T. subterraneum, T. resupinatum, T. alexandrinum, T. echinatum, T. constantinopolitanum and T. tembense exhibited considerable similarity to the second cluster. This group joined another group of five species, i.e. T. nigrescens, T. glomeratum, T. apertum, T. alpestre and T. hybridum with nearly 50% similarity. T. purpureum, T. hirtum, T. campestre, T. incarnatum, and T. argutum grouped separately. There was no marked difference for banding pattern among T. alexandrinum genotypes. T. alexandrinum showed close affinity with T. subterraneum and T. resupinatum. T. lappaceum, T. diffusum, T. campestre, T. incarnatum and T. argutum showed only 44.8% similarity with other Trifolium species. Grouping together of accessions belonging to individual species indicated that incompatibility among species under study had restricted interspecific hybridization. Species belonging to subgenus Lotoidea clustered with species of subgenus Trifolium. Chonosemium species T. campestre formed one cluster with two Trifolium species T. hirtum and T. incarnatum. T. nigrescens was placed quite apart from the T. repens.
43558217|Pollen cell number was studied in 124 species of Saxifraga and six species of Micranthes.Binucleate pollen is present in all the six species of Micranthes studied and in 96 species of Saxifraga. Trinucleate pollen occurs in 28 species of Saxifraga and is confined to section Ciliatae subsection Hirculoideae, where it is a putative synapomorphy, and to two species of subsection Serpyllifoliae.Trinucleate pollen does not characterise the whole of section Ciliatae as has been thought. The state has probably evolved at least twice, and possibly three times, in the genus. One new nomenclatural combination is made in Micranthes.
23674424|Restriction endonuclease fragment analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) was completed on 25 individuals each from seven populations of the Lisianthius skinneri (Gentianaceae) species complex in Panama. Seven restriction enzymes were used to determine the amount and type of rDNA variation within and among individuals of the populations. No restriction site variation was seen within populations or individuals although site differences were seen among populations. Spacer length variation within and among individuals of populations was mapped to the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region between the 18 S and 5.8 S rRNA genes, a region in Lisianthius rDNA that previously was shown to exhibit length differences among populations. This is the first reported case of such variation within and among individuals of populations for the ITS region. Presence or absence of ITS spacer length variation is not correlated with levels of isozymic heterozygosity within populations. No detectable length variation within individuals or populations was seen in the larger intergenic spacer (IGS). Although populations varied with respect to IGS length, all individuals of a given population had a single and equivalent IGS length.
23642704|The chromosome numbers of Veronica beccabunga subsp. abscondita (2n = 18), V. anagallis-aquatica subsp. lysimachioides (2n = 18), V. anagallis-aquatica subsp. michauxii (2n = 36), and of a presumable hybrid V. poljensis  V. anagalloides (2n = 36) are new for the relevant taxa.A new number was found for V. anagalloides subsp. heureka (2n = 18). The other counts, of V. scardica (2n = 18), V. anagalloides subsp. anagalloides (2n = 18), and V. anagallis-aquatica subsp. oxycarpa (2n = 36) agree with earlier findings.Data from the literature have been critically evaluated, in some cases the relevant vouchers have been checked and, where needed, the original determinations have been revised. For several taxa, comments concerning their systematics and remarks on their distribution in Turkey are given.
23644179|The polyploid Salix alba  Salix fragilis hybrid complex is rather difficult to study when using only morphological characters. Most of the characters have a low diagnostic value for unambiguously identifying the hybrids, introgression patterns and population structures. Morphology and molecular variation determined with random amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs) were investigated in a set of staminate and pistillate willows from Belgium. A thorough screening of possible RAPD markers was done to select homologous amplification products. The selected amplified products proved to be useful in a principal coordinate analysis for the identification of individuals from a morphological continuum comprising presumed pure species and introgressants. The RAPD based identity of the individuals or clones was checked against those based on morphological characters. A correspondence analysis indicated that all pubescence related characters were associated but separated from the size related characters. The RAPDs also revealed that the S. fragilis genotypes mainly consisted of staminate individuals whereas most of the pistillate trees belonged to the S. alba genotype cluster. It was suggested that both species have kept their gene pools well separated and that morphologically intermediate plants are not necessarily genetically intermediate.
23643719|Ribosomal DNA sequences were employed to infer relationships among European Pottiaceae. Intragenic spacer I was sequenced for six Trichostomoideae (Eucladium verticillatum, Pleurochaete squarrosa, Tortella flavovirens, T. nitida, T. tortuosa, Trichostomum brachydontium) and seven taxa from the other European subfamilies included in Pottiaceae (Bryoerythrophyllum recurvirostrum, Didymodon vinealis, Microbryum starkeanum, Tortula muralis, Syntrichia ruralis, Weissia controversa and Timmiella cf. barbuloides). Cladistic analysis of sequence data shows close relationships between Pleurochaete, Tortella and Weissia. Tortella appears to be paraphyletic, as it includes Pleurochaete, Weissia and Trichostomum. Weissia, therefore, seems to be better placed in Trichostomoideae than, as traditionally done, in Pottioideae. Neither Merceyoideae nor Pottioideae appear to be monophyletic sensu stricto, at least within the limits of the taxa in analysis. Within the latter subfamily, Syntrichia is clearly separated from Tortula. These results would suggest that taxonomy in Pottiaceae does not depict the pattern of descent, and therefore is in need of revision.
23655693|Gnetalean compression-impression fossils are described from the Early Cretaceous Yixian Formation, Liaoning Province, north-eastern China, and assigned to six species of Liaoxia Cao et S.Q. Wu. The fossils have opposite-decussate phyllotaxis and cones comprising 212 pairs of bracts. Ovulate cones have seeds typically in a distal position. The species differ from each other and from previously described fossils in the absence or presence of leaves, shape of cones and seeds, and shape and position of cone bracts. The species of Liaoxia are probably close relatives of extant species of Ephedra L., but diagnostic reproductive details that could confirm this hypothesis are not preserved. The restricted information in the fossils and the poorly understood morphological diversity of extant Ephedra, prevent assignment of the fossils to any particular subgroup of Ephedra, as well as an explicit exclusion of them from the extant genus.
23669990|Morphological and biochemical data were analysed from 30 greenhouse-grown populations of European Silene latifolia. Six separate character sets (flavones, seed, pollen, capsules, male and female flower morphology) were used in the analyses. There was broad-scale congruence between trends of geographic variation in most character sets, with the populations being assigned to western (or southern and western) and eastern clusters. The eastern and western clusters abut along a transition zone that runs roughly from Belgium to the northern Balkans; this zone represents a region of relatively rapid change and contains populations intermediate between the eastern and western clusters. Variation in flower morphology was weak and discordant with variation in the other character sets. The origin and maintenance of the variation pattern is discussed in terms of migrational history and "hybrid zones".
23642774|Central European specimens of two Milesia species, both growing on Polystichum, were investigated by SEM. The uredospores of M. vogesiaca are not smooth, as stated in literature, but finely verrucose; size and density of the verrucae are rather variable. In contrast, the uredospores of M. whitei are finely echinulate.
23642249|Paracaryum intermedium and P. boissieri differ only in their inflexed or flattened fruit wings, and often occur in mixed populations on Mt. Katherina, Sinai. This and cultivation experiments suggest that they may represent forms of a single species only. The fruit characters mentioned therefore are hardly useful for a generic separation of Paracaryum and Mattiastrum.
43558670|This article addresses the vegetative anatomy (leaves, stems, roots, root tubers and rhizomes) of 13 species of subfamily Orchidoideae (Orchidaceae), belonging to the genera Neottia Guettard, Cephalanthera L.C.M. Richard, Epipactis Zinn, Limodorum Boehmer, Spiranthes L.C.M. Richard, Platanthera L.C.M. Richard, Serapias L., Himantoglossum W.D. Koch and Anacamptis L.C.M. Richard, because anatomical studies have provided very useful criteria for orchid diagnosis. In the study three types of painting methodsDelafield's hematoxylin and safranin, Alcian blue-periodic acid schiff, and alcoholic phloroglucinol + HC1were employed, and identification tables were prepared. Anatomical results demonstrated the differences in the leaf anatomy of tuberous and rhizomatous orchids. In the stem anatomy, all the rhizomatous genera were found to be anatomically different, especially in regard to the collateral vascular bundles, the distribution of vascular bundles and xylem properties. In root anatomy, the central cylinder, pith, endodermis and/or pericycle properties are distinctive features in all studied taxa. For root tubers, velamen layering, wall outline mucilage cell patterns in ground tissue and arrangements of vascular arches can be used to label taxa. Regarding the rhizome anatomy of the studied taxa, vascular cylinder results in particular were very significant for the distinction of genera. Finally, we strongly emphasize the importance of this kind of detailed anatomical study to solve identification problems of orchid taxonomy.
23642932|In order to determine the genomic constitutions of Elymus confusus (Roshev.) Tzvelev and E. dolichatherus (Keng) Lve and to explore their genomic relationships with other Elymus species, intergeneric and interspecific hybridizations of the two target species were carried out with Pseudoroegneria spicata (Pursh) Lve having the S genome, and fifteen other Elymus species, containing one of the SH, SY, SHY or SYW genomes. Chromosome pairing behaviour was observed at MI of meiosis of the target species and their hybrids. Numerical analyses on meiotic configurations of the hybrids were performed. It is concluded from the hybridization studies and cytological analyses that (i) interspecific hybridization is easy to perform, with 97% of the crosses being successful, but strong reproductive barriers exist between the species; (ii) E. confusus contains the SH genomes and E. dolichatherus the SY genomes; and (iii) the differentiation of the S and Y genomes is evident amongst the different Elymus species studied.
23642867|Mallomonas robusta (Matvienko) Pterfi & Momeu ( Mallomonopsis robusta) has been investigated by transmission electron microscopy and is redescribed in detail. Its silica armour, consisting of scales and bristles, exhibits a very peculiar fine structural pattern. Differences and possible relationships with other species are discussed. The Romanian material is designated as the nomenclatural type (neotype).
23662377|ITS sequences of Ranunculus cantoniensis apparently an allotetraploid were polymorphic at ten nucleotide sites. ITS-based phylogeny of the complex and its allied species showed that ITS clones of the tetraploid were clustered with R. silerifolius var. silerifolius, R. chinensis, R. silerifolius var. dolicathus and R. trigonus. Chloroplast trnL-F phylogeny showed that the complex is a natural group, in which the tetraploid shared the same clade with R. silerifolius var. dolicathus and R. silerifolius var. silerifolius, whose genetic distances were zero. rDNA FISH showed that the longest rDNA-chromosome of the tetraploid was similar to that of R. silerifolius var. dolicathus exclusively. Combining trnL-F, ITS and FISH data, it is suggested that the most probable parents of the tetraploid were R. silerifolius var. silerifolius, R. chinensis and R. silerifolius var. dolicathus, among them R. silerifolius var. silerifolius donated most. Evidences from DNA sequences and chromosome FISH indicated that the tetraploid was most probably a homoploid hybrid. Thus, a scenario of the tetraploid formation is proposed: the tetraploid was synthesized by two rounds of hybridization. The first round was between two pairs of diploids, forming two tetraploids. The second round was between the two primary tetraploids, producing the allotetraploid, R. cantoniensis, eventually.
23669751|Euastrum insulare var. basichondrum, morphologically taking an intermediate position in respect of Cosmarium trilobulatum var. basichondrum and Euastrum bipapillatum, appeared to exhibit such a wide range of variation that it may be considered identical to the other two above-mentioned taxa. This taxon, after having been studied with both light- and scanning electron microscopy, is re-diagnosed. This alga occurs in wet moss cushions in weakly acid to neutral environments. The relation between such a terraqueous habitat and the principally arctic-alpine distribution and a conceivably associated process of speciation is discussed.
23675285|Four unialgal strains of the freshwater coccoid red alga Porphyridium aerugineum Geitler were cultivated under laboratory conditions. Cell morphology was studied with the light microscope. The cell surface was examined by means of electron microscopy in order to contribute to the knowledge of polysaccharide sheaths and cytoplasmic membranes. Optimum growth conditions were determined. The range of cell sizes and the average dry masses of single cells were compared in all four strains cultivated at exactly defined temperatures and irradiances. Photosynthetic pigment maxima were measured in intact cells. The red-coloured phycobiliprotein phycoerythrin was not found in any of the examined strains.
23675275|The ultrastructure of the flagellar apparatus of Mesostigma viride Lauterborn (Prasinophyceae) has been studied in detail with particular reference to absolute configurations, numbering of basal bodies, basal body triplets and flagellar roots. The two basal bodies are interconnected by three connecting fibers (one distal fiber = synistosome, and two proximal fibers). The flagellar apparatus shows 180 rotational symmetry; four microtubular flagellar roots and two system II fibers are present. The microtubular roots represent a 4-6-4-6-system. The left roots (1 s, 2 s) consist of 4 microtubules, each with the usual 3 over 1 root tubule pattern. Each right root (1 d, 2 d) is proximally associated with a small, but typical multi-layered structure (MLS). The latter displays several layers corresponding to the S1 (the spline microtubules: 5  7), and presumably the S2  S4 (the lamellate layers) of the MLS of the Charophyceae. At its proximal origin (near the basal bodies) each right root originates with only two microtubules, the other spline microtubules being added more distally. The structural and positional information obtained in this study strongly suggest that one of the right roots (1 d) of Mesostigma is homologous to the MLS-root of the Charophyceae and sperm cells of archegoniate land plants. Thus the typical cruciate flagellar root system of the green algae and the "unilateral" flagellar root system of the Charophyceae and archegoniates share a common ancestry. Some functional and phylogenetic aspects of MLS-roots are discussed.
23664377|Given the frequent genomic recombinations in plant mitochondrial DNA, intergenic regions of this organelle genome had so far not been considered as loci of potential phylogenetic information. Based on the recent evidence that an evolutionary ancient mitochondrial nad5-nad4 gene continuum is conserved in bryophytes we have compiled a dataset for a phylogenetically wide sampling of 50 mosses covering this intergenic region. The length of the intergenic region was generally in the range of 585 (Diphyscium) to 646 bp (Tomentypnum) with rare exceptions, for example all Polytrichales taxa showing a 200 bp deletion as an apparent synapomorphy of this order. Phylogenetic information in the novel marker sequence was compared with that of a nad5 gene region containing a group I intron and a nad2 gene region containing a group II intron as well as with two widely sampled chloroplast data sets, rbcL and rps4. Indel evolution in the three types of non-coding mitochondrial sequences is obviously more taxon-dependent than locus-dependent, indicating lineage-specific insertion/deletion rates. For example, larger sequence deletions are a general feature in Schistostega and Tetraphis. Although confidence for particular nodes in the phylogeny was found to vary among data sets, gene trees were essentially without conflict with respect to well-supported ones and add up in information towards a reasonably well-resolved moss phylogeny. However, while a consensus on the latter is clearly emerging, sufficient confidence is still lacking for the first dichotomies among the arthrodontous mosses leading into subclasses Bryidae, Dicranidae and Funariidae and the relative placement of nematodontous mosses (Polytrichales and Tetraphidales) on the backbone of early moss phylogeny.
43558301|Distyly has been interpreted as a mechanism that promotes cross-pollination among conspecific plants and as one of the routes leading to the evolution of dioecy. In one of the possible evolutionary pathways, pollinators may disrupt intermorph pollen flow, and, as a consequence, floral morphs may gradually specialize as either male or female (functional dioecy). Natural patterns of pollen deposition and fruit and seed production were estimated in Palicourea demissa (Rubiaceae) and used as parameters to assess functional gender differences between floral morphs. Pollen flow was asymmetrical in P. demissa. Long-styled flowers were more effective than short-styled flowers in pollen deposition towards compatible stigmas, whereas short-styled flowers were more effective in legitimate pollen receipt. Accordingly, short-styled plants produced more fruits and viable seeds than long-styled plants. The contributions of male and female function to the potential functional gender were equivalent in both morphs. However, the realized functional gender deviated significantly from the potential functional gender in both morphs, in which short-styled plants were more successful through their female function, but long-styled plants through their male function. If pollinators disrupt the complementarities of pollen transfer between the two morphs (asymmetric pollen flow), the expression of a more profitable gender is expected in each morph. Thus, our results support the hypothesis that dioecy may evolve in distylous populations through the gradual specialization of each morph as either male or female.
23673823|A character analysis reveals a clearly intermediate position of the tetraploid V. persica (2 n = 28) between the two diploid species V. polita and V. ceratocarpa (both 2 n = 14) which are morphologically rather different and have been placed by several authors in different sections of the genus. V. ceratocarpa is native to subhumid deciduous forests of the Caucasus and of the Elburz mountains (N. Iran); V. polita has its centre of variation in the Elburz range where it grows in therophyte habitats. Three other closely related species, V. bungei, V. siaretensis, and V. francispetae, are endemic to the Elburz range which is the main centre of diversity and variability of the V. agrestis group. This comprises all the above mentioned species and also two more European weeds: V. agrestis and V. opaca. Veronica polita, was probably originally native to open places in deciduous mountain forests, before becoming a weed in neolithic times and migrating to Europe; nowadays it has an almost world-wide distribution. The allotetraploid V. persica combines the ecological characters of its parents, the slightly xerophytic V. polita and the more mesophytic V. ceratocarpa, thus being preadapted to become a highly successful weed with a large ecological range. It has spread rapidly almost all over the world since the early 19th century.
23644181|In 17 populations of the tetraploid agamospecies R. variabilis, 10 enzyme systems have been studied by horizontal starch gel electrophoresis, and compared to previous data of 3 populations of the diploid sexual species R. notabilis. Allozymic and genotypic diversity of 12 polymorphic loci, and multilocus genotype diversity in R. variabilis compares to other apomictic taxa, confirming the assumed apomictic mode of reproduction previously found in 3 populations. A cluster analysis based on genetic distance values separated the two taxa, the populations of southeastern Austria sympatric with R. notabilis showing no closer relationships to the sexual species than the allopatric ones. The R. variabilis populations of the circumalpine regions are separated as a rather uniform group, those of the Bohemian massif as another, more heterogeneous group. This geographic differentiation is mainly due to genotypic variation, which is higher in the Bohemian massif than in the circumalpine group, and lower in areas where R. variabilis is sympatric with R. notabilis. Proportion of multilocus genotypes within populations (G/N), genotype diversity (D), and genotype evenness (E) measures indicate facultative recombination events with fixation and clonal reproduction of new recombined genotypes, which is regarded as the most important factor for the evolution of new lineages in goldilocks. Morphometric data of the R. variabilis and R. notabilis populations studied by cluster and principal coordinate analyses clearly separated the two taxa, and indicated a slight geographic differentiation with in R. variabilis corresponding to the results of isozyme data. A principal coordinate analysis of R. variabilis individuals based on stem and fruit characters showed a clinal variation, but no clear separation of groups. The variation found in this PCoA is almost completely covered from the most widespread clone (genotype I), and also from individual genotypes. The implications of the results on different species concepts for apomicts are discussed. For R. variabilis, no taxonomic conclusions can be drawn from the present data set.
43558172|This study investigated the leaf structure of Bromelia and its importance for understanding the evolution of Bromelioideae (Bromeliaceae). Because of the scarcity of informative molecular characters in Bromeliaceae, this study evaluates the relevance of anatomical characters for the taxonomy and phylogeny of Bromelia and the subfamily Bromelioideae. Anatomical studies in monocots have shown that the combined application of anatomical and external morphological characters from leaf structure can improve the taxonomic delimitation of species, genera and subgenera, and is very informative for inferring phylogenies. The current study analyzed the leaves of 27 species of Bromelia and found that the most important characters for the systematics of this group are the occurrence of a water storage hypodermis, the number of stalk cells of peltate scales, the presence of a ribbed abaxial surface, the occurrence of palisade parenchyma on the adaxial side, the shape of the cells that surround the air lacunae, the presence of raphides and secretory channels, and the occurrence of fibrous extensions on the bundle sheath on minor veins. Combining our results with those described for the family, we made a list of the anatomical characters that can be used in phylogenetic studies of Bromelioideae.
23673748|The embryology of Stegnosperma halimifolium and S. watsonii has been studied in detail. The tapetum is of the secretory type and its cells become multinucleate. Simultaneous cytokinesis in the pollen mother cells follows meiosis. The ripe pollen grains are 3-celled. The ovule is crassinucellate, bitegmic and amphitropous, with the micropyle formed by the inner integument alone. The female archesporium is one celled, and the parietal tissue 35 layered. The embryo sac development conforms to the Polygonum type. A central strand, 6 or 7 cells thick, differentiates inside the nucellus and extends from the base of the embryo sac to the chalazal region. The endosperm is nuclear. The embryogeny conforms to the Caryophyllad type. The seed coat is formed by the outer epidermis of the outer integument and the inner epidermis of the inner integument. Based on this evidence and other data, the status of the genus as an independent family, Stegnospermataceae (Stegnospermaceae) is confirmed. Apparently, it forms a connecting link between Phytolaccaceae and Caryophyllaceae.
23643174|Isozyme electrophoresis was used to study the morphologically similar sister species Sphagnum rubellum and S. capillifolium from a sample of 1313 plants representing 37 populations from Scandinavia, Great Britain and S Germany. The mean pairwise genetic identities (I) among conspecific populations were 0.976 for S. rubellum and 0.969 for S. capillifolium, versus 0.627 between populations of the two species. Interspecific gene flow was indicated by the observation of occasional plants in sympatric populations with alleles otherwise unique to the other species. Populations of bisexual S. capillifolium were significantly more variable than populations of unisexual S. rubellum. Alpine populations of S. rubellum and S. capillifolium were dominated by few genotypes, and differentiation among populations was pronounced, indicating a low level of sexual recombination. In S. rubellum, maximum variability was found in western areas with high annual precipitation. Distribution of alleles in S. rubellum indicated restricted gene flow between Great Britain and Scandinavia. Postglacial migration from separate refugia may explain large-scale variation in S. rubellum.
23672590|The chromosome numbers of the 24 species of sect. Pelargonium were determined from field collected and cultivated plants of known localities in S. Africa. Twelve species are diploid (2 n = 22), eight tetraploid (2 n = 44), one hexaploid (2 n = 66), and three octoploid (2 n = 88). The chromosome numbers correlate well with the proposed subdivision of sect. Pelargonium. Its chromosomes are relatively small (1.01.5 m) in comparison to most of the other sections, and its diploid karyotype is considered to be primitive. The occurrence of the basic number x = 11 in this section, in other sections of the genus, and in related genera (Monsonia, Sarcocaulon) leads to the conclusion that x = 11 probably is basic for the whole genus.  The pollen meiosis, microsporogenesis and pollen fertility of the diploid species is normal, with the exception of one, possibly young taxon from the Greyton Nature Reserve. The tetraploid species could be of autoploid origin, the higher polyploids exhibit a mixed auto-alloploid nature.  The 20 diploid and tetraploid species have a relatively small distribution range, most of them occur in the SW. Cape Province of South Africa. This area may therefore be considered as the centre of origin of the genus. Three of the four high polyploid species occupy rather large areas.
23674752|Crepis dinarica and C. froelichiana are two closely related species of the C. praemorsa complex. Even though they exhibit the same chromosome number (2n = 8) and similar idiogram shape, they differ widely in quantity and distribution of heterochromatin bands. The hybrids between these two species comprise three morphological types. Parental genomes were distinguished in hybrids by Giemsa differential staining (C-banding). Although meiosis presents only a few abnormalities (about 2.4%), the percentage of aborted pollen grains is very high (90%).
23655732|Relationships within the Lepidoziaceae (Hepaticae) are investigated using chloroplast (rbcL and trnL-F) and mitochondrial (nad5) sequences. The results indicate that taxonomic concepts of a number of subfamilies and genera require reassessment, including the recent re-circumscription of Telaranea that includes a number of taxa with Microlepidozia-type branching. The members of subfamily Zoopsidoideae investigated are polyphyletic (forming 2 or 3 clades), as are the Lepidozioideae and Lembidioideae. Kurzia (Lepidozioideae) is consistently part of a clade with members of the Lembidioideae. Chloranthelia denticulata (Lembidioideae) is sister to Zoopsis leitgebiana and the relationships of Neogrollea (Neogrolleoideae) are not resolved. The placement of Megalembidium in a separate subfamily is not supported. More investigation is needed in order to confirm the placement of Drucella in relation to the family.
23674982|Air-dried chromosomes of rye when stained with aqueous silver nitrate show differential banding patterns. In addition to staining the NOR sites, the silver nitrate stains all regions of constitutive heterochromatin, as identified by Giemsa C-banding, as well as a number of small interstitial regions. However, the heterochromatin on the B chromosome is not stained by the silver method. This is proposed as a rapid and reliable banding method.
23671562|Electrophoretic variation in isozymes coded by 40 loci was examined in two self-pollinating populations, one with white and the other with pink flowering plants, and four outcrossing populations of Clarkia xantiana (Onagraceae) native to California. The study was carried out to test the Moore & Lewis (1965) hypothesis that the pink selfer originated from the sympatric outcrossing population and then gave rise to the white selfer. The hypothesis could be rejected if one or the other selfer was more similar genetically to an allopatric population than to the sympatric one. Both selfers were monomorphic at all loci whereas the outcrossing populations were polymorphic at nearly half of them. The two selfers had the same genes at 32 loci but had different ones at eight loci. The pink selfer was not more similar to the allopatric populations than to the sympatric one, consistent with the Moore & Lewis model. The evidence also supported their proposal that the white selfer originated from the pink one and not independently. The electrophoretic evidence was valuable because it permitted qualitative comparisons (presence versus absence of particular alleles) between the selfer and the several outcrossing populations; such analysis was not previously possible because the latter populations are morphologically and cytologically similar.
23644415|A first report on the problematic phylogenetic position of Heptacodium (2 spp.; China) using molecular data from chloroplast DNA is presented. Amplification of ORF2280 homolog region was executed in a number of representative taxa in order to determine if Heptacodium shows similar structural rearrangements as other Dipsacales. DNA sequences of ndhF were generated to clarify the phylogenetic position of Heptacodium among Caprifoliaceae (s.l.). Six outgroup taxa and fifteen representatives of Dipsacales were sampled and more than 2100 basepairs of ndhF sequence were used in a cladistic analysis. Parsimony analysis produced two shortest trees and showed Heptacodium as sister to all members of Caprifoliaceae (s.str.), although weakly supported. Additionally, trees were constructed with ndhF data supplemented with available rbcL sequences and a morphological data set. Results of all analyses support an unresolved basal position for Heptacodium among Caprifoliaceae (s.l.), which in part explains the difficulty experienced previously in classifying the genus.
23669993|Morphological and cytological investigations as well as crossing experiments were carried out with the 5 species of the Ranunculus alpestris group (R. alpestris L., R. traunfellneri Hoppe, R. bilobus Bertol., R. crenatus Waldst. et Kit., R. magellensis Ten.). A key to the species is presented; localities and distribution are given in addition to extensive diagnoses. Crossing experiments between the 5 taxa were successful (F1-F3 individuals, backcross types, tripel- and quadrupelbastards); the morphology of the experimentally obtained F1-hybrids was mostly intermediate. All 5 species as well as all hybrids have a chromosome number of 2n = 16; there is no statistically significant difference between the karyotypes of the 5 taxa. According to the results of the morphological investigations and the crossing experiments we can distinguish 2 subunits of very closely related species: a) R. alpestris, R. traunfellneri, R. bilobus; b) R. crenatus, R. magellensis. The speciation within the group of Ranunculus alpestris is discussed. An den 5 Arten der Gruppe des Ranunculus alpestris (R. alpestris, R. traunfellneri, R. bilobus, R. crenatus und R. magellensis) wurden morphologische und cytologische Untersuchungen sowie Kreuzungsexperimente durchgefhrt. 1. In einem synoptischen Schlssel (S. 272) und in ausfhrlichen Diagnosen mit Standorts- und Verbreitungsangaben (S. 273 ff.) werden die 5 Arten verglichen. 2. R. crenatus und R. magellensis sind selbstfertil; R. alpestris, R. traunfellneri und R. bilobus sind in hohem Grade selbststeril (S. 280). 3. Alle Arten der Gruppe des R. alpestris knnen miteinander bastardieren (S. 280). Neben Rckkreuzungen und Tripelbastarden zahlreicher Kombinationen konnten auch Quadrupelbastarde von R. alpestris, R. traunfellneri, R. bilobus und R. crenatus erzeugt werden. Kreuzungen, an denen R. crenatus oder R. magellensis beteiligt waren, fhrten zu weniger und meist schwcheren Nachkommen als Kreuzungen, an denen nur R. alpestris, R. traunfellneri oder R. bilobus beteiligt waren. Die F1-Bastarde sind in fast allen Merkmalen intermedir; einzig die Nektarschuppen von R. crenatus und R. magellensis werden dominant vererbt. 4. Chromosomenzhlungen ergaben fr alle Arten der Gruppe des R. alpestris sowie fr alle Bastarde zwischen diesen Arten die somatische Chromosomenzahl 2n = 16 (S. 283). 5. Zwischen den Karyotypen von R. alpestris, R. traunfellneri, R. bilobus, R. crenatus und R. magellensis bestehen keine statistisch gesicherten Unterschiede (S. 283). Die Arten der Gruppe des R. alpestris besitzen den gleichen Karyotyp wie die ebenfalls weiblhenden Hahnenfuarten R. aconitifolius L. (Goepfert 1974), R. parnassifolius L. (Goepfert 1974, Kpfer 1974), R. pyrenaeus L. (Kpfer 1974) und R. seguieri Vill. (Baltisberger & Mller 1981). 6. Die Arten der Gruppe des R. alpestris sind nahe miteinander verwandt. Auf Grund der Morphologie (Tab. 1, S. 273), der Ergebnisse der Selbstbestubungen (Tab. 2) und der Kreuzungsexperimente (Tab. 3) werden 2 Untergruppen von sich besonders nahe stehenden Arten unterschieden: a) R. alpestris, R. traunfellneri, R. bilobus; b) R. crenatus, R. magellensis. 7. Die Artbildung in der Gruppe des R. alpestris kann man sich folgendermaen vorstellen (S. 285): R. alpestris und R. crenatus differenzierten sich im Tertir aus einer polymorphen Sippe (kologischgenetische Differenzierung). Im Miozn trennte sich R. magellensis von R. crenatus durch kologisch-geographische Differenzierung ab. Whrend der Eiszeiten wurden R. traunfellneri und R. bilobus geographisch von R. alpestris separiert.
23643941|Centaurea melitensis is a cleistogamous species of Mediterranean distribution, which normally produces a wide range of capitula varying in terms of morphology, size, position in the shoot system and other aspects. For that reason, and particularly in view of the pseudanthic nature of the flower head in Asteraceae, a preliminary study to characterise cleistogamy in this species was considered of interest. Capitular heteromorphism observed in C. melitensis was confirmed by principal component analysis (PCA). The five capitulum types differentiated [initial cleistogamous (iCL), intermediate cleistogamous (xCL), final cleistogamous (fCL), pseudocleistogamous (PCL) and chasmogamous (CH)] fit development patterns specific for both placement on the plant and timing. The balance between cleistogamy and chasmogamy is correlated with the final height of the plant. All these features are consistent with those reported for other cleistogamous species.
23669418|Calendula L. (Asteraceae) is a taxonomically and cytologically complex genus due to its high morphological and karyological variation. To gather consistent cytological information aiming to consolidate the existing knowledge, sustain the taxonomic revision of the genus and explore the evolutionary relationships among species, the genome size and chromosome number of the Iberian Peninsula representatives of this genus were assessed. The study included 11 taxa that occur in the Iberian Peninsula, one in Madeira and two from Morocco. Chromosome counts were made using the squash technique in root tips and flower buds, while nuclear DNA contents were assessed using propidium iodide flow cytometry. The following chromosome numbers are reported: 2n = 44 for C. arvensis, 2n = 30 for C. tripterocarpa, and 2n = 32 for the remaining Iberian taxa. The genome size of Calendula species was assessed for the first time and ranged from 1.75 pg/2C in C. maroccana to 5.41 pg/2C in C. arvensis. Within the complex formed by C. incana and C. suffruticosa, a gradient of genome size values was obtained. Intraspecific variation in genome size was detected in some taxa. The obtained genome size values and their variation are discussed in the light of the theories proposed for the speciation of the genus, with events of hybridization, genome duplication and dysploidy being hypothesized to play a major role in the evolution of this genus.
23642515|A method for obtaining orchid chromosome squash preparations from ovular tissues and a Giemsa C-band technique are described. Jointly applied, they result in well-defined chromosome banding patterns. Preliminary tests with two species of the genus Cephalanthera show that Giemsa banding is also well suited for orchids. Besides aiding in chromosome identification and karyotype analysis, it should prove valuable in studies of chromosomal variation and karyotype evolution of this large family.
23673653|The upper limit of temperature for growth is a species-specific character in the genus Chlorella. The limits of 14 Chlorella species range from 2630 C (C. saccharophila) to 3842 C (C. sorokiniana), with C. fusca var. vacuolata (34 C) and C. kessleri (3436 C) assuming an intermediate position. Thus, there is no wide gap in the temperature limits between the normal ("low-temperature") species of Chlorella and the "high-temperature" species, C. sorokiniana.
23655983|Intergeneric hybridization is an important strategy to introgress alien genes into common wheat for its improvement. But presence of crossability barrier mechanism regulated by Kr1 gene played a major destructive role for hybridization than other reported genes. In order to know the underlying molecular mechanism and to dissect out this barrier, cDNA-AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism) transcriptional analysis was carried out using chromosome 5B RIL (Recombinant Inbred Line) population. Totally 14 differentially expressed fragments for Kr1 gene were identified, cloned and sequenced. Further the expression was confirmed by northern blotting analysis. Sequence analysis of the resulted clones revealed several classes of putative genes, including stress responsive, signal transduction and flowering related genes. The probable relation between other genes, Vrn1 and Ph1, located along with Kr1 gene was discussed.
23672610|The frutescent species of the lichen genus Caloplaca are usually united in sect. Thamnoma, but they do not form a natural group. They are derived from different species groups within sect. Gasparrinia from different parts of the world, presumable from species having scleroplectenchymes in cortex and medulla. The algal cells are concentrated between the scleroplectenchymatic strands in large and dense groups, from where medullary plectenchyme extends to the cortex and forms characteristic pseudocyphellae there.  Most of the species seem to be ornithocoprophilous; they grow on rocks along marine coasts where much fog is induced by cold currents.  Caloplaca cribrosa is endemic in Tasmania and New Zealand, C. regalis and the doubtful C. ambitiosa belong to the antarctic element. C. fragillima from central Chile seems to be propagated by thallus fragments. C. coralloides and C. thamnodes are endemic to California and Baja California respectively. C. cladodes from the Rocky Mountains deviates in many characteristics from the other species i.a. by it different ontogenetic development, reduced spore septum, and cementing amyloid polysaccharides within the scleroplectenchymatic strands. The African species are characterized by their distinctly dorsiventral lobes and usually possess oil cells in some of the paraphyses. Caloplaca bonae-spei, C. fragillima and C. thamnodes are new to science.
23644172|The Chenopodiaceae genus Salsola contains a large number of species with C4 photosynthesis. Along with derivative genera they have a prominent position among the desert vegetation of Asia and Africa. About 130 species from Asia and Africa were investigated to determine the occurrence of C3 versus C4 syndrome in leaves and cotyledons, and to study specific anatomical and biochemical features of photosynthesis in both photosynthetic organs. The species studied belong to all six previously identified sections of the tribe Salsoleae based on morphological characters. Types of photosynthesis were identified using carbon 13C/12C isotope fractionation. The representatives of all systematic groups were investigated for mesophyll anatomy and biochemical subtypes by determination of enzyme activity (RUBPC, PEPC, NAD- and NADP-ME and AAT) and primary photosynthetic products. Two photosynthetic types (C3 and C4) and two biochemical subtypes (NAD- and NADP-ME) were identified in both leaves and cotyledons. Both Kranz and non-Kranz type anatomy were found in leaves and cotyledons, but cotyledons had more diversity in anatomical structure. Strong relationships between anatomical types and biochemical subtypes in leaves and cotyledons were shown. We found convincing evidence for a similar pattern of structural and biochemical features of photosynthesis in leaves and cotyledons within systematic groups, and evaluated their relevance at the evolutionary level. We identified six groups in tribe Salsoleae with respect to photosynthetic types and mesophyll structure in leaves and cotyledons. Two separate lineages of biochemical and anatomical evolution within Salsoleae were demonstrated based on studies of leaves and cotyledons. The sections Caroxylon, Malpighipila, Cardiandra and Belanthera have no C3 species and only the NAD-ME C4 subtype has been found in leaves. We suggest the C4 species in the NADP-ME lineage evolved in Coccosalsola and Salsola sections, and originated in the subsection Arbuscula. Coccosalsola contains many species with C3 and/or C3-C4 intermediate photosynthesis. Within these main evolutionary lineages, species of different taxonomic groups (sections and subsections) had differences in anatomical or/and biochemical features in leaves and cotyledons. We conclude that structural and biochemical changes in the photosynthetic apparatus in species of the tribe Salsoleae were a key factor in their evolution and broad distribution in extreme desert environments.
23674098|The lichenized ascomycete Hypogymnia physodes was collected every second month during a one year period at the same site in a wood near the city of Zrich and investigated with light and electron microscopy techniques. Temperature and relative humidity were measured at the collecting site. Seasonal variations in the germination rate of soredia, in photobiont cell size and cell number, in type and amounts of storage products, and in the density of intramembranous particles of the plasma membrane of the Trebouxia photobiont were observed. Highest germination rates and intense aplanospore formation were observed in January, highest particle densities in both external and internal fracture faces of the plasma membrane in March. Lipids and starch were most abundant in spring to early summer. In summer and autumn numerous photobiont cells died off.
23644326|The events and processes occurring between pollen maturation, opening of the anther and presentation of pollen to dispersing agents are described. In the final phases of pollen development, starch is always stored; this occurs before the anther opens. Depending on the species, this starch may be totally or partially transformed into: (a) other types of polysaccharides (fructans and rarely callose); (b) disaccharides (sucrose); (c) monosaccharides (glucose and fructose, all situated in the cytoplasm. While awaiting dispersing agents and during dispersal, polysaccharides, especially fructans, and sucrose may be interconverted to control osmotic pressure and prevent loss and uptake of water. Opening of the anther is preceded by disappearance of the locular fluid and in many cases by partial dehydration of the pollen. Pollen generally has a water content between 5 and 50%. Pollen with a high water content may or may not be able to control water retention during pollen exposure and dispersal. Pollen may be dispersed in monads or grouped in pollen dispersing units by the following mechanisms: (i). tangling of filamentous pollen; (ii). adhesion by viscous substances (pollenkitt, tryphine, elastoviscin) derived from the tapetum; (iii). common walls. When the anther opens, the pollen may be dispersed immediately, remain until dispersed (primary presentation), or be presented to pollinators in another part of the flower (secondary presentation).
23673955|During 20 days in 1985, floral biological observations were made at 1 850  2 100 m elevation on Cerro de la Neblina in Venezuela. Heliamphora tatei var. neblinae (Sarraceniaceae) is nectarless and has poricidal anthers. Heliamphora tatei, Graffenrieda fruticosa, G. polymera, G. reticulata, Tocca pachystachya, T. tepuiensis (Melastomataceae), Saxofridericia compressa, and Stegolepsis neblinensis (Rapateaceae), are buzz-pollinated by ten species of Bombus, Eulaema, Melipona, Centris, Xylocopa, Dialictus, and Neocorynura. Additional observations of floral visits on tepui species of Gentianaceae, Loranthaceae, Malpighiaceae, Ericaceae, Orchidaceae, and Asteraceae are reported. Visitors include the hummingbird Campylopterus duidae, the flower-piercer Diglossa duidae, the nectarivorous bat Anoura geoffroyi, and various species of Centris and Bombus bees. Scent baits for euglossine bees attracted very few bees. Apis mellifera adansonii-scutellata, the africanized honey bee, was caught at 1 850 m elevation.
23655508|Within the genus Phragmites (Poaceae), the species P. australis (the common reed) is virtually cosmopolitan, and shows considerable variation in ploidy level and morphology. Genetic variation in Phragmites was studied using AFLPs, and analysed with parsimony and distance methods. Groups of P. australis strongly supported in the analyses include one that comprises all South American clones, a distinct group from the US Gulf Coast, and a group of E. Asian and Australian octoploids. Among the other species, the paleotropical P. vallatoria is supported as monophyletic and most closely related to the paraphyletic P. mauritianus and to the Gulf Coast and S. American groups. The E. Asian species P. japonicus is closely related to a group of P. australis clones mostly from central North America. Tetraploidy predominates in the genus, and optimisation of chromosome numbers onto the phylogeny shows that higher ploidy levels have evolved many times.
23671745|The association of ecological factors and allozymic markers of wild barley, Hordeum spontaneum, with genotypes varying in resistance to 3 cultures of the pathogen Erysiphe graminis hordei, which incites the disease powdery mildew of barley, were explored theoretically and practically. The study involved 275 accessions comprising 16 populations largely representing the ecological range of H. spontaneum in Israel. From earlier studies of allozymic variation and disease resistance it now becomes apparent that genetic polymorphisms for resistance to E. graminis hordei are structured geographically, and are predictable by climatic as well as allozymic variables. Three-variable combinations of temperature and water factors explain significantly 0.32 of the spatial variance in disease resistance between localities. Also, several allozyme genotypes, singly or in combination, are significantly associated with disease resistance. A high correlation was found between the standard deviation of infection types of the culture of the pathogen from Israel, and allozymic polymorphism, P (rs = 0.86, p < 0.001). Consequently, the Israel H. spontaneum populations, growing in the center of diversity of the species, contain large amounts of unexploited disease resistance polymorphism. These could be effectively screened and utilized for producing resistant barley varieties by using ecological factors and allozymic variants as guidelines.
23674968|The cladistic analysis and comparison of molecular and morphological data has been the source of much recent debate. In this study, independent analyses of molecular and morphological data from Columnea L. sects. Pentadenia and Stygnanthe (Gesneriaceae) are compared. Comparative methods include consensus, visually comparing trees from independent analyses and combined data analysis. Consensus methods provided little resolution. Comparison of trees obtained from the independent analyses revealed some differences although the trees are highly similar. However, a combined analysis found that the level of incongruence between the two data sets was low. The tree resulting from the combined data has aspects of both the morphological and molecular trees despite the larger number of molecular characters. In addition, the combined data tree has greater resolution than either of the two data sets singly, indicating that the two types of data are congruent, and complementary to each other.
23654186|The CD genome species in the genus Oryza are endemic to Latin America, including O. alta, O. grandiglumis and O. latifolia. Origins and phylogenetic relationship of these species have long been in dispute and are still ambiguous due to their homogeneous genome type, similar morphological characteristics and overlapping distribution. In the present study, we sequenced two chloroplast fragments (matK and trnL-trnF) and portions of three nuclear genes (Adh1, Adh2 and GPA1) from sixteen accessions representing seven species with the C, CD, and E genomes, as well as one G genome species as the outgroup. Phylogenetic analyses using parsimony and distance methods strongly supported that the CD genome originated from a single hybridization event, and that the C genome species (O. officinalis or O. rhizomatis instead of O. eichingeri) served as the maternal parent while the E genome species (O. australiensis) was the paternal donor during the formation of CD genome. In addition, the consistent phylogenetic relationships among the CCDD species indicated that significant divergence existed between O. latifolia and the other two (O. alta and O. grandiglumis), which corroborated the suggestion of treating the latter two as a single species or as taxa within species.
23642185|A taxonomic revision of the 21 Cuban species of the genus Jacquinia L. (Theophrastaceae) is presented. It contains an analytical key, descriptions of 5 new species, an enumeration and the synonymy of all Cuban species with their ecological and geographical data, and distribution maps (Figs. 1 and 2). Revisin taxonmica de las 21 espcies cubanas de Jacquinia L. (Theophrastaceae) dando una clave analtica y las descripciones de 5 espcies nuevas para la ciencia.
23643694|The complete nucleotide sequence (3701 bp) of the intergenic spacer region between the 3-end of 25S rRNA gene and the 5-end of 18S rRNA gene (IGS) is described for Nicotiana sylvestris. The IGS of N. sylvestris consists of seven structural regions (SR) two of which are composed of subrepeats (SR II: three and one half copies of the 76 bp D-subrepeat and numerous short C-subrepeats; SR IV: five copies of the 142/136 bp A-subrepeat). A presumptive rRNA processing signal (CTTTT) is located at the beginning of SR I. An identical sequence is also present in each copy of the A-subrepeat. Each D-subrepeat in SR IIa contains at the 5-end the conserved sequence (GAGGTTTTT) which may be involved in transcription termination. SR III (TG-rich) and SR IV (AT-rich) in the central part of IGS contain several potential replication origin sites. The transcription initiation site (TATATAAGGGGGG) is located at the border of SR IV and V. No spacer promoters have been found. SR V contains four copies of a CATGG motif that is also present in SR II, VI and VII. At the 5-end of SR VII there are three copies of the 66 bp highly divergent B-subrepeat. Presumptive pre-rRNA processing signals are also present here. Possible hair-pin structures are described for SR V, VI and VII.
23673682|To elucidate the quantitative and qualitative expression of fern development, various features of leaf-size and morphology were examined on leaves of Polystichum tripteron (Aspidiaceae) in Japan. Among ten parameters, the number of branches of the leaf midrib (NV) proved to be the most successful for discrimination between fertile and sterile leaf populations. In the phase-change from sterile to fertile leaves, the NV parameter also gave the strongest correlation, increasing with fertility (r = 0.983), and is therefore a useful tool for research into the life history characteristics of ferns.
23673945|The tapetal development of Cichorium intybus L. is investigated using LM and TEM and discussed in relation to the development in other species. During the second meiotic division the tapetal cells become binucleate and lose their cell walls. They intrude the loculus at the time of microspore release from the meiotic callose walls, which means that a locular cavity is never present in this species. During pollen development they tightly junct the exine, especially near the tips of the spines. During the two-celled pollen grain stage they degenerate and most of their content turns into pollenkitt. Until anther dehiscence they keep their individuality, which means that these intruding tapetal cells never fuse to form a periplasmodium. The ultrastructural cytoplasmatic changes during this development are discussed in relation to possible functions.
23674220|Some basic problems of mathematical phylogenetics are discussed. While algorithms regularly depend on the principle of parsimony, some features of phylogenesis interfere with that principle. Nonrandomness of the distribution of mutations as well as the inconstancy of the molecular clock in time and within a given sequence can bias the calculated relationships of closely related taxa. True comparability of sequences is difficult to establish, since this requires defining of homology of positions and of functions of amino acids as well. Parallelism and convergence can give rise to errors in establishing homology. Furthermore, they are difficult to be integrated into a consistent mathematical approach. The asymmetry of identity versus difference matrices is discussed. Common mathematical procedures implicate the monophyletic hypothesis as well as strict dichotomy of the final tree. Real phylogeny demands to introduce more flexible approaches with respect to monophyly and dichotomy. Graph theory offers the possibility to prove the minimality of a given tree and to develop more flexible approaches. The consequences of altering the procedures to compare sequences can be tested. This is demonstrated by calculations with a set of 15 cytochromes from various taxa. To interpret a calculated tree requires a sharp distinction between taxonomy and phyletics. This is exemplified for the case of directly linked taxa. The limits of resolving uncertain relationships by accumulating more data are mentioned.
23664155|This is the first review of the developmental morphology of pteridophyte embryos since molecular phylogenies revolutionized concepts of tracheophyte evolution. In the light of these novel relationships, embryo characters are evaluated across pteridophytes to hypothesize homology and infer character transformations. Salient features of traditional categories used to classify pteridophyte embryos, for example endoscopy and exoscopy, are analyzed and related to gametophyte habit. Suspensor formation evolved in several lineages and is reinterpreted as representing a distinct developmental stage of the foot which is the only embryonic organ that is homologous across all land plants. Endoscopy in lycophytes is distinct from that of monilophytes, because lycophyte embryos undergo reorientation, lack interdigitating placental cells, and contain an interplacental space which may be related to their lack of a basal pad cell during archegonial development. Pteridophyte embryology may provide clues to tracheophytes evolution and novel developmental mechanisms.
23662381|Eight variable regions (microsatellites, insertion/deletion and duplication regions) from the plastid DNA genome were analyzed for 91 populations belonging to Dactylorhiza majalis ssp. traunsteineri and closely related taxa. A total of 36 composite plastid haplotypes were found. The two dominating haplotypes had a clear geographic distribution suggesting at least two separate immigration routes into Scandinavia after the last glaciation: one southwestern route and one or two southeastern routes. D. majalis ssp. traunsteineri could not be clearly separated from any of the other taxa included in the study except for D. majalis ssp. sphagnicola. The morphologically similar taxa D. majalis ssp. traunsteineri, D. majalis ssp. lapponica and D. majalis ssp. russowii showed no genetic differentiation, and therefore we suggest an amalgamation of the three taxa into one broadly circumscribed subspecies; D. majalis ssp. lapponica. The plastid data also revealed incidents of hybridization and possible introgression between D. majalis ssp. lapponica and other members of the genus, e.g., D. incarnata.
23643799|We studied a population of the distylous Palicourea padifolia (Rubiaceae) in a cloud forest remnant near Xalapa City, Veracruz, Mxico to explore possible asymmetries between floral morphs in the attractiveness to pollinators, seed dispersers, nectar robbers, floral parasites, and herbivores. We first assessed heterostyly and reciprocal herkogamy by measuring floral attributes such as corolla length (buds and open flowers), style and anther heights, stigma and stamen lengths and the distance between the anther tip to the stigma lobe. We then estimated floral and fruit attributes such as flower size, anther height, number and size of pollen grains, fruit size, seed size, nectar production, and flower and fruit standing crops to assess differences between floral morphs in attracting and effectively using mutualistic pollinators and seed dispersers. Also, floral parasitism and nectar robbing were assessed in this study as a measure of flower attractiveness to antagonists. The system seems to conform well to classical heterostyly (e.g. reciprocal stamen/style lengths, pollen and anther dimorphism, intramorph incompatibility) yet, there were several tantalizing differences observed between pin and thrum morphs. Thrum flowers have longer corollas and larger but fewer pollen grains than pin flowers. Both morphs produced the same total number of inflorescences, developed the same number of buds, and opened the same number of flowers per inflorescence during the flowering season. Nectar production and sugar concentration were similar between floral morphs but the reward was not offered symmetrically to floral visitors throughout the day. Nectar concentration was higher in pin flowers in the afternoon. The numbers of developing, fully developed, and ripe fruits were the same between floral morphs, however, fruits and seeds were larger than those of thrums. The incidence of fly larvae was higher among thrum flowers and damage by nectar robbing was the same between floral morphs. Fruit abortion patterns of flowers manually pollinated suggest intra-morph sterility (self and intramorph incompatibility). There were no differences between morphs in fruit and seed set per flower following legitimate pollination although thrums were more leaky than the pins (intramorph compatibility).
23645046|Nectarless flowers of Cypripedium macranthos var. rebunense are pollinated by only queen Bombus pseudobaicalensis, which also pollinates nectar-producing flowers of Pedicularis schistostegia. Our previous study (Sugiura et al. 2001) suggested that they form a floral mimicry system: (1) Flowering phenology of both plants overlapped greatly. (2) Cypripedium occurred with lower frequency relative to Pedicularis. And (3) in a mixed stand of both plants, foraging bumblebees were sometimes confused between the mimic and model flowers. The present study clarified the system with new evidence. (4) Flower colour of Cypripedium and Pedicularis would be similar within the range of a bumblebee's visual spectrum. And (5) both species largely overlapped in spatial distribution. Based on these findings, we discuss how C. macranthos var. rebunense differs in pollination mechanism from other congeneric species, especially C. calceolus.
23642817|Polygonum sect. Tovara includes three controversial species; P. virginianum, P. filiforme, and P. neofiliforme. The flavonoid chemistry of these was examined to provide additional information on their delimitation and levels of differentiation. Eight flavonoid compounds were isolated and identified, all of which were 3-O-glycosides of the flavonols kaempferol, quercetin, and myricetin, and their acylated derivatives. Although they exhibit relatively simple flavonoid profiles, the three taxa are readily distinguished by their flavonoid constituents. In addition, they show fundamental differences in flavonol types and glycosylation patterns. These results, in conjunction with evidence from the morphology, strongly suggest that P. virginianum, P. filiforme, and P. neofiliforme are closely allied but distinct species.
23674969|Morphological field studies of 27 populations of the A. meridionalis complex were conducted in Ecuador. It is possible to distinguish four different form series by the position of the stamens in relation to the style. This trait was congruent with the overall morphometric variation, shown by the results of a canonical discriminant analysis (CDA). The taxonomy of the species complex is discussed based upon the results of the CDA. The degree of outcrossing varied in different form series, from a comparatively high degree of selfing to predominantly outcrossing, as indicated by the variation within relative to among populations. This is probably due to the varying potentials for self-deposition owing to differences in the degree of herkogamy.
23643200|The phenology, reproductive cycle and cone crop of two sympatric subspecies of Juniperus phoenicea (Cupressaceae) were studied during three consecutive years in southern Spain. The flowering pattern of each subspecies was constant during this period: in J. phoenicea subsp. turbinata flowering was always in October-November, while J. phoenicea subsp. phoenicea flowered in February-March. There was no overlap between the flowering periods of the two taxa. The reproductive cycle of the two subspecies was similar, though there were some important differences because of their flowering times. Male cone development in both subspecies occurred in autumn, but the male cones of J. phoenicea subsp. phoenicea did not shed pollen until the end of February. In J. phoenicea subsp. turbinata, the gap between pollination and fertilisation was seven months while in J. phoenicea subsp. phoenicea it was only three months, fertilisation taking place at the same time in the two taxa. Post-fertilisation events were similar in the two subspecies, leading to a cycle of two years in J. phoenicea subsp. turbinata and a shorter one of about 20 months in J. phoenicea subsp. phoenicea. Alternating good and slight seed cone crops were found in both taxa during the three years studied, the good crops of one subspecies coinciding with the slight crops of the other one. Although the proximity of the two subspecies and method of pollination could make hybridisation between the taxa possible, the different flowering seasons prevent hybridisation isolating them reproductively.
23642997|Genus level phylogenetic patterns within a monophyletic group of wetland mosses consisting of Tomentypnum, Hamatocaulis, Scorpidium, Conardia, Calliergon, Warnstorfia, Straminergon, and Loeskypnum (Amblystegiaceae) are cladistically analysed, using Palustriella and partly Cratoneuron as outgroups. The ingroup consists of two clades, one with Tomentypnum, Hamatocaulis and Scorpidium, the other with the other ingroup genera. The second clade gets completely resolved only with the inclusion of habitat data. The adaptation to relatively dry wetland habitats probably evolved in the ancestor of Straminergon and Loeskypnum, the species of Calliergon and Warnstorfia, which are more ancestral, growing in wetter habitats. The more "primitive" taxa of the ingroup, as well as Palustriella species, occur in relatively mineral-rich habitats and adaptations to poorer habitats occurred several times in the two clades.
23644075|Allium tricoccum var. burdickii is a rare species in Nova Scotia, growing in isolated populations. Genetic variation was investigated in three populations using cellulose acetate gel electrophoresis. The results showed that all 13 enzyme loci were polymorphic. An excess of heterozygotes was found in all populations. A total of 29 genotypes were detected in the populations. Very few genotypes were common to two populations and none to the three populations. Genetic diversity among populations was compared with geographic distance and previous work. The comparison of the genetic distance matrix to the geographic distance matrix indicated no relationship. F-statistics suggested that the populations are predominantly maintained through vegetative propagation. Occasional sexual reproduction and gene flow might occur in order to maintain high level of variation among populations. Environmental conditions could also influence population genetic structure as they occur in highly different habitats.
23644097|Tolpis includes approximately 12-20 species distributed primarily in Europe, Middle East, and Africa with most species (10) confined to the Macaronesian archipelagos of the Azores, Madeira, Canary Islands, and Cape Verde Islands. Although there has been considerable effort to resolve generic circumscriptions and relationships among genera of the tribe Lactuceae, much controversy still remains regarding these taxonomic issues for Tolpis. Phylogenetic analyses of the chloroplast encoded gene ndhF were performed using 36 species from 28 genera of Lactuceae and outgroup taxa from the five other tribes of Cichorioideae. The sampling included most previously suggested generic relatives of Tolpis and seven species of Tolpis from Africa, Europe, and Macaronesia. The ndhF phylogeny indicates that Tolpis is not monophyletic because two continental species, T. capensis from south-central Africa and Madagascar and T. staticifolia from central and southeast Europe, do not occur in the strongly supported core Tolpis clade. This result is in agreement with recent suggestions based on macromorphology and palynology that these two species should be excluded from Tolpis. Tolpis capensis is sister to Taraxacum and T. staticifolia is nested within the genus Crepis. The ndhF tree also indicates that the core Tolpis clade is an isolated lineage that is not related to any of the previously suggested genera of Lactuceae. Relationships among the five examined core Tolpis species are fully resolved in the ndhF tree. The three examined island species occur in two different clades suggesting either multiple colonizations or a single origin and subsequent recolonization of the continent. Resolution of the origin of the island endemics will require additional taxon sampling and the use of more variable molecular markers.
23643026|A single flower, detached anthers with in situ pollen grains, and isolated seeds from Campanian strata (Upper Cretaceous) of Georgia, southeastern USA, document the presence of plants assignable to Hamamelidaceae in the Upper Cretaceous. The fossil flower is actinomorphic, pentacyclic and pentamerous. Irregular sepals are preserved as lobes of the floral cup, and petals are narrow, with parallel margins. The androecium has two whorls of functional stamens. Anthers are tetrasporangiate, dehisce through two valves, and have strongly elongate connective protrusions which converge over the center of the flower. The organizational and architectural features of the fossil document its affinity within subtribe Loropetalinae (Hamamelideae, Hamamelidoideae). Cladistic phylogenetic analyses using parsimony were conducted to explore the relationships between the fossil flower and extant genera of the tribe Hamamelideae. The strict consensus of the four most parsimonious trees shows Hamamelideae and Loropetalinae as well-supported monophyletic taxa. The fossil flower is clearly included within the Loropetalinae, and is placed as sister taxon to the southeastern Asian genus Maingaya. The occurrence of fossils assignable to Loropetalinae during the Campanian documents the existence of Hamamelidaceae with a level of floral organization and character evolution equivalent to that of extant genera, early in the evolutionary history of the family.
23644391|The reproductive biology of three sympatric species Pitcairnia flammea, P. corcovadensis and P. albiflos (Bromeliaceae) was studied on Corcovado Mountain in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Controlled pollination experiments were also conducted using plants transplanted to a greenhouse. The three species are self-compatible and interspecifically cross compatible. Pitcairnia corcovadensis was principally an autonomous self-pollinator, having scarce pollinator activity, anthers and stigmas at the same level, and absence of nectar. In P. flammea, many flowers opened per day, the stigma and anther were close to each other, and its nectar was regularly consumed by hummingbirds; all factors that promote geitonogamy in this species. Although fully self-compatible, P. albiflos always opened a few flowers per days showing an adaptation to cross-pollination. Observations during two flowering seasons showed that despite different times for peak flowering, blooming of these three species overlapped in April. They grow in mixed clumps that may facilitate promiscuous pollination between them but no intermediate forms were observed under natural conditions. The absence of temporal isolation, geographic isolation and isolation via post-pollination reproduction suggests that evolution toward selfing was important to avoid hybridization between these sympatric species.
23643318|18 populations of the grassland biennials Gentianella amarella and G. campestris were cultivated to clarify the genetical vs. environmental components of the flowering phenology, and the reproductive isolation caused by seasonal differentiation. The influence of some environmental factors was tested. The seasonal variation persisted in cultivation, and the plants could normally be assigned to distinct aestival or autumnal groups, with no reproductive contact. Flowering phenology was affected by environmental factors, but not to such an extent that the reproductive isolation was broken. The observed phenological variation was not reflected by a corresponding variation in present management practices. Management history and possible non-anthropogenic factors are discussed as alternative explanations.
23660123|Evolutive studies have verified that Coffea arabica (2n = 44) is a natural segmental allopolyploid originated from a cross between two diploid (2n = 22) Coffea species. Data obtained by classical cytogenetic analyses showed that C. arabica chromosomes are small and morphologically similar, which hampers the karyogram assembly with well-identified homologue pairs. In the present study, the C. arabica complement was reanalysed using an improved cytogenetic protocol that allowed the obtention of high-quality prometaphasic and metaphasic chromosomes. The results showed that chromosomes are cytogenetically distinct (1, 2, 19, 20, 21 and 22) and identical (34, 56, 78, 910, 1112, 1314, 1516 and 1718), with regard to their total length, short and long arm sizes or chromosome classes. Our work suggests that C. arabica is a true non-segmental allotetraploid but originated from different species exhibiting similar and distinct chromosomes.
23674271|Four distinct species of Cortinarius referable to subg. Dermocybe are described from the Cooloola Sand-Mass, Queensland; two are formally recognized as C. alkalivirens, spec. nova and C. chromobasis, spec. nova, whilst notes are provided for the other two. Chemical methods and cladistic studies are applied and indicate a new section of the subgenus is required. Australodermocybe sect. nova is proposed.
23644414|Stigma morphology was examined with the SEM in 14 of the 16 species of Villarsia. In nine of the ten distylous species studied, stigmas of the floral morphs were strongly dimorphic in length, shape, configuration of the receptive surface, and in the size and density of their papillae. Thrum stigmas of Villarsia, in contrast to those of most other distylous species, are not simply smaller versions of the conspecific pin stigmas, but generally exhibit an array of morph-specific characters. Thrum stigma lobes may be broader than those of pins, they may have undulate margins, lobes subdivided into secondary lobes, papillae more extensively distributed than in pins, and various combinations of these traits occur. The traits that distinguish thrum from pin stigmas achieve an increase in the receptive area and may enhance more efficient pollen capture by the shorter and less accessible thrum stigmas. The morphogenesis of the stigma shape dimorphism appears to involve processes more complex than inhibition of elongation in thrum styles. In Villarsia, the stigma dimorphisms are species-specific. No correlations were found between morphologies of the stigma and the different breeding systems in distylous species. Stigmas of the four non-heterostylous species examined resemble the thrum stigma type found in most distylous Villarsia species.
23674759|The pollen type of Planchonioideae is unique among the angiosperms in its syntricolpatism associated with the marginal ridge, marginal groove, and polar cushion; it has been studied by J. Muller, who classified it into three types, mainly with a light microscope. In the present study, pollen grains of the six constitutent genera were studied with a scanning electron microscope, five additional pollen types were recognized. Of the eight pollen types the one with sealed polar ectoapertures and weakly developed marginal ridges, without marginal grooves and polar cushions is regarded as the most primitive. Evolutionary trends proceeded with the opening of the polar ectoapertures, the complication of the polar cushions and marginal grooves. In the most advanced form, the marginal ridges and marginal grooves coalesced to form two concentric rings, whereas the polar cushions were secondarily reduced.
23642103|The Iserian Mts. form of Crocus vernus agg. has 2 n = 16 and a karyotype clearly deviating from C. heuffelianus s. lat.
23643781|The chromosome number and karyotype of Halophytum ameghinoi (Speg.) Speg. was found to be 2n = 24 and 12m+10sm+2t, respectively. Meiosis was regular and 12 bivalents were observed. The relationships of this monotypic family are briefly discussed.
23664383|Rice PolA1 gene, encoding for the largest subunit of RNA polymerase I, spans ca. 15 kb containing 21 exons and presents as a single-copy-per-haploid genome. The genus Oryza comprises 22 wild species and 9 recognized genome types: AA, BB, CC, EE, FF, GG, BBCC, CCDD, and HHJJ. We analyzed sequences of the 19th intron (PI19) within PolA1 genes in 17 Oryza species. The AA species, containing two cultivated species, showed similar length of PI19 to that of CC species (287296 bp). The longer PI19s were found in BB (502 bp) and FF (349 bp) species, although EE (217 pb) and GG (222 bp) species had shorter sequences. The size differences of the PI19s are particularly useful to discriminate between diploid (BB and CC) and allotetraploid (BBCC) species using simple PCR analysis. The evolutionary relationship among seven genomes was inferred based on the comparison of their PI19 sequences.
23664388|Oleaceae leaves surveyed from herbarium specimens of 240 species from 23 genera were rehydrated, bleached, processed into xylol, mounted unstained, and viewed microscopically between crossed polarizers. Occurrence of five crystal types and two variants (tiny acicular crystals and sphaerites) within one family is unusual. Number of crystal types within a single species was one (108 spp.), two (53 spp.), three (51 spp.), four (15 spp.), and five (6 spp.). Seven species lacked crystals. The tiny acicular crystal variant was most common (167 spp.), followed by prisms (67 spp.), raphides (65 spp.), druses (61 spp.), sphaerites variant (50 spp.), styloids (36 spp.), and crystal sand (21 spp.). Epidermal crystals were common (155 spp.), with epidermal crystals clustering at base of trichomes in 21 species. Jasminum was exceptional in having mostly druses and almost no crystals around vascular bundles. Most Oleaceae crystals are tiny, usually about 5 m in length, except for larger styloids and raphides.
23673224|As a part of a taxonomic revision of the Iberian and Balearic taxa of Ornithogalum, the results concerning O. subg. Ornithogalum are reported. Quantitative and qualitative characters were studied in detail, and they were evaluated for the taxonomy of the three accepted taxa: O. baeticum Boiss., O. bourgaeanum Jord. & Fourr. and O. divergens Boreau. A complete description is presented of all accepted species, and data on their nomenclature, biology, ecology, and distribution are also included. Relationships to other European taxa of the subgenus are also discussed. Moreover, a neotype is designated. Finally, a key is provided to facilitate identification.
23663578|Carex sect. Spirostachyae comprises 25 species displaying the centre of diversity in Eurasia, while sect. Elatae comprises 22 species displaying the centre of diversity in tropical African mountainous regions. Phylogenetic analysis of the 136 ITS and 108 5trnK intron sequences of 23 species of sect. Spirostachyae and 20 species of sect. Elatae revealed that neither section is monophyletic. With the exclusion of C. montis-eeka (sect. Spirostachyae) and C. insularis, C. iynx and C. longibrachiata (sect. Elatae), the sects. Spirostachyae and Elatae constitute a monophyletic group of 38 species, 22 of which were previously included in sect. Spirostachyae and 16 of which were in sect. Elatae (considering C. thomasii as C. mannii ssp. thomasii). Two main groups with different edaphic preferences were identified in the core Spirostachyae, in congruence with some morphological features. One group comprises primarily acidophilus species including 11 species of sect. Spirostachyae and 16 species of sect. Elatae. The other group includes 11 basophilic species of sect. Spirostachyae. Incongruence between nuclear and plastid genomes was detected, suggesting hybridization or lineage sorting processes in the evolution of the core Spirostachyae.
23655775|Many of the oldest definitive members of the Rosaceae are present in the Eocene upland floras of the Okanogan Highlands of northeastern Washington State and British Columbia, Canada. Over a dozen rosaceous taxa representing extant and extinct genera of all four traditionally recognized subfamilies are known from flowers, fruits, wood, pollen, and especially leaves. The complexity seen in Eocene Rosaceae suggests that hybridization and polyploidy may have played a pivotal role in the early evolution of the family. Increased species diversity and the first appearance of additional modern taxa occur during the Late Paleogene in North America and Europe. The Rosaceae become increasingly important components of fossil floras during the Neogene, with taxa adapted to many habitats.
23673741|The geographic variation in Fritillaria graeca, an endemic of Greece, is explored, using multivariate techniques. Eleven morphological features were measured in each of 630 individual plants from 38 localities throughout the range of the species. Scheffe's a posteriori test revealed an almost continuous geographic variation and did not identify groups clearly. Discriminant analysis of the groups derived from an F significance test of Mahalanobis distance resulted in five major groups on the first two discriminant axes representing the subspecies graeca, ionica, guicciardii, thessala and its var. othria. A diagnostic key to the F. graeca subspecies is provided.
23669424|In the context of recent molecular phylogenies of the basal grades of Compositae, we investigated the utility of pollen morphology within the tribe Gochnatieae. The pollen of 64 species of Anastraphia, Cnicothamnus, Cyclolepis, Gochnatia, Pentaphorus, and Richterago was studied using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. In addition, three extra-Gochnatieae genera (Ianthopappus, Leucomeris, and Nouelia) were examined as they were traditionally morphologically related to members of the tribe Gochnatieae. Three of the species of Gochnatieae were examined using transmission electron microscopy. Two pollen types, and two new subtypes, have been recognized on the basis of the pollen shape, size, and exine sculpture. The pollen features of Gochnatia sect. Moquiniastrum and G. cordata are similar and distinctive within the genus and support the recently re-circumscribed section Hedraiophyllum. Within the species with echinate pollen surface, the distinctive spine length of Anastraphia supports its recent resurrection as a genus. The identity of Pentaphorus could not be supported by pollen features as was for other morphological characteristics. The pollen features shared across Cyclolepis, Ianthopappus, Leucomeris, Nouelia and Gochnatia sect. Moquiniastrum, as well as those shared by Richterago and Anastraphia could be a result of parallel evolution.
23654257|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to determine the levels and pattern of molecular variation in four populations of Elymus trachycaulus, and to estimate genetic similarity among different populations of E. trachycaulus from British Columbia and the Northwest Territories and one population of Elymus alaskanus from the Northwest Territories. Based on 124 RAPD bands (loci), mean percent polymorphic loci for E. trachycaulus (PP) was 67.4% (a range 41.2% to 86.3%), and mean gene diversity (He) for E. trachycaulus species was 0.23 (range 0.18 to 0.27). The total genetic diversity was 0.32. Differentiation among populations was 31% (FST = 0.31) with most of the genetic variation found within populations (69%). This pattern of genetic variation was different from that reported for inbred species in general.
23655982|Despite extensive efforts, there are unresolved questions on evolutionary relationships in the angiosperm family Rubiaceae. Here, information from six loci and 149 Rubiaceae taxa provide new insights. Acranthera and Coptosapelta are strongly supported as sisters. Pollen grains of Acranthera possess several features common in Rubiaceae, but amongst potential similarities with the unusual grains of Coptosapelta are the nature of the apertures and the structure of the sexine. Luculia, Acranthera and Coptosapelta are excluded from the three subfamilies Ixoroideae, Cinchonoideae and Rubioideae. Sipaneeae and Condamineeae form a clade, sister to remaining Ixoroideae. Rondeletieae and Guettardeae are sisters to remaining Cinchonoideae. Colletoecema is sister to remaining Rubioideae, followed by the UrophylleaeOphiorrhizeae clade. Nuclear ITS provided structured information at all phylogenetic levels, but the main gain from adding nrITS was the increased resolution. Average support values also increased but were generally high also without nrITS and the increase was not statistically significant.
23655127|The inter- and intraspecific variability of Cichorium intybus L. was examined to evaluate potential morphological and molecular diagnostic character states. Two diagnostic and one overlapping morphological character clearly delimit the two species C. intybus and C. spinosum. All applied molecular methods (ITS, AFLP, Microsatellites) failed to significantly discriminate between these accepted species. As the morphological traits are fixed and heritable, criteria for species delimitation are fulfilled. These traits, however, are apparently due to mutations of a few crucial loci affecting the morphological diagnostic character states. Intraspecific variability within C. intybus revealed to be highly influenced by plastic response to local environmental factors and subspecific delimitation cannot be supported.
23643169|Chromosome numbers were recorded for 63 populations of 34 species belonging to the genus Gentiana from the high altitude regions of western China. Counts for 22 species were reported for the first time and new numbers were found for G. heleonastes (2n = 36), G. prattii (2n = 20) and G. pseudoaquatica (2n = 40). Incorporating previous data, a complete series of gametic chromosome numbers from n = 6 to 24 and 26 was established for the genus, suggesting rapid karyotypic evolution by a combination of dysploidy and polyploidy. The cytotype 2n = 20 is proposed as the ancestral type in sect. Chondrophyllae s. 1. The chromosome number 2n = 16 was found for Jaeschkea microsperma for the first time which, with previous reports of 2n = 18, 20 and 22, indicates that Jaeschkea is a typically dysploid genus.
43558338|Polyploidy is the most common chromosomal mechanism involved in the evolution of plants. However, the emergence of polyploid individuals does not guarantee the establishment of a new lineage, and the relationship between polyploidy and reproductive biology is therefore relevant. Libidibia ferrea is a legume tree that has diploid and tetraploid populations. In this work we analyse the reproductive biology of the species to verify the degree of reproductive isolation between the two cytotypes. Observations on phenology, floral morphology, biology, and visitors, breeding system, reproductive success and reproductive isolation were made for both cytotypes in two municipalities of northeastern Brazil. Cytotypes differed for all morphometric parameters analysed, with tetraploids exhibiting higher mean values than diploids. Both cytotypes had the same effective pollinators (native bees from the genera Centris and Xylocopa, and the introduced Apis mellifera). However, since stamens of diploids and tetraploids were of different size, it is possible that spatial separation occurs when pollen of each cytotype is deposited on a bee's body. Diploids were self-incompatible (ISI = 0) and exhibited high fruit-set after intraploidy crossing (20 %), whereas tetraploids were self-compatible (ISI = 0.47) and set only 3.9 % of fruits after intraploidy crossing. Both cytotypes showed low fruit- and seed-set under natural conditions, and there was no fruit-set after crosses between them. Data are discussed in relation to the establishment of polyploids, to the pattern of distribution of the species and to the taxonomic implications. The cytotypes of L. ferrea should be considered as distinct species, since they are reproductively isolated from each other.
23672633|The differences between Festuca vivipara (tetraploid) and F. ovina subsp. supina (diploid), two often confused taxa, are demonstrated in regard to morphology, leaf anatomy, ecology and distribution. New maps illustrate the distribution of F. vivipara in the Alps and the Northern Hemisphere. The development of different polyploidy levels within F. vivipara as a consequence of occasional sexual processes is discussed. (English Summary on p. 39.)
23673868|Based on a simple multivariate analysis of the morphology of the Agropyron pubiflorum complex  A. patagonicum, A. antarcticum, A. fuegianum, and A. magellanicum  the variation pattern is shown to be clinal, and all taxa are included in a single, variable species. Currently the majority of species of Agropyron is included in Elymus and the correct name of this species is E. glaucescens.
23642672|Four new species of Trigonella are described: T. subenervis Rech. f. from E. Persia, T. stenocarpa Rech. f. from S. Persia (both related to T. elliptica); T. pycnotricha Rech. f. (related to T. ionantha Rech. f.), and T. xeromorpha Rech. f. (related to T. griffithii, similar to T. pycnotricha), both from E. Afghanistan. T. edelbergii differs strongly from T. lipskyi and therefore merits specific rank; an emendated description is supplied.
23654200|Twenty one European populations of C. monogyna and nine of C. laevigata were examined to quantify genetic diversity at chloroplast DNA. PCR-RFLP and microsatellites (SSR) were analysed by PCR using conserved primers. The average within population gene diversity (hS), the total gene diversity (hT), and the differentiation for unordered alleles (GST) and for ordered alleles (NST) were measured. For those populations where both species were present, an introgression ratio (IG) was calculated. Four different haplotypes were detected, one of them very common (85% in C. monogyna and 75% in C. laevigata populations) and distributed over the whole range. The value of the introgression ratio is close to one (IG = 0.83), indicating that the haplotypic variation is largely species-independent. The level of differentiation between C. monogyna (GST=0.241) and C. laevigata (GST = 0.430) populations indicates a very efficient seed dispersal mechanism. Moreover, the difference between GST and NST for both species is not significant, demonstrating that the phylogeographic structure is weak or absent.
43558183|Mixed stands of Senecio ovatus subsp. ovatus and S. germanicus subsp. germanicus occur in the colline belt of central and eastern Europe. The latter species is adapted to more continental climate conditions and shows a later flowering time (August-September) than the widespread S. ovatus (July-August) that grows in more oceanic climates. We have surveyed 253 plants from 15 populations north of Regensburg (south-eastern Germany) using 16 qualitative and quantitative morphological characters and molecular markers [amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP)] to detect introgressive hybridisation between these two species. Both multivariate statistical analyses based on morphological characters and the Bayesian clustering based on AFLP fingerprint data show that in most populations under study the two species form distinct entities and do not hybridise with each other. However, in one population from the Upper Palatine Forest a high number of intermediate individuals were found. A more detailed genetic (AFLP) and phytochemical (pyrrolizidine alkaloid, PA) analysis based on 125 individuals from this hybrid swarm indicated that these intermediate individuals are backcrosses towards S. germanicus. It is shown that the two species differ considerably concerning the qualitative and quantitative PA patterns and that backcrossed individuals either show an additive PA pattern or a PA pattern similar to S. germanicus, while in quantitative respects all of these individuals are approaching S. germanicus. These findings are discussed in terms of differential selection regimes influencing the fitness of pure and hybrid plants in an area which is an eco-climatological optimum for the more oceanic S. ovatus but which forms a distributional edge for the more continental S. germanicus.
23660106|The eudicot clade of angiosperms is characterised by simultaneous microsporogenesis and tricolpate pollen apertures. Successive microsporogenesis, where a distinct dyad stage occurs after the first meiotic division, is relatively rare in eudicots although it occurs in many early branching angiosperms including monocots. An extensive literature survey shows that successive microsporogenesis has arisen independently at least six times in eudicots, in five different orders, including Berberidaceae (Ranunculales). Microsporogenesis and pollen apertures were examined here using light and transmission electron microscopy in eleven species representing six genera of Berberidaceae. Successive microsporogenesis is a synapomorphy for the sister taxa Berberis and Mahonia (and possibly also Ranzania), the remaining genera are simultaneous. Callose wall formation in Berberis and Mahonia is achieved by centripetal furrowing, though centrifugal cell plates are more usual for this microsporogenesis type. This discrepancy could reflect the fact that the successive type in Berberidaceae is derived from the simultaneous type, and centripetal furrowing has been retained. Eudicots with successive microsporogenesis usually produce tetragonal or decussate tetrads, though occasional tetrahedral or irregular tetrads in Berberis and Mahonia indicate that the switch from simultaneous to successive division is incomplete or "leaky". In contrast, linear tetrads produced by successive microsporogenesis in Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae s.l.) are the result of a highly specialised developmental pathway leading to the production of pollinia. Pollen in successive eudicots is dispersed as monads, dyads, tetrads, and as single grains in pollinia. Apertures are diverse, and patterns include spiraperturate, clypeate, irregular, monocolpate, diporate and inaperturate. It is possible that successive microsporogenesis, although rare, potentially occurs in other eudicots, for example, in species where pollen is inaperturate.
23670051|Three members of the Gnetatae (Ephedra campylopoda, E. americana, Welwitschia mirabilis) were investigated by TEM and SEM with respect to their anther tapetum and pollen development. In all three species pollenkitt is lacking. The pretended pollen stickiness thus does not depend on pollenkitt. Considering former observations one can now clearly state that pollenkitt is missing in all recent gymnosperm classes (both anemophilous and  entomophilous). Pollenkitt thus is restricted and  omnipresent within the angiosperms, where it represents one of the most important components of the entomophily syndrome. This can be regarded as important proof for the hypothesis that the angiosperms are a single coherent phylogenetic group.
23663574|The objective of the present investigation was to assess the genetic relationships among the species of Oryza that belong to the primary gene pool (sativa complex) and the secondary gene pool (officinalis complex) using three marker systems such as RAPDs, ISSRs and SSRs. A total of 432 clear and reproducible bands were amplified from 18 RAPD primers; 113 bands were detected from 8 ISSR primers and 78 alleles were found to be amplified across the Oryza species from 13 SSR primer pairs. All the three dendrograms constructed, using UPGMA from the genetic similarity matrices based on the three marker data sets, were similar in their groupings. In all the three trees, two accessions of Oryza sativa formed an exclusive group indicating its genomic differentiation from its wild ancestors through the process of domestication. Distinctness between the wild species of the sativa and officinalis complexes was evident in all the trees derived from different markers. The groupings obtained among the species of the sativa complex were in perfect concordance with the species relationships established through classical crossability and cytogenetic analysis. This study has brought out some information on the species relationship between the diploid and tetraploid genomes of the officinalis complex possessing BB, CC and DD genomes. The higher level of similarity observed between the species possessing C and D genomes supports the view of many earlier authors that these two genomes might have originated from a single hybridization event. The results of this study also show that the diploid species possessing C genomes such as Oryza officinalis, Oryza rhizomatis and Oryza eichingeri are distinct from their allotetraploid counterparts possessing BBCC and CCDD genomes indicating a wider genomic differentiation in their evolutionary process.
23655976|The reproductive biology of Primula merrilliana Schltr. and P. cicutariifolia Pax that are sister taxa and the only two members of Primula sect. Ranunculoides were studied. The results showed that P. merrilliana is typically a distylous species not only in morphology but also in function; it has an incompatibility system that restricts the legitimate pollination to that between pin and thrum flower morphs, but self-fertilization may occur under certain conditions. P. cicutariifolia is self-compatible. The pin morph of P. merrilliana has longer stigma papillae and smaller pollen than the thrum morph. The results stated above support the view that P. filchnerae should be moved from sect. Pinnatae to sect. Auganthus.
23664938|Primula apennina Widmer is endemic to the North Apennines (Italy). ISSR were used to detect the genetic diversity within and among six populations representative of the species distribution range. High levels of genetic diversity were revealed both at population percentage of polymorphic band (PPB = 75.92%, HS = 0.204, Hpop = 0.319) and at species level (PPB = 96.95%, HT = 0.242, Hsp = 0.381). Nei gene diversity statistics (15.7%), Shannon diversity index (16.3%) and AMOVA (14%) detected a moderate level of interpopulation diversity. Principal coordinate and Bayesian analyses clustered the populations in three major groups along a geographic gradient. The correlation between genetic and geographic distances was positive (Mantel test, r = 0.232). All together, these analyses revealed a weak but significant spatial genetic structure in P. apennina, with gene flow acting as a homogenizing force that prevents a stronger differentiation of populations. Conservation measures are suggested based on the observed pattern of genetic variability.
23643189|Genetic relationships for several species of the fungus Omphalotus were estimated by comparing the presence or absence of restriction sites in the ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 region of nuclear ribosomal DNA. Results place O. olearius, O. subilludens and O. olivascens in a single clade. Omphalotus illudens, usually thought to be related to O. subilludens, was placed in a second clade, more closely related to O. nidiformis. Omphalotus mexicana is distinct from all other examined Omphalotus species.
23642935|Scopelophila cataractae, one of the so-called "copper mosses", has a broad geographic distribution that includes North, Central, and South America, Europe, and Asia, but is rare throughout its range. A genetic analysis of 32 populations from the United States, Europe, and Asia based on 15 putative allozyme loci indicates that levels of genetic diversity vary among geographic regions. Six European populations are fixed for the same alleles at all 15 loci, consistent with the hypothesis that S. cataractae is a recent immigrant in that region. The species is more diverse in the U.S., where it appears to be native. Five populations collected on copper-enriched soils around shrines and temples in Tokyo are genetically monomorphic, but Asian populations from another Japanese site, India, and Nepal are exceptionally diverse in terms of numbers of alleles and multilocus haplotypes, total gene diversity (HT), and n the degree of differentiation among populations (measured as Nei's I and D). Long-distance dispersal has probably played an important role in the geographic history of S. cataractae, but the species appears to be native in both the New and Old Worlds. Gene flow between plants disjunct on different continents is insufficient to explain the lack of geographically correlated morphological and genetic differentiation in S. cataractae.
23642552|The submicroscopic structure of the seed surface was studied in 16 species of the genus Jacaranda and some species of the genera Digomphia, Tecoma and Tabebuia (Bignoniaceae). Epicuticular excrescences ("star-scales") are characteristic for Jacaranda and seem to be  restricted to this genus. Within Jacaranda only J. macrocarpa has no star-scales but torus-like cuticular marks as the other genera. J. macrocarpa therefore appears as a link between the bulk of Jacaranda and the other Bignoniaceae. Die Skulptur der Samenoberflche verschiedener Bignoniaceae wurde mit Hilfe des Raster-Elektronenmikroskops vergleichend untersucht. Mit einer einzigen Ausnahme weisen smtliche untersuchten Vertreter der Gattung Jacaranda auf dem zentralen, gewlbten Abschnitt der Samenoberflche cuticulare Auswchse (Sternschuppen) auf, die im Prinzip aus einem kompakten, etwa 48 m groen Grundkrper und einer Anzahl unterschiedlich langer und unterschiedlich geformter Fortstze bestehen. Die sehr wandlungsfhige Gestalt der Sternschuppen lt sich auf zwei Grundtypen (groer Grundkrper mit kurzen Fortstzen bzw. kleiner Grundkrper mit langen Fortstzen) zurckfhren. Die Verbreitung der beiden Grundtypen deckt sich im wesentlichen mit den beiden Sektionen der Gattung Jacaranda. Eine Artdiagnose ist auf Grund der Variationsbreite nicht mglich. Die Sternschuppen scheinen jedoch fr Jacaranda  gattungsspezifisch zu sein, da sie den brigen untersuchten Bignoniaceen (Digomphia densicoma, D. laurifolia, D. ceratophora, Tecoma arequipensis, Tabebuia caraiba), jedoch auch der innerhalb der Gattung isolierten Jacaranda macrocarpa fehlen. Statt dessen besitzen die genannten Bignoniaceae torusartige Einsenkungen der Cuticula, die wiederum allen untersuchten Jacaranda-Arten mit Ausnahme von J. macrocarpa fehlen. Auf Grund der Merkmale der Samenoberflche ist die Gattung Digomphia nicht als dritte Sektion der Gattung Jacaranda zuzuordnen, obwohl sie ihr morphologisch stark hnelt. Weiters lt sich vermuten, da J. macrocarpa den Anschlu von Jacaranda zu verwandten Gattungen wie Tecoma, Tabebuia und Digomphia darstellt.
23643778|Within the Mediterranean complex Carduncellus-Carthamus, taxonomic classification has proven problematic. Numerous attempts to clarify the relative systematic boundaries have included splitting Carduncellus and Carthamus into several genera, but none of these proposed classifications have been generally accepted. For a comprehensive resolution of the relationships within this group, we used sequences of the Internal Transcribed Spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA. The results indicate that the complex should be classified into four genera: Carduncellus, Carthamus, Femeniasia and Phonus. The relationship between the western group (Carduncellus, Femeniasia and Phonus) and the eastern genus Carthamus are not resolved by analysis of ITS sequences, but the two groups are probably not close relatives. The ITS classifications corresponded with biogeography and less with morphological characters, which have also been the main source of confusion in traditional classifications. Most of the unusual morphological features in the Carduncellus-Carthamus complex appear to be reversals to ancestral character states.
23656135|The genetic variability characterization of the accessions of the germplasm collection, using molecular markers, is being applied as a complementary strategy to the traditional approaches to redefine the plant genetic resources. In this study, we compared the informativeness and efficiency of the molecular markers RAPD, AFLP and SSR in the analysis of 94 accessions of Coffea canephora germplasm held by the breeding program of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (Embrapa), Rondnia State, Brazil. For this, we considered the marker's discriminatory power and level of polymorphism detected and also the genetic relationships and clustering (dendrogram) analysis. The RAPD marker yielded low-quality data and problems in the discrimination of some accessions, being less recommended for genetic studies of C. canephora. The SSRs had a higher level of information content and yielded high-quality data, while AFLP was the most efficient marker system because of the simultaneous detection of abundant polymorphism markers per few reactions. Our results indicate that AFLP and SSR, allies to the intrinsic characteristics of each technique, are the most suitable molecular markers for genetic studies of C. canephora. However, the choice of AFLP or SSR in the species characterization should be made in agreement with some characteristics that are discussed in this work.
23642714|Ultrathin sections were studied in 2 strains and 2 samples from the nature of the genus Chamaesiphon, representing 4 different species. Thylakoids are distributed mainly on the periphery of the cells, the cell-wall is probably 2-layered, and variable multilayered mucilaginous envelopes are developed around the cells. The cell division starts, as well as in other Cyanophyceae, by the invagination of the cytoplasmic membrane and of cell-wall layers into the protoplast; the mucilaginous envelopespseudovaginaedo not participate in this process but they form only the firm sheaths around the cells. The way of reproduction is, therefore, essentially the same as that described in other chroococcal Blue-Green algae (e.g., Synechococcus), and the main difference is the polarized growth of the Chamaesiphon cells. The taxonomical position of chamaesiphonoid algae is not as isolated as it was earlier supposed, the similarity with Entophysalidaceae is evident.
23642468|A new species of Cruciata and a new subspecies of Galium are described and discussed with regard to their affinities. Two new combinations are required for geographical races of Rubia tenuifolia. Galium lovcense Urum. has priority over G. protopycnotrichum Ehrend. & Krendl.
23643338|A chloroplast DNA restriction site map for Ranunculus sceleratus (Ranunculaceae) was constructed using 14 restriction endonucleases. The total size of the chloroplast genome is 152.4 kb. No inversions were detected relative to the tobacco chloroplast DNA. Cladistic analyses of chloroplast DNA restriction site polymorphism were employed in order to elucidate the phylogeny among 76 species of the genus Ranunculus in a wide sense and one species of Trautvetteria. A total of 341 informative restriction site changes were detected. Parsimony jackknifing, bootstrapping and decay analysis were undertaken in order to evaluate the amount of support for the monophyletic groups. The results suggest that the analysed species of Ranunculus are divisible into two main clades. Only few of the traditional sections and subgenera of Ranunculus are monophyletic. The genus Trautvetteria is nested within a clade comprising, e.g. Ranunculus cymbalaria, R. andersonii, R. lapponicus and R. ficaria. Subgenus Batrachium lies within a larger clade containing, e.g. R. sceleratus and R. hyperboreus. Contractions of the inverted repeat due to parallel deletions of 200-300 bp close to the JSB have occurred in many clades and the phylogenetic distribution of this size reduction was mapped among the species.
23655909|A unique combination of chloroplast and ploidy chimeras is found in some Hosta Tratt. (Hostaceae) cultivars. The absence of endopolyploidy in the aboveground parts made it possible to study the fate of the apical or germ layers in all organs. Moreover, we would like to address the question of the number of apical cell layers in Hosta also to explain breeding results. Nuclear DNA content in twelve different organs of Hosta was determined by flow cytometric analysis of four chimeric cultivars with a 4-2-2 or 2-2-4 composition. The margin of the leaf, derived from the L1, can be determined separately and has a 4C amount of DNA in 4-2-2 ploidy chimeras but a 2C amount of DNA in 2-2-4 chimeras. The presence of three layers in Hosta was deduced from comparisons of the percentage of 4C nuclei in (2)-2-4 and (4)-2-2 chimeras. If Hosta organs derive only from two layers the percentage of 4C cells in the different ploidy chimeras should add up to 100%, but they do not. The absence of nuclei with a 2C amount of DNA in the roots of 2-2-4 plants shows that only the L3 participates in adventitious root formation. Gametes and consequently seedlings are mainly derived from the L2. The often found correlation between the color of the centre of the leaf and the color of the seedlings is the consequence of the way these cultivars originate. The presence of three apical layers is visualized in the tricolored leaves of Hosta cultivars like 'Striptease'. The nuclear DNA amounts show unequivocally, that in all the above ground parts of Hosta the three apical layers L1, L2 and L3 are present. However, only the L3 participates in adventitious root formation.
23655903|The structure of Cupressus arizonica pollen at different degrees of hydration was examined by using cytochemical staining and light (LM) and scanning electron (SEM) microscopy. Most pollen grains are inaperturate and a minority are provided with an operculate pore enveloped by a concave annulus. Intine consists of: 1) a thin polysaccharidic outer layer, 2) a large polysaccharidic middle layer that is spongy and bordered by a mesh of large and branched fibrils, and 3) an inner cellulosic thick layer with callose concentrated on the inner side, which forms a shell around the protoplast. The protoplast is egg-shaped with PAS positive cytoplasm and prominent nucleus. Exine splits during hydration and is cast off according to three major steps: 1) the split opens like a mouth and the underlying intine is expelled by swelling like a balloon, 2) the protoplast enveloped by the inner intine is sucked in the outgrowing side, and 3) the backside of the intine gets rid of the exine shell. In water containing salts, exine is rapidly released and the middle intine may expand up to break the outer layer, with disgregation of the spongy material and release of the intine shell including the protoplast. In water lacking salts, the sporoderm hydration and breaking are negatively influenced by the population effect. Pollen when air dried after the exine release become completely flat owing to disappearance of the middle intine layer which may be restored by dipping pollen in water. The results are discussed in relation to the functional potentialities of the sporoderm.
43558326|Papaver rhoeas (Papaveraceae) has a wellcharacterized gametophytic self-incompatibility system in which self-pollen tube growth ceases either just before, or just after, emergence from the copal aperture. Papaver flowers are unusual, however, in having flat stigmatic rays sitting directly on top of the hard ovary and no style. Immediate self-pollen arrest might be required with this floral architecture. There is much variation in floral architecture among Papaveraceae and self-incompatibility is widespread. However, there are no reports of the site of self-pollen tube inhibition in Papaveraceae other than P. rhoeas. We examined the site of self-pollen tube inhibition in four species (Argentone munita, Lamprocapnos spectabilis, Eschscholzia californica, and Platystemon californicus) representing a broad phylogenetic and morphological sample of Papaveraceae. Squash preparation was used for species with soft stigmas whereas woody tissue was sectioned with a cryostat and images were stitched into a mosaic to visualize pollen tubes on whole stigmas. For three species, self-pollen tube inhibition appeared similar to that described for P. rhoeas. Self-pollen tubes were arrested before any substantial penetration of female tissue and usually did not grow longer than 100 m In the fourth species, A. munita, self-pollen tubes grew up to 500 m in length. However, self-pollen tubes appeared to grow along the stigmatic spines, and growth ceased once tubes contacted the stigma surface. Despite variation in floral architecture, rapid arrest of self-pollen tubes occurred before or just after penetration of female tissue in all species, consistent with the hypothesis that members of the family share the same incompatibility mechanism.
23673881|The history of the deme terminology is outlined, John Gilmour's leading role in inventing and publicising it is explained, and its relative failure discussed. The rather different reactions of zoologists and botanists to advocacy of the terminology by Gilmour and others are described and some explanation of these differences is attempted. A limited use of "first-order" deme terms, especially gamodeme, topodeme and cytodeme, is advocated as being a reasonable and practical procedure.
23645094|The nucleotide sequence of the complete chloroplast genome of a basal angiosperm, Calycanthus fertilis, has been determined. The circular 153337 bp long cpDNA is colinear with those of tobacco, Arabidopsis and spinach. A total of 133 predicted genes (115 individual gene species, 18 genes duplicated in the inverted repeats) including 88 potential protein-coding genes (81 gene species), 8 ribosomal RNA genes (4 gene species) and 37 tRNA genes (30 gene species) representing 20 amino acids were identified based on similarity to their homologs from other chloroplast genomes. This is the highest gene number ever registered in an angiosperm plastome. Calycanthus fertilis cpDNA also contains a homolog of the recently discovered mitochondrial ACRS gene. Since no gene transfer from mitochondria to the chloroplast has ever been documented, we investigated the evolutionary affinity of this gene in detail. Phylogenetic analysis of the protein-coding subset of the plastome suggests that the ancient line of Laurales emerged after the split of the angiosperms into monocots and dicots.
43558160|Gagea lutea and G. spathacea are spring geophytes naturally co-occurring in woodlands, characterised by contrasting reproductive strategies probably caused by divergent ploidy levels. The hexaploid G. lutea relies on vegetative reproduction by subterranean bulbils in young stages but completely switches to sexual reproduction once a certain bulb size is attained. The nonaploid G. spathacea seems to be sterile and reproduces only vegetatively; the plants continue to form bulbils even in the rare event of flowering. This study used AFLP genotyping to investigate the consequences of these reproductive strategies for genetic diversity. For 150 and 100 samples from three Western Pomeranian populations of G. lutea and G.spathacea, respectively, AFLP fingerprints were analysed for three different spatial scales, the patch, the transect, and the region. Applying a threshold for genotypic identity of < 0.05 simple matching distance, 22-30 genets were detected in the three G. lutea populations, with all genets confined to single populations. Clonal genets consisted of 2-9 samples and extended over up to 28 m, but never occupied the whole length of a transect; 67-75% of all patches had different genets. Genetic distances between genets within populations were similar to those recorded between populations. Genotyping of G. spathacea revealed a single clonal genet for all three populations sampled within a distance of 30 km. The absent genetic diversity confirms the suspected sexual sterility. Gagea spathacea seems to be one of the few non-apomictic, fully clonal vascular plants able to occupy a significant range solely by dispersal of vegetative diaspores.
23655697|The grass subfamily Danthonioideae is one of the smaller in the family. We utilize DNA sequence data from three chloroplast regions (trnL, rpoC2 and rbcL) and one nuclear region (Internal Transcribed Spacer; ITS) both singly and in combination to elucidate the relationships of the genera in the subfamily. The topology retrieved by the ITS region is not congruent with that of the plastid data, but this conflict is not strongly supported. Nine well-supported clades are retrieved by all data sets. The relationships at the base of the subfamily are clearly established, comprising a series of three clades of Merxmuellera species. The earliest diverging clade probably does not belong in Danthonioideae. The other two clades are centered in the tropical African mountains and Cape mountains respectively. A clade of predominantly North and South American Danthonia species as well as D. archboldii from New Guinea is retrieved, but the African and Asian species of Danthonia are related to African species of Merxmuellera, thus rendering Danthonia polyphyletic. The relationships of the Danthonia clade remain equivocal, as do those of the two Cortaderia clades, the Pseudopentameris and Rytidosperma clades.
23673833|The syntypes of Bromus madritensis var. delilei Boiss. comprise two different elements: specimens of B. haussknechtii Boiss. and of B. fasciculatus C. Presl s.l. By its lectotypification and on the basis of new morphological characters, the validation of B. fasciculatus subsp. delilei (Boiss.) H. Scholz 1971 was substantiated. This subspecies represents the eastern marginal segregate of the south-Mediterranean species. B. fasciculatus var. alexandrinus Thell. is a minor variant of the typical subspecies.
23643675|Ten populations of Crepis foetida from Bulgaria belonging to the three subspecies foetida, rhoeadifolia, and commutata were analyzed karyologically using haematoxylin staining, Giemsa C-banding, fluorochrome banding, Ag-NOR staining, Feulgen cytophotometry (scanning densitometry and video-based image analysis), and propidium iodide flow cytometry. The quantitatively-evaluated karyotype structure was similar among all populations, with minor variation in a few intercalary sites only and in the amount of NOR-associated heterochromatin (satellites). In contrast to the karyotypic constancy the genome size of C. foetida subsp. commutata was about 10% lower than those of the other two subspecies, which had similar genome sizes. The genome size measurements using three different methods resulted in highly correlated data. The genome size difference adds some weight to previous taxonomic opinions treating C. foetida subsp. commutata at species level, as C. commutata.
23674341|A natural hybrid (2n = 21) between the parapatric rain forest species Monophyllaea hirtella (2n = 20) and M. horsfieldii (2n = 22) (Gesneriaceae) has been observed at Sg. Lubuk Paraku, Padang, W. Sumatra. The hybrids showed intermediary characters between the parental species in the inflorescence structure, flower size and colour, indumentum, chromosome numbers, and habitat. The 29% pollen fertility of a single hybrid specimen suggests that the genetical isolation between the parental species may break down and reproduction over subsequent generations may occur.
23673261|The genetic diversity and structure of 12 populations of Megaleranthis saniculifolia, a rare endemic Korean plant, were analyzed using 14 allozyme loci coding 10 enzymes and 78 ISSR loci using seven primers. The genetic diversity of M. saniculifolia at the species level was similar to that observed in out-crossing and long-lived perennials, while at the population level, it was significantly low. The high FIS value of many populations as well as homozygote excess occurred relatively evenly in many populations in relation to the Hardy-Weinberg expectation, suggesting that inbreeding was occurring within the M. saniculifolia populations. The degree of genetic differentiation based on the two markers was high, and there was no correlation between geographic and genetic distance. Bayesian cluster analysis did not reveal any remarkable geographic trends. Positive correlations were observed between genetic diversity (He and h) and population size. Therefore, low genetic diversity within the population and high population differentiation of M. saniculifolia were closely related to the influence of genetic drift, particularly in highly isolated populations. In addition, the fixation of the main alleles at several loci in the opposite direction provided good evidence for genetic drift. The genetic diversity of M. saniculifolia could be compromised if the distribution area or the size of the population were further reduced. In particular, the isolated populations that are fragmented within an area could be at high risk of extinction due to accelerated inbreeding or genetic drift. Considering this, a close monitoring of the population size and of the changes in the genetic structure must be performed. Some practical measures for genetic conservation are also proposed.
23655610|The Dryopteris varia complex is highly variable in morphology, resulting in taxonomic confusion in delimiting taxon boundaries and determining relationships. We have examined the variation in morphology, chromosome number and mode of reproduction of the Korean members of the D. varia complex to clarify their taxonomic identities. Landmark analysis of the leaf blades and pinnae and the principal components analysis of 31 morphological characters revealed seven entities within the D. varia complex in Korea; these comprise D. varia s. str., D. pacifica, D. sacrosancta, D. bissetiana, D. saxifraga, D. saxifragivaria, and the Suak population which is considered to be a new taxon. Mitotic chromosome counts and examination of reproduction modes indicated that D. bissetiana in Korea appears to be agamosporous with diploid (2n = 82) or triploid (2n = 123) chromosome numbers. However, D. saxifraga is sexual diploid or agamosporous triploid, and the other taxa are agamosporous triploid. Dryopteris bissetiana, D. saxifraga and D. saxifragivaria are similar in major morphological characteristics, but show differences in attachment and shape of rachis scales. The results also suggest that agamosporous triploid D. saxifragivaria was probably derived from hybridization between sexual diploid D. saxifraga and D. bissetiana.
23655487|The structural organization of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) of Humulus lupulus, H. japonicus and Cannabis sativa was determined by restriction site mapping. A high degree of DNA sequence similarity was evident in the coding regions of the rDNA repeats of the taxa and supports the placement of Cannabis and Humulus in one family, Cannabaceae. However, the presence of a BstEII site, an additional SacI site, absence of the SpeI site and positional differences of the SspI sites in the 25 S gene distinguished H. japonicus from H. lupulus. Humulus lupulus has an additional EcoRV site in the IGS region. A XhoI site in the 18S region of C. sativa distinguishes it from the two hop species. The diagnostic differences in the IGS of C. sativa include the EcoRI, HindIII and XhoI sites. These sites were not detected in the IGS of the two hop species.
23655938|With ca 70.000 species the rosids contain more than a quarter of the total angiosperm species diversity. This taxonomic richness is reflected in a tremendous variety of floral organization and architecture. Rosids have received extensive molecular phylogenetic study. As a result, the monophyly and taxonomic composition of the group are well established. In addition, many subclades at the order level are now apparent. Deeper relationships, however, are still largely equivocal. As in many other parts of the plant tree of life, it will be impossible to reach an adequate understanding of the evolutionary history of the rosids without taking into account information from comparative morphological studies of extant and, in particular, also of fossil taxa. The fossil record of rosids is rich in well-preserved reproductive structures, and together with recent results from comparative studies of extant rosids, provides a wealth of floral structural data. Although much remains to be done at all levels, fresh attempts to synthesize and possibly reconcile results from molecular phylogenetics, comparative floral morphology, and palaeobotany, seem timely.
43558138|Cereal species of the grass tribe Triticeae are economically important and provide staple food for large parts of the human population. The Fertile Crescent of Southwest Asia harbors high genetic and morphological diversity of these species. In this study, we analyzed genetic diversity and phylogenetic relationships among D genomebearing species of the wheat relatives of the genus Aegilops from Iran and adjacent areas using allelic diversity at 25 nuclear microsatellite loci, nuclear rDNA ITS, and chloroplast trnL-F sequences. Our analyses revealed high microsatellite diversity in Aegilops tauschii and the D genomes of Triticum aestivum and Ae. ventricosa, low genetic diversity in Ae. cylindrica, two different Ae. tauschii gene pools, and a close relationship among Ae. crossa, Ae. juvenalis, and Ae. vavilovii. In the latter species group, cloned sequences revealed high diversity at the ITS region, while in most other polyploids, homogenization of the ITS region towards one parental type seems to have taken place. The chloroplast genealogy of the trnL-F haplotypes showed close relationships within the D genome Aegilops species and T. aestivum, the presence of shared haplotypes in up to three species, and up to three different haplotypes within single species, and indicates chloroplast capture from an unidentified species in Ae. markgrafii. The ITS phylogeny revealed Triticum as monophyletic and Aegilops as monophyletic when Amblyopyrum muticum is included.
23643359|The tribe Drypeteae, whose traditional assignment in Phyllanthoideae of Euphorbiaceae is now doubtful, is studied embryologically on the basis of a literature survey and examination of six additional species in two of the four constituent genera. Drypeteae are characterized by having several embryological features that are unknown in other Phyllanthoideae, such as a two- or three-celled ovule archesporium; a thin, two cell-layered parietal layer in the nucellus; no nucellar beak or cap; an early disintegrating nucellar tissue; thick, multiplicative, inner and outer integuments; an endothelium; a few discrete vascular bundles in the outer integument; and a fibrous exotegmen (or its derived state). Embryologically Drypeteae do not fit within the Phyllanthoideae and, as available nucleotide sequence data from the rbcL gene suggest, are rather placed near Erythroxylaceae, Rhizophoraceae, Chrysobalanaceae, and Linaceae. Drypeteae share with those families a combination of the fibrous exotegmen, the endothelium, and the thick, multiplicative inner integument.
23673880|S. F. Gray's Natural Arrangement of British Plants (2 vols., November 1821) was for many years deliberately and unjustly neglected by British botanists on account of its idiosyncrasies, anti-Linnaean character, unorthodox nomenclature, narrow generic concepts and contemporary hostility to the supposed author R. A. Salisbury, but is nevertheless nomenclaturally important, particularly for cryptogamic groups. This paper surveys its history, authorship, date of publication and nomenclature.
23655167|RAPD fingerprinting was used to study species boundaries in narrowly distributed endemic species in Antirrhinum section Sempervirentia. Based on RAPD data, similarity values within species were relatively high but pair-wise similarity values among species were low. Partitioning of the overall RAPD variation using AMOVA showed that most of the variation was found among species (58.06%), whereas the remaining phenotypic diversity was distributed among populations (25.18%) and among individuals within populations (16.76%). Comparison of the matrices of geographical distances and phenetic distances (1-Dice index) among populations using the Mantel test showed a moderate, but statistically significant correlation (r = 0.588, P < 0.01), suggesting that isolation by distance is responsible for the distribution of genetic variation among Antirrhinum populations. Phenetic relationships among Antirrhinum samples based on a Dice similarity matrix showed a clear taxonomic pattern, confirming the grouping of individuals within their own populations and the clustering of populations within species. Individuals of A. charidemi, A. valentinum and A. subbaeticum, from subsection Valentina, made up a discrete group, whereas the samples belonging to subsection Sempervirentia (A. petegasii, A. sempervirens, A. microphyllum, A. pulverulentum) clustered together. RAPD data are entirely congruent with the subsection classification scheme proposed by Fernndez Casas (1997) in section Sempervirentia. However, A. subbaeticum, treated as a synonym of A. valentinum by Fernndez-Casas (1997), showed an unique RAPD profile characterized by the highest number of fixed species-specific markers found in section Sempervirentia. Thus, although A. valentinum appeared the most closely related species to A. subbaeticum, molecular data suggested that this species merits taxonomic distinction.
23643356|Androecial development of 13 species belonging to six tribes of Flacourtiaceae has been investigated. While in Scolopieae and Flacourtieae the stamens develop centrifugally, in Erythrospermeae, Oncobeae and Pangieae they are initiated in a centripetal sequence or a sequence that is neither distinctly centripetal nor centrifugal. The distribution of these developmental patterns coincides with the distribution of other characters (e.g. cyanogenic compounds, salicoid leaf teeth) and therefore supports a split of the family into Flacourtiaceae s. str. (containing the Scolopieae, Homalieae, Prockieae, Flacourtieae, Casearieae and Bembicieae) and Kiggelariaceae (with Erythrospermeae, Oncobeae and Pangieae) and is in accordance with results of recent rbcL studies.
23642487|The copper tolerance of both adult plants and their seedlings, of Agrostis tenuis from sites within and outside, but neighbouring the Parys Mountain mine (North Wales) were studied. Intensive sampling was carried out along a line starting from the mine boundaries to a distance of five miles away in the direction of the prevailing wind, and of two miles in an upwind direction. The test have shown that mine populations are very tolerant. In outside populations on soils with reduced of very low copper content the mean tolerance level of the seedlings is considerably higher than that of corresponding adult plants, while both show a gradual decrease in tolerance with distance from the mine. The gene flow moves in the direction of the prevailing wind transfering tolerant characters from the mine to the normal populations. The selective pressures on the toxic soil of the mine are quite strong and permit  tolerant plants only, while on normal soils these pressures are not so severe, so that populations may be rather heterogenous regarding their tolerance towards copper.
23655671|A large permineralized calamitean stem, Arthropitys yunnanensis Tian et Gu from the Upper Permian of southwest China is reinvestigated and interpreted. The stem has a broad pith and well developed and large carinal canals. Secondary xylem is thick and characterized by wide parenchymatous interfascicular zones that remain constant in width throughout the wood. Striking features of the stem include the abundant leaf traces arranged in two whorls in the cortex with this arrangement previously unrecognized within calamitean stems, and the presence of growth rings in secondary xylem that suggest frequent fluctuations in environmental stress presumably due to variations in water availability. Features of A. yunnanensis infer the stem to be in the epidogenetical phase of calamitean development, and suggest it to be the basal part of a large trunk. Comparisons with biomechanical models for calamitean stems suggest this species had a semi-self supporting habit.
23654168|We used RAPD markers to test whether morphologically intermediate individuals between the Canarian endemic Phoenix canariensis and the widespread P. dactylifera correspond to hybrids. Consistent with previous allozyme evidence, the scarcity of appropriate RAPD markers to distinguish P. dactylifera and P. canariensis indicated a close genetic relationship among these species. Only two of the 54 ten-mer primers (OPM-8 and OPK-14) tested in 221 individuals from 7 localities in different islands enabled us to unambiguously identify both species. While P. canariensis possesses two exclusive monomorphic bands of 1000 bp and 750 bp (for OPM-8 and OPM-14, respectively), P. dactylifera is characterised by two bands of 900 bp and 950 bp for the same primers. The additivity of these taxon-specific bands in the individuals that were morphologically intermediate provided, for the first time, firm evidence for their hybrid origin. Because these hybridisation capabilities pose clear threats to the survival of the endemic P. canariensis and some individuals that had been morphologically characterised as pure P. canariensis revealed later a hybrid nature in the RAPD analysis, we suggest that RAPD markers be used to estimate the possible incidence of introgression in the scarce extant natural populations of P. canariensis. This procedure will provide a straightforward means to select target populations to implement the "in situ" conservation strategies suggested previously on the basis of allozyme research.
23645336|A molecular phylogenetic analysis of Cynoglottis was performed to evaluate previous hypotheses based on non-molecular evidence concerning the position of this genus within Boraginaceae tribe Boragineae. ITS-5.8S and trnLUAA sequences from the nuclear and chloroplast non-coding genomes were obtained for four Cynoglottis taxa and selected members of the related genera Anchusa, Anchusella, Gastrocotyle, Brunnera and Pentaglottis. Cynoglottis is monophyletic, but neither trnL nor ITS support a close relationship with Brunnera, unlike previously supposed on morphological grounds. Brunnera is, instead, related to the southwestern European monotypic genus Pentaglottis, with which it forms a basal clade. ITS-5.8S sequences show that Anchusa thessala, a southeastern European annual species of Anchusa subg. Buglossellum, is sister to Cynoglottis and that the two taxa form a clade which also includes the Balkan endemic Gastrocotyle macedonica. Species of Anchusa subg. Anchusa form a separate lineage with high bootstrap support, suggesting that this heterogeneous genus is paraphyletic with respect to Cynoglottis. ITS sequences also discriminate between the Balkan-Apenninic diploid C. barrelieri and the Anatolian tetraploid C. chetikiana, albeit with low support. The molecular results are discussed in the light of karyological, morphological and chorological aspects.
23673149|Pongamia pinnata is an oil-producing tree species with multiple uses and considerable potential as a bioenergy crop. This investigation was carried out to assess the extent of genetic structure in a representative set of 226 individuals of Pongamia pinnata encompassing seven populations as a prelude to utilization of promising and genetically divergent material in breeding programmes. Molecular polymorphism was 67.18% with ten inter simple sequence repeats (ISSR) between the individuals indicating modest levels of genetic variation in the Pongamia pinnata germplasm collected. The within-population variation based on ISSR polymorphism was 32.34% and polymorphism at the species level was 94.3%. Genetic differentiation between populations (GST = 0.61) was positively correlated with geographical distance. The data obtained indicate an immediate need to widen the genetic base of Pongamia pinnata germplasm for proper characterization, and for extensive plantations of elite varieties to meet the demands for biodiesel.
23671360|Oil camellia trees are important woody plants for the production of high-quality cooking oil. On the contrary to their economic importance, their genetic and genomic resources are very limited, which greatly hamper the genetic studies on oil camellia trees. Microsatellites or simple sequence repeats (SSRs) have great value in many aspects of genetic analyses due to their high polymorphism and codominant inheritance. In this study, we report the large-scale development and characterization of SSR markers derived from genomic sequences of Camellia chekiangoleosa by high-throughput pyrosequencing technology. A total of 1,091,393 genomic shotgun reads were generated using Roche 454 FLX sequencer, the average read length was 319 bp, and the total sequence throughput was 347.9 Mb. These sequences were assembled into 35,315 contigs with total length of 14.8 Mb and the N50 contig size of 770 bp. By analyzing with microsatellite (MISA), a total of 5,844 perfect microsatellites were detected from the assembled sequences. Among them, tetranucleotide repeats were found to be the most frequent microsatellites in the genome of C. chekiangoleosa, and all the dominant repeat motifs for different types of SSRs were detected to be rich in A/T. Experimental analysis with 900 SSR primer pairs revealed that 66 % of them succeeded in PCR amplification. Further investigation with 345 SSR primer pairs showed that a relatively high percentage of primers amplified polymorphic loci (31.9 %). Experimental data also revealed that, overall, long microsatellite repeats (>20 bp) were more variable than the short ones (<20 bp) in the genome of oil camellia tree.
23645352|Nine species of Lippia (Verbenaceae) were studied by RAPD markers in order to evaluate the degree of genetic diversity. The following species were collected at the Cadeia do Espinhao Mountains, Southeast Brazil: L. corymbosa, L. diamantinensis, L. filifolia, L. florida, L. hermannioides, L. lupulina, L. rotundifolia, L. rosella and L. sidoides. The analysis was performed using 18 primers that generated 490 fragments and only one primer was found to be monomorphic in all individuals. The average interspecific genetic distances were similar for all species and higher than the intraspecific genetic distances. Species with narrow occurrence did not show low intraspecific diversity. The molecular data were used to generate an UPGMA dendrogram that showed two major groups with a clear distribution among the species. RAPD analysis was efficient to address the genetic diversity of Lippia species and contributed to understand the adaptation to the environment, conservation and taxonomic implications.
23673234|The existence of six varieties of Acacia caven has been established on the basis of differences in fruit morphology. Taking into account the controversial evidence provided by morphology, molecular markers might be a useful tool for evaluation of genetic differentiation among varieties of A. caven. Given this fact, we conducted a parallel analysis of genetic and phenotypic diversity among and within six varieties of A. caven with the objective of determining whether the varieties described on morphological grounds represent genetically differentiated entities. Distinction of the six varieties was examined using morphological and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. RAPD data were analyzed with basic descriptive genetic statistics, by hierarchical genetic analysis, and by discriminant analysis. Morphological data were studied by means of univariate, multivariate, and discriminant analysis. The results from analysis of variance components for morphological data are in concordance with those from molecular markers, because most of the variance is found within populations. The results, obtained here from molecular markers, support the taxonomic differentiation of the six varieties studied.
23644412|A new species of Triuridopsis (Triuridaceae) is described. It shows a number of similarities to the genus Triuris. This is the first record of the family for Bolivia.
23664381|Floral longevity (FL) is a key aspect in plant reproductive ecology. Despite this, the effect of resource status on FL has usually been ignored, and never has resource status been linked to the effects of pollen manipulation on FL. In addition, immediate changes in floral scent characteristics subsequent to pollen addition/removal have not been looked at. Here we use the tropical orchid Myrmecophila christinae to address the following: (1) Does flower bud removal (resource status change) increase FL? (2) Does pollen manipulation (addition/removal) decrease FL, and do such effects interact with plant resource status? (3) Are there rapid changes in floral scent production and composition after pollen manipulation? To answer the first question, we removed 50% of the flower buds on 24 plants (24 more were controls). To test the second question, 1 month after removing buds, one of four flowers on each inflorescence received one of the following treatments: no manipulation, pollinia removal, pollination, or pollination + pollinia removal. Finally, to answer the third question, one of four flowers on each of 15 plants (different site) received one of the above-mentioned pollen treatments. Flowers were collected 2, 4, and 6 h after manipulation to measure scent production/composition. Results showed that flowers on bud-removed plants remained open significantly longer relative to those on control plants, and that pollination significantly decreased FL. Additionally, scent production increased throughout the morning and responded differently depending on the pollen manipulation treatment; scent composition on the other hand, remained relatively unchanged throughout the sampling period. By studying both floral scent and physical changes in M. christinae, this study intends to offer a more integrated view of floral senescence within the context of resource and pollen status conditions.
23656016|Flowering-time, plant longevity and size of capitulum were studied in a common garden experiment on seven populations of annual Chaetanthera moenchioides derived from a strong latitudinal aridity gradient in the mediterranean climate area of Chile. Populations derived from the drier northern part of the latitudinal gradient showed significantly shorter flowering and fruiting phenology and smaller capitula under uniform growing conditions. Water stress experiments performed in the greenhouse induced further phenological hastening and a reduction in number of ray florets per capitulum. Population differentiation and the reaction norms in C. moenchioides agree with the predictions of geneticassimilation given that the plastic response of the species under water stress mimics phenotypic differentiation that has evolved along the environmental gradient.
23654234|The phylogenetic relationships within the genus Cucumis (a total of 25 accessions belonging to 17 species) were studied using the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region. The analysis included commercially important species such as melon (C. melo L.) and cucumber (C. sativus). Two additional cucurbit species, watermelon and zucchini, were also included as outgroups. The data obtained reflected the clustering of Cucumis species in four main groups, comprising accessions from cucumber, melon, C. metuliferus and the wild African species. Some of the species clustered in different positions from those reported in classifications previously described by other authors. The data obtained clearly identify a division between the 2n = 2x = 14 species (C. sativus) and the 2n = 2x = 24 ones (C. melo and wild species). Within the wild species we identified a subgroup that included C. sagittatus and C. globosus. Oreosyce africana, also classified as Cucumis membranifolius, was shown to be nested within Cucumis. Three accessions previously classified as independent species were shown to be genotypes of Cucumis melo. A set of melon and cucumber SSRs were also used to analyse the Cucumis species and the results were compared with the ITS data. The differential amplification of the SSRs among the accessions made it possible to distinguish three main groups: melon, cucumber and the wild species, though with less detail than applying ITS. Some SSRs were shown to be specific for melon, but other SSRs were useful for producing PCR fragments in all species of the genus.
23643739|Intra-population patterns of phenotypic variation in biomass allocation to flower parts are analyzed for the tree Ipomoea wolcottiana, and the effects of this variation on fruit production are evaluated in two consecutive years. Significant variation among individuals was found for biomass of both sexual and attractive structures. Repeatability values showed that variation in these structures could be heritable. Analyses of phenotypic natural selection indicated a positive directional selection for both, gynoecium and petals mass in both years. These results suggest that floral resource allocation can be modified by phenotypic natural selection. To our knowledge this is the first paper that reports phenotypic natural selection in floral characteristics of a tropical tree species.
23674975|L. sativa L. cultivars were compared morphologically with accessions of L. saligna L., L. serriola L., and L. virosa L. in order to define the infra- and interspecific variation. Multivariate analysis (principal component analysis) distinguished four groups corresponding with the four species. Infraspecific variation (e.g., colour, leaf shape) within L. sativa is the largest, because breeding has caused a large variation in vegetative features; infraspecific variation within L. serriola is also large. Three plants of one accession were placed between L. sativa and L. serriola because they showed morphological characteristics of both species. They are still classified as L. sativa. The morphological differences between L. sativa and L. serriola are too large to consider these two as one species. The descent of the cultivar groups and the four species is described.
23674700|Outcross, self- and mixed pollinations were performed in Crocus vernus subsp. vernus, a species with bicellular pollen, dry stigmas and hollow style. No differences were noted among the above pollinations concerning the germination of pollen and the growth of pollen tubes until the top of ovary. Within 45 min after pollinations 62% of pollen grains germinated. Pollen tubes penetrated the papilla cuticle extending along the papilla wall; on entry into stigmatic lobes they continued growth in the stylar secretion to ovarian locules. Here, however, self-pollen tubes failed to reach or to enter the ovule micropyle; while pollen tubes from either outcross- or mixed pollinations grew until fertilizing ovules. These observations gave evidence of a self-incompatibility system in Crocus, which appeared to be neutralized by mentor effect. The ovary as site of incompatibility response is discussed.
23673133|Handroanthus chrysotrichus shows pollination-dependent self-fertility, polyploidy, and adventitious polyembryony, and it is closely related to H. ochraceus, for which apparently conflicting reports of self-incompatibility and apomixis have been published. The present study aims to investigate the polyembryony in these species by means of histological analysis of ovule/seed development in unpollinated, selfed, and crossed pistils/fruits (in H. chrysotrichus only) as well as seed germination experiments. Experimental pollinations were carried out to evaluate breeding systems in the studied populations, and the results indicated self-fertility in both species. Adventitious embryo precursor cells (AEPs) were formed in the ovules of unpollinated, selfed, and crossed pistils. However, unfertilized ovules never develop into seeds, and fertilization/endosperm initiation clearly stimulates the formation of AEPs in pollinated pistils. The inability of AEP-bearing unfertilized ovules to initiate endospermogenesis clearly shows that fertilization is needed for adventitious embryo development. Consequently, formation of AEPs is required but is not sufficient for apomictic reproduction in H. chrysotrichus. Analysis of the positions of multiple embryos in the endosperm indicated that fertilized ovules are able to develop into seeds even in the absence of a zygotic embryo. The development of AEPs in ovules of H. chrysotrichus foregoes the stage in which activation of selfed pistil rejection takes place in H. impetiginosus, a species with late-acting self-incompatibility. Our study supports the hypothesis that the self-fertility in H. chrysotrichus (and perhaps also in H. ochraceus) resulted from the emergence of pseudogamous apomixis, favored by the physiological peculiarities of the late-acting self-incompatibility and possibly related to polyploidy.
43558177|As a popular flowering species with many cultivars, Cymbidium ensifolium (L.) is commercially important in horticulture. However, so far little has been known about genetic diversity and conservation genetics of this species. Understanding of the genetic variation and relationships in cultivars of C. ensifolium is a prerequisite for development of future germplasm conservation and cultivar improvement. Here we report assessment of genetic variations in C. ensifolium cultivars using the DNA fingerprinting technique of inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSR). A total of 239 ISSR loci were identified and used for evaluation of genetic variation with a selection of 19 ISSR primers. Among these ISSR loci, 99.16% were polymorphic with wide genetic variation as shown by Nei's gene diversity (H = 0.2431) among 85 tested cultivars. ISSR fingerprinting profiles showed that each cultivar had its characteristic DNA pattern, indicating unequivocal cultivar identification at molecular level. Eighteen cultivarspecific ISSR markers were identified in seven cultivars. The cultivar Sijiwenhan was confirmed as hybrid by four ISSR primers. Several cultivars with same name but different geographical origins were distinguished based on their ISSR profiles. A dendrogram generated with ISSR markers could group 73 of 85 cultivars into four major clusters. Further analysis of ISSR variation revealed that about 69% of total genetic variation in this species is due to genetic divergence inside geographical groups. Our results suggest that both germplasm collection and in situ conservation are important for future planning of C. ensifolium species conservation.
23642300|Veronica allahuekberensis A. ztrk, spec. nova, probably endemic to the Allahuekber mountain in N.E. Anatolia, belongs to V. orientalis group of section Veronica and resembles V. cuneifolia D. Don subsp. cuneifolia, endemic to S.W. Anatolia.
23645034|To assess the new taxonomy of Monopetalanthus proposed by Wieringa, a phylogenetic study was performed using the chloroplast trnL intron and psbA-trnH spacer, and the nuclear ITS region of the 18-26S rDNA. The phylogeny clearly indicates the polyphyletic nature of Monopetalanthus. The molecular data support the transfer of M. longiracemosus to Tetraberlinia and the newly defined Aphanocalyx, which now includes all the previous Monopetalanthus species having leaflets with a marginal vein. Our analyses do not support the monophyly of the newly described genus Bikinia, which includes four new species and six species transferred from Monopetalanthus. Bikinia occurs either as paraphyletic with Tetraberlinia (chloroplast DNA data) or as a monophyletic group that also includes the new monotypic genus Icuria sister to Tetraberlinia (ITS data). Nonetheless, the molecular phylogeny generally supports the taxonomy of Wieringa in subdividing the genus Monopetalanthus into distinct groups, none of which retains the name Monopetalanthus.
23660149|Distyly typically involves reciprocal polymorphism in stamen and style lengths and a set of associated polymorphisms of pollen and stigma characters. This flower polymorphism has been regarded as a strategy to reduce the likelihood of self- and intramorph pollination and to promote legitimate intermorph pollination. Although most distylous plants are characterized by a physiological selfand intramorph-incompatibility system, previous work on Pulmonaria affinis and other distylous Boraginaceae species have shown that self-incompatibility was not strict. In this study, we examined pollen deposition rates and the functioning of the distylous breeding system in Pulmonaria officinalis. Flowers exhibited reciprocal herkogamy and several other ancillary features of heterostyly. Controlled pollinations clearly showed weak self-incompatibility, with the LS-morph showing higher rates of seed set following self-, intramorph- and intermorph-pollinations than the SS-individuals. On the other hand, SS-pollen showed higher germination rates and pollen tube growth than that of LS-pollen. Under natural conditions, both the proficiency of legitimate pollen transfer and the proportion of deposited pollen were asymmetrical. Although SS-pollen grains showed a higher proficiency for legitimate transfer than that of LS-pollen on a per pollen basis, the ratio of legitimate to illegitimate deposited pollen on stigmas of SS-flowers markedly exceeded that of LS-flowers. The latter was explained by the higher pollen production rates of LS-individuals compared to SS-individuals. High levels of illegitimate pollen deposition on LS-stigmas, on the other hand, were attributed to the limited proboscis length of the principal pollinators and the occurrence of floral hairs at the corolla entrance of LS-flowers. This study thus indicates asymmetrical pollen transport patterns and morph-specific differences in the strength of the incompatibility system; two aspects that may affect female reproductive success and morph ratio variation under pollen limited conditions.
43498309|Subgenus Cerasus species are useful genetic resources for cherry breeding programs. A total of 17 morphological traits together with 19 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) primers were used to study 39 accessions including 34 wild Cerasus subgenus genotypes belonging to Prunus avium L., P. cerasus L., P. mahaleb L., P. microcarpa Boiss., P. incarta Pall., and P. brachypetala Boiss. species, along with an unknown wild Cerasus sample, two advanced cherry cultivars ('Lambert' and 'Bulgar'), and two rootstocks ('Colt' and 'Gisela 6'). Genotypes were separated into different groups according to their species and collection sites using cluster analysis performed by Ward's clustering method based on morphological data. Nineteen RAPD primers from 60 screened produced 304 polymorphic reproducible bands (98.15% polymorphism). According to the similarity matrix, the lowest similarity was obtained between P. avium and P. microcarpa samples. A dendrogram was prepared by the unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic average (UPGMA), and the accessions were separated according to their species and geographic origin. In both morphological and molecular results, the advanced cultivars and rootstocks were separated from wild genotypes, and the unknown genotype was grouped with P. mahaleb accessions. Grouping by morphological characteristics was compared with the results of RAPD analysis, with no significant correlations between morphological and molecular data being found. This is the first report of molecular (RAPD) genetic diversity study in wild Cerasus subgenus genotypes from Iran, and the results demonstrate the high potential of RAPD analysis for discrimination of Cerasus subgenus genotypes.
23674275|Somatic chromosome numbers of 2 n = 20 are reported for all eight species of Australian Posidonia: P. angustifolia, P. australis, P. coriacea, P. denhartogii, P. kirkmanii, P. ostenfeldii, P. robertsonae, and P. sinuosa. All species apparently have five larger and five smaller pairs of chromosomes. There is no evidence that speciation in Posidonia, which is relatively prolific in comparison to other seagrasses, is accompanied by change of chromosome number.
23673908|Two experiments were carried out using two different approaches to compare populations of Crepis tectorum (Asteraceae). One was based on a comparison of means of various vegetative and reproductive characters and another was based on a comparison of response patterns of the same characters in a series of environments. Population divergence within two earlier recognized form series, one from weed habitats and one from alvar habitats on Baltic islands, resulted in a partially overlapping pattern in cluster analyses based on character means. However, the pattern revealed by a comparison of the direction and amount of plastic response suggested that populations within the two form series had more similar response patterns than other combinations of populations. It was concluded that patterns of plasticity may provide useful additional information on the overall similarity among taxa. An hypothesis that plants in weed populations should exhibit a greater phenotypic response to the environments than plants in alvar populations was rejected.
23642216|The wood of the Sarraceniaceae has a considerable number of primitive features including scalariform perforation plates, long and oblique end walls, scalariform lateral wall pitting, solitary vessels, tracheids with scalariform pitting, and diffuse axial parenchyma. Vessel elements in the genus Heliamphora have the greatest number of primitive features, while vessel elements in Darlingtonia and Sarracenia appear to have modifications relating to temperate climates. The wood anatomy suggests that Heliamphora is growing in a habitat more similar to the original habitat for the family than Darlingtonia and Sarracenia. The wood of the Sarraceniaceae is similar to the wood of the Theales.
23674580|Morphological data and results from scanning electron microscopy of seeds and pollen show that Normania Lowe [syn. Solanum L. subg. Potatoe (G. Don) D'Arcy sect. Normania (Lowe) Bitter] (Solanaceae: Solaneae) should be considered as a distinct genus from Solanum L. It has two species, one restricted to the island of Madeira [Normania triphylla (Lowe) Lowe] and the other to Tenerife and Gran Canaria [Normania nava (Webb & Berthel.) Franc.-Ort. & R. N. Lester]. These species are extremely rare and had not been found for about 100 years, until N. nava was rediscovered in two different localities in Tenerife in 1973 and 1982. Normania triphylla was reported in two different places from northern Madeira in 1991. Both species have the highest conservation priority in the Macaronesian region.
23643098|The nature of the protocorm of the Orchidaceae has fascinated morphologists for more than a century. In the present study, the development of the protocorm was followed using in vitro germination of seeds on a culture medium containing sugar, but without a symbiont. Inside the seed, the embryo consists of about a hundred cells. In the embryo, cells are arranged along a longitudinal axis according to size; these cells contain protein and lipid reserve material. In the first stages of seedling development, the embryo is transformed into a protocorm and meristematic tissue becomes organized into a meristematic dome ("promeristem") at the anterior pole. This meristematic dome will give rise to a scale and the apex of the seedling. At first, the apex and the scale leaf develop synchronously. The development of the root always follows that of the apex. The study of the development of the seed of Cypripedium acaule showed that the protocorm is a distinct morphological system with respect to the rest of the cormus. The protocorm may be interpreted as an extension of the proembryonic stage.
23656136|The paleotropical woody bamboo subtribe Bambusinae has not been satisfactorily circumscribed and remains a major taxonomic problem. Genera such as Holttumochloa, Mullerochloa and Temburongia have not been confidently assigned to this subtribe. The phylogenetic relationships among genera hitherto placed in or near the Bambusinae, together with the related subtribes Racemobambosinae and Melocanninae, were investigated using three chloroplast DNA markers (rps16-trnQ, trnC-rpoB and trnD-T intergenic spacers) and a nuclear DNA marker (granule-bound starch synthase I, GBSSI) for a sample of 51 ingroup species and 2 outgroup species. Phylogenetic analyses revealed four distinct lineages among the members of the currently recognized Bambusinae: (1) the Bambusa-Dendrocalamus-Gigantochloa (BDG) complex, (2) the Holttumochloa-Kinabaluchloa clade, (3) the Dinochloa-Mullerochloa-Neololeba-Sphaerobambos (DMNS) clade and (4) Temburongia simplex. The BDG complex, which comprises the core of the Bambusinae, appears to have a complex evolutionary history as indicated by incongruence between the cpDNA and the nuclear gene topologies. Introgressive hybridization and incomplete lineage sorting are possible underlying causes for this complexity. The distinction of the climbing-scrambling bamboo lineages from the core Bambusinae and Racemobambosinae suggests directions for investigating the possible existence of further subtribes with increased taxon and geographical sampling. Possible biogeographic scenarios associated with the Holttumochloa-Kinabaluchloa clade and the DMNS clade are discussed.
23654211|A procedure in which combined molecular phylogeographical analyses among populations of Hemerocallis middendorfii (Hemerocallidaceae, Asparagales) were applied allowed comparisons to be made with the geological history. Information on geographical areas in which synapomorphic mutations occurred was used in molecular phylogeographical analyses for the first time in this study, in addition to molecular maximum-parsimonious analyses and TCS analyses. Nucleotide sequences of the intergenic region between the rbcL and atpB genes and the trnL (UAA) intron in chloroplast DNA were analyzed for 28 Japanese and three Chinese populations of H. middendorfii, 10 populations of closely related species and four outgroup species. The data of the three analyses in general agreed with one another and indicated that the separation of this species had proceeded in conjunction with the geological vicariance or orogeny. Where the synapomorphic mutations occurred, three patterns were recognized. They correlated with the geological history, namely, the age when the Japanese Archipelago and the Continent had joined, when the Sea of Japan was formed, and when there was separation from the Continent and the formation of each of the islands in the Japanese Archipelago. It was suggested that ancestors of H. middendorfii originated at latest 25 million years ago when the Japanese Archipelago and the Continent had joined; that is, before the formation of the Sea of Japan.
23674859|The chemical variation in Lecanora epibryon and L. subimmersa, two species of the L. subfusca group, has been examined. In both species the chemical differences are correlated with geographical distribution, but not with morphological differences. As a consequence the chemotypes are recognized at subspecific level. In L. epibryon three chemical races are segregated according to the various chemosyndromes present. Subspecies epibryon, containing atranorin and triterpenoids, occurs in the northern hemisphere and South America, while the other two subspecies occur only in the southern hemisphere. The subsp. broccha (Nyl.) Lumbsch, comb. nova, contains atranorin, the stictic acid and the 2,5,7-trichloro-3-O-methylnorlichexanthone chemosyndromes, while subsp. xanthophora Lumbsch, subsp. nova, is similar but lacks the stictic acid chemosyndrome. Two chemical races occur in the pantropical species L. subimmersa. While subsp. subimmersa contains atranorin and zeorin, subsp. ramboldii Lumbsch & Elix, subsp. nova, contains an additional ten chlorinated xanthones. L. impressa is reduced to synonymy to L. subimmersa.
23644039|A change in ploidy level could increase invasiveness of introduced plants in insular plant communities. To examine this question for R. alceifolius, we compared its ploidy level in its Asian native range and in the Indian Ocean islands where it has been introduced. We first counted chromosomes on root tips from a Vietnamese individual, which proved to be tetraploid (2n = 4x = 28). The nuclear DNA content of other individuals from the native range and areas of introduction was estimated using the flow cytometry method. The Vietnamese individual on which chromosomes were counted was added to the sample, to enable deduction of the ploidy level of all individuals from their nuclear DNA content. All individuals were found to be tetraploid, except 10 individuals from a single clone collected in a Vietnamese population, estimated to be triploid, and morphologically different of other individuals of this study. We showed that while polyploidy of the source population may have predisposed this plant to become a successful invader, its introduction into Indian Ocean islands was not associated with any change in ploidy level.
23669024|Developmental stages during the post-tetrad period are examined in detail with TEM and SEM, with emphasis upon substructure. Our purpose was to find out whether the sequence of sporoderm developmental events gives additional evidence for our recent hypothesis on the underlying cause of exine ontogeny as a sequence of self-assembling micellar mesophases, initiated by genomically given physico-chemical parameters. Four different layers of the endexine are developed in the post-tetrad period. The first one is a layer of white line centered lamellae which appear as a demarcation line between ect- and endexine. The second layer is sponge-like and consists of "roots" of columellae and a layer between them. The third layer consists of basally disposed radially elongated granules which appear in the aperture sites only. The fourth layer emerges in interapertural sites only and is formed as stacks of uneven lamellae. Therefore, the sequence of substructural units in primexine is the next: white-lined lamellae, a layer of honeycombed substructure, globule-to-rod-like granules, stacks of wavy lamellae. These sequences correspond to the next four mesophases of self-assembling micelles: neat (=laminate) micelles, high-concentrated emulsion of sponge-like (=foam-like) substructure, spherical-to-cylindrical micelles, and laminate micelles with fenestrated laminae. Reiteration of the micellar mesophases, participating in endexine development, is observed during the post-tetrad period.
23671353|Paspalum has many multiploid species displaying a wide range of ploidy levels and reproductive systems including apomixis. However, not much is known about the genetic structure of natural populations of the apomictic species of Paspalum. The aim of this work was to evaluate the genetic diversity of several natural populations belonging to five species of Paspalum. A total of 13 populations were analyzed using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP). The AFLP data revealed maximal genotypic diversity and significant levels of genetic diversity in diploid and mixed diploidtetraploid populations of P. denticulatum and P. rufum, where all individuals represent different genotypes. This may be mainly due to the reproductive system of diploid members and the gene flow from diploids to polyploids. The pure populations of tetraploids consist of either multiple genotypes (P. nicorae) or of one dominant genotype with a few deviated genotypes (P. denticulatum and P. lividum). Here, the main source of variability may be the residual sexuality, which continues generating new genotypic combinations. The hexaploid populations of P. buckleyanum consist of a single AFLP genotype and each population represents a particular genotype suggesting that populations arose from independent polyploidization events. This study represents one of the first reports of genetic diversity in natural populations of several Paspalum agamic complexes. Apomixis in these five species may be acting as a successful method for the dispersion of better adapted genotypes.
23643932|Eichhornia azurea is a tristylous species of Pontederiaceae. Moderate self-incompatibility accompanies the floral heteromorphism of this specis. Eichhornia azurea is almost exclusively visited by one bee species, Ancyloscelis gigas (Anthophoridae), in South Brazil. This species has an extremely long proboscis covered with recurved hairs. Bees use these hairs to collect pollen from the anthers placed inside the narrow perianth tube of E. azurea. Analyses of the pollen load of A. gigas females show that they are flower constant and carry pollen from all three anther levels. The behavior of A. gigas and its proboscis morphology make this bee species narrowly adapted and an effective pollinator for facilitating legitimate pollination of E. azurea flowers in southern Brazil.
23674938|The hairs of seven representatives of Plantago L. subg. Psyllium were studied. Three types of headless hairs and three types of headed hairs were observed. Clavate hairs and hairs with several-celled stalk and unicellular head are characteristic of subg. Psyllium and provide evidence for the distinctness of this taxon. Based on our studies it can be assumed that Rahn's idea of enlarging subg. Psyllium by six sections from subg. Plantago sensu Pilger is incorrect.
23659859|Differentiation in floral traits among clusters of related species may reflect a process of pollinator-driven evolution. Pollination systems in the morphologically diverse southern African genus Syncolostemon (Lamiaceae) were investigated by means of field observations of floral visitors and analysis of their pollen loads. Among the five study species, those with short corolla tubes (S. parviflorus, S. ramulosus) were pollinated solely by bees, while those with long corolla tubes were pollinated by a broader array of visitors, primarily long-proboscid flies in S. rotundifolius and S. macranthus and sunbirds in S. densiflorus. The predominately insect-pollinated taxa have lax inflorescences, but S. densiflorus has a compact terminal inflorescence, which facilitates feeding by sunbirds from a single perching position. Experimental hand-pollinations involving three taxa (S. macranthus, S. densiflorus, and S. rotundifolius) showed that these possess a genetic self-incompatibility system. Production of fruits and seeds per fruit was pollen-limited in S. densiflorus and S. rotundifolius, but not in S. macranthus.
23643017|A comparative analysis of the seed morphology and anatomy of fossil and extant Rutaceae (mainly Zanthoxyleae and Toddalioideae) is presented. This allows to place the most important fossil taxa in a time-table and on paleogeographical maps. A phylogenetic scheme demonstrates the postulated historical relationships of Evodia, Zanthoxylum, Fagara, Rutaspermum, Acronychia, Toddalia, Fagaropsis, and Phellodendron.
23673131|To reconstruct phylogeny and verify the monophyly of major subgroups, a total of 52 species representing almost all species of Salsoleae s.l. in China were sampled, with analysis based on three molecular markers (nrDNA ITS, cpDNA psbBpsbH and rbcL), using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference methods. Our molecular evidence provides strong support for the following: (1) Camphorosmeae is nested within Salsoleae s.l. instead of the previously suggested sister relationship. (2) Tribe Salsoleae s.l. is monophyletic and is composed of three monophyletic subunits, Caroxyloneae, the Kali clade, and Salsoleae s.str. (3) Climacoptera is separated from Salsola s.l. It does not form a monophyletic group but is split into two monophyletic parts, Climacoptera I and Climacoptera II. (4) Halogeton is clearly polyphyletic, as are Anabasis and the genus Salsola s.l. (5) Caroxylon, Haloxylon, Kali, and Petrosimonia are well-supported monophyletic genera. Additional evidence is needed regarding the monophyly of Halimocnemis, which remains unclear.
23656086|Gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) is a non-protein amino acid found in a wide range of organisms including plants. Several studies have shown that GABA plays different roles in plant metabolism including carbonnitrogen metabolism, energy balance, signaling and development. It has been suggested that the occurrence of GABA and the enzymes related to GABA biosynthesis in prokaryotes and eukaryotes may be important in evolution and diversification. However, studies of GABA biosynthesis and GABA levels in an evolutionary context are restricted to sequenced plant genomes. In this study we aimed to compare the activities of GDH and GAD enzymes and total nitrogen, and the contents of total soluble protein, succinate, glutamate, proline and GABA in plants from different phylogenetic levels including Ulva lactuca, Pseudevernia furfuracea, Nephrolepsis exaltata, Ginkgo biloba, Pinus pinea, Magnolia grandiflora, Nymphaea alba, Urtica dioica, Portulaca oleraceae, Malva sylvestris, Rosa canina, Lavandula stoechas, Washingtonia filifera, Avena barbata and Iris kaempferi. The activities of GAD and GDH enzymes differed according to the species and were not always parallel to GABA levels. The discrepancy in the contents of succinate and GABA between higher and primitive plants was also prominent. Glutamate levels were high with a few exceptions and proline contents were at similar low values as compared to other amino acids. Our results support the hypothesis that the GABA shunt plays a key role in carbon and nitrogen partitioning via linking amino acid metabolism and the tricarboxylic acid cycle which is essential for higher plant species.
23643390|Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) and isozyme variation were analyzed over a range of populations of two infraspecific taxa of the tetraploid Senecio vulgaris. The isozyme data were supportive of the hypothesis that the weedy and cosmopolitan S. vulgaris var. vulgaris is an evolutionary derivative of S. vulgaris subsp. denticulatus from the coasts of W Europe and montane altitudes in S Spain and Sicily. The two taxa exhibited a very high genetic identity with subsp. denticulatus containing slightly more isozyme diversity than was found in var. vulgaris.  Three cpDNA haplotypes (A, B, C) already known from other Mediterranean diploid species of Senecio were resolved in var. vulgaris, and an additional fourth haplotype (E) was found in subsp. denticulatus. Two alternative hypotheses were chosen to account for the origin and maintenance of the observed cpDNA composition of S. vulgaris. It either reflects (1) the retention of an ancestral polymorphism which stems from the recurrent and polytopic formation of ancestral tetraploid lineages; or (2) S. vulgaris originally was characterized by haplotype E, and haplotypes A, B and C were acquired through repeated introgressive hybridization with related diploid species. The finding that very low levels of nuclear (isozyme) diversity were present in both taxa of S. vulgaris examined supports the second of these two hypotheses; however, more detailed analysis of nuclear genetic diversity is required before a firm conclusion can be reached on this matter.
23674528|Arachis batizocoi Krap. & Greg. is a suggested B genome donor to the cultivated peanut, A. hypogaea L. Until recently, only one accession of this species was available in U.S.A. germplasm collections for analyses and species variability had not been documented. The objective of this study was to determine the intraspecific variability of A. batizocoi to better understand phylogenetic relationships in sect. Arachis. Five accessions of the species were used for morphological and cytological studies and then F1 intraspecific hybrids analyzed. Some variation was observed among accessions  for example, differences in seed size, plant height and branch length. The somatic chromosomes of accessions 9484, 30079, and 30082 were nearly identical, whereas, the karyotypes of accessions 30081 and 30097 have several distinct differences. For example, 30081 had significantly more asymmetrical chromosomes 2 and 6 and more median chromosomes 7 and 10, and 30097 had significantly more asymmetrical chromosomes 3 and 10 and more median chromosomes 1 and 5 than accessions 9484, 30079, and 30082. All F1 hybrids among accessions were highly fertile. Meiotic observations indicated that hybrids among accessions 9484, 30079, or 30082 had mostly bivalents. However, quadrivalents were observed when either 30081 or 30097 was crossed with the above three accessions and 30081  30097 had quadrivalents, hexavalents and octavalents. The presence of translocations is the most likely cause of multivalent formation in A. batizocoi hybrids. Cytological evolution via translocations has apparently been an important mechanism for differentiation in the species.
23674939|An effect of C-band pattern and polymorphism on chiasma distribution in pollen meiosis was recently demonstrated in Scilla siberica. A further meiotic banding study has been performed in the allies S. amoena, S. ingridae, and S. mischtschenkoana in order to analyze the effect, if any, of their specific C-band patterns and cytochemically different heterochromatin types on recombination. No clear evidence for a preferential formation of chiasmata adjacent to homozygous intercalary heterochromatin and no consistent reduction of chiasma frequency near strongly heterozygous intercalary heterochromatin blocks, as observed in S. siberica, could be found. Terminal C-band heteromorphism is suspected to cause distal chiasma defaults. The results suggest once more that there is no uniform effect of heterochromatin on crossover distribution.
23673710|A crossing programme including 30 species and 40 cytotypes within the genus Hordeum was undertaken. Viable hybrids were obtained in 302 combinations, 15 of which were intraspecific. Differences in seed set and in germination were observed in crosses between different groups of species. Obtaining crosses between different taxonomic groups was generally more difficult when diploid material was used. Some species, e.g., H. lechleri, H. jubatum, and H. brachyantherum showed a higher crossability than others. The chromosome numbers of the hybrids were usually those expected from the parental numbers but aneuploid series around the expected numbers were rather frequent. Three cases of unreduced gametes were found. Selective chromosome elimination was restricted to combinations including either. H. vulgare or H. bulbosum.  Despite a very diverse morphology, all South American diploid species together with the two North American diploids H. intercedens and H. pusillum appear to be closely related. The hexaploid American species H. procerum, H. lechleri, and H. arizonicum are also related. The two North American tetraploid species H. jubatum and H. brachyantherum sometimes form semifertile hybrids. The Asiatic species H. roshevitzii appears to be related to both North and South American taxa.
23643107|We studied leaf anatomy, using clearings, resin sections, and scanning electron microscopy, from mostly herbarium specimens of 123 species of Dombeya and 11 species of Nesogordonia (Sterculiaceae). Species were placed in seven idioblast categories, ranging from those without any to single and bicelled epidermal forms to multicelled nodules and single mesophyll idioblasts. Idioblast contents are possibly mucilaginous, but were not identified. In these two genera the range of foliar idioblast morphology surpasses that known previously for the entire family. Leaves are dorsiventral with mostly abaxial anomocytic stomata and typical palisade and spongy layers; paraveinal mesophyll is lacking. Miniature glandular (clavates, capitates) and nonglandular (mostly stellate) trichomes occur. Prismatic crystals predominate; epidermal prismatics and mesophyll druses are rare.
23674728|Eight genotypes of Lemna minor, originating from four continents, were grown for 15 days in eight different environmental treatments. Fronds under each treatment were then transferred into each of the eight environmental conditions for 15 days. The rate of frond production (relative growth rate) and mean frond biomass were recorded for each pre- and post-transfer treatment and root length was measured for each pre-transfer treatment. For all the traits, the levels of response varied significantly between genotypes (G) and between environmental conditions (E). G  E interaction effect was significant for all traits under pre-transfer treatments and some post-transfer treatments. Both pattern and amount of plasticity were genotypically variable but the amount of variation depended on the trait. The trait representing the best estimate of fitness, growth rate, exhibited the least amount of plasticity and on average, showed the most conservative pattern of plasticity. In contrast, the trait least related to fitness, root length, was the most plastic and showed the most divergent pattern of plasticity. Under some post-transfer treatments, growth rate and mean frond biomass were affected by origin (initial treatment) effect. Pattern and amount of plasticity were also influenced by initial treatments. Since some genotypes may be more affected than others by environmental conditions, origin effect may accentuate G  E interaction and therefore, modify the pattern and amount of plasticity. Comparison between dendrograms based on genetic and phenotypic similarities suggested that there is no relationship between genetic and phenotypic divergence. This lack of relationship may be due to the fact that plasticity is not necessarily adaptive.
23643381|The chemotaxonomic findings relating to the genera Boletinus, Suillus, Gastroboletus, Gomphidius, and Chroogomphus are summarized and discussed, using published data as well as our own hitherto unpublished evidence of pigments and chromogens. The study confirms repeatedly made claims that these genera are closely related. In addition to the presence of pigments which are typical for most members of the Boletales (e.g., pulvinic acid derivatives, terphenyl quinones, cyclopentenones), prenylated phenols and quinones can also be constantly detected here (with the exception of Boletinus), just as in Rhizopogon. Accordingly, Suillus is more closely related to the Gomphidiaceae and Rhizopogonaceae than to the remaining boletes. It is therefore necessary to establish a new family (Suillaceae which include Boletinus, Suillus, and Gastrosuillus) and a new suborder (Suillineae which include Suillaceae, Gomphidiaceae, and Rhizopogonaceae) within the Boletales.
23674856|The karyotypes of diploid P. fragilis subsp. villosus (2n = 2x = 14) and tetraploid subsp. secaliformis (2n = 4x = 28) were studied by Giemsa C- and N-banding, and AgNO3 staining and compared with the karyotype of subsp. fragilis (2x). The complements of subsp. villosus and subsp. fragilis were similar, with 8 metacentric and 6 SAT-chromosomes, one metacentric and two submetacentric pairs, with small to minute, polymorphic, heterochromatic satellites. The complement of subsp. secaliformis on the whole agreed with a doubling of the complement of diploid P. fragilis, suggesting autopolyploidy. Only the presence of 12 nucleoli in interphases identified 6 SAT-chromosome pairs. In subsp. villosus one or two extra micronucleoli indicated a chromosome pair with very low nucleolusforming activity, bringing the number of SAT-chromosome pairs to 4. This number may be a characteristc of Psathyrostachys. Besides very small, inconsistently observed bands, the C-banding pattern consisted of 03 small bands per chromosome at intercalary and terminal locations, and at NORs. The level of banding pattern polymorphism was low, but enough to indicate that the taxa are outbreeders. Similarities in chromosome morphology and C-banding patterns identified homology of all chromosomes of subsp. villosus, but for 12 pairs only in subsp. secaliformis. Between plants, reliable identification of homology and homoeology (subsp. secaliformis) was possible only for the SAT-chromosomes and the shortest metacentrics. Chromocentres were very small and the amount of constitutive heterochromatin was low. N-banding stained chromosomes uniformly. The basic karyotypes of the P. fragilis taxa were similar to those of P. juncea, P. lanuginosa, and P. stoloniformis supporting a close relationship and the presence of a common genome, N. NORs had different nucleolus-forming activities. Meiotic analysis demonstrated a high level of bivalent pairing in the three taxa. A chromosomal rearrangement was suggested in subsp. villosus. The low multivalent frequency in subsp. secaliformis indicates the presence of a pairing regulation mechanism. The majority of chiasmata were interstitial. Pollen grain size discriminated between diploid and tetraploid taxa. The existence of a diploid cytotype of subsp. secaliformis is supported by pollen measurements of herbarium material.
23642247|Crocus corsicus, an endemic to Corsica has 2n = 18 chromosomes. C. minimus from Corsica and Sardinia has 2n = 24, but plants with 2n = 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30, including a variable number of telocentric chromosomes, were found in some populations in south-eastern Corsica. A natural hybrid (2n = 22) between C. corsicus (2n = 18) and C. minimus (2n = 26) is reported. The relationship between the two species is discussed, and descriptions and a key are given.
23645179|As part of an ongoing project on the phylogeny and taxonomy of Chenopodiaceae with emphasis on the evolution of photosynthetic pathways, we sequenced the nuclear ribosomal ITS region and two chloroplast DNA regions (atpB-rbcL and psbB-psbH) of 43 taxa belonging to subfamily Suaedoideae (Chenopodiaceae). Our sampling covered 41 of c. 82 known species and subspecies of Suaeda, beside several taxa not yet described, the monotypic genera Bienertia and Borszczowia as well as some representatives of Salicornioideae that served as outgroups. In addition, we carried out morphological and leaf anatomical studies on an extended sampling set, also including the monotypic genus Alexandra. Phylograms resulting from maximum parsimony analyses of separate and combined data sets share several common features. (1) Suaeda is monophyletic if Borszczowia is included. (2) The position of Bienertia is ambiguous, being sister to Suaeda in both chloroplast trees, but showing affinities to Salicornioideae in the ITS tree. (3) Suaeda deeply divides into two well-supported clades. One clade (Brezia clade) solely consists of the annual C3 species of sect. Brezia. The second clade (Suaeda clade) includes all other sections. (4) The subclades of the Suaeda clade are in general agreement with currently accepted sections. A reassessment of morphological and anatomical characters on the background of the molecular trees resulted in the recognition of pistil morphology and leaf type as key characters. All major molecular clades are precisely defined by characteristic combinations of pistil and leaf types. The following taxonomic conclusions are drawn: the status of Bienertieae Ulbr. is confirmed; Suaeda is subdivided into the new subgenera Brezia (Moq.) Freitag & Schtze and Suaeda; Borszczowia is recombined into Suaeda and given sectional rank; within Suaeda, sects. Brezia, Schanginia, Borszczowia, Suaeda, Physophora, Schoberia and Salsina are recognized with some changes in circumscription; Alexandra is maintained at generic level because of the lack of molecular data and its striking morphological differences from Suaeda. A conspectus of Suaedoideae containing recognized species and all supraspecific taxa is given. The molecular results confirm that C4 photosynthesis has evolved independently four times in the subfamily.
23643145|A cladistic analysis of 45 genera of Cardueae for 75 characters is presented, taking into account characters of bracts, corolla, stamens, styles and cypselas. Forty-six binary characters complete Bremer's (1994) work. Some of the characters considered by Bremer are criticised. The traditional Carlininae is a paraphyletic group, the ten genera studied sharing no common derived character. A new classification of the Cardueae is proposed and the distribution of the tribe is presented. Several new combinations are proposed. The nomenclature of Centaurea is discussed and the status of the genus Serratula is analysed.
23674089|Root axes of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) were cultured in vitro in three different concentrations of sucrose in order to vary their growth rate. Lateral root growth and the initiation of lateral root primordia were studied on each group of axes. Various aspects of primordium initiation, positioning, and emergence were quantified with a view to discovering variable and constant features of these processes. Variable parameters were the rate and frequency of root primordium emergence. Constant parameters, at least under the prevailing conditions, were the spacing between successsive laterals and primordia, and the position of the primordia in relation to the vascular system. A model of primordium initiation is presented which combines controls determined by the divisional history of the potential primordium cell and by the vascular pattern.
23642859|Genetic variationprimarily in 19 genetic loci of seven enzyme systemswas analyzed in accessions from various parts of the geographic range of Solanum pennellii, which according to all tested biosystematic criteria behaves like a species of Lycopersicon. In comparison with the largely sympatric L. hirsutum and L. pimpinellifolium, this species exhibits the same trends of reduced allogamy and decreased genetic variation toward the north and south margins of its distribution, though to a much lesser degree; it does not exhibit their trends toward smaller flower size in the same peripheral regions. All three species agree to a considerable extent in the ranking of their tested loci in respect to degree of variablility; however, overall polymorphy is highest in S. pennellii. Except for the appearance of self-compatibility at its southernmost margin, S. pennellii is exclusively and rigidly self-incompatible. Alleles are distributed much more uniformly over the range than in the previously mentioned species, marginal and internal endemic mutants being much less abundant. A marked geographic disagreement is evident in regions of high and low variation. These differences in patterns of genetic variability are reconciled in terms of observed differences in mating systems, probable age of distributions, and adaptive strategies.
23655913|Sub-arctic willow scrub is an endangered habitat in Britain, and typically occurs on steep crags inaccessible to grazing animals. These willows can reproduce both sexually and asexually, although the relative importance of each is unknown. Knowledge of reproductive mode is important for the design of grazing management and restoration programmes. Accordingly, clonality was assessed in the largest stand of sub-arctic willow scrub in the UK, focusing on Salix lanata and S. lapponum. Little evidence of clonal growth was detected; most individuals possessed distinct multi-locus genotypes. Thus despite the capacity for vegetative reproduction, and seedlings being rarely observed, sexual reproduction is the predominant means of perpetuation and dispersal at this site. We also examined clonal growth in a common willow species (Salix herbacea) that occupies a different habitat type (exposed mountain tops and ridges). Multiple individuals shared identical genotypes up to 7 m apart, suggesting an important role for clonal growth in local patch formation in this species.
23664161|The genus Billburttia is described to include two new species endemic to Madagascar, B. capensoides and B. vaginoides. Both species were tentatively placed within the problematic genus Peucedanum L. (as Peucedanum sp. A and Peucedanum sp. B) based on their dorsally compressed fruits lacking prominent dorsal ribs and with winged marginal ribs. Recently, however, the African members of Peucedanum have been shown to be only distantly related to the type of the genus and have therefore been segregated into six African endemic genera. While the Malagasy species appear superficially similar to members from one of these segregate genera, viz. Notobubon, they differ markedly in their fruit anatomical characters, notably a narrower commissure, six commissural vittae, vascular tissue in the tip of the ribs and sphaerocrystals distributed in and around the epidermis. The latter two characters apparently represent apomorphies for Billburttia. The non-peucedanoid affinity of the genus, as suggested by the fruit anatomical data, was confirmed using ITS and rps16 intron sequences. Both parsimony and Bayesian analyses of these data place Billburttia within the tribe Apieae of subfamily Apioideae and not closely related to either Peucedanum (Selineae) or the African peucedanoid genera (Lefebvrea clade of Tordylieae).
23644183|Exquisitely preserved, charcoalified fossil flowers with in situ pollen of the Normapolles-type from the Late Cretaceous of Portugal are described and a new genus and species of Fagales, Normanthus miraensis, are established. Floral organization and structure of floral organs were studied with scanning electron microscopy and microtome sections. Flowers are actinomorphic, epigynous, and pentamerous; the perianth is simple; stamens alternate with tepals; pollen is oblate and vestibulate; the exine is thick and the tectum is scabrate-microgranulate; the gynoecium is bicarpellate and unilocular; the fruits are probably one-seeded. Comparisons with extant taxa demonstrate that N. miraensis shares many similarities with Fagales and in particular with Betulaceae. However, it is not identical with any extant taxon and cannot be included in any extant family. The combination of characters found in the fossil flowers is congruent with wind-pollination syndromes present in many extant angiosperms and clearly indicates wind-pollination of N. miraensis.
23643197|Karyotype studies on 20 taxa of gymnosperms endemic to New Zealand show a wide diversity of chromosome number and form. Fluorochrome banding with DAPI and CMA reveals a depauperate pattern of bands with CMA and no reliable banding with DAPI. Characteristically one pair of chromosomes shows a prominent CMA band, which may or may not be associated with a secondary constriction. A band size polymorphism was observed in all plants of Dacrycarpus dacrydioides, irrespective of the sex of the plant. Measurements of genome size by flow cytometry show a range of values from 12.3 pg to 40.0 pg DNA per 2C nucleus. Intraspecific variation in genome size was observed in Manoao colensoi.
23643688|Allozyme variation at eleven loci encoding seven enzyme systems were examined in 20 populations of diploid (genome AA, 2n = 16) Scilla scilloides in China. In comparison with the average species of seed plants studied, populations of this species display a high amount of genetic variation (A = 2.0, P = 58.6%, Ho = 0.172, and He = 0.185). Allozyme variation pattern revealed predominant outcrossing within populations and considerable differentiation (FST = 0.314) among populations as well as between the subtropic and temperate regions. The wide distribution, long existence and outcrossing are presumably the main factors responsible for the high genetic diversity within populations. But the gravity dispersal of seeds and pollination by small insects set limits to the increase of genetic variation within populations and promote differentiation between populations and regions. In addition, allozyme variation does not distinguish S. scilloides var. albo-viridis and suggests that subtropic populations may be considered as a genetic entity.
23642098|The embryo development conforms to the Asterad type or Megarchetype II. A single cotyledon called scutellum is derived from the entire tier l. The shoot apex, lateral in position, and the coleoptile, originate from the tier l. The remaining parts of the mature embryo are derived from the tiers situated below l. The short suspensor takes its origin from the lowermost tier p. The endosperm ab initio is free nuclear in development. It becomes cellular first around the proembryo. Physiologically, the ripe endosperm represents a dead tissue.
23664052|In 2006, 26 accessions (mainly from Sichuan province, China) in one species and two varietal species among the genus Perilla L. were collected, and the essential oils (EOs) of their fresh leaves during the flowering period were analyzed by the GC-MS method in 2007. In total, 49 components could be identified. The results showed that eight chemotypes could be identified as follows: PK (perillaketone), DLP (D-limonene and piperitone), PT (piperitenone), MS (myristicin), AL (apiol), EM (elemicin), DEK (dehydroelsholtzia ketone) and PA (perilla aldehyde). Of them, chemotype DLP, AL and DEK were reported for the first time; DLP and AL were found only in the accessions from Sichuan province, China. In our study, the EOs of P06-1Z and P06-28 were investigated at several stages during growing. Taking into account the variability of the two accessions during the year, the seasonal influence on the main constituents could not change the status of the different chemotypes distinguished or enhance the veracity of the differentiation of eight chemotypes. The results also suggested that it may not always be possible to establish a correlation between the traditional morphological taxonomy and chemotypes.
23644267|The taxonomy of the Paeonia obovata polyploid complex in E-Asia has been controversial with treatments ranging from one species and two varieties to five species and numerous infraspecific taxa. Extensive observations in the field, analysis of morphological characters based on 32 populations sampled, and the examination of a large amount of herbarium specimens show that all the characters used by previous authors for distinguishing the species are variable between or even within populations: Leaf position, petal colour, stamen number (from 21 to 110 in the red-flowered and from 58 to 239 in the white-flowered form), filament and anther colour, style length as well as follicle number and position. Therefore, all these characters are of no value for species delimitation. However, an extensive chromosome survey and the analysis of morphological characters show that the ploidy level is basically correlated with the geographical distribution and with the indumentum on the lower leaf surface. Thus, the recognition of one species with two subspecies is proposed: Paeonia obovata subsp. obovata, mostly diploid, widely distributed in the north, east and south of the distribution range and glabrous to sparsely pubescent or hirsute on the lower leaf surface, and subsp. willmottiae, tetraploid, limited to the west and with leaves densely hirsute or pubescent below.
23664159|Analysis of cpDNA matK sequences for a total of 43 members of the succulent plant family Crassulaceae, including 24 taxa of Crassula, recovered a well-supported clade comprising Crassula species that is sister to the remainder of the family. The resulting topologies do not support the monophyly of the currently recognized subgenera of Crassula, as one member of subgenus Disporocarpa (C. crenulata) is placed as sister to an otherwise monophyletic subgenus Crassula. The major synapomorphy that has been used to recognize the latter subgenus is a base chromosome number of x = 7 versus a base of x = 8 in the other subgenus. We cannot assess the utility of this feature for defining subgenus Crassula because a chromosome count of C. crenulata has yet to be published. The five accessions of the recently resurrected segregate genus Tillaea (of 24 total Crassula species) included here were placed in four separate, well-supported lineages, one of which is greatly removed from the other four accessions. This suggests that this genus is not valid and should not be recognized. An initial examination of the evolution of habit indicates that a perennial habit is ancestral and that the annual habit is a feature that has been derived at least twice in the genus.
23643680|Species of Anthurium presumably are pollinated by insects. In the montane rainforests of western Colombia we recorded eight species of hummingbirds paying regular visits to the nectar-producing inflorescences of Anthurium sanguineum. At peak-flowering A. sanguineum plays an important role in the birds' nutrition. Pollen is deposited on the tip of the birds' bills, indicating that pollination by hummingbirds occurs frequently. As no other flower visitors were recorded, we consider hummingbirds the main pollinators to A. sanguineum.
23642502|The biosystematics of the Festuca violacea group (F. rubra subsp. violacea sensu Hackel) in the Eastern Alps is studied. F. picturata Pils (= F. picta Kit. ex Schultes non J. F. Gmelin) is confirmed as diploid, whereas the chromosome numbers for F. nitida (diploid), F. puccinellii (hexaploid), and F. norica (diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid) are reported for the first time. Details of morphology, leaf anatomy, and epidermal structures now allow a better separation of these species; new maps illustrate their distribution. Karyological, chorological, morphological, and anatomical data form the basis for a discussion of the phylogeny of the F. violacea group and its position within F. rubra s. latiss.
23674496|The results of genome analysis of five hybrids, viz. Elymus patagonicus  Hordeum procerum, E. patagonicus  H. tetraploidum, E. angulatus  H. jubatum, E. angulatus  H. lechleri, and E. angulatus  H. parodii, are reported. The genomic constitution of Hordeum tetraploidum and H. jubatum is best given as H1H1H2H2, of H. lechleri and H. parodii as H1H1H2H2H4H4, of H. procerum as H1H1H2H2H3H3, and of Elymus patagonicus and E. angulatus as SSH1H1H2H2.
23643970|This study records the chromosome numbers of 10 species of Streptocarpus; nine of the counts are new. With the exception of S. buchananii of mainland Africa, all the results are for plants endemic to Madagascar and the Comoro Islands. While there is a strong correlation between basic number and growth form in the two subgenera of the genus on the African mainland (x = 15 among caulescent species in subgenus Streptocarpella; x = 16 among acaulescent species in subgenus Streptocarpus), the situation appears more complex among Madagascan and Comoro Island species. One notable example of deviation from this correlation is shown by S. papangae, a shrubby caulescent species, with 2n = 32 (x = 16). Polyploidy in the genus appears to be absent on mainland Africa, but is present in Madagascar and the Comoro Islands, ranging from tetraploidy to octoploidy. Evolutionary implications of the cytological observations are considered.
23642312|The calcifying cave inhabitant atmophytic blue-green alga Geitleria calcarea is reported from new localities in Florida and in the Cook Islands.G. floridana n. sp., is described from caves in Florida. The calcified sheath has the shape of a quadratic prism and is built of crystalline acicular subunits about 0.1 m in diameter. The subunits mostly form a rhombic lattice pattern but in some cases, they are not distinguishable and then the surface of the sheath is smooth.
23673818|The shape and the mode of dehiscence of the capsule had been regarded as good differential characters between Acanthophyllum and related genera.  Studies of these characters, including the shape of the ovary, in species of Acanthophyllum, Diaphanoptera, Ochotonophila and Scleranthopsis show, however, that they cannot be used as differential characters for the genus Acanthophyllum.
43558603|In this paper we study merosity in the genus Urospatha within the framework of a resolved phylogeny of the Araceae. We analyse how a transition from dimerous or tetramerous merosity to pentamerous or hexamerous merosity can occur developmentally in the Lasioideae. In Urospatha, initiation of floral primordia along the inflorescence is acropetal, while development of flowers is basipetal. This indicates the presence of two distinct phases in the development of the Urospatha inflorescence. The first phase corresponds to initiation of flowers and establishment of the phyllotactic pattern, and the second phase to differentiation of floral organs. Urospatha is characterized by the presence of trimerous, tetramerous, pentamerous and rarely hexamerous flowers. In all types of flowers, the stamens are closely associated and opposite to the tepals. Pentamerous flowers are formed by addition of a sector comprising a stamen and tepal. Likewise, in the case of hexamerous flowers, two sectors are added. In the Lasioideae, the increase in the number of tepals and stamens is linked with two developmental processes that have appeared independently in the subfamily: (1) addition of one or two stamen-petal sectors (Anaphyllopsis and Urospatha), and (2) independent increase in the number of tepals and stamens on whorls, more or less organized and inserted in alternate position (Dracontium). Tetramerous whorls as they occur in basal Lasioideae would be homologous to two dimerous whorls from an evolutionary point of view.
23673953|TEM observations were carried out on 40 taxa of the family Verbenaceae and 35 taxa of the family Oleaceae, in order to ascertain distribution, ultrastructure and morphology of the intranuclear proteinic inclusions in the mesophyll parenchymatic cells. The investigated genera amount to some 25% and 60% respectively of the genera of the two families. Inside the Verbenaceae, lamellar inclusions (L-type) occur in 6 out of 23 investigated genera: they are mostly present inside the tribes Citharexyleae and Verbeneae (both belonging to Verbenoideae), while they are absent in other subfamilies. All of the investigated Oleaceae genera show intranuclear crystalline inclusions (C1-type) of three different shapes. Among the Asteridae this is a character peculiar to Oleaceae. They appear to be a well defined natural group, including the controversial genus Nyctanthes.
23642956|The reproductive system was studied in Crocus genus (Iridaceae) following intra- and interspecific pollination, by using light and scanning electron microscopy. The results suggest that the stigma-style tract of the Crocus pistil is a mere promoter of pollen tube growth, while intra- and interspecific discrimination of compatible and incompatible pollen occurs in the ovarian tract. Here, the transmitting tissue consists of special epidermal cells, whose granular or floccular secretions provide the selective medium for the growth of pollen tubes. The ovarian self-incompatibility (SI) is widespread within the genus, resulting in a partial or complete suppression of self-fertilization. Moreover, postzygotic SI mechanisms, as well as postzygotic mechanisms of unknown nature, seem to be recurrent and both are responsible for seed abortion. The interspecific ovarian incompatibility concerns only unrelated crosses; crosses between related fertile species succeed both in fertilization and seed-set.
23674865|Allozyme variation was examined at 33 enzyme loci for 96 populations from throughout the geographical range of Conocephalum conicum (L.) Dum. (Marchantiales, Hepaticae). Variation was partitioned into five discrete groups, suggesting that this morphologically defined species is genetically heterogeneous. The degree of differentiation among these groups, as measured by genetic distance, is as large as is commonly reported between different vascular plant species, and much larger than that between conspecific populations. In Europe, two of these genetically distinct groups (S and L) occur sympatrically, but apparently do not interbreed. Geographical ranges of the other three groups (A, C, and J) are probably allopatric with the exception that the range of S, the most genetically divergent group, overlaps with group A in N. America. It is suggested that these five natural assemblages constitute different sibling species.
23642683|The Chilean Microseris pygmaea has a ten-part paleaceous pappus while the Californian M. bigelovii has five pappus parts on each achene. Hybrids between the two species have between five and ten pappus parts with averages below 7.5. Hybrid B 87 has an F 1 average value of 6.7 pappus parts. 140 F 2 plants were raised from this hybrid, and 12 F 3 families were obtained by selfing from F 2 plants. One larger F 4 family has been raised. Pappus part number in all of these is still canalized between 5 and 10. Variation within these limits is genetically determined by a quantitatively acting polygenic system. Modeling of this system suggests that a minimum of four, but probably not many more, genes are involved. This opens the possibility of a complete genetic analysis of the system.
43496723|Lens includes L. culinaris subsp. culinaris (the cultivated lentil) and several wild species distributed from the Mediterranean region to western Asia. We compared sequence variation in the ITS region among species of Lens in an effort to end persisting uncertainty regarding the phylogeny of the genus. The parsimony analysis revealed a single minimum-length tree with a topology congruent with patterns derived by previous studies of nuclear and chloroplast DNA RFLPs. The basal and highly divergent status of the L. nigricans clade is depicted, and the progenitor-derivative relationship between L. culinaris subsp. orientalis and L. culinaris subsp. culinaris is reaffirmed. Resolution in the tree was improved by combining the ITS data set with a pre-existing set of chloroplast DNA restriction site data obtained from the same group of samples.
23674276|Variation in ribosomal DNA spacer length was analysed in 23 populations of 12 Secale spp. by restriction enzyme analysis. Digestion of rDNA with Taq I endonuclease enzyme yields spacer fragments that include the subrepeat array and the non-repetitive region downstream of the array. Extensive spacer length variation existed in most species with Taq I fragment lengths ranging from 0.9  3.1 kb. These length variants have been attributed to the differences in number of 134 bp spacer subrepeats within rDNA arrays. S. silvestre was the only species to exhibit a unique spacer length variant of 0.9 kb and this was shown to result from the presence of an extra Taq I site in the spacer. rDNA spacer length frequencies were determined for the species. These frequencies were used to derive phenetic relationships between the species by numerical taxonomic methods. In plots constructed from Gower's distance matrices, S. silvestre appeared well separated from the major cluster consisting of the other species. On the basis of morphological and cytogenetic criteria, S. silvestre is considered the most ancient species. The rDNA data is consistent with this interpretation as it shows a clear differentiation of S. silvestre from all the other species based on length and nucleotide sequence composition of the spacer region.
23643257|Using the AFLP technique highly informative DNA fingerprints were generated from 19 taxa of Solanum sect. Petota (potatoes) and three taxa of Solanum sect. Lycopersicum (tomatoes). Both phenetic and cladistic analyses were conducted from the individual genotypic level to the species level. An AFLP fingerprint, using a combination of suitable AFLP primers, generated 12 to 71 scorable fragments per genotype which was sufficient for taxonomic interpretation. The classifications based on the molecular markers were generally in agreement with current taxonomic opinions. Unexpectedly, S. microdontum was associated with ser. Megistacroloba rather than with ser. Tuberosa, and S. demissum (ser. Demissa) and species of ser. Acaulia appeared closely affiliated. AFLP is an efficient and reliable technique to generate biosystematic data and therefore a promising tool for evolutionary studies.
23656032|The paper deals with the complex leaves of three species of the aquatic genus Marathrum (M. minutiflorum, M. rubrum and M. schiedeanum). It is shown that they represent pinnately ramified ensiform leaves. The dissection of the leaves contributes to surface enlargement and thus to improvement of their hydrophylls function. The ensiform structure is confirmed by the transverse position of the sheathing lower leaf zone and the subsequent intercalary elongational growth proceeding in the median plane towards the abaxial side of the leaf (upper leaf zone). The petiole continues into the rachis-like central axis of the blade from which pinnate-like segments diverge at the adaxial and abaxial edge of the ensiform blade. The segments give rise to tufts of clavate enations that end in long filaments. The filigree pinnately segmented ensiform leaves of Marathrum are interpreted as a further development of the fan-shaped and irregularly lobate ensiform leaves occurring in Mourera and Apinagia. Pinnately ramified ensiform leaves obviously evolved in convergence to the common type of pinnate leaves found in angiosperms.
23655573|The AFLP method was used to study the inter-population variability of eight populations of Elymus caninus (L.) L. as well as three populations of Hordelymus europaeus (L.) Jess. ex Harz. In these studies a clear distinction was found between two phenotypes of E. caninus collected in the same locality. It also appeared that two populations of E. caninus representing the "pauciflorum" morphotype were clustered together, similarly as two populations of E. caninus exhibiting morphotype "caninus". Additionally, the populations of the "pauciflorum" type were clustered together with all samples of H. europaeus. Furthermore, the same approach was applied to analyze the intra-population variability of E. caninus. The populations ranged from nearly uniform to as diverse as the samples collected from different localities. In some populations of this species the presence of off-type plants was revealed. Our data indicate the predominantly self-pollinating character of E. caninus and the possible genetic relationship between of E. caninus and H. europaeus.
23655553|This paper deals with the nectary structure and nectar presentation of two species belonging to different sections of the genus Aloe: A. castanea (Anguialoe) and A. greatheadii var. davyana (Pictae). The development of the nectary was studied by means of bright field and fluorescence light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in three flower stages (young, intermediate, old). Both species have septal nectaries. In A. castanea, a subsidiary tissue, not present in A. greatheadii var. davyana, was found beneath the nectary epithelium. This tissue accumulated starch that was hydrolyzed during secretion. Starch was slightly accumulated around the nectary in A. greatheadii var. davyana. The distribution of chlorophyll in the ovary was also different in the two species. These anatomical differences are not, however, correlated with greater nectar production in A. castanea. In this species, the nectary seems to degenerate after secretion, while in A. greatheadii var. davyana no sign of degeneration was observed. Differences in nectar presentation among the two species may account for different pollinators visiting their flowers.
23669746|Stylochiton crassispathus J. Bogner, spec. nova of sect. Stylochiton, is only known from the type locality in the Usambara Mts., Tanzania. It is compared with S. puberulus and S. cuculliferus.
43558202|Because of the flower morphology and high number of insect visitors, plants of the family Apiaceae are regarded as generalists in terms of pollination systems. Recent studies however showed some degree of, at least, ecological specialization in some members of this taxonomical group and indicated interesting patterns of insect visitor behavior: discrimination between umbel sexual phases. To test whether this is true in case of other members of the family, over two years we studied the pollination biology of a common European umbellifer, Angelica sylvestris, a species considered by some authors as a supergeneralist. Although its flowers were visited by over 70 species of insects grouped in 10 morphospecies, only a relatively narrow assemblage of muscoid and syrphid flies, rather constant in both study years, contributed to pollination. These insects did not exhibit any preferences toward plant sexual phases. Based on our results and available literature, we discuss the concept of specialization/generalization of the A. sylvestrs pollination system, especially in the context of the "unspecialized" floral morphology characteristic for members of the Carrot family.
23673756|Calotropis procera (Asclepiadaceae) grows in Israel under extremely hot climatic conditions. Flower morphology is adapted towards the concealment of nectar, in order to protect it against robbery by ants and from evaporation. Pollinia while being inserted within the stigmatic chamber, are soaked in the liquid nectar which, by its concentration controls pollen germination. Two Carpenter bees (Xylocopa) are the only pollinators and their behavior on flowers is discussed.
43558672|The considerable floral diversity present in the cactus family has often been associated with the specificity of its pollinators. However, many cactus pollination systems are generalized as their flowers are pollinated by a wide spectrum of animals. For example, cactus species with white flowers, nocturnal anthesis and extended floral cycles would present generalized pollination systems in which both nocturnal and diurnal visitors could be effective pollinators. In this article, we tested this hypothesis by studying the pollination biology of Echinopsis schickendantzii, an Andean cactus with sphingophilous flowers. In addition, we evaluated whether the cactus's pollination system is complementary or redundant regarding the relative contributions of nocturnal and diurnal pollinators. Specifically, we studied the floral cycle, the reproductive system and the pollination effectiveness of floral visitors. The flowers of E. schickendantzii are selfincompatible; they opened at crpuscule and have an extended floral cycle. Moths were frequent visitors at night, whereas bees were frequent visitors during the day; both were effective pollinators of the cactus. Our results indicated that the flowers of this species present phenotypic, functional and ecological generalization, and their fruit set is determined by the contributions of both pollinator functional groups, i. e., they have complementary pollination systems. These results support the hypothesis that cacti in the extra-tropical deserts of South America have generalized pollination systems.
23642910|Allozyme variation at 11 loci (with 37 alleles) was studied electrophoretically in seven outbreeding, closely related diploid and tetraploid taxa, seven from sect. Leptogalium and two from sect. Leiogalium. Whereas the sections are clearly distinct by several different alleles, aggregates, species and subspecies differ only in the frequency or presence/absence of common alleles. The resulting dendrogram suggests phylogenetic relationships and is supported by other multidisciplinary evidence. Tetraploids have originated independently in several groups, and there is evidence for tetrasomic inheritance and thus for autopolyploidy in spite of normal meiotic bivalent pairing and partly suspected hybrid origin. Tetraploids differ from related diploids only little in number of alleles and expected heterozygosity within populations, but clearly exhibit higher numbers of genotypes. This often corresponds to their greater morphological variability, increased adaptive flexibility, and better colonizing capacity compared to related diploids.
23655241|Floral odour can differ qualitatively and quantitatively between different parts of the flowers, and these spatial fragrance patterns within the flowers can be used by pollinators for orientation on flowers. Here we present results of spatial fragrance patterns within flowers of the dioecious Silene latifolia (Caryophyllaceae). Volatiles were collected and analysed using a highly sensitive dynamic headspace method, which allows dramatically reducing the sample time. From all flower parts, especially the petals and the anthophore emitted the typical flower volatiles of S. latifolia. However, compounds emitted from the petals differed from compounds emitted by the anthophore. The anthophore emitted the monoterpenoids lilac aldehydes and alcohols, whereas, all other typical scent compounds (e.g. benzoids, other monoterpenoids) were emitted by the petals. Lilac aldehydes are known to be behaviourally very attractive for noctuid moths, and they may serve as nectar guides in S. latifolia.
23642736|Crepis incarnata subsp. dinarica (G. Beck) Hayek is nowadays considered as a subspecies of C. praemorsa (L.) Tausch. Comparative analyses of Feulgen karyotypes demonstrate great similarities, but remarkable differences in the presence and the distribution of the constitutive heterochromatin in the two taxa are detected by using the Giemsa differential staining technique (C-banding). This favours their specific distinctness.
23673834|Cross-pollinations were carried out among 11 briefly described species of Geranium. Eight species pairs produced hybrids, of which five had not been reported before. The close relationship of G. purpureum, G. robertianum and G. rubescens (sect. Ruberta) was confirmed; they form a polyploid series (diploid, tetraploid and octoploid on base x = 16). For G. canariense (sect. Anemonifolia), another octoploid on base x = 16, the results suggest greater affinity with the former section. G. maderense and G. palmatum of sect. Anemonifolia (2 n = 68) are confirmed as closely related to each other. G. maderense produced hybrids with G. robertianum (2 n = 64; sect. Ruberta) and with G. cataractarum (2 n = 36; sect. Unguiculata). Meiosis in the latter hybrid suggests allopolyploidy between parents with 2 n = 32 and 2 n = 36. Whereas all these species clearly form a very close alliance, G. lucidum (sect. Lucida) and G. macrorrhizum and G. dalmaticum (both sect. Unguiculata), appear genetically more isolated from them. One plant of G. macrorrhizum  G. dalmaticum was raised.  In crosses where hybrids or non-germinating seeds resulted, the reciprocal cross in the majority of cases produced a greatly inferior result or none at all. This asymmetry of response could in some cases be explained by inability of pollentubes from short-styled parents to reach the ovary of a long-styled species and in others by a modification of Hogenboom's theory of incongruity, but neither explanation works for every case. In all our asymmetric results where the ploidy level differed the diploid was the successful female, not the tetraploid, as is usually the case.  Some variation in results from year to year could be attributed to weather conditions.
23673919|Relationship among symbiotic dinoflagellates of the genus Symbiodinium derived from seven different host species has been studied by means of DNA/DNA hybridization. DNA homologies range from about 70 to 30%D. Highest homology is regarded as sub-specific level. Based on the characteristics of DNA and phenotypes, Symbiodinium microadriaticum subsp. microadriaticum is separated from Symbiodinium microadriaticum subsp. condylactis. Lowest homology occurs at the methodical background, and is similar to that obtained with DNA of algae belonging to different classes. The data are in excellent agreement with DNA base composition, karyotypes, and morpohological as well as biochemical markers, emphasizing speciation among these gymnodinioid zooxanthellae.
23673670|A systematic analysis of the variable and probably allotetraploid E. minima is presented, its infraspecific taxonomy is discussed. E. tatrae is provisionally included into E. minima although some differences may exist; E. mendonae may be a relic of a formerly wider distribution of E. minima; E. willkommii seems to be closer to E. stricta s. lat. than to E. minima. 4x-E. minima is supposed to be derived from phylogenetic lines close to extant dwarf alpine forms of 2x-E. alpina (including its yellow flowering subsp. christii; Vitek 1985b) and 2x-E. hirtella (vgl. Vitek 1985a). Some characteristics (e.g., its small flowers) could have been introduced through hybrid introgression from other 2x-species, particularly E. inopinata and/or E. sinuata (vgl. Ehrendorfer & Vitek 1984).
23657040|Many recent studies of intraspecific geographic variation in maternally inherited chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) in European trees have revealed haplotype distributions that can be interpreted in terms of scenarios of postglacial migration and range expansion. However, there is still a lack of comparable information from widespread herb species. In the present study, we investigated the geographic distribution of cpDNA variation in 124 populations, covering a large part of the range of the widespread, dioecious, European herb, Silene dioica. PCR-RFLP analysis revealed 24 different cpDNA haplotypes. As in the majority of European tree species, the large-scale geographic distributions of the most common S. dioica haplotypes suggest that the species colonized Europe from more than one geographic source. Material from 16 populations of S. latifolia and five hybrid populations was also included in the study for comparative purposes. Five out of seven haplotypes detected in S. latifolia were shared with S. dioica. The similarity of the geographic distributions of the shared haplotypes in both species is consistent with a history of past and/or recent interspecific hybridization and introgression between these closely related plants. The two haplotypes detected only in S. latifolia were present in populations in the Mediterranean region  on the southern margin of the species' area of sympatry, or outside the range of S. dioica.
43558072|Phragmipedium longifolium is an endangered terrestrial orchid. In Costa Rica, these plants are found growing in small and isolated patches, some of them consisting of just four to six individuals. Information about the genetic variability within and among populations is very important for the conservation of this endangered species. A total of 160 samples were collected in six locations and analyzed with amplified fragment length polymorphism technique. The genetic diversity of P. longifolium in Costa Rica (Hw = 0.1711) is high and differentiation among sampled locations is moderate (pt = 0.2013) in comparison with results of studies in some other terrestrial orchid species using the same technique. The percentage of polymorphic loci was, on average, 51.5. The analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) indicated the main genetic variation was within sampled locations (80%), even though the variation among locations was also significant. In situ conservation is recommended because, in addition to protecting habitat and avoiding fragmentation, mycorrhizal fungi and pollinators are also protected. Close proximity between populations is required to maintain high genetic variability through a gene flow continuum. It is suggested that conservation of patches with higher genetic variability be prioritized as many are located in unprotected areas. A germplasm bank for ex situ conservation has been established in the living collection at Lankester Botanical Garden using the plants collected in this study. Finally, a search for new locations of this species is also suggested.
23671528|Benzopyrans (chromenes) and benzofurans are characteristic natural products of the Asteraceae and are found together with their biogenetic precursors primarily in the tribes Anthemideae, Astereae, Eupatorieae, Heliantheae, Inuleae, and Senecioneae. The accumulation of benzopyrans and benzofurans supports an arrangement of the tribes of the Asteraceae into two groups as suggested recently based on morphological characters. The methods for analysing this class of natural products are demonstrated with the American genus Encelia. Experiments on the localization of benzopyrans and benzofurans in Encelia species indicate that these compounds are stored in resin ducts. Several benzopyrans and benzofurans are biologically active and are repellent as well as toxic towards herbivorous insects. Experiments on structure  activity relationships indicate the biological activities as being influenced by the heterocycle (pyran vs. furan) as well as by the substituents of the aromatic ring. In addition, several tested compounds showed phototoxic activities. Obwohl eine systematische Untersuchung der Chemie und Biologie von Benzopyranen und Benzofuranen erst seit wenigen Jahren betrieben wird, zeichnen sich schon auf Grund der bereits vorliegenden Daten eine Flle von interessanten Aspekten zur Bedeutung dieser Stoffklasse innerhalb der Asteraceae ab. Vergleichende Untersuchungen zum Vorkommen von Benzopyranen und Benzofuranen knnen wichtige Beitrge zur Systematik der Asteraceae liefern, sowohl auf der Ebene der Tribus als auch auf der Ebene der Gattungen, worauf im Rahmen dieses Artikels nicht eingegangen werden konnte. Erste Ergebnisse zur kologischen Bedeutung dieser Stoffklasse zeigen sehr interessante insektizide und phototoxische Aktivitten, die die Vermutung nahelegen, da Benzopyrane und Benzofurane eine wesentliche Rolle in der Abwehr von Herbivoren und Pathogenen spielen. Ziel knftiger Untersuchungen zu diesem Aspekt sollte es sein, auch Einblicke in den Wirkungsmechanismus dieser Substanzen zu erhalten.
23645017|There is much taxonomic confusion in the genus Gentianella section Gentianella, five species of which are found in Britain. Gentianella anglica is a British endemic restricted in its distribution to the chalk downland of southern England. It is considered to be threatened because of habitat loss, and due to hybridisation with the closely related, widely distributed G. amarella. The Red Data Book species, G. uliginosa, shares morphological similarities with the other two species but has a very restricted distribution. Individual plants from populations across the range of these three species were analysed using AFLPs and universal cpSSRs to determine the degree of genetic variability within and between them, and to look for evidence of hybridisation. Samples of the two other Gentianella section Gentianella species found in Britain, G. campestris and G. germanica, were also included in the study. The analysis of chloroplast SSRs was not informative for G. anglica, G. amarella and G. uliginosa, while G. campestris and G. germanica differed from each other and the other three species at a single locus. Principal co-ordinate analysis of the AFLP data revealed only three distinct groups: one group contained G. campestris samples, another contained all samples of G. germanica, and a third contained all individuals from the other three species. In mixed populations of G. anglica and G. amarella, individuals of the two species were genetically more similar to each other than they were to individuals of the same species from other populations. It is proposed that G. anglica may be an early flowering form of G. amarella that has been created and maintained as a consequence of former grassland management practices.
23642828|Lavatera and Malva are circumscribed by epicalyx characters, but the distinction is untenable on this basis. Morphological characters and phylogenetic trees from rDNA ITS sequence data indicate the presence of two well-supported species groups different from the traditional genera. One group includes a mixture of closely related species in both genera and forms a more broadly circumscribed Malva, including most disjunct Lavatera species  notably four of western North American islands, one Australian and one Canarian species. The other group forms a more narrowly defined Lavatera. Another Canarian Lavatera species may be a common ancestor to the two groups.
23642940|The tricolporate pollen grains of 38 Mediterranean and Macaronesian species of Euphorbia L. and Chamaesyce S. F. Gray have a special apertural sporoderm not found in the other taxa of the Euphorbiaceae. At the apertural margo the ectexine is thinner because of shorter columellae and the thin, fragmented or even absent foot-layer. Ectexinous granules, mixed with endexinous material, are present near the ora. The endexine is homogeneous and thickened under the colpi (at the end and at the proximity of the end of colpus). Around the ora, the endexine is granulate and lamellar with irregular cavities. The apertural intine presents a characteristic structure with thickenings running along both sides of the colpi. The arrangement and structure of these intinous thickenings depend on the distance from the ora. This special morphology of the intine is present in all taxa studied here. The genus Euphorbia is considered to be the most evolved taxon of this family. The characteristic apertural sporoderm may be an adaptative modification to different physiological conditions, so it may present an apertural mechanism which is more adapted to harmomegathic changes and thus facilitate the germination and the formation of the pollen tube.
23674569|The underground movement of Oxalis pes-caprae L. is a combination of shoot elongation and root contraction. Its function is the dispersal of renewal bulbs located in the axils of the scale leaves. At the beginning of root contraction the bulb leaves become detached from the bulb bottom and remain at their initial position. Bulb bottom and contractile root form a turnip-shaped unit. Its proximal end becomes displaced by shortening of the root. While contracting, the root develops a pulling force, which is quantified by using the lifting method. Connection between the overground shoot and the contractile root is maintained by a few short basal internodes of the new shoot, which elongate to form a thin underground "thread". Elongation of the thread and shortening of the root reach 2030 cm and obviously occur synchronously, whereby the thread remains taut during movement. Along the thread several lateral buds emerge. These develop into renewal bulbs usually reaching the size of the mother bulb.
23660152|The typology developed by Troll was followed to describe inflorescence structures for 15 species of Spartina. In all species here studied, truncation of the terminal spikelet of the main axis and primary paracladium was observed. The truncation can also involve the short paracladia subzone so that the inflorescence is confined to just the long paracladia subzone. A great homogenization of paracladia and maximum ramification degree limited generally to the second order of branching are distinctive characteristics of the genus. Proximal paracladia with third-order branching were found in only three specimens, and in these exceptional cases, the homogenization is partial. Sometimes, in some species, a subzone of long and short paracladia can be distinguished. The absence of trophotagma paracladia in all the species studied was verified. The variation in the structure of the inflorescence among species is due to the differences in the number of short paracladia, long paracladia, total number of primary paracladia and also in the angle of divergence of the long paracladia from the main axis. The latter, in addition to variations in the intercalary growth of the internodes produces modifications in the general appearance of the inflorescences. The systematic and taxonomic value of the inflorescences in Spartina is discussed.
23642773|The mucilage content of structurally differing myxospermatic diaspores from 49 species belonging to 19 families of Angiospermae has been determined by applying various extraction procedures. The results demonstrate no obvious relationship between the size, mucilage quantity, and the swelling factor of the diaspores studied. Furthermore, mucilage producing structures and structural peculiarities of the mucilages themselves are elaborated.
23642986|The genetic differentiation of Orchis papilionacea from Italy, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, and Greece was analyzed by isozyme studies. No significant differences at any of the 28 loci tested were observed between samples of the putative subspecies papilionacea from Italy, grandiflora from Sicily and heroica from Greece, or by comparing sympatric papilionacea-like and grandiflora-like subsamples from Sardinia and Corsica. The genetic relationships found among the populations studied reflect more their geographic origin than their taxonomic assignment; papilionacea, grandiflora, and heroica are, therefore, at least in the study area, not to be considered as subspecies, but as simple morphs, controlled by few genes (possibly two) with Mendelian inheritance. The genetic divergence observed among the samples studied is very low and consistent with that of geographic populations of a single cohesive gene pool, linked by a high gene flow (Nm = 5.9).
23673183|European representatives of Apium sensu lato (Apiaceae), and Apium prostratum and Naufraga balearica, were studied with morphological, fruit anatomical, and palynological methods. Morphometric data were compared with phylogenetic results from previous molecular studies. This confirms that most of the European Apium species belong to a separate group corresponding to the previously named genus Helosciadium. All these species had previously been formally named as Helosciadium species, except for the new combination Helosciadium bermejoi, which is formally described here. Molecular studies place Apium prostratum and Naufraga balearica close to Apium graveolens, the type species of Apium. Our morphometric results show similarities of Naufraga with H. bermejoi, but fruit anatomy distinguishes it both from Helosciadium and from A. graveolens/prostratum. The placement of Cyclospermum leptophyllum in a separate genus is confirmed. Diagnostic keys to the genera and Helosciadium species, and an annotated checklist are given.
23642966|Morphometric characters on 118 herbarium specimens of Lomelosia crenata subsp. crenata (regarded as including subsp. pseudisetensis) were statistically evaluated to detect discontinuities in the variation pattern. Three morphotypes were detected: specimens with short stems and long calyx bristles, specimens with short stems and short bristles, and specimens with long stems and short bristles. The first morphotypic group is separated from the others, which are partly overlapping. These groups broadly correspond to L. crenata subsp. crenata, to Scabiosa crenata var. glabriuscula, and to L. crenata subsp. pseudisetensis, respectively.
23656059|Sedum plumbizincicola X.H. Guo et S.B. Zhou ex L.H. Wu (Crassulaceae), a new species restricted to leadzinc mining areas in Zhejiang Province, China, is described and illustrated. This taxon belongs to sect. Sedum (H. Ohba) S.H. Fu based on the adaxially gibbous carpels and follicles. It superficially resembles S. alfredii Hance and three other Sedum species found in the same area, but differs from these other taxa in bearing 4-merous flowers. Differences in geographical distribution, growth habit, phenology, macromorphology, leaf and stem anatomy, as well as seed micromorphology among S. plumbizincicola, S. alfredii and other related taxa in the genus Sedum are also reported. nrDNA internal transcribed spacers (ITS) sequences from seven populations of S. plumbizincicola support the recognition of this as a taxonomic entity distinct from S. alfredii.
23644995|Erithalis consists of 810 species endemic to the Caribbean Basin. DNA sequences of chloroplast (trnF-trnL) and nuclear non-coding spacers (ITS and ETS) indicate that Erithalis is monophyletic. ETS was the most informative marker, resolving some interspecific relationships. Analyses of the combined data revealed two weakly supported clades: one composed of E. fruticosa and E. harrisii, and a sister clade of the remaining species. Since fossil records indicate the presence of Erithalis-like pollen from the Eocene Gatuncillo Formation of Panama, it is possible that an initial colonization may have been from Central America. Through trans-oceanic dispersal, most likely by birds, Erithalis colonized the Caribbean islands. Some of the inter-island colonizations were accompanied by speciation and low molecular divergence, supporting a recent radiation across these islands.
23655757|European food-deceptive orchids generally flower early in spring and rely on nave pollinators for their reproduction. Some species however, flower later in the summer, when many other rewarding plants species are also in bloom. In dense flowering communities, deceptive orchids may suffer from competition for pollinator resources, or might alternatively benefit from higher community attractiveness. We investigated the pollination strategy of the deceptive species Traunsteinera globosa, and more specifically whether it benefited from the presence of coflowering rewarding species. We carried out a population survey to quantify the density and reproductive success of the orchid as well as the density of all coflowering species. Our results suggest that the deceptive orchid not only benefited from the presence of coflowering species, but that interestingly the density of the species Trifolium pratense was significantly positively correlated with the orchid's reproductive success. This species might simply act as a magnet species attracting pollinators near T. globosa, or could influence the orchid reproductive fitness through a more species-specific interaction. We propose that morphological or colour similarities between the two species should be investigated in more detail to decipher this pollination facilitation effect.
23674816|Evolutionary relationships and infra- and interspecific variability within the species of Tulipa sect. Eriostemones Boissier were studied. Measurements of 35 morphological characters were used for principal component and canonical variate analyses. Crossing experiments and chromosome counts were carried out. Two axes of morphological variation were encountered within the principal component plot. Variation of subsect. Biflores was traced along one axis, the species of subsect. Australes as well as Saxatiles were found along the other axis. The nomenclature of names of subsect. Biflores was considered on the basis of their geography, specific morphological characteristics and polyploidy. Conspecificity of names of all species was tested based on both morphology and crossability.
23674891|The pollen grains of Sesamothamnus lugardii Stapf (Pedaliaceae of subdesert regions of SE tropical Africa) are associated in acalymmate tetrads (cross wall cohesion), with a tectate and perforate exine and 812 colpi. The pollen wall consists of an ectexine with a complete, perforate and ample tectum, columellated infratectum and clearly interrupted and fragmented foot layer. The endexine is built of scanty lamellae and granules. The intine is bistratificate, with a homogeneous, fibrillate layer (endintine or intine-2) and a heterogeneous, more lax and channeled layer (exintine or intine-1). Test for glycoprotein is particularly positive in the homogeneous internal intine and channels of external intine. On the other hand acid phosphatase has been localized in the exine and channeled external intine layers. These observations confirm the general interpretation of the distribution of wall compounds.
23656128|Limonium sinense is a halobiotic herb endemic to China that has been traditionally used for hundreds of years for its good restorative function. Genetic variation and population structure of this species were investigated by using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) and inter simple sequence repeats (ISSRs). A high level of genetic diversity was detected [AFLP: H E = 0.284, percentage of polymorphic loci (PPL) = 92.68 %; ISSR: H E = 0.257, PPL = 85.71 %] at the species level with POPGENE. Based on analysis of molecular variation (AMOVA), the among-population component accounted for 29.03 % (AFLP) and 28.81 % (ISSR) of the genetic variation, indicating that most of the genetic variation was between individuals within populations. The Shannon diversity index (I) was higher for AFLP (0.432) than for ISSR (0.395). Five main clusters were shown in the unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) dendrogram created using TFPGA, consistent with the result of principal coordinate analysis using NTSYS. In situ conservation is advocated first. Keeping a stable environment for this halobiotic herb is necessary. For ex situ conservation, it is important to establish a germplasm bank. AFLP and ISSR markers were proved to be efficient tools in assessing the genetic variation among populations of L. sinense. The patterns of variation appeared to be consistent for these two marker systems, and they can be used for management of genetic structure, protection of the halobiotic plant, and conservation of germplasm.
23670118|Scilla peruviana biotypes have different chromosome numbers due to changes in the nucleolar chromosomes and polyploidy. We have examined two diploid (2n = 15 and 2n = 16) and two tetraploid biotypes (2n = 28 and 2n = 32). From the results of rRNA/DNA filter hybridizations it appears that rDNA percentages of the diploid biotypes are, approximately, 2.2-fold higher than those of the tetraploid biotypes. To examine the rRNA gene structure we have utilized Southern blot hybridization after DNA digestions with three restriction enzymes: Eco RI, Hind III and Bam HI. From the band analysis of both single and double digestions it has been possible to reveal the presence, in the diploid biotypes, of three gene types, heterogeneous both for length and for nucleotide sequences in the external spacer. The three rRNA genes are 12 600, 12 700, and 12 800 base pairs long and they have a different position of the Hind III sites in the external spacer. On the other hand, a single gene type of 12 600 base pairs, identical to the first type of the diploid biotypes, surprisingly exists in the tetraploid biotypes. Considerations on the rRNA gene regulation and evolution are made.
43558383|Orchid species of Mediterranean genus Serapias often live in sympatry, exhibit similar floral morphology, bloom in the same period and share the same pollinators. Previous studies on Serapias species have ascertained that reproductive isolation is based on pre-pollination barriers, that secretory cells and trichomes are typically distributed on the floral labellum and that flowers produce aliphatic compounds. In this study we compare the floral scent composition of four widespread, co-occurring Serapias species, namely Serapias lingua, Serapias parviflora, Serapias vomeracea and Serapias cordigera. Our goals are to assess if differences in floral scent may act as interspecific pre-pollination barriers and if these olfactory signals may be involved in the pollination strategy of Serapias. We find that all the selected species produce C20-C29 alkanes and alkenes and, in addition, have detected the presence in S. cordigera of large amounts of oleate and starate ethyl ester. Our findings help to clarify that the sympatric Serapias species have slightly different floral scent signatures that may account for their relevant role as pre-pollination barriers. Therefore, the pollination strategy of Serapias relies not only on the tubular shape of their floral corolla but also on the production of olfactory signals that may lure potential pollinators and even assure a sufficient degree of pollinator fidelity.
23642815|The supernumerary B chromosomes of Triticum speltoides and T. tripsacoides were analyzed in mitotic metaphases of spike primordium cells by C-banding and in situ hybridization (ISH) analyzes. B chromosomes of T. speltoides have larger telomeric and interstitial C-bands, whereas those of T. tripsacoides are almost completely devoid of C-bands. A prominent ISH site of rye related DNA sequences (using probe pSc119) was detected on B chromosomes of T. tripsacoides and only a minor ISH site was observed on the T. speltoides B chromosomes. However, two ISH sites of 5S rRNA loci were detected at a terminal and an interstitial location of the T. speltoides B chromosomes. These sites were absent on B chromosomes of T. tripsacoides. The results are discussed with respect to the phylogenetic origin of these B chromosomes.
23674047|Phyllagathis tuberculata King and two closely allied new species, P. magnifica A. Weber and P. stonei A. Weber, are described and illustrated. Within the genus, these species form a distinct and isolated group which is restricted to Peninsular Malaysia. P. tuberculata occurs in Perak (probably confined to G. Bujang Melaka), P. magnifica and P. stonei are found in the mountains on the Pahang/Selangor border (Genting Highlands, Gombak valley). The distinctive characters of the three species are listed and some general information relating to inflorescence morphology, tubercle anatomy, fruit structure and seed dispersal is provided.
23670122|The green flagellate Spermatozopsis similis spec. nova has been studied in culture by light and electron microscopy. The flagellate bears two flagella, is naked and has a characteristic crescent and spirally twisted cell shape. The two flagella are of subequal length, each with a prominent hair-point. Each cell contains two contractile vacuoles, a single chloroplast with an anterior eyespot but lacking a pyrenoid, an anteriorly located nucleus, a single dictyosome associated with the posterior end of the nucleus, a single mitochondrion posterior to the nucleus and associated with a small microbody, some conspicuous vacuoles, and a greater number of secondary cytoskeletal microtubules which probably are responsible for maintaining the peculiar shape of this species. Since S. similis in culture is only biflagellate, it cannot be accommodated within the quadriflagellate, but otherwise very similar species S. exsultans. Spermatozopsis similis is compared with other green flagellates and is shown to share common ultrastructural characters with Chlamydomonas-type green algae.
23642296|DNA contents have been determined cytophotometrically in the three Central European, related Scilla species S. bifolia (2 n = 18, 2 , 1 C = 6.2 pg), S. drunensis (2 n = 36, 4 , 1 C = 12.8 pg), and S. vindobonensis (2 n = 18, 2 , 1 C = 9.4 pg). The tetraploid species S. drunensis contains twice as much DNA as the diploid S. bifolia. However, the diploid species S. vindobonensis differs in DNA content from S. bifolia by a factor of about 1.5. This difference is largely due to euchromatic DNA, although the higher DNA content in S. vindobonensis is combined with higher hetero-chromatin content. The data indicate that S. bifolia and S. drunensis on the one hand, and S. vindobonensis on the other hand are phyletically well separated. Previous taxonomic conclusions from morphology as well as C-banding are thus corroborated.
23643674|A gap in the exospore and the presence of a mesospore is found to be a normal part of development in the ten species of Selaginella we have studied. The early spore wall consists of an exospore and a mesospore forming successively on the plasma membrane of the megaspore protoplast when it is 1015 m in diameter. Enlargement of the exospore and mesospore creates a central space, the lumen of the megaspore, around the megaspore protoplast. After that there is a vast enlargement of the exospore and a relatively small enlargement of the mesospore. The exospore splits close to its contact with the mesospore forming a gap over equatorial and distal regions. The gap becomes greatly expanded and becomes filled with lipids, PAS-positive carbohydrates, proteins and is crossed by wicks. Experiments with solutions of different osmolality on fresh megaspores show that the exospore and mesospore are not osmotic barriers. The mesospore appears not to be resistant to acetolysis at the many stages tested but exospore is resistant. Thus the mesospore size and shape is retained by the inner exospore that enveloped the mesospore. At maturation the mesospore undergoes lysis and absorption. At the beginning of germination stages an endospore forms at the inner part of the exospore. This inner part of the exospore, that adhered to and enveloped the mesospore, becomes pressed near to the bulk of the exospore. Until pregermination stages the megaspore protoplast is small (1020 m in diameter).
23643201|This work is a continuation of electrophoretic investigations aimed at revealing a wild relative of Vicia faba. Electrophoretic analysis (PAGE) of seed albumins covered 52 accessions representing eight Vicia species of sect. Hypechusa and two species of sect. Peregrinae. Most of the examined species showed an intraspecific variation due to differences between accessions and/or individual variation within accessions. In spite of the intraspecific variation, marked interspecific differences were recorded. However, none of the investigated species displayed electrophoretic seed albumin patterns similar to those reported earlier for V. faba. Contribution of the obtained results to characterization of the examined taxa is discussed.
23664812|The seed morphologies and testa textures of 23 taxa belonging to the Pratensis, Orobon, Lathyrus, Orobastrum and Cicercula sections of Lathyrus that can widely be found in Turkey were analysed. The findings obtained in this study and previous findings (34 taxa in total) were compared and interpreted at the level of the sections. Morphological properties including seed size, general shape, surface shape, colour, hilum length and width were measured under stereomicroscopy. The seeds were of spheroidal, subprolate and prolate (P/E = 0.901.58) types and medium in size. The smallest seeds belonged to Lathyrus inconspicuus var. inconspicuus (P = 2.19  0.25 mm, E = 2.08  0.16 mm) and the largest to L. sativus (P = 5.88  0.74 mm, E = 5.36  0.57 mm). The smallest hilum belonged to L. inconspicuus var. stenophyllus (0.38  0.04 mm) and the largest to L. sylvestris (4.50  0.58 mm). Testa textures such as papillae shape, dense, ribbing and presence or absence of a waxy layer were examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). In addition, some photographs included in this study were taken via stereomicroscopy and SEM.
23644307|DNA sequences of both 5 and 3 regions of the plastid ndhF gene were generated in order to study the position of Patrinia and Nardostachys, to check the potential paraphyletic nature of Patrinieae, and to evaluate the possible link between the tribe and Linnaeaceae. Parsimony analysis showed very strong support for Patrinia as sister to all members of Valerianaceae (including Nardostachys) and indicated the paraphyletic nature of the tribe Patrinieae. Additionally, trees were constructed from available rbcL data separately and supplemented with ndhF sequences. Topologies of these combined cladograms are in agreement with the ndhF phylogeny, suggesting that the traditionally circumscribed Patrinieae can no longer be recognized but must be considered as part of a basal grade in Valerianaceae. Parsimony analysis based on a morphological data set supported a monophyletic Patrinieae; combination with the molecular data showed a paraphyletic Patrinieae. Furthermore, the possible link between Patrinieae and Linnaeaceae is evaluated.
43558611|The probability of population extinction seems to differ within the species range. Populations occupying former glacial refugia could harbor substantial genetic resources, hence they should be less prone to extirpation. It was hypothesized that the shrub birch Betula humilis could have survived the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) at the current southwestern margin of its range. Using ten nuclear microsatellites, we studied genetic variation within and between 18 localities of B. humilis situated in marginal and subcentral areas. Six marginal populations were located in areas covered by an ice sheet during the LGM, and the remaining samples came from unglaciated areas. Analysis of private allele frequencies as well as hierarchical AMOVAs conducted for geographical regions, marginal versus central populations, and glaciated versus unglaciated areas did not confirm the hypothesis of glacial isolate of the shrub birch in southeastern Poland. On the other hand, very high genetic variation in some localities in northeastern Poland was found. Survival in periglacial areas followed by broad-fronted colonization or the existence of an admixture zone of phylogeographic lineages was proposed to explain this phenomenon.
23655666|Based on a detailed statistical analysis of 19 quantitative and four qualitative characters of 31 samples of Hordeum murinum from Poland, it was stated that the small variability of these characters does not permit to distinguish any intra-specific units. Only a slight geographical differentiation of populations was found. Based on the differences discovered, the populations have been divided into two groups: one with the centre of distribution in the North-East (group E) and the second in South-west Poland (group W). This differentiation might result from the different routes of migration of this species into Poland. The chromosome number (2n = 28) confirms earlier reports from Poland. New data concerning the distribution of H. murinum in north-eastern Poland are also presented. A detailed study on the distribution of H. murinum in Poland is under way.
23674468|The vegetative and reproductive morphology, culm and rhizome anatomy and seed surface micromorphology of Rhodocoma are described. It is shown that this variation is best contained by recognizing three new species in the genus. These new taxa are described, and the phylogeny of the genus is investigated by cladistic analysis. The environmental parameters and distributions of the species are related to the cladogram. This suggests that the species are at present ecologically separated, and indicates that the speciation may have been sympatric. This is the first support for the hypothesis that sympatric speciation may have been important in the speciose Cape flora.
23645271|Corylus avellana L. (hazel, Betulaceae) is a long-lived, widespread shrub in Europe, having its northern range margin in Fennoscandia and a postglacial history involving range-expansion from refugial areas in southern Europe. In this study, we tested for a relationship between marginality and low within-population genetic diversity by assessing patterns of variation at 14 putatively neutral allozyme loci (comprising 43 putative alleles) within and between 40 natural populations of C. avellana along a north-south transect in Europe. Geographically marginal populations (central Sweden) showed lower levels of within-population diversity than populations in more central regions, as indicated by significant negative correlations between latitude and the percentage of polymorphic loci (rS = -0.47, P < 0.001), the average number of alleles per locus (rS = -0.65, P < 0.001), the expected heterozygosity (rS = -0.19, P < 0.05), and the proportion of distinguishable genotypes (rS = -0.56, P < 0.001). These patterns, combined with the unusually high between-population component of gene diversity (GST = 19.7%) and allelic richness (AST = 24%) in the marginal region, can be attributed to historical bottlenecks during the species' postglacial range-expansion, but may also reflect a history of genetic drift in the small, isolated populations occupying the marginal region. Information on the spatial distribution of genotypes provide further support for a role of vegetative reproduction (layering) in the structuring of genetic variation within populations.
23674536|The phenology, major floral characteristics, fruiting levels, and breeding system of Cistus ladanifer L. (Cistaceae), a common western Mediterranean shrub species, were studied in a southern Spanish population. The white, large (64 mm in diameter) flowers of this shrub appear during spring (MarchMay) and produce abundant pollen and nectar. In the year of study, flowers lasted up to three days, during which they were visited by a diverse array of insects including beetles, flies, and bees. Hand-pollinations revealed that flowers do not set any seed unless cross pollen is applied to the stigma. Microscopical observations indicate that self pollen tubes grow down the stigma but invariably fail to induce fruit maturation. At the plant level, all estimates of fecundity investigated (number of seeds per capsule, proportion of ovules developing into seed, and proportion of flowers setting fruit) were highly dependent on nearest neighbour distance, with isolated plants setting as little as 0% fruit. In contrast, plants within a clump often transformed into fruit as much as 90% of the flowers. At the population level, seed output was estimated to range between 3,000 and 270,000 seeds per plant during 1991.
23674234|The pollination biology of Ixora platythyrsa (Rubiaceae) was studied in NW. Madagascar. The plant displayed cream-yellow, nocturnally fragrant, nectariferous, tubular and strongly protandrous flowers. These had an "ixoroid" secondary pollen presentation mechanism: prior to anthesis, anthers exhausted their pollen onto unripe stylar heads. From this position pollen of male-stage flowers later adhered to primarily the probosces of small visiting nocturnal noctuid and geometrid moths.  Pollen was subsequently raked off moths' probosces by receptive, copiously papillose stigmas of female-stage flowers. Principal pollination adaptation was probably to the noctuid moth subfam. Sarrothripinae.
23642306|Micromorphology and surface sculpture of seed-coats of about 900 species of Cactaceae out of 120 genera (sensu Backeberg 1976) were examined by light and scanning electron microscopy. A survey of the seed coat characteristics (forms of testa cells, wall sculpturings, cuticular fold patterns etc.) is given. A terminology for the taxonomic application of these microstructures is proposed and their taxonomic significance is discussed. Licht- und raster-elektronenmikroskopisch wurde der Feinbau der Samenschalen von etwa 900 Arten der Cactaceae aus rund 120 Gattungen (sensu Backeberg 1976) untersucht. Einleitend wird die spezifische taxonomisch-systematische Problematik dieser Pflanzenfamilie diskutiert. Samenmorphologische Merkmale wurden bei den Cactaceae seit langem erfolgreich als taxonomisches Kriterium angewendet; lichtmikroskopisch sind diese Merkmale gut untersucht. Dagegen erschliet die Raster-Elektronenmikroskopie eine Vielzahl weiterer, teilweise ultrastruktureller Kriterien. Zusammenfassend werden alle taxonomisch relevanten licht- und raster-elektronenmikroskopisch erfabaren Merkmale der Samenschalen dargestellt (Samenformen und -farben; Zellmuster der Samenoberflchen; Formen der einzelnen Testazellen; Oberflchenskulpturen der ueren Testazellwnde usw.). Eine Terminologie der Oberflchenmerkmale der Cactaceen-Samen wird gegeben. Die Aufschlsselung ermglicht dem Taxonomen eine Deskription und Diagnose der Samen-Oberflche bis in den ultrastrukturellen Bereich. Abschlieend wird die taxonomische Signifikanz der Mikrostrukturen diskutiert. Der Deutschen Forschungsgemeinschaft sei fr die Bereitstellung der Gerte und fr die finanzielle Untersttzung gedankt. Herrn Prof. Dr. Werner Rauh, Direktor des Instituts fr Systematische Botanik und des Botanischen Gartens der Universitt Heidelberg, schulden wir grten Dank fr die stetige Untersttzung und fr die berlassung eines groen Teiles des untersuchten Materials, das von ihm gesammelt und determiniert wurde. Weitere Samenproben wurden dankenswerterweise zur Verfgung gestellt von den Herren D. Supthut (Zrich), J. D. Donald (Brighton), Dr. A. Gibson (Tucson/Arizona), W. Reppenhagen (St. Veit/Glan), A. J. Brederoo (Amsterdam), A. F. H. Buining (Leusden), M. Kroenlein (Monte Carlo), D. Andreae (Otzberg/Lengfeld) und G. Khres (Erzhausen/Darmstadt).
23673175|The cosmopolitan genus Euphorbia is one of the largest plant genera with an extreme phenotypic plasticity ranging from globose succulents to large shrubs and trees adapted to very divergent habitats like forests or deserts. We compiled the current knowledge about the evolution of Euphorbia by reconstructing a molecular phylogeny based on nearly all available internal transcribed spacer (nrITS) sequence data from previous investigations and sequences of newly sampled species. We compared the results with phylogenetic analyses based on a combined data set of nrITS and trnLtrnF intergenic spacer sequences of a subset of taxa. Apart from a few exceptions, the results correspond well to recently published studies based on different molecular markers. The genus Euphorbia is divided into four major clades, of which the clade comprising subgen. Rhizanthium is restricted to Africa and Madagascar, whereas the remaining three clades are distributed over several continents. Our results support the hypothesis that Euphorbia evolved in Africa from progenitors of subgen. Esula.
23674398|Germination behaviour of various Capsella bursa-pastoris populations collected from Scandinavia, Middle Europe and the Alps, was tested in unheated, non-illuminated greenhouses (46 populations) and in growth chambers using 5  7 alternating temperature regimes (16 populations). For all populations, the influence of temperature on germination rate is straightforward: the higher the temperature, the greater the germination. Germination capacity, however, may depend on the geographical region. There is also a strong seed age effect on both, rate and capacity of germination. Once dormancy was broken, seeds from all populations were able to germinate over the entire range of temperatures. Some populations revealed a more or less pronounced temperature optimum for germination capacity, others germinated equally well over the entire temperature range. This indicates genetic heterogeneity between populations. However, no correlation between germinability and any environmental pattern was detected. The data indicate that Capsella bursa-pastoris has adopted a germination strategy which includes a broad temperature tolerance. Germination of wild Capsella plants seems to be regulated by the factors contributing to the inception and breaking of dormancy which depend on pre- and postharvest conditions. Adaptation in germination behaviour in Capsella bursa-pastoris is different from that in other life history traits (flowering behaviour, growth form parameters).
23664802|Sawtooth oak (Quercus acutissima) is a predominant tree species in the deciduous broad-leaved forest in China. It distributes in a large landscape area and can disperse in various ecology types. Molecular study on sawtooth oak can provide valuable information about the genetic diversity level and genetic relatedness on this important tree species. Insight into the genetic structure also provides resources of a species with its current feature and future evolutionary potential. The genetic structure of sawtooth oak was investigated by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). Twelve RAPD markers were used to assess genetic diversity of 408 individuals from 17 provenances enveloping most of the current distribution area of sawtooth oak. A total of 66 amplification products were detected, of which 49 bands (74.24 %) were polymorphic. Nei's gene diversity, 0.2409, indicated a relatively high level of genetic variation in sawtooth oak germplasm. Analysis of molecular variance showed that most of the genetic diversity (87 %) was allocated within provenances. A combination of UPGMA dendrogram and STRUCTURE analysis was employed to estimate the genetic relationships of sawtooth oak germplasm; interestingly, the two methods presented similar grouping pattern with few discrepancies. Results revealed that 16 out of 17 provenances were clustered into one group, while the other 1 (LQ provenance) constituted a separate cluster. The data presented in this study suggested that the RAPD method was a valuable tool for estimation of genetic diversity and genetic relatedness of sawtooth oak germplasm. The present study also gave useful implications for germplasm conservation and new cultivar development for this promising energy tree species.
23674232|Four very rare species of Agaricales of dry grassland of the Galgenberg near Rschitz (Niedersterreich) are described and their taxonomy, affinities, ecology and distribution are discussed. Marasmiellus graminis (Murr.) Sing. & Hausknecht and Crinipellis subtomentosa (Peck.) Sing. var. mauretanica (Mre.) Sing. & Hausknecht are proposed as new combinations; Campanella inquilina Romagn. apud Redhead is a synonym of C. caesia Romagn.
23642114|Transmission electron microscopy was utilized to examine pollen walls of selected taxa in the Aizoaceae, Amaranthaceae, Basellaceae, Cactaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Didiereaceae, Halophytaceae, Nyctaginaceae, Phytolaccaceae, Portulacaceae, and Caryophyllaceae. This conspectus is an adjunct to scanning electron microscope observations of pollen surfaces and is directed towards elucidating the basic wall structure for these families. Although differences in internal morphology were observed at the inter- and intra-familial levels, they were interpreted as reflecting variations rather than major differences. The data indicate close morphological similarities of the first ten families enumerated above, i.e., those containing betalains. The Caryophyllaceae, an anthocyanin family, indicated a slightly greater heterogeneity of pollen ultrastructure but not to the extent of disassociating it from the betalain families. In fact, this heterogeneity was rivaled by comparable heterogeneity among and within some of the betalain families. The conclusion is that all families have close pollen morphological relationships.
23674672|Acremonium sect. Albo-lanosa (Fungi Imperfecti) includes beneficial, endophytic mycosymbionts of various grasses of the subfamily Pooideae, and also the anamorph of the grass choke pathogen, Epichlo typhina (Clavicipitaceae, Ascomycotina). These fungi are seed-disseminated, thus stably maintained for many host generations. To investigate the possibility of long-term coevolution, isolates of E. typhina and anamorphs were obtained from eight grass species, sequences of their rRNA gene internal transcribed spacers were aligned with those from other Clavicipitaceae, and cladograms were generated by maximum parsimony. The results indicated that the nonpathogenic endophytes have not necessarily coevolved with their host species and that they arose from E. typhina on multiple occasions.
23674590|Osyris alba L. is a widespread dioecious hemiparasitic shrub of S Europe, N Africa, and SW Asia. Male inflorescences are multiflowered whereas each female inflorescence is reduced to a single flower with persistent enlarged bracts. Pollination is a prerequisite for fruit and seed development and wind is unlikely to be an effective means of pollen spread. In southern Italy pollen is transported by small unspecialized flies and beetles. Both male and female flowers produce an indistinguishable sweet odour. Male flowers are produced in large numbers and over a larger period than the females and provide pollen, nectar, and staminal hairs as rewards for pollinators. The presence and function of staminal hairs with tip cells in Osyris alba has been reported for the first time. Female flowers are rewardless, producing neither mature pollen, nectar nor staminal hairs, but possess three modified yellow indhiscent anthers containing no viable pollen which may provide a strong visual feeding stimulus for pollinators. It is suggested that pollinators are attracted by deceit to female flowers by mimicry of the males and the floral mimicry is, therefore, intraspecific and intersexual. The floral characteristics and flowering phenology of male and female plants are consistent with this kind of mimicry. The female flower possesses a tricarpellary ovary with three ovules of which only one develops. The single seed, containing a small embryo and a large, rich endosperm, is borne in a red fleshy bird-dispersed fruit. The reduction in seed number per flower to one highly nutrient-invested seed, together with a reduction of the multiflowered inflorescence to a solitary flower and the sequential production of ripe fruits over an extended fruiting season, suggest that the female function is markedly resource-limited. It is suggested that, although all the reproductive characteristics present in Osyris alba, as well as hemiparasitism, had probably evolved before the end of the tropical Tertiary, they are of adaptive advantage in the nutrient and water-limited environment of the Mediterranean maquis.
43496742|Oryza rufipogon Griff, is the ancestor of Asian cultivated rice (O. sativa L.) and possesses valuable genes for rice breeding. Pollen abortion is one of the major causes of indica-japonica hybrid sterility in rice and it happens due to allelic interaction at the pollen sterility gene loci. A total of six loci (Sa, Sb, Sc, Sd, Se, and Sf) have been found to be associated with F pollen sterility between indica and japonica rice, and five of them (all except Sf) have been mapped. Neutral aleles (Sn) at each locus have the potential to overcome the pollen sterility associated with the respective locus. Therefore, exploitation and utilization of neutral aleles have significant importance in overcoming indica-japonica hybrid sterility. In this study, an accession (IRW28) of O. rufipogon, native to China, was selected as paternal to cross with typical japonica (Taichung 65) and indica (Guanglu'ai 4) tester lines, and two F populations were developed. The simple sequence repeat markers tightly linked to five pollen sterility loci were applied for genotyping the F populations. Chisquared tests were applied to examine the normal segregation/distortion at each locus. The expected and observed pollen sterility for each locus were estimated. As a result, the genotypes at five pollen sterility gene loci for IRW28 were identified as: Sai-1/Sai-1, Sbn/Sbn, Sci-2/Sci-2, Sdn/Sdn and Sen/Sen. Our results suggest that IRW28 (O. rufipogon) has the neutral aleles for pollen fertility at the Sb, Sd and Se loci, and these aleles have a good affinity with indica and japonica rice. These neutral alleles provide valuable gene resources to overcome the inter-subspecific hybrid pollen sterility in rice.
23655160|We investigated patterns of volatiles of several allopatric and sympatric species of the Ophrys fusca group and one species of the O. mammosa/sphegodes group pollinated by either Andrena nigroaenea or A. flavipes, using electrophysiology (gas chromatography coupled with electroantennography; GC-EAD) and chemical analyses. We found 52 GC-EAD active compounds, mainly saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbons with chain lengths of 21 to 31, aldehydes, an ester, and an acid. Based on the relative proportions of all GC-EAD active compounds, the investigated species were compared using various statistical methods (ANOVA, principle component analyses, discriminant function analyses and cluster analyses). Our results show that Ophrys species with the same pollinator  independent of their phylogenetic relationship  use the same volatiles for pollinator attraction. Differences between the species mainly involve different quantitative patterns of volatiles. Our results are in congruence with previous studies that showed different odour bouquets to be responsible for the specific attraction of different pollinators and that alkanes and alkenes are most important for pollinator attraction.
43558680|In order to understand the evolution of the body plan characteristic of the unique aquatic Podostemaceae, seedlings of crustose-rooted species of the Hydrobryum clade, i.e., Hanseniella heterophylla, Hydrobryum loeicum, Hy. tardhuangense, Hy. vientianense and Thawatchaia trilobata, were studied by sectioning and scanning electron microscopy. In all the species the plumule/primary shoot and the radicle/primary root did not form in the seedling. The adventitious root formed exogenously from the lateral side of the hypocotyl and developed initially into a semicircular root, which became crustose during early seedling development. Tufted-leaves arose endogenously from the root. Within the context of the phylogeny of the Hydrobryum clade, we postulate an evolutionary scenario in which the plumule was lost at the divergence of the Hydrobryum clade from the Cladopus clade, much later than the radicle was lost at the divergence of the clade of Podostemoideae and Weddellinoideae from Tristichoideae. The seedling body plan, with the exogenous crustose root playing the role of a leading organ, common in the clade of Hanseniella, Hydrobryum and Thawatchaia, appeared after the divergence of Hydrodiscus with a branched shoot as a leading organ.
23673691|Automixis in the form of paedogamy or more rarely of autogamy is widely distributed among pennate diatoms.
23644037|Critical morphological synapomorphies have not been found in support of the Acoranan hypothesis, the molecular phylogenetic discovery that Acoranae are the basal monocots. The previously undetermined pattern of anther wall development in Acorus has been suggested to be one such character. Two main types of anther wall development have been recognized: 1) the "monocotyledonous" type, which characterizes both monocots and dicots, and 2) the "dicotyledonous" type, which is almost exclusively found among dicots. An anatomical study of anther wall development in Acorus was here undertaken using the electron microscope. Development of the anther wall in Acorus was found to be somewhat irregular or perhaps even intermediate between the two types although largely consistent with the "monocotyledonous" type. The presumed significance of anther wall development and other critical morphological characters to the Acoranan hypothesis in the absence of knowledge about the sister group to the monocots is evaluated.
43498291|Floral features used for characterization of higher-level angiosperm taxa (families, orders, and above) are assessed following a comparison of earlier (precladistic/premolecular) and current classifications. Cronquist (An integrated system of classification of flowering plants. Columbia University Press, New York, 1981) and APG (Angiosperm Phylogeny Group) (Bot J Linn Soc 161:105-121, 2009) were mainly used as the basis for this comparison. Although current circumscriptions of taxonomic groups (clades) are largely based on molecular markers, it is also important to morphologically characterize these new groups, as, in many cases, they are completely novel assemblages, especially at the level of orders and above. Features used in precladistic/premolecular classifications are often much more evolutionarily plastic than earlier assumed. A number of earlier neglected but potentially useful features at higher levels are discussed based on our own and other recent studies. As certain features tend to evolve repeatedly in a clade, it appears that apomorphic features in the strict sense are less helpful to characterize larger clades than earlier assumed, and rather apomorphic tendencies of features are more useful at this level.
43558206|Endemic island plant species with a narrow distribution are often, but not always, linked to low genetic variation within populations and a lack of differentiation among populations. Cedrus brevifolia is a narrow endemic island tree species of Cyprus. Its range is restricted to a single forest, divided into five neighbouring sites. This study, using biparentally inherited nuclear microsatellites and paternally inherited plastid (chloroplast) microsatellites, assessed the genetic variation of brevifolia within its sole population and the level of genetic differentiation among formed sites. The results from both markers showed high diversity (nuclear HT = 0.70; plastid HT = 0.93), strongly suggesting that the species did not experience severe bottleneck events or extensive genetic drift. Besides, the maintenance of a high genetic diversity in brevifolia may suggest that it originates from a widespread congener species. Significant genetic differentiation at nuclear (GST = 0.052) and plastid (GST = 0.119) markers was found among the formed sites. Remarkably, the relatively high genetic differentiation found at plastid markers was comparable to values observed in two widespread congener cedar species. The genetic differentiation probably occurred due to fragmentation of a previously uniform population. This would lead to the shaping of different genetic groups (Bayesian analysis) and to significant population substructure. Furthermore, significant values observed for both isolation by distance and large-scale spatial genetic structure could indicate ineffective gene flow among sites and the early geographical isolation of the more isolated sites from the core population.
23642841|European honeybees (Apis mellifera) were less efficient pollinators of Grevillea barklyana than nectar-feeding birds. Nectar-collecting honeybees did not contact reproductive parts of flowers. Pollen-collecting honeybees preferentially visited malestage flowers but rarely visited female-stage flowers. Fruit set on caged inflorescences that allowed access to honeybees but excluded birds was reduced by more than 50% compared to inflorescences that were visited by both types of visitors. Further, fruit set on caged inflorescences was less than on bagged inflorescences that excluded both birds and honeybees, indicating that pollen removal by bees decreased opportunities for delayed autonomous selfing in the absence of birds. Although fruit set was not pollen-limited at the study site, pollen removal by honeybees would decrease fruit set in small populations where birds are scarce. In addition, pollen removal by honeybees would reduce opportunities for outcrossing and reproductive success through male function. Although honeybees have been in Australia for insufficient time to have exerted selection on floral traits, evolutionary shifts in response to these animals are likely to occur in the future.
23642936|The genus Wolffia was surveyed electrophoretically at 14 allozyme loci. A total of 133 clones representing 10 of the 11 recognized species was examined. Genetic identities among most pairs of species are zero, with non-zero values ranging from 0.14 to 0.40. Wolffia angusta and the newly described W. neglecta show the highest similarity, and the former species has an identity of 0.14 with W. australiana. The next highest similarity (0.34) occurs between W. globosa of Southeast Asia and W. cylindracea of southern Africa, which until recently, had generally been viewed as members of the same species. Other species showing some common alleles are members of a complex involving W. arrhiza, W. columbiana, W. cylindracea, and W. globosa. Within W. arrhiza, plants from South Africa and Europe are easily distinguished electrophoretically because each contains unique alleles at two loci. Strains from other parts of Africa vary at these loci and are not totally distinct from either the plants from South Africa or from Europe. Species of Wolffia are much more divergent at allozyme loci than the majority of congeners of flowering plants. This suggests that the species are quite old and that the difficulties in distinguishing taxa morphologically are the result of reduction rather than lack of divergence due to recent speciation. Because of the lack of shared alleles between the majority of species pairs in Wolffia, enzyme electrophoresis provides limited resolution of species relationships in the genus.
23644085|Within population variation in plant density can affect reproductive success and breeding systems. We examined such effects in Listera cordata R. Br., a north temperate terrestrial orchid, in a subalpine population in Colorado, USA. Hand pollinations showed that L. cordata was self-compatible as all pollinations produced fruits. Cross-pollinations differed significantly from self-pollinations, and had a higher number of seeds per capsule and higher % of fertilized ovules. Together they could compensate for the transmission advantage of self-pollinations. Average number of flowers per inflorescence was 4.24.4 and average fruit set was 20.723.7%. By establishing 36 plots with varying plant densities (1, 4, 8 and 16) and emasculating all flowers in target plants of a set of 20 plots, we estimated density effects on fruit and seed production. Plant density had no effect on the amount of reproduction except in reduced seed production of highly dispersed plants. Our results suggest that inbreeding depression may be an important selective factor in L. cordata. Further studies are needed to define its role in the evolution of mating systems in this species.
23673871|The genetic variabiliy of five natural populations of Najas marina L., i.e. one diploid of subsp. marina (Europe), two of subsp. intermedia (Europe) and both a diploid (C. Africa) and a tetraploid (Middle East) of subsp. armata, has been estimated by means of electrophoretic studies. These populations differ in their morphology and karyotype. Emphasis is placed on the characteristics and status of a tetraploid cytotype from Merkaz Sappir (Israel). Almost all the variation observed is expressed in seed alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). The differences are in a unique allele of the Adh-2 locus and in the formation of novel heteromeric isozymes. Adh genes in seeds can be used as a marker for the autotetraploid character. The other enzyme systems tested failed in this respect. The genetic variability based on 23 loci is rather low. Nevertheless, the autotetraploid population has a higher or equal ratio of polymorphic loci than the related diploids. Cluster analysis illustrated not only that Najas marina subsp. marina has diverged much from subsp. intermedia and subsp. armata, but also showed the difference between the latter two taxa, as well as the intermediate position of the autotetraploid population.
23655634|The most distinctive feature of planet Earth is that, unlike any other world in this solar system, it is rich in biodiversity. Our own species, which evolved as part of the biosphere that sustains us, has the intelligence and curiosity to explore the world around us and to understand its complexity. Given the environmental challenges that lie ahead we have much to learn by exploring all aspects of biodiversity. One astonishingly informative field of investigation is palynology, the study of the pollen grains and spores of plants. These microscopic, self-contained biological units are surrounded by chemically resistant cell walls with distinctive structures and symmetry. They can provide insights into such fundamental questions as how and when plants first colonised the land or how the earth's vegetation has developed through geological time and on finer time scales. They provide phylogenetic evidence important in plant systematics and model systems for understanding plant development at the cellular level. This short voyage through the microscopic world of pollen grains and spores is a personal account of the interest and importance of these microscopic keys to understanding the earth's biodiversity.
23642732|Section Linopsis of the genus Linum is the largest and probably the most widespread of the five commonly recognized sections. Using a number of traits, but especially heterostyly, style union, development of false septa in the fruit, pollen morphology, and chromosome number, together with petal pigmentation, number of floral parts, and stigma shape, the section is divided into five subsections: Dichrolinum, with one series; Halolinum with one; Linopsis, with four; Keniense, with one; and Rigida, with two. Of these, subsect. Keniense and two series are new, the remaining four subsections and four series are published in a new rank. The inferred relationships of all of the groups and the general distribution of each are discussed. The section ranges from southern Europe and the Mediterranean region to India, eastern and southern Africa and throughout much of North and South America. The primitive species of the section are believed to be in the Mediterranean region.
23643657|This paper presents a DNA extraction method suitable for fresh, herbariumstored, lichenized and other fungal specimens. The method is fast and reliable, comparatively inexpensive and is suitable for obtaining PCR amplification quality DNA from large numbers of samples in a short time. The method has been tested with over 300 samples of Ascochyta, Phyllosticta, Ramalina, Parmelia and Physconia. Amplifiable fungal DNA was extracted from pur cultures, leaf lesions, whole thalli and dissected "only-fungal" sections of lichenized fungi. In addition, the method has proved suitable for use with herbarium specimens of both lichenized and non-lichenized fungi, stored as dried pure cultures or dried infected plant material.
23643662|Haploid Osmunda japonica (2n = x = 22), produced in tissue culture by induced apogamy and acclimatized in vivo, was cytologically compared with the diploid sister plant. The haploid had smaller guard cells than the diploid and a numerically exactly reduced karyotype. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) using an rDNA probe showed four hybridization signals (one large and three small ones) in the haploid and eight signals (two large and six small ones) in the diploid plant. These results represent a cytological proof for the origin of the haploid plant by apogamy without recognizable chromosome aberrations.
23673849|Seven species of Catapyrenium and one of Placidiopsis are reported from Greenland. Five taxa, viz. Catapyrenium michelii, C. norvegicum, C. squamulosum, C. waltheri and Placidiopsis pseudocinerea are new to the area. Taxonomy, distribution and ecology are briefly discussed. A key to species and distribution maps are presented. Catapyrenium norvegicum is described as new.
23655658|Deschampsia antarctica E. Desv. is the only monocot in the Antarctic floristic zone. We evaluated the phylogenetic relationships of Deschampsia antarctica to other grasses using parsimony as the optimality criterion. Five different sets of gap, transversion and transitions costs were explored to analyze the effect of parameter choice on the phylogenetic results. Both internal transcribed spacers (ITS1 and ITS2) and the 5.8S subunit of nuclear ribosomal DNA were included in the analysis. A total of 43 species were analyzed including seven species of Deschampsia. Deschampsia antarctica forms a well supported group with five species of Deschampsia. Deschampsia does not appear monophyletic as D. flexuosa (L.) Trin. is not included in this clade. The clade to which D. antarctica belongs is sister to some Aveneae in all analyses. This study is the first contribution that evaluates the phylogenetic position of D. antarctica in relation to other species of Deschampsia.
23662390|The hitherto poorly known Cape endemic genus Ezosciadium (Apiaceae) is revised. This genus is highly distinctive and can be distinguished from other annual genera of the region by its pilose vegetative and reproductive organs, the sessile compound umbels with conspicuously unequal rays, the non-inflexed petal tips, the relatively small, highly-inflexed stamens which appear almost sessile, and the prominent carpophores which persist on the plant. The fruit are unusual in the presence of druse crystals around the carpophore and tanniniferous substances in the epidermal cells of the ribs. The phylogenetic position of the genus within the subfamily Apioideae was assessed using rbcL, rps16 intron (2 new accessions) and nrITS (1 new accession) sequence data. Ezosciadium capense was found to form part of an early diverging lineage within the subfamily, sister group to the Annesorhiza clade and possibly also closely related to the genera Molopospermum and Astydamia. A comprehensive taxonomic revision, including typification, detailed descriptions, geographical range and illustrations, is presented.
43558129|The structure of the floral nectaries of Cornus alba was studied using light microscopy as well as scanning and transmission electron microscopy. It was found that the nectary gland of white dogwood had the shape of a fleshy ring surrounding the base of the style of the inferior ovary. Nectar secretion occurs through slightly depressed stornata, evenly distributed in the epidermis of the nectary. The nectariferous tissue is composed of over a dozen layers of heterogeneously structured cells. Between groups of cells with a typical structure, characteristic for the secretory tissue, cells occur with degenerated content and a high degree of vacuolization. In the area of the nectary gland cells, no vascular tissue elements were observed. The nectary was irrigated by the vasculature of the flower receptacle.
23655225|The duration of pollen exposure and female receptivity in the winter flowering Helleborus bocconei Ten. and Helleborus foetidus L. were determined in the field. Experimental treatments were performed "in vitro" on cultivated flowers in order to investigate the abiotic factors regulating the patterns of pollen presentation and stigma receptivity. Correlation analysis with meteorological data in the field and the experimental results demonstrated temperature to be the main factor affecting the duration of anthesis and the number of anthers opening each day, whereas the duration of female receptivity mainly depends on whether or not pollination had occurred. This features may be an adaptation that allows biotic pollination under harsh environmental conditions.
23643256|The 4C DNA amounts of 86 species from Allium subgg. Allium, Rhizirideum, Bromatorrhiza, Melanocrommyum, Caloscordum and Amerallium show a 8.35-fold difference ranging from 35.60 pg (A. ledebourianum, 2n = 16) to 297.13 pg (A. validum 2n = 56). At diploid level the difference is 3.57-fold between A. ledebourianum (35.60 pg) and A. ursinum (127.14 pg). This shows that a significant loss and/or gain of DNA has occurred during evolution. On average subgg. Rhizirideum and Allium have less DNA amount than subgg. Melanocrommyum and Amerallium. The distribution of nuclear DNA amounts does not show discontinuous pattern and regular groups. The evolution of genome size has been discussed in relation to polyploidy and genomes, heterochromatin, adaptive changes in morphological characteristics, phenology and ecological factors, and infrageneric classification.
23673822|10 new Turkish taxa are described: Arenaria eliasiana, A. sivasica, A. monscragus, A. angustifolioides; Campanula lycica; Scutellaria orientalis subsp. tortumensis; Stachys choruhensis, S. tundjeliensis; Calamintha caroli-henricana; Aristolochia rechingeriana, the latter two species named in honour of Karl Heinz Rechinger; Allium vuralii.
23673820|Galium serpylloides agg. comprises a group of locally endemic, disjunct and vicarious taxa in the (sub)alpine zone of the W. Himalaya, from W to E: G. gymnopetalum, G. lahulense, G. serpylloides s. str., G. saipalense, and G. nepalense. Four of these are new to science; G. serpylloides is newly typified. The main characters of the five species are compared and illustrated, their affinities and evolution are discussed, and a map of distribution is presented.
23656041|This note reports on an extraordinary polygamous population of Salix acmophylla from Nahal Dishon, Israel. Remarkably, all individuals in this population are bisexuals, that is, they all contain typically female catkins (with some or without any male florets), typically male catkins (with some or without any female florets) and mixed catkins. The proportions of these three catkin types in populations are 36.3%, 46.8% and 16.9% respectively. The fertility of these willows was found to be poor: no mature seeds were found at all and mean pollen stainability was low as 15.6%. The possible reasons for this semi-sterility are discussed.
43558244|Turnera ulmifolia constitutes a well-studied polyploid complex with allo- and autopolyploid species ranging from 2 to 8x. Flow cytometry was used to determine nuclear DNA content, and to estimate 2C-and 1Cx-values with the aim of analysing the genome size in Turnera in terms of polyploid speciation. The 2C-value and 1Cx-value were evaluated in 12 species of the T. ulmifolia complex. Nuclear DNA content was estimated by flow cytometry of nuclei stained with propidium iodide. The 2C DNA content ranged from 1.38 to 1.83 pg in diploids, from 2.67 to 3.96 pg in tetraploids, from 2.73 to 4.31 pg in hexaploids, and from 3.53 to 5.90 pg in octoploids. The 1Cx-value ranged from 0.44 to 0.99 pg. The Turnera ulmifolia complex showed an increase in total DNA content in the ploidy level, but not in the expected proportion.The general tendency indicated a decrease in the 1Cx-value with increasing chromosome number, with T. grandidentata 4x being an outstanding exception. The 1Cx-values in the allooctoploids T. aurelii and T. cuneiformis differed by 1.6-fold from each other, probably as a result of different evolutionary histories following divergence from the last common ancestor.
23643685|The concern of the present analysis is the hypothetical 'cryptopolyploidy', a concept basically of historical interest only, but discussed again by Battaglia (1996) in a recent treatment of the term and its historical background. Melinossi (1935), while reanalyzing erratic observations on the crucifers Bunias erucago and B. orientalis by Jaretzky (1928a), found 2n = 14 in both species but twice the chromosome volume in B. erucago compared with B. orientalis. Melinossi considered 'cryptopolyploidy' in B. erucago, i.e., she discussed pairwise fused chromosomes on a tetraploid basis or endoreduplicated (and thus binemic) chromosomes in this species. Cryptopolyploidy has also been claimed by Pannocchia-Laj (1938) in Vinca difformis (Vincaceae). Battaglia (1996) criticized the term 'cryptopolyploidy' because, in his opinion, the genuinely polyploid status of these plants is not hidden ('crypto') but phenotypically (from herbarium specimens) recognizable. He coins the term 'phenopolyploidy', i.e., "phenotypic polyploidy disagreeing with the karyotype numerically evalated". We measured genome size of B. orientalis and B. erucago (both 2n = 14) by Feulgen densitometry and propidium iodide flow cytometry. Surprisingly, B. erucago (the annual species with 2.13 pg, 1 C) turned out to have only 0.81-fold the DNA amount of B. orientalis (the perennial species with 2.64 pg, 1 C). Therefore, any kind of genetically polyploid status in B. erucago is out of the question. Only speculative significance can be ascribed to the terms 'cryptopolyploidy' and 'phenopolyploidy'.
23642765|The exine architecture and some quantitative parameters (polar and equatorial axes and their ratio) of pollen grains allow a clear discrimination between groups of Mediterranean oak species. For the differentiation of species within groups only the quoted parameters prove useful.
23671750|Liparis indiraii spec. nova from India is close to L. alata A. Rich. and L. atropurpurea Lindl.
23656643|The so called revolute margins of the corona in the genus Hoya (Marsdenieae) are homologous to the anther skirt. The anther skirt is primarily formed of two latero-basal lobes of the anther. In Hoya these lobes are fused with the underside of the basal process of the staminal corona and have evolved into a dominant structure of the gynostegium. Embedded in the anther skirt is the nectar tube, formed by the basal elongation of the guide rail. In many species, however, the function of nectar secretion for pollinator reward has been transferred to the anther skirt beneath the basal process of the corona. A survey of the Marsdenieae shows that the potential for developing an anther skirt is present in several other genera as well, though nowhere has it evolved into such elaborated structures as in Hoya.
23664813|Fifteen taxa of the genus Cicer L. growing naturally in Turkey and out-groups were classified by phylogenetic and cladistic analysis. Taxa of the genus Cicer and the out-group taxa belonging to the closest genera Phaseolus L., Vicia L., Lathyrus L. and Ononis L., which are placed in Phaseoleae, Vicieae and Ononideae tribes, respectively, were used in molecular studies in order to derive their phylogenetic relationships. Morphological, palynological and seed characters were used on the basis of 143 traits. The micromorphological characters of seed and pollen grains were revealed by SEM. Lathyrus L. and Vicia L. species were used as out-groups for numerical analysis. Ten specimens were used for the measurements of metric characters related to the morphological structures of the taxa used for statistical analysis via PAUP and NTSYS-pc packages. Phylogenetic relationships between species and populations of the same species growing in different locations and their variations were determined using molecular methods performed on regions of the Inter Simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR). DNA was isolated from the collected samples, using modified CTAB protocols. ISSR was used for phylogenetic fingerprinting. The data were analyzed with NTSYS-pc package. Standardized data were used to generate a dendrogram that revealed the phylogenetic relationships of the taxa. Geographic distribution of the Cicer taxa appears to be closely related to the Anatolian Diagonal. As a result of this study, four new endemic taxa were added and evaluated for the first time.
23674853|Sexual reproduction is the main reproduction mechanism among the 14 wild Iberian taxa of Lactuca, Prenanthes, Cicerbita, and Mycelis. High levels of self-fertilization occur in Lactuca, as well as facultative and obligate xenogamy. Xenogamy is strongly correlated with large capitula having blue or bright yellow colouration, high P/O ratios, and long anthesis, whereas self-fertilization is correlated with smaller capitula having pale yellow colouration, small P/O ratios, and short anthesis. Large variations occur in P/O index among taxa showing similar fertilization mechanism, probably in relation to the number of florets included in flower heads. Interesting differences in reproductive systems have been detected between subspecies of Lactuca viminea.
23645269|Reciprocal herkogamy is known to promote intermorph-pollination in distylous species, which are generally self- and intramorph-incompatible. Legitimate crossing rates are also influenced by pollinator foraging strategy, which determines most of the pollen flow in natural populations. This study reports on the floral morphology, compatibility relations and pollination biology of Psychotria nuda (Cham. and Schltdl.) Wawra in the Atlantic rain forest, southeastern Brazil, based on floral measurements, hand-pollination experiments and focal observation of floral visitors. It was found that P. nuda does not present an exactly reciprocal herkogamy, however, this morphological trait in P. nuda is as good as in most of Rubiaceae. Reproductive experiments showed compatibility relations similar to those frequently observed in distylous species. The hummingbirds Ramphodon naevius and females of Thalurania glaucopis were the main pollinators of P. nuda, presenting the traplining foraging strategy, which seems to maximize intermorph crosses in P. nuda flowers. These hummingbirds pollinated P. nuda flowers sequentially throughout the flowering period.
23654258|Trypsin inhibitor gene sequences were used to investigate the phylogenetic relationships among Theobroma and Herrania species, considered as sister-groups, with particular interest on the monophyly and infra-generic relationships of Theobroma. The presumed amino acid sequences of 23 analyzed samples, from 11 Theobroma and three Herrania species, comprising all sections from both genera, demonstrated a high similarity with a previously characterized T. cacao Kunitz trypsin inhibitor. The trypsin inhibitor gene accumulated mutations at faster rate than prior analyzed nuclear or chloroplastic genes. None of the sequences presented introns. The phylogeny of the trypsin inhibitor sequences was congruent with the phylogenetic hypotheses of the Theobroma and Herrania species based on morphology. The monophyly of Theobroma was not strongly supported, corroborating previously described absence of obvious synapomorphies for Theobroma. The species grouped consistently according to genus and section. The monophyly of all Theobroma sections was supported, except for section Glossopetalum, which was paraphyletic to section Andropetalum. Evidences sustain that T. mammosum may be included into section Glossopetalum. The potential use of trypsin inhibitor gene sequences in phylogenetic studies of Theobroma was demonstrated.
23673105|Pollen grains of tribe Sanguisorbeae (Rosaceae, Rosoideae) were examined using scanning electron microscopy to identify useful characters, test taxonomic and phylogenetic hypotheses among genera, and elucidate pollen character evolution based on a molecular phylogeny. Aperture number, aperture structure, pollen shape, and exine sculpturing were variable within Sanguisorbeae and were used to delineate six pollen types. Four types (IIV) were observed only in subtribe Sanguisorbinae whereas two types (VVI) were found only in subtribe Agrimoniinae. Pollen grains of tribe Sanguisorbeae were generally subprolate to spheroidal in shape, had operculate or pontoperculate apertures, and had three apertures, except for Margyricarpus (tetraperturate). Exine sculpturing within Sanguisorbinae represented variations of striate, verrucate, rugulate, and perforate patterns often with microechinate sculpturing. Striate exine patterns and prolate shapes characterized the pollen of the Agrimoniinae, except for the microechinate-verrucate pattern and subprolate to spheroidal shapes observed in Hagenia. Pollen characters are most useful at the generic level and, when mapped on to a molecular phylogenetic tree of the tribe, are concordant with a monophyletic Agrimoniinae and a clade comprising Margyricarpus + Acaena + Polylepis + Cliffortia + Sanguisorba in the Sanguisorbinae. Outgroup comparison indicated that operculate colpi, three apertures, and polymorphism for striate or microverrucate exines represented primitive states for tribe Sanguisorbeae.
23664803|Onosma atila-ocakii sp. nova [Boraginaceae, Sect. Asterotricha (Boiss.) Grke] is described and illustrated as a new species. It grows in a steppe on magnesite rocks in Eskiehir province (Central Anatolia, Turkey). Its description, photographs, and an identification key including related species (O. roussaei DC. and O. aucheriana DC.) are given. Diagnostic morphological and palynological characters of closely related species are compared and discussed. The characteristic features of indumentum and pollen structure are studied using a light microscope. The new species distinctly differs from related species because of its setose and adpressed retrorsepilose indumentum, 23 rows of setules on foliar tubercles, 1014 mm white petals and 2.12.6  1.72 mm dark brown nutlets. The International Union for Conservation of Nature threat category and observations on the ecology of the populations are noted. The distribution map of this new species and closely related species in Turkey is presented.
23643507|Form-Pfs sieve-element plastids were found in Triplaris, Ruprechtia, and Coccoloba (Polygonaceae) while other genera of the family and those studied from the often associated Plumbaginaceae contain S-type sieve-element plastids. The rareness of form-Pfs plastids among the angiosperms, their similarity to the peculiar form-P3fs plastids of the Chenopodiineae, and the comparatively small plastid diameters measured for all forms present in the Caryophyllales, Polygonales, and Plumbaginales suggest close relationships between these taxa. The restriction in Polygonaceae of form-Pfs plastids to the closely allied tribes Triplareae and Coccolobeae is discussed with regard to both the intrafamilial and ordinal phylogeny, and also considering possible connections to the only magnoliidaean Pfs-taxon Canella.
23656035|Nucleotide sequence variation of the chloroplast rbcL gene of 78 representatives of Jungermanniales suborders Jungermanniineae and Cephaloziineae and five outgroup species is analysed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood. Jungermannia s.l. is resolved in three independent lineages corresponding to Jungermannia subgen. Jungermannia, Liochlaena and Solenostoma (incl. subgen. Plectocolea). Based on the outcome of the phylogenetic analyses we adopt a narrow generic concept of Jungermannia and accept the genera Liochlaena and Solenostoma. Contrary to proposed hypotheses, the monospecific genus Eremonotus is not nested in Scapaniaceae, Gymnomitriaceae, Cephaloziellaceae or Cephaloziaceae but placed in a clade together with Jungermannia s.str., Liochlaena, Delavayella and Leiocolea. These genera possess female involucres consisting solely of leaf tissue (perianths). Related clades comprise genera with female involucres originating at least partly from stem tissue. We propose to include Delavayella, Eremonotus, Jungermannia s.str., Leiocolea and Liochlaena in Jungermanniaceae based on the phylogenetic reconstructions of cpDNA variation and the distribution of perianths in Jungermanniales suborder Jungermanniineae.
23673772|In the light of the discovery of hydroxylated pulvinic acids in the gasteromycete Pisolithus arhizus, a possible relationship with the boletoid fungi and their relatives is explored. Biogenetic inter-relationships are indicated, including the host range of Apiocrea chrysosperma, and the distribution of phenylpyruvate-derived pigments offered in schematic form.
23660122|A comparative anatomical and FTIR study on the leaves of 18 disputed species of section Tuberculata (Camellia, Theaceae) combined with their biogeographical distribution have been conducted in order to investigate interspecific variations which are useful in species taxonomic treatment and systematic evolution. All Tuberculata species have bifacial and hypostomatic leaves, contain sclereids and crystals. Multivariate analysis of leaf FTIR data shows a visualization of the degree of affinity among the species in this section, which is consistent with the distribution of synonymous Tuberculata species indicated in the biogeographical maps. Our study indicates that the combination of characters based on leaf comparative anatomy, FTIR analysis and biogeographical distribution are useful in species revision. The results determine 11 species in section Tuberculata and provide the evolutionary trends in Tuberculata, which originated in three-river region of Guizhou province and spread to Guizhou, Guangxi, Yunnan, Sichuan, Chongqing, Hunan and probably Hubei provinces of China.
23673220|Detailed descriptions of the wood and bark anatomy of five representative Centella species are presented. The wood structure is reported for the first time for this genus. Scalariform perforation plates occur frequently in the secondary xylem of two Centella species (Centella difformis and C. rupestris) indicating a phylogenetic relationship with Apiopetalum and Mackinlaya, the only other genera of Apiaceae where this feature occurs regularly and not merely as an aberration. This character commonly occurs in two other families of Apiales, Araliaceae and Myodocarpaceae, supporting the presumed basal position of subfamily Mackinlayoidae within Apiaceae. Surprisingly, no axial secretory canals occur in the secondary phloem of Centella species, apparently a unique feature within the suborder Apiineae, which comprises Araliaceae, Myodocarpaceae, Pittosporaceae, and Apiaceae. Other noteworthy characters of Centella include subepidermal origin of the periderm, tangential expansion of rays in dilated secondary phloem, poorly sclerified or non-sclerified collapsed secondary phloem, small intervessel pits with groove-like sculptures near their apertures, diffuse and marginal axial parenchyma, and a predominance of upright and square cells in the ray composition, all of which may be of value in exploring infrageneric relationships.
23643511|The pollen morphology of the taxa belonging to the genera Aetheorhiza Cass., Launaea Cass., Reichardia Roth and Sonchus L. in the Iberian Peninsula has been studied with light and electron microscopy. The pollen is 3(-4)-zonocolporate and echinolophate (without polar lacunae, but in general with prelacunae), with equatorial ridges and 1520 lacunae: 34 poral, 68 abporal and 68 paraporal. Small to medium size, P  E = 1936  2342 m; sometimes two different sizes have been found. Exine 39 m thick and ornamentation microreticulate and echinate. The results clearly show the relationships between genera.
23642465|There is a close association between bowl-shaped cactus flowers and the nitidulid beetles Carpophilus pallipennis (Say) and C. floralis Er. in North America. The nature of this association has not been clear. It now appears that the cactus flowers are brood sites of the Carpophilus beetles. The benefits in the association are one-sided, inasmuch as the beetles provide little or no pollination service for the flowers.
23664354|Abildgaardieae poses several taxonomic challenges, because there is no general agreement on its circumscription and infrageneric divisions. With the objective of providing data with taxonomic and phylogenetic value, the structures of the inflorescences of Abildgaardia, Bulbostylis, and Fimbristylis were analyzed following the methodology and terminology of Troll's school. The inflorescences studied are polytelic and may comprise only the main florescence or may also show a paracladial zone below it. They are unispiculate, anthela-like, or capitate, and can be terminal, pseudolateral, or in an intermediate position. Normal and prophyllar branching patterns are observed. The acropetal reduction in the order and number of ramifications, and the length of bracts and prophylls were recorded. Foliose structures with an intermediate form between a setaceous bract and a glume are frequently found at the spikelet base. Hypotheses of the homology of these structures, and a list of inflorescence characteristics and character states are presented. The branching pattern of the inflorescence seems to be the main characteristic with potential taxonomic and phylogenetic implications at genus level. The rest of the characteristics could possibly be useful for infrageneric divisions.
23655669|This is the first comparative study of floral structure of the recently established new family Picrodendraceae (part of Euphorbiaceae s.l.) in Malpighiales. Nine species of eight (out of ca. 28) genera were studied. Female flowers are mainly completely trimerous, and in such flowers the perianth consists of one or two whorls of sepals. A floral disc (which probably functions as a nectary) is mostly present. The free parts of the carpels are simple (unbranched) in all ten species studied. Each carpel contains two crassinucellar, anatropous or hemitropous, epitropous (antitropous) ovules, which are covered by a large obturator. The inner integument is thicker than the outer (equally thick in two species studied), and commonly both integuments form the micropyle. In mature ovules the vascular bundle commonly branches in the chalaza, with the branches extending to the base of the inner integument but not entering it. A nucellar cap and, less often, a nucellar beak is formed. Floral structure supports the close relationship of Picrodendraceae with Phyllanthaceae and Euphorbiaceae s.str. within Malpighiales, as suggested (but not yet strongly supported) by some recent published molecular analyses. These three families share a unique combination of characters, including (1) unisexual, apetalous trimerous flowers, (2) crassinucellar ovules with a nucellar beak, (3) a large obturator, and (4) explosive fruits with carunculate seeds.
43558593|The history of the cultivated peanut involves natural evolution and human domestication. Despite the economic importance of peanuts and the many studies carried out on their cytology and genetic variability, current knowledge on the origin of the cultigen is still very limited compared with other major crops. In this context, we analyzed the polymorphisms of some non-coding cpDNA regions and the non-transcribed spacer of the nuclear 5S rDNA of the six botanical varieties of the two subspecies of the cultigen, of the wild tetraploid A. monticola, and of the nine diploid species so far proposed as the most probable relatives of the peanut, to gain more insight into the genetic and geographic origin of this legume crop. The analysis showed complete homology in the sequences of all the peanut and A. monticola samples. These results strongly suggest that the six botanical varieties of the cultigen have a single genetic origin and that A. monticola should be regarded as the immediate tetraploid ancestor from which A. hypogaea has arisen upon domestication.Here we provide results from the first sequence-based analysis in which the maternal (A. duranensis) and paternal (A. ipansis) wild diploid species of the AABB tetraploids of Arachis were unequivocally identified. Not only that, but the combination of cpDNA and NTS 5S rDNA identified the population of A. duranensis from Rio Seco, Salta, Argentina, and the only known population of A. ipaensis from Villa Montes, Tarija, Bolivia, as those to which the genome donors of the peanut could have belonged.
23655918|Minthostachys (Benth.) Spach (Labiatae) from Andean South America was long held to be closely related to Macaronesian Bystropogon L'Hr. or to North American Pycnanthemum Michx. The possibility of a close relationship to elements of South American Satureja/Clinopodium s.l. is here proposed for the first time, and a phylogenetic analysis of nrITS data is employed to test the competing hypotheses. For Minthostachys and its putative closest relatives, the possible evolution of morphological characters is investigated with a cladistic analysis. The results suggest that Minthostachys is nested in a clade of South American Mentheae, and probably in the former genus Xenopoma Willd., a group of small-flowered, bee-pollinated species currently included in Clinopodium L.. Minthostachys is considered monophyletic based on nrITS data and its scandent habit.
23671736|Genetically fixed polarities in pollen tetrad development lead to different, but family-specific arrangements of particular ektexine elements in the two unrelated angiosperm families Ericaceae and Onagraceae. In the former, the so-called viscin threads are inserted on the distal, in the latter on the proximal pollen face only. Despite their diametrically opposed configurations, the viscin threads of the two families have attained identical functions in pollination ecology by convergent evolution.
23674764|Karyological data are given for 56 palm taxa coming from all 6 palm subfamilies. In 11 genera and 17 species, chromosome numbers are reported for the first time. Most chromosome numbers in palms range between 2n = 36 and 2n = 26 in dysploid series. Species of the same genus usually exhibit identical chromosome numbers which additionally may be constant in larger groups of closely related genera (Coryphoideae trib. Corypheae with nearly always 2n = 36, Arecoideae subtribes Euterpeinae and Roystoneinae with 2n = 36, Arecoideae subtrib. Butiinae with mostly 2n = 32). Polyploidy among palms is of minor significance but the endemic Madagascan genus Voanioala (2n = 606  3) is the most striking exception.  With respect to structure of interphase nuclei and longitudinal differentiation of prophase and metaphase chromosomes, the palm family is highly differentiated. Euchromatin types with different prophase condensation properties and fluorochrome and C-banding patterns of heterochromatin permit a discrimination of several subfamilies on the nuclear level (Arecoideae, Ceroxyloideae, Nypoideae, Phytelephantoideae, Calamoideae). Arecoideae and Ceroxyloideae, and Nypoideae and Phytelephantoideae have some features in common. Subfam. Coryphoideae s. l. is a non-uniform group.  Nuclear characters among palms exclusively found in recent Coryphoideae subtrib. Thrinacinae link palms with other monocotyledons. Most probably, such a nuclear condition represents an ancestral state in the evolution of palm genomes within subfam. Coryphoideae s. l., but also the conspicuous nuclear characters of the other modern palm subfamilies appear to be derived from a similar starting point, since transitional character states are still present in subfam. Calamoideae and some taxa of subfam. Arecoideae. Early karyoevolution in palms obviously did not involve numerical change of the ancient chromosome number of 2n = 36 which started subsequently, as a dysploid reduction in numerous parallel series, independent in subfam. Coryphoideae (2n = 36 to 2n = 28), Calamoideae (2n = 36 to 2n = 26), Ceroxyloideae (2n = 34 to 2n = 26), and Arecoideae (2n = 36 to 2n = 28). Possible mechanisms of karyological change are discussed.  Karyological characters are compared to morphological, ecological, taxonomical, and chorological features, and give some new insight into older and more recent phases of palm evolution. (1) Strong deviations in vegetative or floral morphology are often accompanied by major karyological differences, and sometimes the direction of advancement can be traced through intermediate stages. (2) Apart from Coryphoideae subtrib. Thrinacinae, the strongest concentration of apparently original karyological traits is found in the more basal members of each subfamily. (3) The most successful and actively radiating colonizers of the forest floors in evergreen tropical forests which belong to completely different subfamilies (Old World Licuala, New World Chamaedorea and Geonoma), appear to be very advanced karyologically.
23656061|Floral nectaries have contributed to the systematics of different taxonomic groups. Since those of the neotropical genera included in subfamily SalacioideaeCheiloclinium Miers, Peritassa Miers, Salacia L. and Tontelea Aubl.have different forms and positions, we explored their anatomy to delimit more precisely the genera of subfamily Salacioideae. Buds and open flowers of six species were treated following the usual techniques in plant anatomy. The obtained data were helpful in characterizing the floral nectary anatomy of the studied species. Furthermore, some features such as form, position and surface of nectaries; form of their epidermal cells; presence and distribution of stomata; occurrence of idioblasts containing druses in the nectariferous parenchyma; and absence of nectary vascularization can contribute to the taxonomy and phylogeny of the Salacioideae studied. In most of the studied species the nectar is probably released by both the stomata and the nectary epidermal surface. In Cheiloclinium cognatum, the structure acknowledged as nectary is actually a vestigial tissue and the functions of attracting and rewarding pollinators has phylogenetically migrated to the stigmatic region. The druses and phenolic substances observed in the nectariferous parenchyma probably help defend flowers against herbivore attacks. The minute size of the nectaries of Salacioideae may explain the absence of vascularization. The floral nectaries of Salacia elliptica are epithelial while those of the other species are mesenchymal.
23674737|The variation pattern of a large population of Tocoyena formosa in Botucatu, state of So Paulo, Brazil, and of other samples throughout the species area was analysed by morphometrical, statistical, ecological, and phytogeographical methods. Excessive variation and the remarkable coherence of two different character syndromes within this species strongly suggest that it has originated as a homogamic (diploid) hybrid complex. Possible parental species are T. brasiliensis, mainly from the Amazon region, and T. viscidula from the dry caatinga region of NE. Brazil. T. formosa has a much more extensive geographical range and greater ecological plasticity, ranging from the Amazon basin and the Guyanas throughout the Central Brazilian Plateau and from NE. to S. Brazil and Paraguay. Three (partly sympatric) varieties are distinguished within T. formosa, i.e. var. formosa, var. pseudobrasiliensis (var. nov.), and var. microdon (comb. et stat. nov.). A provisional tax-onomic revision, key, and conspectus covers the 12 accepted species of Tocoyena with blunt flower buds and ovate obtuse corolla lobes (group A, including T. formosa); their distribution is shown in a map.
23643937|O. tuberosa is an Andean crop that belongs to the worldwide distributed genus Oxalis. On the basis of their chromosome numbers the following species (O. herrerae, O. lotoides, O. medicaginea, O. mollis sima.. O. oblongiformis, O. peduncularis, O. spiralis, O. subintegra, O. tabaconanensis, O. tuberosa, O. villosula) were placed in an alliance. To analyse five species belonging to the Oxalis tuberosa alliance (O. oblongiformis, O. peduncularis, O. tabaconanensis, O. tuberosa and O. villosula) and a distant member of the genus (O. articulata), we examined 253 AFLP markers generated after amplification using four primer combinations. Within the alliance, two main clusters were observed, one containing the diploid species and the other group with the polyploid species O. tuberosa. All of the primer combinations assayed showed the same clustering pattern. Grouping of accessions of each species by data analysis corresponded largely with their previous taxonomic classifications. The concordance between the clustering of the individuals belonging to different species obtained in this work show the appropriateness of AFLP markers for this type of study. The results obtained are in good agreement with the cytogenetic hypothesis and showed a clustering behaviour, which is similar to the one previously obtained using ITS rDNA nucleotide sequence comparison.
23654173|Phylogenetic analysis of rbcL cpDNA sequences for 34 members of the tribe Spermacoceae s. lat. indicates that the African genera Amphiasma, Conostomium, Manostachya, Pentanopsis and Phylohydrax form a strongly supported clade, characterised by basal placentation and heterostyly. This is a new position for the sea shore genus Phylohydrax that has previously been associated with Diodia and Spermacoce in Spermacoceae s. str. Amphiasma is not monophyletic as the two samples of A. gracilicaule included form a strongly supported clade with Pentanopsis fragrans. A new taxonomy is therefore proposed, where the previously monotypic Pentanopsis is circumscribed as a genus of two species in north-eastern tropical Africa, whereas Amphiasma is treated in its original sense as a genus of about eight species confined to south-central tropical Africa. The new combination Pentanopsis gracilicaulis is made.
23673209|Turkish oregano (Origanum onites L.) is a major aromatic plant that belongs to Labiatae family. In this work fourteen Turkish oregano clones have been characterized chemically and genetically. Essential oil obtained by hydro-distillation was characterized by gas chromatography. Genetic variation was determined by use of random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Variation of essential oils in the selected clones was subjected to cluster analysis, and two chemotypes, carvacrol and thymol, were identified. Carvacrol was found to be the main component in all clones except clone-661, the main component of which was thymol. The oregano clones were divided into three main groups by clustering on the basis of RAPD markers. Genetic similarity values among the oregano clones ranged between 0.49 and 0.73 which was indicative of a low level of genetic variation. Clones originating from locations close to each other had similar RAPD markers. Correlation analysis of the genetic distance matrix and the Euclidian distance matrix revealed no significant correlation between them. The results also indicated that there is no relationship between genetic structure of the selected clones and essential oil composition.
23643373|A guild of 20 late spring- and early summer-flowering species of Iridaceae, Geraniaceae and Orchidaceae is pollinated partly or exclusively by the long-proboscid fly Moegistorhynchus longirostris (Nemestrinidae). This large-bodied fly, active in late spring and early summer, has mouthparts 4070 (90) mm long and forages for nectar from a variety of species. These plants share a suite of convergent floral features including a straight or weakly curved floral tube usually 5070 mm long but sometimes to 90 mm, relatively short petals or tepal lobes coloured white, cream or salmon with reddish nectar guides, and often violet or red anthers and pollen. Flowers of most species with these characteristics are zygomorphic with the stamens either arcuate (most Iridaceae) or declinate (Geraniaceae and some Iridaceae). The flowers are odourless and typically secrete large amounts of nectar of relatively constant sugar concentration, mostly 2429%, with a high sucrose:hexose ratio. Guild members utilize five separate sites of pollen deposition on the body of the fly, typically utilizing different deposition sites when two or more co-occur, indicating strong selection to aviod pollen contamination. M. longirostris is restricted to the west coast of southern Africa and at least 8 species appear to depend exclusively on the insect for pollination. The remaining species in the guild are pollinated by one or both of the long-proboscid flies Philoliche gulosa and P. rostrata (Tabanidae) over other parts of their range. Species and races pollinated entirely by M. longirostris have longer floral tubes which makes nectar unavailable to other insects, including other species of long-proboscid fly. The only insect with mouthparts long enough to forage effectively on these long-tubed flowers is M. longirostris and this fly must be considered a keystone species in the ecosystems in which it occurs.
43558345|Clematis s.1. (including Archiclematis and Naravelia) is a genus of approximately 300 species with cosmopolitan distribution. The diversity of its pollen was surveyed in 162 taxa belonging to all infrageneric groups of Clematis s.1. Pollen morphology was investigated by use of scanning electron microscopy to identify useful characters, test taxonomic and systematic hypotheses, and elucidate pollen character evolution on the basis of the molecular phylogeny. Clematis pollen is small to medium (14.8-32.1 m  14.2-28.7 m), oblate to prolate (P/E = 0.9-1.4) in shape. The apertures may be tricolpate and pantoporate sometimes with 4-zonocolpate and pantocolpate pollen grains as transitional forms. The tricolpate pollen grains are predominant and occur in all the sections of the genus, whereas pantoporate pollen grains can be found in sect. Tubulosae, sect. Viorna, sect. Viticella, and Naravelia only. Phylogenetic mapping of aperture types reveals that the pantoporate pollen type may be the apomorphy in the genus and evolved several times. The surface ornamentation in all taxa studied is similar and characterized by microechinae evenly distributed on the microperforate tectum. The size and density of spinules on the tectum vary greatly but successive in the whole genus. According to the character syndromes of the ornamentation, separating sect. Brachiata from sect. Meclatis is supported. Though pollen morphology may contribute to investigation of problematic taxa, the taxonomic value of pollen morphology is limited at the species level.
43496730|Variation of 80 multistate morphological characters and isozymes encoded by 13 loci among 23 vetch species of the type subgenus of the genus Vicia in comparison with V. dumetorum, V. pisiformis and V. sylvatica of the subgenus Cracca is described and analyzed with cladistic parsimony and phenetic neighbour-joining methods by using two different ways of coding. Morphological analyses showed the subgenus Vicia monophyletic and revealed subgroups in a general agreement with traditionally recognized sections, except showing V. faba nested within section Narbonensis and ambiguity in the position of V. lathyroides and V. bithynica. Parsimony analysis of orthozymes as presence/absence characters revealed in the subgenus two basic monophyletic clades: 1) V. faba and three species of the section Peregrinae, V. michauxii, V. aintabensis and V. peregrina, in one subclade linked with species of the Narbonensis and Hyper chusa sections together with V. pisiformis of subgenus Cracca in a second subclade; 2) species belonging to sections Vicia, Sepium, Pseudolathyrus and Lathyroides together with V. sylvatica of the subgenus Cracca. Neighbour-joining analysis of orthozymes revealed the same two basic groups, differing only in the relative position of some species in subclusters. Both isozyme analyses showed paraphyly of the subgenera Vicia and Cracca. Parsimony analysis of orthozymes as character states of isozymes yielded a largely unresolved strict consensus cladogram of 209 most parsimonious trees, and reweighting of characters failed to produce a stable tree. Phylogenetic congruence and discordance among morphological and isozyme analyses, coding ways, homoplasy and weighting of characters are discussed.
23645095|Cochlearia macrorrhiza is one of the most highly endangered species in Central Europe and less than five individuals survived at its natural stand in a lowland area between the Eastern Alps and the Carpathians. Amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) confirmed the status of C. macrorrhiza as a distinct taxon. Lowland C. macrorrhiza does not bridge the distribution of montainous and alpine Cochlearia species from the Eastern Alps and the Carpathians genetically, and C. macrorrhiza represents a separate lineage which evolved from diploid Cochlearia as C. excelsa in East Austrian high alpine regions did. Another species considered in this study, the Romanian C. borzaeana is more closely related to C. tatrae from the High Tatra mountains than to C. pyrenaica from Slovakia or Austria and the AFLP results suggest a single origin of alpine 2n = 42 taxa. Genetic differentiation within and between populations is highly structured geographically, and the AFLP data favour a former widespread distribution of C. pyrenaica in mountainous regions and a parallel evolution of high alpine taxa in the Eastern Alps and the Carpathians, respectively.
23642906|Fluorochrome chromosome banding is applied for the first time to 15 samples of five cultivated Capsicum species, all with 2n = 24, and allows a detailed analysis of the karyotypes (Tables 23, Fig. 8). Banding patterns differ between cytotypes, species and groups, reflecting the dynamics of chromosomal differentiation and evolutionary divergence. Taxa have from 1 to 4 NOR-bearing satellited chromosome pairs and exhibit increasing numbers of terminal (rarely intercalary and indistinct centromeric) heterochromatic fluorescent bands. Amounts of heterochromatin (expressed in % of karyotype length) increase from the group with C. annuum (1.802.88), C. chinense (3.915.52), and C. frutescens (5.55) to C. baccatum (7.307.56), and finally to C. pubescens (18.95). In all taxa CMA+ DAPI (GC-rich) constitutive heterochromatin dominates, only C. pubescens has an additional CMAo DAPI+ (AT-rich) band. The fluorochrome bands generally (but not completely) correspond to the Giemsa C-bands. Structural heterozygosity can be demonstrated but is not prominent. The independent origin of at least three evolutionary lines leading to the cultivated taxa of Capsicum is supported.
23644977|The dynamics of daily nectar secretion was studied in 28 local pear cultivars in a Hungarian cultivar collection and three main types were distinguished. 1. Cultivars secreting nectar continuously are the most favourable for pollinators, rewarding them both with nectar and pollen. 2. Cultivars with discontinuous nectar secretion have sufficient insect attraction only if anther dehiscence is continuous during the day. In the first two types nectar secretion peaks usually appeared at 9:00 or 10:00, 14:00 or 15:00 and 18:00 or 19:00, with 45-hour intervals. 3. In some cultivars no nectar secretion was observed in any or some of the studied years, these being the least attractive for pollinators. The cultivars studied did not necessarily show the same type of nectar secretion dynamics in each season. From the viewpoint of pollination it is also of high importance, in which developmental phase nectar secretion begins.
23645205|The Vittiaceae are a small family of aquatic mosses that are defined based on gametophytic traits whose interpretation has led to conflicting taxonomic arrangements. Phylogenetic analyses of two cpDNA regions, trnL-trnF and atpB-rbcL, indicate that Vittia is nested within the Amblystegiaceae s. str., suggesting that the family Vittiaceae should not be recognized. Platylomella lescurii appears nested within the Thuidiaceae/Leskeaceae. This suggests that the series of character states shared by Vittia and Platylomella, including a differentiated leaf border, short laminal cells, stiff stems, and a thick costa, are convergent features that arose independently in unrelated lineages of aquatic Hypnales. Within the Amblystegiaceae, phylogenetic analyses of the two cpDNA regions combined with ITS sequence data show that Hypnobartlettia, Vittia elimbata spec. nov., V. pachyloma, and V. salina, despite their strong morphological similarity to aquatic Amblystegium species, form a clade that is sister to the Drepanocladus/Pseudocalliergon complex. This combined clade is unresolved at a polytomy that includes Amblystegium serpens and a clade including all the other Amblystegium species. The occurrence of A. serpens outside the strongly supported clade including other Amblystegium species suggests that A. serpens may be better accommodated in a distinct genus. Amblystegium serpens is the type species of Amblystegium and thus retains the name. The other species are accommodated in their own genus, Hygroamblystegium, including H. fluviatile, H. humile comb. nov., H. noterophyllum, H. tenax, and H. varium.
23655110|Dactylorhiza sambucina is a European terrestrial orchid that lacks a pollinator reward. Throughout most of its range, populations contain yellow- and purple-flowering individuals, but in western Germany, monomorphic yellow populations predominate. As elsewhere, bumblebee queens are the most important pollinators in these populations, and mean fruit set over two years was 19%, well within the range reported from dimorphic populations. Multivariate analyses of plant and population traits, including plant height, leaf number, flower number and density on the spikes, flowering population density, and nearest neighbor distance, showed that only individual plant height and population density had a unique positive effect on pollen export; female function was unrelated to height or population density. The positive effects of dense spacing of flowering conspecifics and tall size appear due to greater visual attractiveness. Good visual exposure may also explain that flowers higher up on the spikes, in spite of opening late in the season, had higher male reproductive success than early flowers.
23669873|Mallomonas mangofera was frequently found in hualves, lakes and baados of the Chilean lake district in July 1981. Observations of the fine structure of the scales with both transmission and scanning electron microscopy strongly suggest that specimens with a well developed network and conspicuous macropores on the shield belong to a separate forma, M. mangofera f. foveata f. n. An emended description of the type species and the general characteristics of the M. mangofera group are given. Three other taxa, M. mangofera var. sulcata var. n., M. mangofera f. gracilis f. n. and M. alveolata sp. n. are also described.
23669035|Seminal and stomatal morphology of three succulent halophyte genera (Sarcocornia, Halocnemum and Arthrocnemum) around the Mediterranean basin and surroundings areas were investigated. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) investigations showed well-different seminal coat ornamentations among the studied taxa. Both Arthrocnemum macrostachyum and Halocnemum strobilaceum do not show trichomes. Conversely, the species Sarcocornia perennis and S. fruticosa can be easily identified by the presence of long curved hairs against papillae or short conic hairs, respectively. Because most of the herbarium vouchers of Sarcocornia lack seeds, and thus the permanency of seeds on plants is quite short, an alternative vegetative character as stomata was also studied using SEM and light microscope. The detailed stomatal morphological features were analysed for the first time to infer taxonomic relationships among these perennial halophytes. Stomata are constantly paracytic for the four studied species, but two morphotypes were identified related to the level arrangement of guard cells, named as sunken and prominent stomata, respectively. Sunken stomata are found in A. macrostachyum, H. strobilaceum and S. fruticosa, whereas prominent stomata are only characteristic for S. perennis. Besides, we have found somehow relationships among the ecology of these plants based on the frequency of floodings and the observed morphology and density of stomata. Nonetheless, each observed morphotype is a stable character, without any influence of climate or environmental conditions. As a result, seminal coat ornamentation and stomata morphology are the two most reliable characteristics for discriminating Mediterranean halophytes taxa, especially related to Sarcocornia taxa.
23673202|Empirical studies of post-pollination barriers to gene flow between recently diverged plant species are important to understand ecological processes underlying speciation. Using greenhouse and common garden experiments, we investigated the strength of post-pollination barriers that restrict or prevent gene flow between two subspecies of Antirrhinum: Antirrhinum majus pseudomajus and A. m. striatum. The two are distributed parapatrically but share the same major pollinators (bumblebees), and form narrow hybrid zone in many areas of southern France and northern Spain where they come into close contact. We assessed the strength and symmetry of mating barriers and their homogeneity among populations by comparing fruit set, seed set and offspring performances between intra- and inter-subspecific crosses performed in parental and hybrid populations. Although all populations showed high levels of self-incompatibility, we found very little evidence for barriers to gene flow once pollen had been transferred to the stigma. We suggest that reproductive isolation in this system mostly involves barriers related to processes occurring before pollination, with little or no role of post-pollination barriers.
23642778|Saponaria stenopetala sp.n. in Eastern Afghanistan is close to S. pachyphylla Rech. f. and S. subrosularis Rech. f.The nearest allies of S. makranica sp.n. from Western Pakistan and Southeastern Iran are S. kermanensis Bornm. and S. floribunda (Kar. & Kir.) Boiss.
23656034|A molecular study of the wetland pleurocarpous moss Hamatocaulis vernicosus (Mitt.) Hedens, based on the ITS region, the trnL-trnF region, and rpl16 revealed two cryptic species. One of these is widespread in Europe, and was also sampled from several localities in Minnesota (United States). The other cryptic species occurs only south of the boreal zone in Europe, and was in addition sampled from single localities in Peru and northernmost Asiatic Russian Federation. Although it seems likely that the southern species colonized parts of Europe from southern refugia after the last glaciation, its wide distribution outside Europe indicates that the speciation event is unrelated to the European glacial history. No correlations could be found between variation in habitat preferences (pH and electric conductivity) and molecular variation.
23642849|Electrophoretic analysis of seed albumins (PAGE) covered 173 accessions representing nine species of Vicia sect. Faba. The number of albumin bands recorded in particular species varied from three in V. eristaloides to 23 in V. faba; in total, 38 bands were distinguished in the investigated material. The examined species, except V. eristalioides, showed intraspecific variation with respect to the number and relative staining intensity of albumin bands; individual variation was especially marked in V. faba and in V. narbonensis. Hierarchical clustering of the investigated taxa was based on Bhattacharyya distances calculated from the electrophoretic data. The taxa grouped in three main clusters. Vicia faba and the rather remotely related V. kalakhensis formed one cluster. The second cluster was composed of V. narbonensis distantly related to V. hyaeniscyamus. The third cluster comprised three subgroups: 1. V. johannis, V. galilaea and V. serratifolia, 2. V. eristalioides, and 3. V. bithynica. The obtained results are discussed with reference to taxonomic relationships in Vicia sect. Faba.
23642320|Several insect- and wind-pollinated species of the genus Acer have been investigated and compared in regard to pollen stickiness. The considerable amount of very inhomogeneous pollenkitt in A. negundo remains on the loculus wall or is deposited inside the exine cavities; thus the pollen is powdery. The small amount of non-homogeneous, granular pollenkitt in A. campestre mostly disappears into the exine cavities; only small droplets appear on the tectum surface; the pollen stickiness therefore is only moderate. On the other hand, A. pseudoplatanus and A. opalus produce an average amount of granular pollenkitt, which is deposited partially inside the exine and partially as a slender film on the tectum surface; in both the pollen is sticky. A. platanoides contains a great deal of granular and homogeneous pollenkitt; it does not only fill up the exine cavities but also extends as a thick,  homogeneous, non-granular layer of pollenkitt over the tectum surface; therefore, the pollen is very sticky.The characteristics of pollen agglutination together with other aspects of floral biology illustrate the wide spectrum between unequivocal entomophily and anemophily within the genus Acer: While A. negundo is anemophilous and A. platanoides is entomophilous, the remaining species investigated have a pollination syndrome with entomophilous and anemophilous features and are thus amphiphilous. The evolution within Acer is tending not only towards dioecy, but also towards anemophily.
23643013|Paleobotanical studies indicate that several isolated and systematically depauperate groups of extant woody dicotyledons originated in the Mid Cretaceous. The Chloranthaceae had probably differentiated into insect-pollinated (Chloranthus and Sarcandra) and wind-pollinated (Ascarina and Hedyosmum) forms by the end of the Albian, and leaves referable to the Trochodendrales are known from the Albian and Cenomanian. In the latest Cretaceous and Early Tertiary, extinct representatives of the Trochodendrales included Nordenskioldia and the Joffrea-Nyssidium complex. The Platanaceae also differentiated before the end of the Albian and initially had insect-pollinated, unisexual flowers with five carpels or stamens. Some of these features persisted in the platanoid lineage until the Early Tertiary, and during the Paleocene and Eocene the Platanaceae included forms with elliptical, palmate and pinnate foliage. The history of the Platanaceae suggests that several features of the reproductive morphology of extant taxa may have arisen in association with a trend toward wind pollination. In the Mid Cretaceous, platanoid foliage partially intergrades with pinnate Sapindopsis and pedate Debeya-Dewalquea leaves suggesting a close relationship between Platanaceae and Rosidae and Fagaceae respectively. The Chloranthaceae, Trochodendrales, and Platanaceae all occupy a somewhat intermediate position between the Magnoliidae and Hamamelidae and are of considerable interest with respect to their role in the initial radiation of nonmagnoliid ("higher") dicotyledons.
23674815|Prostrate ecotypes of Ulex gallii, an atlantic species with autumnal flowering, grow on capes in Brittany (France). U. europaeus, a widespread species, has winter and spring flowering, but some plants can precociously flower in autumn, so that hybridization can be possible between these two species in areas where their ranges overlap. By using different isoenzyme systems and crossed immunoelectrophoresis obtained with seed proteins, it is possible to consider plants with intermediate morphological characters between U. gallii and U. europaeus as natural hybrids.
23673817|The distribution of Cystopteris fragilis and C. dickieana in Afghanistan within the Flora Iranica region is studied. The latter species, for some ecological reason, occurs more frequently at higher altitudes. In both taxa higher polyploid levels also occur at high altitudes. The phenomenon can be correlated with the boreal-arctic distribution pattern. Polyploidism and spore-size classes are briefly mentioned as well as possible ecological adaptations. Evolutionary differentiation within both taxa are complex and still unknown.
23655168|Cassia L. sensu lato, a large heterogeneous genus of flowering plants, occurs naturally in the tropics around the world. Recent works based on floral morphology have supported a division of this genus into three genera, namely Cassia L. s. str., Chamaecrista Moench and Senna Mill. In order to investigate this new classification, 508 specimens of 18 taxa of the genus Cassia s.l. grown in Thailand were analyzed using cluster analysis and canonical discriminant analysis. The total 32 vegetative and reproductive morphological characters were employed in these analyses. In cluster analysis, Cassia s.l. can be separated into four groups, respectively viz. Chamaecrista, Senna alata, Senna and Cassia s / str. The four-cluster grouping is discussed. From a canonical discriminant analysis using the four-cluster grouping as a priori groups, it can be concluded that Cassia s. str., Senna, and Chamaecrista are indeed distinct taxa. The three most important characters that separate the three genera are filament length, fruit length, and ovary stalk length. These quantitative characters, together with some qualitative characters, were useful in constructing an identification key to these genera. Among the three genera, it was also found that Senna is rather a heterogeneous taxon. The difference between the studied species was discussed.
43558060|The pollen morphology in 15 species representing five genera in the tribe Lithospermeae of Boraginoideae (Boraginaceae) has been investigated and illustrated using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The tribe Lithospermeae is very diverse in pollen morphology. The pollen grains are 10.4-41.8  7-33.1 m in size with subspheroidal, prolate, cocoon, dumbbell, and ovoid shapes. The pollen apertures are of five types: 3-colporate, 3-syncolporate, 4-8-colporate, 4-6-syncolpate, and 6-7-colpate types. The exine ornamentations are generally smooth or rugulose, sparsely echinulate, and rarely rugulate. Based on pollen morphology, we developed a key to identify the genera of the tribe Lithospermeae, compared the pollen apertures among tribes of Boraginoideae, explained the evolutionary trends of the pollen grains, and discussed the taxonomic position of the tribe Lithospermeae. The palynological data suggest pollen of the eurypalynous type and support the proposal that the tribe Lithospermeae is in the primitive position of the subfamily Boraginoideae, and Echium Linn, is in the tribe Lithospermeae rather than in a novel tribe. Our observations have application potential for identification of pollen fossils of the tribe Lithospermeae.
23673144|Inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers were used to investigate the levels and pattern of genetic variation within and among populations of Pteroceltis tatarinowii Maxim., an endangered plant endemic to China. Of the 76 primers screened, 11 produced highly reproducible ISSR bands. A total of 118 bands were presented from the 11 selected primers across all individuals of five natural populations, corresponding to an average of 10.73 bands per primer. The size of the ISSR bands ranged from 200 to 2,000 bp. The percentage of polymorphic loci at the population level ranged from 77.97 to 86.44%, with an average value of 82.54%. Genetic differentiation among populations was revealed based on Nei's genetic diversity analysis (19.41%) and the nonparametric analysis of molecular variance (20.62%). The Mantel test showed a significant positive correlation between geographic distance and genetic distance (r = 0.7758, P < 0.05), indicating a role of geographic isolation in shaping the present population genetic structure of P. tatarinowii. The size of the natural populations of P. tatarinowii was noted in field observations to be very small, chiefly owing to habitat destruction and overexploitation in the past decades. Therefore, effective measures for preserving genetic diversity of this species at the population level are needed and should include protecting its natural habitats and increasing the numbers of individuals. To meet the commercial demand for this species, P. tatarinowii plantations and cultivation facilities should be established as an alternative source of raw materials.
23644981|We studied nectar characteristics during the long flowering period (late June to end of November) in two populations of Linaria vulgaris (L.) Mill. spontaneously growing in the Botanical Gardens of Siena University (Tuscany, central Italy). The two populations were close to each other but they differed in blooming period. Plants of population 1 sprouted in May and flowered from the end of June to the end of September. Population 2 sprouted at the end of August and flowered from September to the end of November. Differences in nectar production and composition were found between and within populations. Flowers of population 1 produced a very small amount of nectar (not collectable) that remained on the nectary surface. The quantity of nectar increased in late September, when each flower produced 23 l of nectar that flowed into the spur. Total sugar concentration was 175.8 mg/ml in young flowers. Flowers of population 2 produced 58 l of nectar with a total sugar concentration of 200.9 mg/ml in the young stage. In bagged senescent flowers nectar volume decreased in both populations and nectar sugar concentration decreased down to 11.6 mg/ml in population 2 and increased up to 289.6 mg/ml in population 1. For both populations, the decrease in nectar volume in bagged flowers may have been due to water loss by evaporation. In population 2, the decrease in sugar concentration may have been due to nectar reabsorption that was never observed in population 1. Nectar variability is discussed in relation to insect visits and seed set.
23673802|Changes in the rules are contraproductive and in contradiction to the Preamble of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature (Voss & al. 1983), especially if the consequences are insufficiently researched before binding, basic, retroactive alterations are introduced. The most confusing and upsetting alterations concern those accepted at Sydney with regard to the starting point rule, Art. 13.1 (d). It is recommended that Proposal 42 (Taxon 1984) be accepted at Berlin.
23673837|5 new taxa of Habenaria, namely H. bougainvillae, H. elongata R. Br. var. leptophylla, H. ensigera, H. rechingeri and H. trichoglossa, are described and illustrated, with reference to affinities to related Australian and Indo-malayan species. The occurrence in New Guinea of several Habenaria spp. typical for a savanna-like vegetation, led to look more thoroughly at these taxa : H. elongata R. Br. and H. ochroleuca R. Br., considered so far to be endemic in Northern Australia, and H. khasiana Hook, f., hitherto only known from southeastern Asia.
23674551|A world revision of the genus Crossidium Jur. recognizes 11 species, which are described and discussed in the context of important taxonomic characters. An identification key is provided. C. asirense Frey & Krschner is reduced to synonymy with C. davidai Catcheside, and the geographical range of C. laevipilum Ther. & Trab. is extended to Europe. Phylogenetic trends are interpreted on the basis of two main evolutionary lines associated with the presence or absence of hyaline hair-points on the leaves. A twelfth species is transferred to Microcrossidium Guerra & Cano, gen. nov., as M. apiculatum (Magill) Guerra & Cano, comb. nova, because of differences in stem anatomy, peristome configuration, and spore morphology.
23656084|This study examined the detailed pollen morphological structures of sixteen Hypericum taxa (four endemic, twelve non endemic) including eight sections showing the natural distribution in Turkey: H. sect. Ascyreia (H. calycinum L.), H. sect. Heterophyllum (H. heterophyllum Vent.), H. Sect. Taeniocarpium (Hypericum confertum Choisy subsp. confertum, H. venustum Fenzl, H. linaroides Bosse), H. sect. Drosocarpium (H. montbretii Spach, H. bithynicum Boiss.), H. sect. Crossophyllum (H. adenotrichum Spach, H. orientale L.), H. sect. Olympia (H. olympicum L. subsp. olympicum), H. sect. Origanifolia (H. origanifolium Willd., H. avicularifolium Jaub and Spach subsp. depilatum (Freyn and Bornm.) Robson var. depilatum, H. avicularifolium Jaub. and Spach subsp. byzantinum) and H. sect. Hypericum (H. tetrapterum Fries, H. perforatum L., H. triquetrifolium Tura). These taxa were studied under light microscope and scanning electron microscope for the first time. Of the taxa studied, H. tetrapterum has the smallest pollen grains (on average 15.8517.20  15.4516.05 m); and H. olympicum subsp. olympicum the largest grains (on average 22.9023.10  21.4022.10 m). The pollen grains of 15 taxa are subprolate and one taxon is prolate-spheroidal. The regular pollen grains of all 16 taxa are 3-zonocolporate. Ornamentation is microreticulate; lumina regularly spaced in eight taxa, tectum perforatum; tectal perforations regularly spaced in seven taxa and tectum perforatum; and tectal perforations grouped together in one taxon. Endoaperture is cruciform porus, with short lateral and meridional extensions in ten taxa, cruciform porus, transversally elongated, with very small lateral extensions in one taxon and lalongate colpus in five taxa. Basic pollen types are ten taxa in type X, five taxa in type IV and one taxon in type II.
23644340|A literature review of 34 families of flowering plants containing at least one species pollinated primarily by beetles is presented. While the majority of species are represented by magnoliids and basal monocotyledons specialized, beetle-pollinated systems have evolved independently in 14 families of eudicotyldons and six families of petaloid monocots. Four, overlapping modes of floral presentation in plants pollinated exclusively by beetles (Bilabiate, Brush, Chamber Blossom and Painted Bowl) are described. Chamber Blossoms and Painted Bowls are the two most common modes. Chamber Blossoms, found in magnoliids, primitive monocotyledons and in some families of woody eudicots, exploit the greatest diversity of beetle pollinators. Painted Bowls are restricted to petaloid monocots and a few families of eudicots dependent primarily on hairy species of Scarabaeidae as pollen vectors. In contrast, generalist flowers pollinated by a combination of beetles and other animals are recorded in 22 families. Generalist systems are more likely to secrete nectar and exploit four beetle families absent in specialist flowers. Centers of diversity for species with specialized, beetle-pollinated systems are distributed through the wet tropics (centers for Brush and Chamber Blossoms) to warm temperate-Mediterranean zones (centers for Painted Bowls and a few Bilabiate flowers). It is unlikely that beetles were the first pollinators of angiosperms but specialized, beetlepollinated flowers must have evolved by the midlate Cretaceous to join pre-existing guilds of beetlepollinated gymnosperms. The floras of Australia and western North America suggest that mutualistic interactions between beetles and flowers has been a continuous and labile trend in angiosperms with novel interactions evolving through the Tertiary.
23664815|Helianthemum gonzalezferreri and Kunkeliella subsucculenta, two endangered endemic species from the Canary Islands, were analysed to determine the levels and structure of genetic diversity in their natural populations. The mean value of Shannon's diversity index for H. gonzalezferreri and K. subsucculenta were I = 0.315 and I = 0.331, respectively. AMOVA and Bayesian analysis showed high genetic differentiation between populations in H. gonzalezferreri (Fst = 0.297). This genetic differentiation was graphically shown with the principal component analysis (PCA), in which the majority of individuals were distributed into two groups. Contrarily, K. subsucculenta populations showed a considerable degree of gene exchange revealed by Bayesian cluster analysis and PCA. The genetic differentiation between the two H. gonzalezferreri populations suggests different management strategies for each population. Translocation between the two natural populations of K. subsucculenta, to increase genetic variation, would not mean outbreeding depression, since both populations share the same genetic pool.
23674516|The systematics of the aquatic fern genus Azolla Lam. is revised at the supraspecific level. Published morphological data are reviewed, and cytological and cladistic analyses of the genus conducted, enabling a discussion of the putative evolutionary trends in the genus, and a revision of the current taxonomy. A phylogenetically more acceptable subgeneric and sectional classification is proposed, viz. subg. Azolla sect. Azolla (comprising A. filiculoides Lam., A. rubra R. Br., A caroliniana auct. non Willd., A. microphylla auct. non Kaulf. and A. mexicana Presl), subg. Azolla sect. Rhizosperma (Mey.) Mett. (comprising A. pinnata R. Br.), and subg. Tetrasporocarpia subg. nov. (comprising A. nilotica Decne. ex Mett.).
23656039|Flowers of Tupidanthus show an extreme case of floral polymery among asterids. Floral development and gynoecium structure have been examined. The floral meristem has a complex folded shape. The tiny calyx is initiated as a continuous ring primordium. The corolla is initiated as a lobed ring and develops into a calyptra. All stamen primordia appear simultaneously as a single whorl. The carpels, also in a single whorl, tend to alternate with the stamens. Some Schefflera species related to Tupidanthus are also studied. The flower of Tupidanthus is interpreted as a result of fasciation. Further investigation should determine whether mutation(s) in gene(s) of the CLAVATA family are responsible for the fasciation here. The significance of Tupidanthus for understanding spatial pattern formation in flowers of Araliaceae, and both functional and developmental constraints in angiosperm flowers with a single polymerous carpel whorl are discussed.
23673713|An igap forest near the confluence of Rio Tarum Mirim (Tarumzinho) and Rio Negro has been studied. It is a typical ectotroph forest with a raw humus layer and suppressed litter decomposing activity by Higher (i.e., carpophore-producing) Fungi. The number of the latter is about one-fifth of that observed in the (anectotrophic) terra firme forest. All ectotrophically mycorrhizal fungi observed belonged in three families: Amanitaceae, Boletaceae, Russulaceae. Leguminosae are dominant, and of these Aldina latifolia and Swartzia cf. polyphylla were demonstrably ectomycorrhizal. The scarcity of mineral nutrients in the soils of igap, campinarana and campina is overcome by direct cycling through ectomycorrhizae. This is in contrast to other black- and white-water inundated forest communities in Amazonia.
23674481|The pollen morphology of 29 species of Odontites and related genera was examined by light and scanning electron microscopy. Three major pollen types differing fundamentally in exine sculpturing were found. In the parasitic tribe Pedicularieae retipilate sculpturing is the most widespread type representing a plesiomorphic character state from which the two other types are derived. Of these, reticulate sculpturing is confined to Odontites, whereas a complex retirugulate pattern was found only in the monotypic Near East genus Bornmuellerantha. Within the retipilate and the reticulate major types eight minor types were distinguished based on the differential correlation of exine surface morphology, size, shape and amb form. The pollen data are generally well correlated with macromorphological features and furnish important taxonomic characters at the genus  as well as at the species-level.
23674697|The pollination biology and breeding systems of Kielmeyera coriaceae and K. speciosa, two sympatric woody species common in the cerrado vegetation of C. Brazil, were studied. Both species have similar nectarless, polystemonous "Papaver-type" flowers which are visited by a similar spectrum of insects, though they bloom in different seasons and are thus phenologically isolated. Large carpenter bees seem to be the most important pollinators and these and other bees effect "buzz pollen" retrieval despite the fact that anthers are not poricidal. Both species of Kielmeyera possess strong xenogamous breeding systems. The presence of staminate flowers and andromonoecy in K. coriacea, as well as the longevity of K. speciosa flowers are discussed as alternative strategies to improve pollination success and reproductive efficacy.
23654174|The reproductive biology of Zeyheria montana was studied through field observations of flower visitors and floral events, controlled manual pollinations, and observations of pollen tube growth and ovule penetration by fluorescence microscopy. Analysis of secretory areas of the nectar chamber was made by flower dissections and histology of serial sections. The flower lasted 68 days, but pollen exposure and stigma receptivity occurred only up to the end of the first and second days, respectively. Pollination was effected by several species of hummingbirds, especially Colibri serrirostris. The flowers present a rudimentary, non-functional disc, and secretion of nectar is performed by corolla-borne glandular trichomes. Only hand cross-pollinated and natural-pollinated flowers set fruits. Artificially self-pollinated and non-pollinated flowers dried off after anthesis without presenting any swelling of the ovary. Almost all the ovules in selfed and crossed pistils were penetrated 96 h after pollination. However, a delay in ovule penetration in self-pollinated pistils was verified, which indicates the occurrence of late-acting self-incompatibility.
23660115|Mature seed samples of twenty-four Boraginaceae taxa collected from their natural habitats in Turkey were analysed by GC for total oil content and fatty acid composition. The range of total fat in the taxa varied between 7.0 and 35.7%. The amounts of palmitic (16:0) and stearic (18:0) acids determined were 5.6517.81 and 1.475.08%, respectively. Mono-unsaturated fatty acids were in the range 8.8355.32% for oleic, 0.226.21% for eicosenoic, 0.048.94% for erucic, and 0.082.71% for nervonic acid. Poly-unsaturated fatty acids were between 1.41 and 68.44% for linoleic, 0.12 and 43.0% for -linolenic, 0.04 and 24.03% for -linolenic, and 0.02 and 14.59% for stearidonic acid. Total saturated (9.323.7%), mono-unsaturated (10.5973.28%), and poly-unsaturated fatty acids (13.9168.78%) varied substantially. Total unsaturated fatty acids ranged from 70.12 to 90.29%. There were significant differences between fatty acid profiles at taxa (P < 0.05) at genera levels, based on mono-unsaturated and poly-unsaturated fatty acid concentrations (P < 0.05). Segregation at the generic level by principlecomponent analysis was accomplished based on nine major fatty acids. The fatty acid patterns, their relative proportions, and quantities of unusual fatty acids as additional biochemical markers seem to be useful in the taxonomy of Boraginaceae at generic and infrageneric levels. All taxa are, in general, rich in linoleic and -linolenic acids as essential fatty acids for dietary reference intakes. Seed oils of Symphytum, Anchusa, and Trachystemon orientalis for -linolenic acid and Echium for both -linolenic and stearidonic acid may be evaluated as alternative wild sources.
23643441|Different criteria have been suggested for decisions on character state recognition for morphological characters showing continuous variation from taxon to taxon. A method proposed by Mishler and De Luna seeks to recognize as many character states as the groups of taxon means that are revealed by an analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by multiple range tests. We apply this method as a guide in decisions of selecting taxonomic characters in species of the Bletia reflexa complex. Seven species of the complex, represented by 156 individuals belonging to 54 populations, were the terminal taxa of the study. Character state codes were assigned to 20 characters. These characters together with 12 non-quantitative characters were incorporated into cladistic analyses. Results indicate that the complex is monophyletic only under one outgroup combination.
23643358|Genetic variability was estimated by enzyme electrophoresis in 239 Belgian clones from the Salix alba-S. fragilis complex. This morphological complex suggested a high frequency of hybrids. To test this hypothesis, the clones were pooled as a single co-adapted species complex and secondly as belonging to either species, i.e. being S. alba-like or S. fragilis-like. The standard genetic variability measures showed higher values for the complex than for the separate species. However, the observed mean heterozygosity was lower in the putative hybrid complex than for each of the species separately. The fixation indices were more variable at the species level and indicated that most S. fragilis locations appeared fixed for lap-1, whereas no fixation occured in S. alba locations. Averaged at the regional (i.e. catchment) level, this difference between the two species remained and values ranged from 0.457 to 0.617 in S. alba and were much higher, fixed homozygous or monomorph in S. fragilis. Hierarchical F-statistics revealed that most of the differentiation occured at the lower levels of localities and tributaries and that there was no further differentiation between catchments. Tributaries which are 1025 km in length were proposed as the most likely entities for further examination of putative hybridization and events of allelic fixations. By considering the two abovementioned approaches of data input, it could be suggested that most of the allozyme differentiation was between the species and less between the regions.
23674401|A new chromosome number (2n = 4) for Ornithogalum tenuifolium Delaroche is reported. The new chromosome race is postulated to have originated by a Robertsonian translocation from a Southern African chromosome race with six chromosomes, and represents thus the final step in a series of decreasing basic number of the species.
23674787|Pollination mechanisms within the genus Campanula were studied. Tests were undertaken to examine whether in vitro culture of pollen grains can serve as a useful tool for understanding the self- and cross-pollination mechanisms among species. Characteristics of pollen germination were interpreted in relation to mating system and floral biology. Four annual species (Campanula kremeri, C. dichotoma, C. afra, C. lusitanica), and two perennial species (C. rotundifolia and C. persicifolia) were investigated. In the annual species pollen germinability is controlled by (1) the age of pollen and/or (2) in what position pollen is deposited around the style. Correlations were found between pollen germinability and mating system in three of the four annual species. No correlations were found either between germinability and age of pollen or position on the style in the perennial species. Pollen germinability reached its maximum in the middle of the male phase in all species, except for C. dichotoma, which had a decreasing germinability throughout anthesis. The germinability was lowest at the time of stigma receptivity for all species except for C. persicifolia, where the stigma did not develop as long as pollen remained on the style. The pollen collecting hairs and pollen removal have been found to play an important role controlling the stigma development, thus affecting self-pollination. This was especially pronounced in C. persicifolia. Further studies will be undertaken to elucidate factors influencing pollination within the genus Campanula.
23673924|Inflorescence and floral structure of Petalonyx linearis are described to assist in understanding homologies among the diverse flowers of Loasaceae. The inflorescence consists of racemose axes, along which each individual flower is recaulescent with its subtending leaf. Both floral vascularization and appendage initiations show a set of variations. The pseudomonomerous gynoecium may be derived from a triplacental condition. Nectary position, on a collar on which the perianth and androecium are inserted, appears homologous to the ovarian dome position of the nectary among other Loasaceae.
23673948|Three species which contain both gyrophoric and lecanoric acids and possess perithecioid ascomata are recognized in the genus Diploschistes. D. badius and D. gyrophoricus are described as new, while D. subcupreus is reduced to synonymy with D. sticticus. Two species occur in the southern hemisphere, while D. badius is found in N. America.
23671352|Due to precise evaluation of genetic diversity of Carthamus species, sixty-two genotypes consisting fifty-two from five wild (C. oxyacanthus M. Bieb, C. lanatus L., C. dentatus Vahl, C. boissieri Halcsy, C. glaucus M.B.) and ten from cultivated species (C. tinctorius L.) were selected for evaluation of the genetic diversity in Carthamus species. A total of 238 (81.2 %) polymorphic bands were detected by 12 SRAP primer combinations with an average of 22 bands per combination. Me4-Em1 and Me5-Em2 primer combinations were known as the most informative SRAP markers based on the PIC values (0.34) where they distinguished all studied Carthamus species. Cluster analysis classified all accessions into five main groups among which clusters containing cultivated individuals were distinctly separated from those containing wilds. The most and the least genetic variation based on analysis of molecular variance, were detected within (76.90 %) and among (22.84 %) groups, respectively. The obtained results suggested that C. dentatus, C. glaucus and C. boissieri species may be classified in one section including C. dentatus in one and C. glaucus and C. boissieri in another subsection. The results also revealed high genetic similarity between C. oxyacanthus and C. tinctorius despite their different morphological characteristics.
23642474|At least 560 species of flowering plants distributed in 64 genera and 16 families native to Southern Western Australia are pollinated by birds. This represents 15% of the total flora, and indicates adaptation to bird pollination is a major evolutionary force in this region.
23642208|The flagellar root system of zoospores in two species of Chlorosarcinopsis (C. minuta and C. spec.) has been studied in detail. The biflagellate zoospores show a cruciate root system, two of the four microtubular roots containing two microtubules, the other two four microtubules. The flagellar apparatus is otherwise identical with that of Chlamydomonas reinhardi as described by Ringo (1967). Evidence is presented that the genus Chlamydomonas is characterized by a bilateral symmetric root system (4-2-4-2) rather than a system with four equally numbered roots (i.e. 4-4-4-4). It is suggested that a root system with four identical cruciate roots is not present in any biflagellate algal cell. The taxonomic significance of cruciate root systems in green algae is discussed refering to the identical root systems of Chlorosarcinopsis and Chlamydomonas.
23674788|Allelic frequencies at the polymorphic enzyme loci IDH-1, IDH-2, LAP-1, and 6-PGDH-1 were determined in population samples of Abies alba from 5 different areas in Austria. The results reveal clear genetic differentiation between the eastern and the western provenances. Gradual frequency clines are observed with all four loci. The amount of variation, measured as average heterozygosity and genotypic diversity, is significantly higher in the west. The multilocus genotypes proved to be useful markers for the identification of clones. Functional differences with respect to substrate specifity were found for the two allozymes coded by the coexisting alleles of the IDH-2 locus.
23673907|Two contradicting theories have been proposed for the morphological nature of fagaceous cupules; the intercalary growth theory and the higher order dichasial branch theory. All the previous ontogenetic studies insist on the latter one, but the genera investigated have been rather restricted and have not covered all the cupule types. A comparative study of the ontogenetic development of cupules in Castanea crenata and Lithocarpus edulis, which are representatives of fundamentally different cupule types, revealed that both the theories are incomplete. In L. edulis, the higher order dichasial branches contribute to cupule formation along the anterior portions of the lateral flowers. However, along the adaxial portion of the central flower, the cupule develops as an intercalary growth, represented by rapid increase of tangentially oblong epidermal cells. In Castanea, intercalary growth is not clearly observable, for presumably, the flowers are surrounded by a welldeveloped partial inflorescence mound from the beginning of development.
23674607|PAGE and SDS-PAGE electrophoretic analysis of 31 accessions of 10 Old-World Lupinus species, 5 smooth-seeded and 5 rough-seeded, covered total seed albumins and 2S albumins isolated by a solid-phase extraction. PAGE albumin patterns showed a distinct difference between the smooth- and rough-seeded lupins. SDS-PAGE analysis of seed albumins revealed interspecific differences, mainly due to the 2S albumins. The differences were especially marked in the smooth-seeded species. In the rough-seeded lupins the following subgroups were distinguished: (1) L. atlanticus, (2) L. cosentinii and L. digitatus, (3) L. palaestinus and L. pilosus. Evidence was provided that the 2S albumin class contains conglutin , so far classified as a globulin. The results are discussed with reference to taxonomic relationships of the Old-World lupins and characterization of the lupin seed albumin fraction.
23672607|The investigation of new collections allow a more accurate circumscription of the genus Guatteriella which can be maintained as being closely allied to Guatteria and Guatteriopsis. A new species, G. campinensis, is added to the, so far, monotypic and little known Amazonian genus.
23645120|The role of the androecium differs in male and hermaphroditic flowers of the andromonoecious Solanum carolinense. Although the anthers in male, and in the much more abundant hermaphroditic flowers, are the same size and they bear the same quantity of pollen, these organs exhibit some specialization in the two flower types. Experimental results imply that significant roles of the male organs in hermaphroditic flowers are as sources of pollinator reward (pollen) in these nectarless flowers, at least as near-distance attractive elements, and as landing platforms. Evidence for the latter comes from experiments that showed bees visited flowers (alighted) that lack stamens with a much lower frequency. In contrast, the stamens of the male flowers function primarily as possible near-distance attractors and as a source of pollen for reproduction. Male flowers are seldom open concurrently with the hermaphroditic flowers on the same plant and thus the staminate flowers function primarily as pollen donors because they cannot often serve as attractants to hermaphroditic flowers.
23643006|After presenting the methodological bases of historical phytogeography (paleochorology; Fig. 1), a new paleographic map series is introduced (Fig. 2). They serve for ten examples of paleochorological analyses, in which the major phases of the development of a group in space and time are documented. In addition to purely tropical taxa (Nypa, Ctenolophon), others which originated in the warm and humid N. Tethyan belt (Bombacaceae p.p., Olacaceae p.p., Symplocos, Alangium, Nepenthes) or which presently occur as eastern N. American/E. Asian disjuncts (Sarcococca and Pachysandra) are discussed (Figs. 3  14). Finally, analyses of two very old angiosperm groups with complicated paleochorological patterns (Restionaceae and Ascarina, Chloranthaceae p.p.; Figs. 15  16) are presented.
23674809|Nuclear DNA amount of five species of Celosia ranging from 2x to 12x varies from 3.26 (2x) to 9.70 pg (12x). The diploid C. trigyna has twice as much DNA/basic genome as other taxa, which is commensurate with its taxonomic position and genetic isolation. There is insignificant variation in DNA/basic genome among 4x, 8x, and 12x taxa. Therefore, DNA/nucleus shows a strong positive correlation with ploidy level. The different accessions of 4x taxa show constancy of DNA amounts. There is no correlation of seed weight with DNA amount.
23674112|Morphological and seed protein analyses of 26 species of the genera Lolium, Festuca and Vulpia confirmed their close systematic affinities. Six inflorescence characters readily differentiated Festuca from Lolium. Protein similarities between Festuca of sect. Bovinae and cross-pollinated species of Lolium, coupled with cytogenetic and crossability data, substantiate that they should be united into one genus. Vulpia had phenetic similarities with sect. Scariosae, Montanae and Ovinae of Festuca. Lolium, Festuca, and Vulpia are most likely derived from a common ancestral form which was close to Festuca pratensis and Lolium perenne.
23655107|The chromosome numbers of forty-one Brazilian species belonging to 11 genera of preferentially terrestrial orchids (subfamilies Cypripedioideae, Spiranthoideae, Orchidoideae, and Vanilloideae) were examined. Previous records for these subfamilies were reviewed in order to identify the ancestral chromosome numbers of terrestrial orchids. The variation observed within the subfamilies Spiranthoideae (2n = 28, 36, 46, 48 and 92), and Orchidoideae (2n = 42, 44, ca. 48, ca. 80, 84, and ca. 168) was similar to that previously reported in the literature. In the subfamily Spiranthoideae, some species of Prescottia (subtribe Prescottiinae) and some genera of Spiranthinae showed a bimodal karyotype with one distinctively large pair of chromosomes. The analysis of chromosome numbers of the genera in subfamilies revealed the predominance of the polyploid series 7, 14, 21, 28, 42 with a dysploid variation of  1 in each ploidy level. These results suggest that the basic chromosome number of terrestrial orchids is x1 = 7 for the subfamilies Spiranthoideae and Orchidoideae, as well as other Epidendroid orchids, and that the majority of the genera are composed of palaeopolyploids.
23642669|The embryology of Lagascea mollis, Zinnia angustifolia and Galinsoga parviflora has been studied. The anther archesporium is hypodermal and consists of a single row of 6-8 cells, there are two layers below the epidermis of the anther and a periplasmodial tapetum. Ripe pollen grains are tricolpate and 3-celled. The ovary contains a single ovule, but in a few cases of Galinsoga parviflora two ovules have been found. The female archesporium is unicellular, but sometimes more than one archesporial cell occurs in Lagascea mollis and Zinnia angustifolia. The embryo sac development is of the Polygonum type, the synergids are hooked, antipodal cells show great variation. The endosperm development is cellular in Galinsoga parviflora and peripheral layer persists in the mature seed. The embryo development conforms to the Senecio variation of the Asterad type. The pericarp structure and embryological features support the disputed systematic position of Lagascea within Heliantheae.
23672638|The evolution of the androecium in the Orchidaceae shows three major trends. There is a progressive trend in the degree of fusion of the filament(s) and staminode(s) to the gynoecium. Secondly, there is a reduction in the number of fertile anthers. Finally, there is a progressive change in the position of the base of the anther relative to the apex of the stigma; in the more primitive orchids the apex of the stigma is always higher than the base of the anther (this position is reversed in the higher orchids). All three trends reflect variation in the evolution of pollen dispersal and pollen reception mechanisms in the Orchidaceae. Trends in the evolution of the orchid anther(s) tend to parallel trends in the evolution of their pollinaria.
23655636|Most biological construction systems operate within the colloidal dimension. In view of this, it seems reasonable to reassess what is known of the early stages of exine development in the light of a brief excursion into colloid and micelle behaviour. The results of this analysis show remarkable similarity of structures and suggest that almost all of the features seen during early pollen wall development can be easily interpreted using simple, established colloidal principles. This study of exine framework and endexine development offers the possibility that growth of the early exine progresses by successive transitory mesophases of a constrained micellar system. The self-assembling micelle mesophases will all be clearly recognized as constituents of the developing exine. They include spherical, cylindrical, continuous layers of hexagonally-packed cylindrical units and lamellar mesophases which most probably correspond to future granules, columellae, complex columellar (and alveolar) microarchitecture and "white-line-centred" lamellae. Furthermore, the various types of micelle involved have the potential to perform the functions previously loosely assigned to the exine.
23663580|Multivariate analysis of both endocarp and leaf morphometrics is combined with cluster analysis and Bayesian inference of AFLP markers to assess the morphologic and genetic variation of five European members of Prunus section Prunus (P. cerasifera, P. domestica, P. insititia, P. spinosa, and P.  fruticans). Endocarp morphometrics separate most Prunus taxa studied, but overlap remains between P. domestica and P. cerasifera, and P. spinosa and P.  fruticans. Leaf morphometrics yield better separation of P. domestica and P. cerasifera, but do not allow distinction between P. spinosa and P.  fruticans. Both cluster analysis and PCoA of AFLP markers equally produce three distinct clusters. A first consists of all P. cerasifera samples and the sole P. cocomilia; a second cluster includes all individuals of P. domestica and P. insititia; and a third group comprises all P. spinosa and P.  fruticans samples.
23642078|The dimensions of metaphase chromosomes and nuclear DNA contents were measured in eight species of Luzula. The 2 C DNA contents ranged from 8.51 pg in L. purpurea to 0.55 pg in L. pilosa. Total chromosome volume shows a linear relationship with DNA content; however, the total chromosome length of the complement of the different species is approximately constant. Nucleolar volume and the number of chromocentres in the different species also show a relationship with DNA content. Taken together, these data suggest that while chromosome fragmentation could have generated the present-day range of chromosome numbers in the genus, there have also been changes in the total quantity of DNA with the result that species with similar chromosome numbers have different DNA contents. The relationships of DNA content with chromosome volume in Luzula and other genera are compared and the differences discussed.
23655128|The functional floral morphology of the three genera of Vivianiaceae (= Ledocarpaceae, Geraniales), Rhynchotheca, Viviania and Balbisia, is compared. Likely pollination mechanisms are inferred from morphology and field observations. The flowers of Viviania are nectariferous and apparently zoophilous with nectar as the (primary) pollinator reward. Balbisia has pollen flowers without nectaries, its showy corolla indicates that it is also zoophilous with pollen as sole pollinator reward; bees were observed as flower visitors. One taxon (B. gracilis) may be anemophilous. Rhynchotheca has flowers without petals, with large, pendulous anthers and lacks nectaries. It shows synchronous mass flowering in its natural populations and is evidently anemophilous. A comparison with other Geraniales shows that nectar flowers with small anthers are likely the ancestral condition in Vivianiaceae. This suggests that the pollen flowers with larger anthers of Balbisia and Rhynchotheca may represent an apomorphic condition. The documentation of pollen flowers and anemophily in Vivianiaceae expands the range of known floral and pollination syndromes in Geraniales.
23643115|Diminutive plants of the duckweed family have been difficult to study systematically because of reduction and character state losses that have accompanied their adaptation to aquatic habitats. Phylogenetic analysis of flavonoid and anatomical-morphological data indicate that evolution in the family has proceeded in a linear manner from complex ancestors to reduced species of subfam. Wolffioideae. The high probability of convergence for character reduction and loss, however, renders this conclusion tentative. Cladograms from combined data require only a slight increase in length to resolve all four genera as monophyletic. These studies indicate the need for more suitable data to evaluate hypotheses of duckweed relationships.
23674895|Pelargonium incarnatum is a tetraploid species (2n = 40) and P. patulum is diploid (2n = 22). A natural hybrid, collected at the same locality as the parent species, has 2n = 42 chromosomes. The meiosis of the hybrid is practically normal and its pollen fertility corresponds to that of P. incarnatum. The flavonoid patterns of the parent species and the hybrid are very similar. The origin and phylogenetic implications of this intersectional hybrid are discussed.
23643104|Interest in dinitroaniline herbicide resistant biotypes of Eleusine indica, and an as yet undetermined taxon of Eleusine, necessitated a revaluation of reported nuclear genome size estimates for available species in the genus. Laser flow cytometry showed that the nuclear DNA content of six of the seven species examined had 15 to 50% less DNA than reported previously. It was also determined that roots, as contrasted to leaves, possessed a large fraction of nuclei at the 4C or 8C DNA content level, in diploid or tetraploid species, respectively (i.e. the G2/M peak). Two major reasons for the previously reported overestimation may include sampling only of root tissues where endopolyploid and normal diploid nuclei both occur and the inappropriate choice of onion nuclei as an internal standard.
23674039|Psathyrella dunensis Kits van Waveren, so far only known from the type locality in the Netherlands, was found in E. Austria and is more fully described. New information about its macro- and microscopical characters, ecology and distribution is provided and discussed. The carpophores vary more in size and surface structure than hitherto observed. Its habitat comprises riparian forests and other sandy soils like e.g. sand-dunes.
43496757|A comparative anatomical study of 20 Trifolium species was carried out using light and scanning electron microscopy in order to investigate the structure of their vegetative and reproductive organs and to evaluate the taxonomic significance of qualitative characters for distinguishing between the taxa. Characters were coded and analysed by multiple correspondence analysis. The combination of selected qualitative anatomical characters of the petiole, stipules, stem, peduncle and calyx (not previously studied in detail) were significant in delimiting sections of the genus Trifolium, but not for identification of species. The characters that contributed most to the separation of sections were peduncle cross-section shape, the presence of trichomes on the calyx tubes and the presence of trichomes and crystals in the stipules.
23642861|Detailed analyses of karyology and leaf morphology do not support relationships between Flacourtiaceae and Tiliaceae. In spite of different chromosome numbers, Prockia (2n = 18), Flacourtia (2n = 22) and Rawsonia (2n = 22) are very similar in karyomorphology, indicating a certain karyological uniformity within Flacourtiaceae. Lacistema (2n = ca. 62) appears more isolated. On the other hand, the Tiliaceae Grewia (2n = 18) and Luhea (2n = 36) have much in common and differ remarkably from the Flacourtiaceous genera. The salicoid leaf-teeth of Prockia are also found in Idesia, but never in Tiliaceae. Epidermis ultrastructure reveals certain relationships between Prockia and Flacourtia in contrast to the strongly differing Grewia. Idesia has a rare und unique epidermis sculpture.  Basic chromosome numbers and chromosomal evolution within the Flacourtiaceae are discussed. 1) Anhand von kultivierten Pflanzen, Herbarmaterial und Feldfixierungen werden einige Vertreter der Flacourtiaceae und Tiliaceae verglichen. Neue karyologische Befunde betreffen Chromosomenzahlen, Karyotypen und Chromosomenmae. Dabei erweisen sich chromosomenmorphologische Parameter systematisch relevanter als Chromosomenzahlen. Weiters werden Merkmale der Epidermisskulptur und Blattnervatur analysiert. 2) Die Gattung Prockia lt sich viel eher den Flacourtiaceae als den Tiliaceae zuordnen. Eine Verwandtschaft der beiden Familien ist weitgehend auszuschlieen. 3) Die morphologisch sehr unterschiedlichen Gattungen Prockia (2n = 18), Flacourtia (2n = 22) und Rawsonia (2n = 22) zeigen auffallende hnlichkeiten hinsichtlich Chromosomenmorphologie, Interphasekernstruktur und Mitoseverhalten. Dies lt eine gewisse karyologische Einheitlichkeit der morphologisch heterogenen Familie der Flacourtiaceae vermuten. 4) Die Tiliaceae Grewia (2n = 18) und Luhea (2n = 36) sind karyologisch sehr hnlich und unterscheiden sich deutlich von den untersuchten Flacourtiaceae. Bei G. cf. welwitschii fllt das erste stark heteromorphe Chromosomenpaar auf. 5) Die hohe Chromosomenzahl von Lacistema (2n = ca. 62) deutet auf eine gewisse Isolation innerhalb der Flacourtiaceae hin. 6) Die Bltter von Prockia und Idesia sind sehr hnlich: Beide haben eine innerhalb der Flacourtiaceae auffallende salicoide Blattzhnung, die bei den Tiliaceae nie vorkommt. Hingegen sticht die Epidermisskulptur von Idesia durch ein einzigartiges Cuticularfaltungsmuster ab. 7) Die innerhalb von Prockia  einheitlichen, sehr einfachen Leistenmuster der Epidermisoberflche hneln noch am ehesten denen der etwas variableren Flacourtia. Grewia hingegen unterscheidet sich deutlich durch ungeordnete Leisten bzw. Bnder mit feinen, parallelen Cuticularfalten. 8) Innerhalb der Flacourtiaceae erscheint die isolierte Basiszahl von Prockia (x = 9) abgeleitet gegenber den weit hufigeren Zahlen x = 11, 12. Die chromosomale Evolution diploider Flacourtiaceae drfte hauptschlich auf Chromosomenumbauten berhren : Prockia (2n = 18) und Flacourtia (2n = 22) haben ein  gleichlanges 2n-Genom.
23643669|The variable internally transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of the rRNA gene cluster, and the termini of the large and small subunit genes, were amplified from 231 specimens of the lichen-forming fungus Parmelia sulcata from the UK and Spain. Amplification products comprised three distinct size groups of 580, 622 and 835 base pairs (bp). Analyses of the collections from England, Wales and central Spain established the 622 bp genotype as the most widespread, and the 835 bp genotype as the next most frequent. The size difference was due to a group I intron at the 3 end of the small subunit. The relative frequencies of the three genotypes were consistent between long established sites in Spain and the UK. The frequencies of the different size classes were examined in the vegetatively reproducing populations recolonizing following the amelioration of sulphur dioxide air pollution. Populations of P. sulcata from long established sites where sulphur dioxide levels are known to have risen and then fallen contained two genotypes. Populations from recolonising sites where P. sulcata had previously been lost consisted of a single genotype (622 bp). This technology provides a powerful tool for testing hypotheses relating to the individuality and population structure of lichens, and has implications for lichen conservation.
23673210|The main objective of this study is to establish the level of pollen abortion prior to its release from the anther in species of Chenopodiaceae in marsh habitats and to compare this level among the taxons, locations and positions of the flowers in the dichasium and the relative positions of the anthers. We established the level of non-functional pollen formation in 39 samples belonging to 10 species, using lactophenol cotton blue staining. Aborted pollen grains were found to be significantly smaller than normal ones. The results revealed differences in the percentage of normal grains among different species and tribes studied: Atripliceae (56.1  27.1%), Salicornieae (80.36  16.52%), Suaedeae (54.7  31.2%) and Salsoleae (32.5  25.7%). In some species there were significant differences among the populations studied, but in species of Saliconieae we found no differences either between different positions in the dicasia or in the anther. In the tribes Suaedeae and Salsoleae, we postulate the existence of a system that maintains different levels of partial male sterility among individuals in the populations, which would reduce the autogamous fruit set rate and favor the cross-pollination rates of sterile male individuals. We base this on high intrapopulation variability at those levels, on the constancy with which they are presented in the different populations studied, and on the lack of interannual differences.
23643774|Evolutionary relationships among members of Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) tribe Caucalideae Spreng. and related taxa were inferred from maximum parsimony analyses of chloroplast DNA restriction sites and rps16 intron sequences and the results compared to an existing phylogeny for the group based on nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer sequences. While these three data sets were not similar in size or composition, the relationships among the shared taxa, with few exceptions, were concordant. Three major lineages are recognized, coinciding with the previously delimited Scandiceae subtribes Daucinae Dumort. (Agrocharis, Ammodaucus, Cuminum, Daucus, Orlaya, Pachyctenium, Pseudorlaya), Torilidinae Dumort. (Astrodaucus, Caucalis, Glochidotheca, Lisaea, Szovitsia, Torilis, Turgenia, Yabea), and Scandicinae Tausch (Anthriscus, Kozlovia, Myrrhis, Osmorhiza, Scandix). Included in Daucinae is representation from tribe Laserpitieae (Laser, Laserpitium, Melanoselinum, Monizia, Polylophium). Daucinae and Torilidinae arise as sister taxa in the chloroplast DNA-based phylogenies, whereas in the ITS trees relationships among the three major lineages are unresolved. Unexpectedly, three species of Ferula ally with Daucinae and Torilidinae. The position of Artedia is equivocal, occurring either sister to Daucinae in the ITS trees, within Torilidinae in the intron trees, or sister to Torilidinae upon analysis of combined ITS and intron data. Chaetosciadium trichospermum emerges within Torilis, and is recognized as Torilis trichosperma (L.) Spreng.
23674236|Hair morphology was examined on developing seedlings and mature plants of ten species from five of seven series in Physalis. The taxonomic importance of hair development and the distribution of hair types then was evaluated with respect to other comparative data. Two classes of hair types were observed, as found in earlier investigations of Solanum and Rhododendron. The first hair class comprises a sequence from unbranched hairs to dendroid-stelliform hairs. Hairs of this class show considerable variability among taxa in size, presence or absence of glandular tips, and presence and degree of branching, and so were useful in making taxonomic comparisons. The second hair class consists of short hairs, each tipped with a multicellular gland. This second hair class was not useful taxonomically because of its lack of variability in morphology and its often rare occurrence on a plant. The taxa studied exhibit distinctive trichome features which serve to distinguish series and, in some cases together with other data, provided new insight into previously enigmatic species relationships.
43558222|Hippophae rhamnoides ssp. sinensis is an ecologically and economically important species that has been widely used as a pioneer plant in China. In this study, we employed both nuclear ISSR and maternal cpSSR markers to survey the genetic diversity and structure of populations of ssp. sinensis representing three different landscapes, the northwestern desert and grassland region, the alpine vegetation region of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, and the northeastern humid forest region. In all, 12 natural populations with a scattered distribution in the area were studied. The genetic diversities of populations were found to be uneven, and the total genetic diversity was low on the basis of both types of marker. Mantel tests based on both individual Euclidean distance matrices and population genetic distance (measured by pt) matrices showed that the two marker systems detected similar trends with respect to genetic distances between populations. The analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) revealed significant differentiation among populations and among regions for both types of marker. Although the detected pattern of isolationby-distance among all sampled populations confirmed the earlier colonization pathway, the low level of gene flow and the lack of isolation by distance within each region suggested the presence of an additional dispersal barrier.UPGMA dendrograms and PCA plots also revealed clear clustering and significant regional differentiation. Our results indicate that the genetic structure of ssp. sinensis has been affected by habitat fragmentation and restricted population sizes. We propose that the biology of reproduction and ecology have played determinant roles in the development of the regional structure of populations. The genetic information obtained will help to establish conservation strategies and programs for sustainable management of H. rhamnoides ssp. sinensis.
23654170|The genetic structure of 24 populations of the Calypogeia fissa complex from Poland and Germany has been studied. Fifteen putative loci in eight enzyme systems were resolved. Ten of these loci were polymorphic. The inter-population variation of the examined populations of C. fissa was partitioned into three distinct groups, tentatively called group PS, PB and G. Groups PS and PB occur in Poland, group G in Germany. Fixed alleles were diagnostic of each of the three groups. Obtained values of genetic distances showed a high level of genetic distance (0.6640.796) between populations from Germany and those of the Polish group PS. A UPGMA dendrogram based on Nei's genetic distance coefficient was constructed; it showed differentiation of the studied populations in two distinct groups, one consisting of group PS from Poland, the second of plants from Germany and the Polish group PB. Studies of oil bodies in C. fissa showed, as in other Calypogeia species, their high correlation with the isoenzyme phenotypes.
23655917|Phytoliths are microscopic amorphous silicon dioxide (SiO2.H2O) particles occurring in leaves, internodes, glumes and inflorescences within all members of the grass family Poaceae. Phytoliths of grasses are of particular interest, as they possess morphological features which have encouraged many investigators to identify these plants from which fossil phytoliths might have originated. The present study is a step towards preparing a systematic inventory of grass phytoliths in western tropical Africa. Morphology and dimensions of phytoliths from 66 species belonging to the tribe Paniceae have been studied. Four shape categories of lobate phytoliths have been determined in leaf blade spodograms: bilobate, nodular bilobate, polylobate, quadra-lobate. Bilobate shaped phytoliths are frequently represented in all genera of Paniceae. 13 groups of lobate phytoliths have been distinguished based on significant morphological criteria like shape of outer margins, shape of the shank and number of lobes. A size category system of lobate phytolith dimensions (length, width; length and width of shanks) has been developed by the analysis of average, minimum and maximum values of these dimensions. Application of the size category system results on classifying the major groups into 25 subgroups. The study proves that size and shape can be used to assign some of the lobate phytoliths to their respective genera. Some rarely produced lobate shapes like nodular bilobate and polylobate types could be used together on assemblage basis as markers for definite genera in the tribe Paniceae, e.g. Brachiaria, Panicum, Pennisetum and Setaria. Also, bilobate phytoliths with concave margins have been recorded in five species. Bilobate phytoliths with flattened and convex margins and quadra-lobate shapes are produced by almost all species which therefore resulted in an inconsistent and indefinite relationship with the taxa that produce them. The study shows a correlation between width dimensions of bilobate shapes and their shanks. Greater width dimensions usually connected to thick shanks while short ones are attached to thin shanks. A spectrum on percentages of species producing each type of lobate phytolith has been designed. It is recommended that such spectrum should be carried out for all tribes of Poaceae on phyto-geographical basis which might eliminate the effect of redundancy and multiplicity on the classification of grass phytoliths.
23674515|The reproductive biology of some Scrophularia species in the Iberian Peninsula and Balearic Islands has been studied. Levels of fruit-set in bagged and unbagged inflorescences, the production of seeds/capsule, the effectiveness of seed-set following cross-pollination in the genus and the pollen/ovule ratios have been analyzed.
23668876|In this study, distribution of polysaccharides, lipids, and proteins in the developing anthers of Campsis radicans (L.) Seem. was examined from sporogenous cell stage to mature pollen, using cytochemical methods. To detect the distribution and dynamic changes of insoluble polysaccharides, lipid bodies, and proteins in the anthers through progressive developmental stages, semi-thin sections of anthers at different developmental stages were stained with periodic-acid-Schiff (PAS) reagent, Sudan black B, and Coomassie brilliant blue, respectively, and examined under light microscope. Ultrastructural observations with TEM were also carried out to determine the storage form of starch in the connective tissue, and storage form of lipids in the tapetal cells. In sporogenous cell stage, anther wall contains numerous insoluble polysaccharides. However, from the sporogenous cell stage to the vacuolated microspore stage, the amount of insoluble polysaccharides in the anther wall decreases gradually. At bicellular pollen stage, tapetum degenerates completely and polysaccharides are not seen in the anther wall. Lipid bodies are observed in the cytoplasm of both middle layer and tapetal cells at tetrad stage, whereas they disappear in the vacuolated microspore stage. Compared with polysaccharides, proteins are limited in the anther wall at early stages of development. During pollen development, polysaccharides, proteins, and lipid bodies are scarce in the cytoplasm of sporogenous cells, but their amount increases at premeiotic stage. From tetrad stage to bicellular pollen stage, microspore cytoplasm contains variable amount of insoluble polysaccharide grains, lipid and protein bodies. At bicellular pollen stage, plentiful amount of starch granules are stored in the cytoplasm of the pollen grains. Proteins and lipid bodies are also present in the cytoplasm.
23643519|The morphology, phenology and allozyme polymorphism in seven tetraploid Dactylis glomerata populations growing in the French Alps were studied. Based on habitat and morphological characteristics, two of the populations could be classified as D. glomerata subsp. reichenbachii, which is known to comprise diploid and tetraploid plants growing exclusively on dolomite, on south-facing meadows. This subspecies has been previously recorded in the Italian and Swiss Alps but not in the French Alps. The remaining five populations were morphologically intermediate but more similar to the cosmopolitan D. glomerata subsp. glomerata. On the basis of allozyme variation, all populations were more related to subsp. reichenbachii than to the cosmopolitan subsp. glomerata, suggesting that gene flow has occurred between the two tetraploid subspecies. The possibility that selection has acted differently on morphological and allozyme characters is discussed.
23642727|Electrophoretic variation in alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) was examined in tetraploid Gossypium hirsutum and its putative diploid progenitors G. ramondii, G. herbaceum, and a close relative, G. arboreum. All the diploids had three isozymes, while strains of the tetraploid G. hirsutum had either 4 or 6. Each isozyme was eluted from starch gels and significant differences in activity were noted between several of the isozymes relative to pH, substrate, temperature and salinity. This suggests that an increase in enzyme heterozygosity can result in higher levels of developmental homeostasis, but it depends on the isozyme alleles involved.
23654166|The flower of Kingdonia has a terminal position, thus the rhizome is sympodial. The floral organs initiate in spiral phyllotaxis. The androecium is centripetal in initiation but the sterile stamens are retarded in development compared with the fertile ones. The apex of the young carpel does not participate in the conduplication. The floral organs have single vascular traces and unilacunar nodes.
23645023|A subset of populations of the European taxa of Carex sect. Digitatae, including Carex digitata, C. pallens, C. ornithopoda, C. pediformis ssp. rhizodes and C. humilis have been investigated for allozyme variation. The (presumably) distantly related C. pendula was used as a reference taxon. Carex digitata, C. pallens and C. ornithopoda on the one hand, and C. humilis and C. pediformis on the other, shared the majority of the alleles. Cluster analyses based on genetic distances grouped populations of C. digitata and C. ornithopoda in a mixed subcluster whereas all populations of C. pallens formed a subcluster distinct from the digitata/ornithopoda cluster. This in spite of the fact that C. ornithopoda is morphologically clearly distinct from C. digitata whereas C. pallens is barely distinguishable from the latter. Carex pediformis and C. humilis appeared not more genetically similar to C. digitata than to the reference taxon. It is concluded that 1) C. digitata, C. pallens and C. ornithopoda are closely related and most probably forms a monophyletic group, 2) C. pallens is a genetically distinct species, 3) C. pediformis and C. humilis are not closely related to the rest of C. sect. Digitatae, 4) C. pediformis and C. humilis are relatively closely related, 5) introgression do occur between the investigated species but not to such an extent that it can explain major geographic patterns of variation in C. digitata.
23644354|Six polyploid Aegilops species containing the D genome were studied by C-banding and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using clones pTa71 (18S-5.8S-26S rDNA), pTa794 (5S rDNA), and pAs1 (non-coding repetitive DNA sequence) as probes. The C-banding and pAs1-FISH patterns of Ae. cylindrica chromosomes were identical to those of the parental species. However, inactivation of the NOR on chromosome 5D with a simultaneous decrease in the size of the pTa71-FISH site was observed. The Nv and Dv genomes of Ae. ventricosa were somewhat modified as compared with the N genome of Ae. uniaristata and the D genome of Ae. tauschii. Modifications included minor changes in the C-banding and pAs1-FISH patterns, complete deletion of the NOR on chromosome 5Dv, and the loss of several minor 18S-5.8S-26S rDNA loci on Nv genome chromosomes. According to C-banding and FISH analyses, the Dcr1 genome of Ae. crassa is more similar to the Dv genome of Ae. ventricosa than to the D genome of Ae. tauschii. Mapping of the 18S-5.8S-26S rDNA and 5S rDNA loci by multicolor FISH suggests that the second (Xcr) genome of tetraploid Ae. crassa is a derivative of the S genome (section Emarginata of the Sitopsis group). Both genomes of Ae. crassa were significantly modified as the result of chromosomal rearrangements and redistribution of highly repetitive DNA sequences. Hexaploid Ae. crassa and Ae. vavilovii arose from the hybridization of chromosomal type N of tetraploid Ae. crassa with Ae. tauschii and Ae. searsii, respectively. Chromosomal type T1 of tetraploid Ae. crassa and Ae. umbellulata were the ancestral forms of Ae. juvenalis. The high level of genome modification in Ae. juvenalis indicates that it is the oldest hexaploid species in this group. The occurrence of hexaploid Ae. crassa was accompanied by a speciesspecific translocation between chromosomes 4Dcr1 and 7Xcr. No chromosome changes relative to the parental species were detected in Ae. vavilovii, however, its intraspecific diversity was accompanied by a translocation between chromosomes 3Xcr and 3Dcr1.
23643357|We compared genetic variation of sexual Amelanchier bartramiana and facultatively agamospermous (asexually seed-producing) A. laevis at one site where the two species are sympatric. We analyzed 77 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers in 29 A. bartramiana individuals and 76 RAPD markers in 31 A. laevis individuals. The two species do not differ significantly in mean genetic variation. However, 22.4% of genetic similarity values between A. laevis individuals exceed the highest value of A. bartramiana and may represent the effect of agamospermy. Variation within A. laevis may be the result of sexuality, hybridization, polyploidy, and other factors.
23645308|Systematic studies of scirpoid species in the Andes showed the necessity to exclude one species each from Scirpus and Carex. They are combined in a new genus Zameioscirpus and a third new species is described. The autonomous generic position of Zameioscirpus within the Scirpeae is supported by a phylogenetic analysis based on rbcL and trnL-F sequencing data and by conspicuous morphological similarities.
43496748|Nymphaea, an aquatic perennial herb with exceptionally beautiful flowers and floating leaves, is well represented globally. Out of ten species reported from India, the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) region of nrDNA was investigated in seven species of Nymphaea viz. N. alba var. rubra, N. caerulea, N.  marliacea, N. nouchali, N pubescens, N. rubra and N. tetragona. Barring N pubescens, whereby double peaks detected in the sequencing chromatograms may be due to random mutations occurring in some of the ITS paralogues, the additional signals detected for N. alba var. rubra and N. rubra are probably influenced by recent hybridization and introgression. Our study on sequence characteristics of ITS 1 and ITS 2 revealed high G + C content (ITS 1, 45.5-48.4%; ITS 2, 50.2-51.5%) and sequence divergence. Percentage of sequence divergence based on substitution and substitution plus indels is 44.15 and 57.19, respectively, for the ITS 1; 29.74 and 47.96% were recorded for the ITS 2. Although highly variable, conserved motifs within the ITS 1 and ITS 2 region of Nymphaea were identified and are found to be common throughout the order Nymphaeales. Sequence analysis of the ITS 1 and ITS 2 failed to detect any variation between two morphotypes of N. nouchali, namely N. nouchali JD 06 and N. nouchali JD 07, differing in flower color and found at the same geographical location. However, on comparison with another speccimen of N. nouchali found at a different location, they showed considerable variation in nucleotide composition. Complemented by sequence data retrieved from GenBank, phylogenetic tree reconstruction of the genus Nymphaea based on neighbor-joining, maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference methods is presented and discussed.
23642855|The anatomy, chemistry and developmental morphology of Anamylopsora pulcherrima is investigated. Some characters, including the ascus structure, suggest a close affinity with the Agyriaceae. However, the chemistry and the pycnidial structure differ as well as the ascoma ontogeny. Anamylopsora has a gymnocarpous ascoma development and the ascogonia are produced in stipes. Trapelia coarctata, as a typical member of the Agyriaceae, shows a hemiangiocarpous ascoma ontogeny. The anatomical chemical and ontogenetical characters of several families are compared with Anamylopsora and it is shown that the genus is best placed in a monotypic family Anamylopsoraceae Lumbsch & Lunke, fam. nova, which is placed in the Agyriineae (Lecanorales).
23645249|A systematic revision of sections Eskia Willkomm, Pseudatropis Krivotulenko, Amphigenes (Janka) Tzvelev, Pseudoscariosa Krivotulenko and Scariosae Hackel of the genus Festuca L. (Poaceae) is presented here. Taxonomic circumscriptions of these groups and phylogenetic relationships among them and with respect to other Festuca lineages have been achieved after independent and simultaneous analyses of both morphological and molecular (ITS, trnL-F) characters. 21 representatives of subgen. of five sections of Festuca, 11 representatives of other subgenera or sections of Festuca (subgen. Festuca sects. Festuca and Aulaxyper, subgen. Schedonorus, subgen. Drymanthele, subgen. Leucopoa), and one representative each of genera Lolium, Poa, Secale, and Brachypodium were included in the survey. A phenetic study based on PCO analysis of 16 morphological characters was completed on 149 samples of representatives of the five sections under study. The phylogenetic study based on ITS and trnL-F sequences was conducted on 30 representatives of these five sections of Festuca and close allies using Brachypodium distachyon as outgroup. The total evidence principle was invoked for the simultaneous cladistic analysis based on morphological and molecular data. The multivariate PCO analysis differentiates three groups of taxa corresponding to sects. Eskia + Pseudatropis, sect. Amphigenes, and sects. Scariosae (type species) + Pseudoscariosa. Phylogenetic reconstructions based on combined analyses of ITS and trnL-F sequences indicate that representatives of sects. Eskia, Pseudatropis, and Amphigenes p.p. form a paraphyletic basal group within the 'fine-leaved' Festuca whereas F. scariosa and F. pseudeskia are sister taxa of a mixed clade within the 'broad-leaved' Festuca. The North African taxon Festuca mairei is shown to be a close relative of Festuca subgen. Schedonorus whereas the Canarian endemic F. agustinii belongs to Festuca sect. Aulaxyper.
23674274|The evolutionary trend and its ecological implications in sympodial and monopodial branching patterns has been investigated in 20 Japanese Acer spp. through comparison of shoot tip abortion and terminal bud formation. The genus is divided into two species groups according to its branching pattern, one (6 species) predominantly exhibiting sympodial branching with frequent monopodial branching in short shoots (sympodial species), and the other (14 species) exhibiting only monopodial branching (monopodial species). The early ontogeny of leaf and bud scales is described. Despite the difference in branching patterns, the bud scales of terminal buds are essentially the same in having a leaf base developed to function as a protecting organ. In all the sympodial species, during the abortion of a sympodium shoot tip, one or two pairs of primordia were found to occur on the apex, and later wither. These primordia resemble bud scales of terminal buds in their ontogeny and morphology, and appear to be rudimentary. It is suggested that a rudimentary terminal bud develops together with the establishment of sympodial branching, and that sympodial branching has originated from monopodial branching. Based on this proposed evolutionary trend, it is suggested that Acer has moved from less shady habitats into shady habitats with monopodial branching (advantageous for vertical growth) changing into sympodial branching (advantageous for lateral spread).
43558149|The meiotic behavior and pollen viability of the tetraploids (2n = 4x = 40) Arachis glabrata and A. nitida were analyzed aiming to provide insights into the nature of these polyploids and into the mechanism that determines the low seed production of these species. Meiotic analysis revealed 21 different chromosome configurations at diakinesis-metaphase I in A. glabrata (from 20 II to 4II + 8 IV) and 7 in A. nitida (from 20 II to 2 I + 12 II + 2 III + 2 IV). The multi valent associations (up to 8 IV) observed in some A. glabrata metaphases suggest that this species may have an autopolyploid origin. However, the fact that the mean number of bivalents varied among accessions indicates different degrees of diploidization among them. In contrast, the multivalents (up to 2 III + 2 IV) observed in very low frequency in A. nitida indicate that this species may be either a largely diploidized autopolyploid or a segmentai allopolyploid. A great diversity, although in low frequency, of meiotic abnormalities (abnormal chromosome orientation and segregation, chromosome bridges, irregular spindles, micronuclei, aneuploid nuclei, restitution nuclei, microcytes, monads, dyads, triads, and hexads) was detected in both species. The meiotic indexes were over 95%, and pollen viabilities ranged from 83.20 to 95.99%. These results suggest that chromosome behavior during meiosis would not severely affect pollen viability.Thus, the irregular chromosome behavior caused by the autopolyploid or segmental allopolyploid nature of these species may not be related to their low seed set production.
23673134|The internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) and plastid DNA, including the trnL intron, the trnL-F spacer, and the atpB-rbcL spacer, from most of the living species in the genus Phalaenopsis were sequenced. The monophyly of the genus described by Christenson (Christenson EA (2001) Phalaenopsis. Timber Press, Portland, p 330), that Doritis and Kingidium are synonyms of Phalaenopsis, was supported by these molecular data. Within the genus, subgenus Polychilos was monophyletic, and the species were divided into two subclades. The subgenus Phalaenopsis was shown to be non-monophyletic, because the sections Esmeralda and Deliciosae appeared separated the from sections Phalaenopsis and Stauroglottis. Meanwhile, subgenera Aphyllae and Parishianae were also shown to be non-monophyletic on the basis of the molecular data. Furthermore, the monotypic species of subgenus Proboscidioides, P. lowii, formed a clade with subgenus Aphyllae. In accordance with geographical distribution, the historical geography of Southeast Asia due to the periodic glacial epochs, and molecular phylogeny, two evolutionary trends of Phalaenopsis from the original center in South China to the Philippines, Indonesia, and Malaysia were suggested. First, using Indochina and some older parts of the Philippines (e.g., Mindoro and Palawan) as stepping stones, Phalaenopsis species dispersed from South China to the Philippines, where the sections Phalaenopsis and Stauroglottis of subgenus Phalaenopsis developed. Second, using the Malay Peninsula as a stepping stone, Phalaenopsis species dispersed from South China to Indonesia and Malaysia, where the subgenus Polychilos developed.
23642345|In Cocos (and probably in all other palms) the embryogenesis shows a number of primitive characters, such as differentiation of the embryo proper from one cell of the pluricellular proembryo, origin of the single cotyledon from a position lateral to the terminal stem tip, and a tendency to cleavage polyembryony.
23643198|The phenology and flowering of two sympatric understory palms from western Ecuador, until recently regarded as conspecific, is described. Geonoma irena Borchs. flowers throughout the year. Anthesis lasts 1114 weeks per inflorescence, with overlapping male and female phases. Flowers open in the midmorning, and are visited mainly by meliponid and halictid bees. Geonoma cuneata var. sodiroi (Burret) Skov flowers from December to April, with a distinct peak in Feburary. Anthesis lasts 68 days per inflorescence, with non-overlapping male and female phases. Flowers open at dawn, and are visited mainly by drosophilid and sphaerocerid flies. The flowering pattern of the two species match different specific behavioural features of their insect visitors. The study provides an example of how differences in reproductive biology may act as an important barrier to gene flow between related, co-occurring taxa.
23673186|The affinities of taxonomically problematic populations are typically analyzed using molecular markers. However these are less subject to selection than morphological characteristics. Consequently both approaches may be required to obtain a fuller picture of the identity and history of populations. Three putative hybrid populations within the Carex flava agg. are examined using such a dual approach with a view to elucidate their taxonomic affinities. Analysis of 11 morphometric characters using principal component analysis and examination of 17 isozyme loci revealed a more complicated history than that suggested by morphometric analysis alone. Results from this study confirm the status of an additional British population of C. flava s.str. and also strongly suggest that a population morphologically resembling Carex lepidocarpa has experienced the introgression of C. flava genes in the past. An Irish population resembling C. flava in appearance but lacking typical C. flava allozymes may be a result of local selection.
23673249|A natural population of Araucaria angustifolia (Bertol.) Kuntze was evaluated to quantify genetic diversity, using nucleotide sequences of chloroplast maturase K genes (matK) and six specific nuclear polymorphic microsatellite loci (nuSSR). Estimates of nucleotide diversity assessed from matK sequences were low ( = 0.001), but they indicated the potential of this gene for evaluating divergence among widespread populations. The matK sequence (1,565 bp) was used for analysis of phylogenetic relationships, enabling clustering of the South American species (A. angustifolia and A. araucana). For analysis of intraspecific genetic diversity, nuSSR were more informative than matK, resulting in a polymorphic loci percentage of 69, a number average of alleles per locus of 11.6, expected genetic diversity 0.741, and significant spatial genetic structure up to 25 m. Our data can help in the selection of genetic sources for conservation of this species, which is at risk of extinction.
23655667|The order Oedogoniales is made up of green algae with an unusual form of cytokinesis, a ring of flagella on the zoids, and a complex sexual reproduction. The genera included in this order, Oedogonium, Oedocladium and Bulbochaete, differ in their type of habit. In this contribution we report a phylogenetic analysis using 18S ribosomal DNA sequences from 66 species of green algae, including ten species of Oedogonium isolated from fresh water bodies in Argentina. The phylogenetic study demonstrates the monophyly of the Oedogoniales within the green algae, and suggests that in this group the flagellar apparatus of the stephanokont zoid could have derived from a DO configuration. It is also found that the genus Oedogonium does not appear to be monophyletic and that the morphological characters traditionally used for the taxonomic classification of Oedogonium species do not define natural groups.
23642161|In Achnanthes lanceolata pairing occurs by chance in regard to the arrangement of the mother cells, in A. minutissima it is accomplished selectively: contact at the sides occupied by the nucleus is favoured very strongly. In contrast to A. exilis, pairing in A. minutissima occurs by detachment of both partner cells from their stalks, while A. lanceolata has no stalks at all. The isogamous gamete fusion in A. lanceolata should be understood as a modification of the anisogamous behavior in A. minutissima and A. exilis. For the three species the same constant orientation of the primary cell in relation to the substratum and to the mother thecae is characteristic. The first epivalva always is the raphe valve. In A. lanceolata in connection with the property of the primary cell possessing two chromatophores resp. pyrenoids instead of one, the transapical heteropolarity of the rapheless valve, a specific character, changes to isopolarity. It seems that a sort of induction from the pyrenoids towards the formation of the rapheless valve is at work. In A. lanceolata the pseudoraphe shows a structure hitherto unknown. A. lanceolata "fo. ventricosa Hust." is to be eliminated. Var. rostrata (strup) Hust. is a good taxon; two new differential characters are found. Achnanthes lanceolata und ihre fo. ventricosa Hust. bilden im Lunzer Seebach eine Fortpflanzungsgemeinschaft und sind taxonomisch nicht zu trennen. Dagegen ist var. rostrata eine selbstndige Sippe, wofr auch zwei neu festgestellte Unterscheidungsmerkmale und das Fehlen der Auxosporenbildung unter vergleichbaren Bedingungen sprechen. Die Paarung erfolgt bei A. lanceolata unabhngig von der Heteropolie der Transpikalachse zufallsgem in bezug auf die Lage von Chromatophor und Kern. Die Kopulation lauft isogam ab und stellt sich als eine Modifikation des anisogamen Verhaltens von A. minutissima und A. exilis dar; die Ursache ist die weichere Beschaffenheit der Kopulationsgallerte. Entsprechend der freieren Beweglichkeit der Gameten sind die Zygoten abgekugelt und wachsen die Auxosporen nicht wie bei den anderen Arten parallel zu den Apikalachsen der Mutterzellen, sondern meistens quer aus. Fr alle drei Arten ist die fixe Lagebeziehung der Erstlingszellen zum Substrat  Rapheschale als 1. Epivalva unten, raphelose Schale oben  charakteristisch; nur bei A. lanceolata knnen sekundre Verschiebungen die Sachlage verschleiern. Die Erstlingszelle von A. lanceolata ist dadurch besonders gekennzeichnet, da ihre raphelose Schale statt des einen seitlich gelegenen hufeisenfrmigen Flecks zwei solche symmetrisch zur Mediane angeordnete Flecke besitzt. Sie korrespondieren in ihrer Lage mit den beiden Pyrenoiden der beiden Chromatophoren, wie in den vegetativen Zellen der einzige Fleck in Deckung mit dem Pyrenoid des einzigen Chromatophors liegt. Die beiden Flecke entstehen dort, wo schon in der Auxospore die Pyrenoide liegen. Das Vorhandensein von zwei Pyrenoiden in zwei Chromatophoren zieht somit die Bildung zweier Flecke nach sich. Damit wird in der Erstlingszelle die transapikale Heteropolie sowohl des Protoplasten wie der raphelosen Schale, die ein Artmerkmal ist, aufgegeben. Die raphelose Schale der unteren Tochterzelle der ersten Teilung der Erstlingszelle besitzt wieder nur einen einzigen Fleck (und einen Chromatophor), whrend die obere Tochterzelle die raphelose Schale mit zwei Flecken der Erstlingszelle mitbekommt. Zellen, die eine raphelose Schale mit zwei Flecken, aber nur einen Chromatophor besitzen, sind Nachkommen der oberen Tochterzelle.  Die Pseudoraphe von A. lanceolata zeigt eine charakteristische, lichtmikroskopisch sichtbare, bisher bersehene Struktur, und zwar sowohl bei var. lanceolata wie bei var. rostrata. Im Unterschied zu A. lanceolata erfolgt bei A. minutissima die Paarung nicht zufallsgem, sondern selektiv unter deutlicher Bevorzugung der Kernseiten und fast vlligem Zurcktreten der Paarung an den Pyrenoidseiten. Im Gegensatz zu A. exilis erfolgt die Paarung bei A. minutissima unter Ablsung beider Partner von ihren Stielen, bei A. lanceolata treten berhaupt keine gestielten Zellen auf. Der Vergleich der Gametenfusion von A. lanceolata einerseits und A. minutissima und A. exilis andererseits zeigt, da das physiologisch isogame bzw. anisogame Verhalten wesentlich von der Beschaffenheit der Gallerte und ihrem Quellungsvermgen abhngt, aber sich kaum im Sinn von konstitutionellen Geschlechtsunterschieden deuten lt.
23669053|Sexual systems play a key role in the ecology and evolution of plant populations. Research on Garcinia L. has shown the occurrence of variations in the sexual systems of this genus, with some authors considering it as dioecious, and for some species as gynodioecious or androdioecious. The population of G. brasiliensis in the restinga of Maric is dioecious with two individuals characterized as monoecious. Anatomical analysis showed that one has pistillate and sterile staminate flowers, being an unusual female and the other has staminate and perfect flowers (functional pollen grains and ovules), being andromonoecious. In addition, field observations, controlled hand-pollinations, reproductive phenology and anatomical analysis showed no evidence of apomixis in this Neotropical species, different from that provided in the literature for paleotropical species. However, asexual reproduction occurs through ramets suggesting that in this environment of restinga the seedlings are subjected to considerable limitations, and vegetative propagation becomes an important alternative for the occupation of the environment. Flowering episodes occurred throughout the study period, featuring a subannual and long-lasting flowering pattern mainly due to multiple blooms of male plants. The floral characters observed in G. brasiliensis are often associated with a generalist pollination system. Apis mellifera and Trigona spinipes are the effective pollinators of G. brasiliensis flowers. Our findings provide new insights into the reproductive biology of Garcinia.
23674403|Eight flavonol glycosides were detected in the three species of the Fagonia sinaica complex. They were fully characterized as the 3-glucosides of kaempferol, quercetin and isorhamnetin, 3-rutinoside of quercetin and 3,7-diglucoside of quercetin and isorhamnetin. Two additional glycosides were partially characterized as a kaempferol 3,7-diglycoside and quercetin 3-diglycoside.
23669414|Pollen grains have long fascinated biologists who used their remarkable interspecific diversity as a marker to infer profiles of past and present vegetations and environment. This study addresses the question of the diversity of the morphology of pollen grains at the intraspecific level: how different are pollen grains of the same species sampled in different populations? Such differences are expected, and are actually well known to palynologists, but at the same time technically challenging to quantify. We used elliptic Fourier analysis, a powerful morphometric approach for the comparison of outlines, on equatorial and polar views of 30 pollen grains sampled in two different populations for each of five tropical species, thus yielding 600 outlines. Multivariate analysis of variance revealed intraspecific variation of shape of the pollen grains in three out of the five species studied. Our goal here was to test if there were differences in the shape of pollen. This, to our knowledge, would be the first such study of this particular aspect of palynology. We also discuss some relevant evolutionary hypotheses. Further studies using outline analysis, coupled with a choice of appropriate sampling strategies, to suit varying environmental conditions, would prove of great value in testing such hypotheses.
23674743|The thallus of Thorea ramosissima was studied electron microscopically. The cells of the medulla, the cortex and the assimilatory hairs differ not only in size and number of plastids and their equipment with thylakoids but also in cell wall structure, the number of mitochondria and the activity of the Golgi apparatus, with dictyosomes transforming complete cisternae into Golgi vesicles with mucilaginous contents in the outer region of the cortex. The pit connections have plugs with a distinct plate  like (not dome-like) outer cap layer. Because T. riekei was reported to have dome-like outer cap layers and because this character was the main reason to place the Thoreaceae into the Batrachospermales (Pueschel & Cole 1982), T. riekei was reinvestigated, too. A distinct outer cap could not be detected. The reliability of pit plug structure as a taxonomic character and the taxonomic position of Thorea is discussed.
43496741|This paper reports the results of a study on the morphology, mode of secretion, ultrastructure and histochemistry of leaf secretory scales of Combretum molle using both light and electron microscopy. The density of the secretory scales is higher on the abaxial leaf surface in the intervein areas. Each secretory scale is made up of a basal epidermal cell, a short bicellular stalk and a multicellular umbrella-like head comprising 8-24 cells. The secretion is released from each head cell into the subcuticular space through a lateral ostiole, and then onto the leaf surface via a central pore on each scale. This secretion mechanism is described in this study for the first time in family Combretaceae. Ultrastructural characteristics of scale cells display the typically active metabolism of secretory systems. Preliminary histochemical investigations show that these scales contain lipids, terpenoids, phenolics, flavonoids and alkaloids which probably offer anti-microbial and anti-herbivore protection.
23660120|In this study, 68 specimens of the genus Lolium were scored for 27 characters, comprising 12 vegetative, 12 inflorescence and 3 seed characters. The aim of the study was to investigate the species relationships within the genus in Iran. The data were analysed using principal components analysis (PCA) and cluster analysis. Both analyses separated L. perenne, L. persicum, L. temulentum, L. multiflorum from each other. According to previous authors, L. rigidum and L. loliaceum show little difference from each other and are not separable to a species level. In this study these two species separated clearly from the other species, but were most closely related to L. perenne following cluster analysis and to L. multiflorum following PCA. L. persicum was found to be the most distinct species within the genus Lolium in Iran.
23643705|In contrast to animals, the slowly evolving mitochondrial nucleotide sequences of plants appear well suited to investigate phylogenetic relations between old taxonomic groups. Analysis of nad5 gene sequences in 47 bryophytes, the living representatives of very early land plants, confirm this assessment. Statistically reliable phylogenetic trees are obtained with different mathematical approaches. A group I intron sequence conserved in the nad5 gene of all 30 mosses and 15 liverworts investigated supports a sister group relationship of the two classes. The intron sequence adds phylogenetic information for fine resolution on top of the conserved exon sequences down to the level of classically defined orders or families, respectively. This intron is not present in the hornworts Anthoceros husnotii and A. punctatus. The results allow statements on diverging taxonomic interpretations and support the monophyly of the liverworts, mosses, Jungermanniidae, Marchantiidae and Bryidae, and allow recognition of subclasses like Hypnanae and Dicrananae. Among the mosses, the derived orders (subclass Bryidae) are confidently set apart from the Sphagnales, Andreaeales, Polytrichales and Tetraphidales with Buxbaumiales occupying a mediating position. Among the liverworts, full support is found for the classic separation of simple (jungermanniid) and complex thalloid (marchantiid) species with a strikingly low mitochondrial sequence divergence among the latter.
23669988|Karyotype and external morphological analyses were conducted on Medicago ciliaris, M. intertexta, M. muricoleptis and M. granadensis which comprise the Intertextae section of the genus Medicago. All species were found to have 2n = 16 chromosomes (= 2 ), including one pair of satellite chromosomes in each respective complement. Karyotypic evolution in the Intertextae involves changes in absolute chromosome size and in centromeric and relative size symmetry. Numerical taxonomic analyses were conducted independently on 17 karyotypic features and on 16 features of external morphology. The results of the two sets of analyses proved comparable, with M. ciliaris and M. intertexta forming a fairly close pair, and the remaining two species appearing to have more distant relationships to each other and to the first pair. These observations are consistent with the infertility relationships and chorologies of the species. It is suggested that M. muricoleptis and M. granadensis are derived from the M. ciliaris/intertexta species complex with M. granadensis arising from M. muricoleptis, or these two species independently evolving from a common species complex. Chromosomal and numerical analyses suggest that M. ciliaris is the most primitive and M. granadensis the most derived species of the Intertextae.
23642206|The serological relationships of Fraction I proteins from 62 species of the genus Nicotiana have been determined by qualitative double diffusion in agar gels, using antisera raised against crystalline Fraction I proteins from four species, N. glauca, N. glutinosa, N. gossei, and N. tabacum. The relationships obtained are, in most cases, similar to the relationships of the species based on morphological and cytogenetic criteria. In general, Fraction I proteins from species within the same section are serologically identical. However, serological examination of Fraction I proteins draws attention to certain species, for example, N. glauca, N. sylvestris, and N. acaulis, whose classification by traditional methods has been difficult.
43558070|The economically important genus Arachis (Fabaceae) comprises 80 species restricted to South America. One monograph on the genus divided it into nine sections and included an intuitive assessment of evolutionary relationships. There is no comprehensive phylogenetic study of the genus. To test the current systematic treatment of the genus, we reconstructed a phylogeny for Arachis using nuclear ITS and plastid trnT-trnF sequences from 46 species representing all nine sections. ITS cloning of the allotetraploid species of section Arachis indicated the presence of A and B genome alleles and chimeric sequences. Our study revealed that species from section Extranervosae were the first emerging lineage in the genus, followed by sections Triseminatae and Caulorrhizae, and two terminal major lineages, which we refer to as erectoides and arachis. The lineage erectoides comprises members of sections Erectoides, Heteranthae, Procumbentes, Rhizomatosae, and Trierectoides. Species in the arachis lineage form two major clades, arachis I (B and D genomes species and the aneuploids) and arachis II (A genome species). Our results substantiated the sectional treatment of Caulorrhizae, Extranervosae, and Triseminatae, but demonstrated that sections Erectoides, Procumbentes, and Trierectoides are not monophyletic. A detailed study of the genus Arachis with denser taxon sampling, additional genomic regions, plus information from morphology and cytogenetics is needed for comprehensive assessment of its systematics.
23645155|The genus Hypochaeris (Asteraceae, Lactuceae) contains ten species in Europe, three in Asia, and approximately 50 in South America. Previous cytotaxonomic studies have shown two groups of taxa: (1) European species with different basic chromosome numbers and differentiated karyotypes, and (2) South American species with x = 4 and uniform asymmetric and bimodal karyotypes. Karyotypic data are synthesized for South American species of Hypochaeris with new information for six Chilean species: H. acaulis, H. apargioides, H. palustris, H. spathulata, H. tenuifolia and H. thrincioides. Four main groups can be distinguished based on presence and localization of secondary constrictions  SCs (bearing Nucleolar Organizer Regions  NORs) on chromosomes 2 and 3, and 18S25S and 5S rDNA loci number, localization, and activity. We propose karyotypic evolution of South American Hypochaeris (x = 4) from H. maculata-like (x = 5) European ancestors. The original South American karyotype would have possessed two SCs, one on the long arm of chromosome 2, and the other on the short arm of chromosome 3 (in terminal position). Further evolution would have involved inversion within the short arm of chromosome 3 and inactivation/ loss of the SC on chromosome 2.
23643398|The nucleotide sequences of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS1 and ITS2) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA were analyzed in species belonging to gymnosperms and pteridophytes. The lengths of the ITSs of sixteen species of gymnosperms and seven species of pteridophytes were estimated. The gymnosperms have ITS1 regions larger than those observed in the pteridophytes and angiosperms (ca. 6103100 bp versus 159360 bp). On the other hand, the ITS2 regions appear to be of a conserved length (182370 pb). We have determined the complete nucleotide sequences of ITS regions from four gymnosperm species and five pteridophyte species by cloning the PCR products. Sequence analysis showed the presence of three short tandem arranged subrepeats of about 70 bp in the 1112 bp ITS1 of Ephedra fragilis. Pyrimidine rich (about 90%) DNA segments of 4050 bp were observed in the ITS1 of Ginkgo biloba. A highly conserved 16 bp long sequence known to be present in the ITS1 of the angiosperm species has been also found in the ITS1 of Cycas revoluta, Taxus baccata and Ephedra fragilis.
23674782|Specimens from Scotland, S. and C. Norway were grown in the botanical garden of Bergen, Norway. Some of the Scottish specimens came from a meristem tissue culture. The specimens were compared by a principal component analysis of lipids and related compounds, and of morphological characters from leaves and flowers. The populations differed from each other, but some overlap was found in leaf characters. The results are discussed in relation to distribution and immigration history, and it is argued that the differences among the populations may have evolved in postglacial time.
23644157|The size and number of pollen grains and ovules are compared between 20 populations of different ploidy levels in two self-incompatible species of Corydalis (Fumariaceae), to test the presence of ploidy-related variation in these reproductive characters. In both species, higher ploidy levels are associated with larger pollen grains, ovules and corolla, but the number of pollen grains and ovules are not different between ploidy levels. The investment per flower is consequently larger at higher ploidy levels, but the flower number per individual is lower, suggesting that the mode of partition of the investment for sexual reproduction varies between different ploidy levels. In C. orthoceras, sex allocation estimated by pollen:ovule ratios in number and volume is more female-biased in polyploids than in diploids. In spite of these variations, the characters studied can not be used as indicators of ploidy level due to the large overlaps between the ploidy levels.
23673942|In a chemotaxonomic study of the genus Symphytum pyrrolizidine alkaloids and triterpenes were used as chemotaxonomical markers. A micro-extraction methods was developed for screening compounds of very small pieces of herbarium material. The occurrence of the pyrrolizidine alkaloids symphytine and (acetyl-)lycopsamine is very general for Symphytum taxa. Echimidine is present in some S. officinale L. plants and in S. tanaicense Steven. The triterpene isobauerenol is present in S. officinale, S. bohemicum Schmidt, S. tanaicense and in S. officinale var. lanceolatum Weinm. The chemotaxonomic hypothesis, proposed by Gadella and collaborators, based on the presence of the triterpene isobauerenol in S. officinale and its absence in S. asperum Lepech. and the presence of the pyrrolizidine alkaloid echimidine in S. asperum and its absence in S. officinale, can no longer be applied absolutely to the S. officinale species complex. The pyrrolizidine alkaloid and triterpene pattern of S. officinale (2n = 24) and S. bohemicum (2n = 24) is identical. S. bohemicum is morphologically, cytologically and phytochemically very similar to S. officinale. Furthermore, it readily crosses with the white flowered W. European diploids of S. officinale. Therefore it seems likely that these two taxa are conspecific. S. tanaicense shows a pyrrolizidine alkaloid and triterpene pattern similar to S. officinale (2n = 40). Also on morphological and cytological grounds they are very similar. It seems highly probable that S. tanaicense is conspecific with S. officinale (2n = 40) and represents an intraspecific variant only. S. officinale var. lanceolatum contained no pyrrolizidine alkaloids but did contain isobauerenol. This feature points to an origin from S. officinale.
23642691|A fourth species of Sclerorhachis, S. leptoclada Rech. f., has been discovered in S. Khorasan. It differs from the three known species by its tender habit, rosette leaves with few short segments, extremely reduced stem leaves, and very small heads. Sclerorhachis with its four vicarious species confined to the most arid parts of the Iranian highlands is believed to belong to the paleoxeromorphics (Rechinger 1952).
23674241|Schrankia nuttalii flowers through late spring on the tallgrass prairie. Although each stem produces an average of 26 capitate inflorescences only 12% of those inflorescences will open each day to disperse and receive polyads. Each inflorescence may live up to 48 hours but anthers abscise by late afternoon on the first day and the filaments change color and lose their scent. The 78  93 florets comprising each inflorescence open synchronously before dawn or during early morning hours. First day inflorescences of S. nuttallii are herkogamous and fragrant. They are nectarless. Bombyliid flies and male bees are infrequent floral foragers so the major pollinators include female bees representing five families; Anthophoridae, Apidae,Colletidae, Halictidae, and Megachilidae. All foraging insects ignore second day inflorescences although stigmas are still receptive. Although 97% of all bees collected on S. nuttallii carry Schrankia polyads in their scopae or corbiculae 59% also carry the pollen/pollinaria of one or more coblooming angiosperms. At least 98% of all bees carrying mixed pollen loads incorporate the pollen/pollinaria of one or more nectariferous taxa (e.g. Asclepias spp., Asteraceae, Convolvulaceae, Delphinium spec., etc.). Species of halictid bees are more likely to carry pure loads of S. nuttallii polyads (70%) than bees of the four remaining families. Due to the nectarless florets and high degree of polylectic foraging bee-pollination in S. nuttallii converges more closely with the pollination systems of some Australian Acacia spp. than with most other xeric/tropical genera of mimosoids studied in the western hemisphere.
43558141|New observations are presented on the ontogeny, vasculature and morphology of both staminate and pistillate flowers of Croton and Astraea. These data support earlier hypotheses that the filamentous structures in pistillate flowers represent reduced and transformed petals. Staminate flowers of both genera possess five free nectaries, which are vascularised by divergences of the sepal traces in Croton and unvascularised in Astraea. In pistillate flowers, there are five separate non-vascularised nectaries in Astraea, but in Croton there is a single nectariferous disk that is vascularised by divergences of the sepal traces. The nectaries are initiated late in floral evelopment, but their location indicates that they could represent the outer stamen whorl transformed into secretory staminodes. Other glandular structures occur in pistillate flowers of most Croton species, resulting in flowers with two secretory organ whorls. In these cases, the inner whorl is formed by modified staminodes. Our observations support the recent segregation of Astraea species from the larger genus Croton.Despite strong similarities between the two genera, there are clear structural differences, including the presence of colleters in Astraea (absent in Croton), moniliform trichomes on petals (rather than simple trichomes in Croton), non-vascularised nectaries (vascularised in Croton) and reduced, non-secretory filamentous structures (well developed and secretory in Croton).
23655942|Phylogenetic studies have greatly impacted upon the circumscription of taxa within the rosid clade, resulting in novel relationships at all systematic levels. In many cases the floral structure of these taxa has never been compared, and in some families, even studies of their floral structure are lacking. Over the past five years we have compared floral structure in both new and novel orders of rosids. Four orders have been investigated including Celastrales, Oxalidales, Cucurbitales and Crossosomatales, and in this paper we attempt to summarize the salient results from these studies. The clades best supported by floral structure are: in Celastrales, the enlarged Celastraceae and the sister relationship between Celastraceae and Parnassiaceae; in Oxalidales, the sister relationship between Oxalidaceae and Connaraceae, and Tremandraceae embedded in Elaeocarpaceae; in Cucurbitales, the sister relationship between Corynocarpaceae plus Coriariaceae, and the grouping of the core Cucurbitales (Cucurbitaceae, Begoniaceae, Tetramelaceae, Datiscaceae); in Crossosomatales, the sister relationship between Ixerbaceae plus Strasburgeriaceae, and between this clade and Geissolomataceae. The core Crossosomatales (Crossosomataceae, Stachyuraceae, Staphyleaceae) and Celastrales as an order are not strongly supported by floral structure. In addition, a new floral feature of potential systematic interest is assessed. Specifically the presence of special cells in flowers with a thickened mucilaginous inner cell wall and a distinct, remaining cytoplasm is surveyed in 88 families and 321 genera (349 species) of basal angiosperms and eudicots. These cells were found to be most common in rosids, particulary fabids (Malpighiales, Oxalidales, Fabales, Rosales, Fagales, Cucurbitales), but were also found in some malvids (Malvales). They are notably absent or rare in asterids (present in campanulids: Aquifoliales, Stemonuraceae) and do not appear to occur in other eudicot clades or in basal angiosperms. Within the flower they are primarily found in the abaxial epidermis of sepals.
23674614|The flowers of two species of Ternstroemia from Central Amazonia were observed to be pollinated by female bees performing vibrational foraging. The anthers of these flowers are longitudinally dehiscent. They are completely included in a petal tube, which opens by a small pore at the apex. Pollen is expelled out of this pore when the bees vibrate the flower while curling over the apex of the petal tube. The much elongated connectives probably transmit the vibrations from the petals to the anthers. The possible occurrence of this mode of pollination in other species of Ternstroemia is briefly discussed.
23642988|Thirty-seven natural populations of four closely related species of Pinus subsect. Sylvestres, P. mugo, P. funebris, P. pallasiana, and P. sylvestris, occurring in the former Soviet Union were investigated by starch-gel electrophoresis. In the populations assayed 127 allelic variants at 25 loci were revealed. Nei's distance coefficient (Dn) was used to estimate the level of genetic differentiation among P. sylvestris races and among closely related species. A dendrogram constructed using Dn values shows that of the five P. sylvestris races analyzed only the geographically isolated var. hamata exhibited sufficient differences at the Dia-2 locus (a mean Dn value relative to the other four races is 0.025) to recognize it as a distinct taxon. The remaining races, "sylvestris", "cretacea", "lapponica", and "sibirica", have a similar gene pool (Dn values are not greater than 0.010), and they should be regarded as a single taxon, P. sylvestris var. sylvestris. Interspecific comparisons revealed that P. sylvestris and P. mugo have the closest genetic affinities to each other with Nei's genetic distance of 0.108. The dendrogram demonstrates that P. funebris is closer to P. sylvestris and P. mugo than P. pallasiana. The available paleontologic data allowed us to conclude that Nei's (1975) time scale estimate for the time of divergence of the taxa was more accurate than Nei's (1971) time scale estimate.
23674720|On the basis of studies of about 100 collections of the group Conocybe mesospora and after comparison of extra-European material we conclude that, within the European representatives of this complex, it is necessary to distinguish nine species and two varieties. Three new species are described: Conocybe subxerophytica Sing. & Hauskn., C. minima Sing. & Hauskn. and C. roberti Sing. & Hauskn. C. mesospora var. subalpina Sing. is now recognized as an autonomous species, but C. brunneola (Khn. ex) Khn. & Watling is understood as variety of C. microspora (Velen.) Dennis. C. excedens var. pseudomesospora Sing. & Hauskn. is described as a new variety. C. affinis Sing. is indicated for Europe. C. microsperma Sing. is the new name of C. microspora (Vel.) Dennis ss. Dennis. A full description of nine taxa of this group is given and a key to 11 taxa occurring in Europe added. Seven taxa are illustrated for the first time with colored photographs. All taxa known to us from other continents and belonging to the C. mesospora group have been compared with the most similar European species or varieties.
23674578|Valeriana officinalis L. is an extremely polymorphic polyploid complex. On the basis of morphological, cytological, and phytochemical investigations of Bulgarian populations of V. officinalis the two subspecies V. officinalis subsp. officinalis (2n = 14, 28) and V. officinalis subsp. collina (2n = 14, 28) were each subdivided into diploid and tetraploid cytotypes.
23674219|Phenetic classification corresponds to no biological model and lacks a sound philosophical basis. Cladistics (ignoring meaningless "transformed cladistics") assumes divergent evolution and, usually, that best estimates of phylogeny are obtained by parsimony principles, both questionable assumptions at times. It is better than phenetics since more-or-less testable hypotheses are generated, but pitfalls are many, in data selection and interpretation (as to homology), and in commensurability of units and direction of change. Above all we learn: homoplasy is rife in nature. Much bad cladistics has been done. If it is to reflect phylogeny, classification cannot be artificially stabilized, but is its only aim to express (hypothesized) cladistic patterns? And can it do that with any degree of overall assurance? Biologists are legitimately interested in defining grades as well as clades. Recognition of an unequivocal clade-grade frequently leaves a paraphyletic grade residue that cannot itself be unequivocally resolved. This is a real problem that requires attention in formal taxonomy and in applying cladistics. Primarily morphological cladistics will be increasingly supplanted by molecular (nucleotide-sequence) cladistics. The role of evolutionary taxonomy will change accordingly.
23654167|Stenocereus eruca is a clonal cactus with an extremely narrow distribution in Baja California, in which seedling recruitment has rarely been observed. Low seedling recruitment in clonal plants may be caused by low seed production as a consequence of pollinator limitation or if seed input is sufficient, by lack of favorable conditions or microsites for seedling establishment. In this paper, we study the reproductive ecology of S. eruca along four years in order to explore the proximate causes of the low seedling recruitment observed in its populations. Flowers are self-incompatible, secrete up to 200 l of nectar with sugar concentration of 2123% and are predominantly nocturnal, with little opportunities for diurnal visitors. Major flower visitors were sphingids (Hyles lineata and Erinnys ello) and an unidentified native bee. The proportion of flowers setting fruit (fruit set) was in general low, with values ranging from 0.03 to 0.15 among four populations from 1999 to 2002. Bees were observed visiting flowers during 1999, 2001 and 2002 while sphingids were observed visiting the flowers only during 2000. Pollination treatments showed evidence of pollinator limitation during 1999, 2001 and 2002, but not during 2000, when sphingids were observed. Overall, sphingids seem to be unreliable and likely to be the missing pollinator responsible for the low fruit set observed among populations of S. eruca.
43496790|Quesnelia is an endemic genus of the Atlantic Forest in Brazil. It features 21 species and three varieties that are distributed from Santa Catarina to Bahia, with diversity centers in the Rio de Janeiro coastal region and the rainforest of southern Bahia. It is divided into the subgenera Quesnelia subg. Quesnelia and Quesnelia subg. Billbergiopsis. In this study, the leaf anatomy of all species of Quesnelia is characterized and compared by multivariate analysis to determine whether leaf anatomy confirms this subgeneric division. The results demonstrate that leaf anatomy supports the existence of three distinct groups of species now classified under the genus Quesnelia. When compared to other species, the first group, which is represented by five Billbergiopsis taxa, is characterized by distinct anatomical arrangement, where the stornata are positioned at the same level as the epidermis, the water storage tissue is poorly developed, and extra-fascicular fiber strands are distributed throughout the mesophyll. The remaining groups support the subgenera Quesnelia and Billbergiopsis, which differ basically in terms of the contour of the leaf in transverse sections, size and cell type of the adaxial water storage tissue, and the presence of extra-fascicular fiber strands. Comparing with anatomical data available in the literature for Bromelioideae, these results indicate the similarity of Quesnelia with Aechmea, Canistrum and Billbergia, which corroborates morphological and molecular phylogenies, and thus support future taxonomic circumscriptions of these important genera from the core Bromelioideae.
23672593|The chance backcrossing to hexaploid Festuca rubra of a natural pentaploid hybrid Festuca rubra  Vulpia fasciculata to produce a hexaploid plant is described. The hexaploid derivative, unlike the pentaploid hybrid, shows a reasonable degree of fertility and is morphologically very close to normal Festuca rubra. Its existence provides a mechanism for the continued introgression of Vulpia fasciculata into Festuca rubra, so increasing the variability of the latter. It also shows that pairing between Festuca rubra and Vulpia fasciculata chromosomes must have taken place either in the pentaploid hybrid or in its hexaploid derivative. A possibly similar pattern of introgression involving Vulpia bromoides is also described.
23643440|The RAPD technique has been used for analyzing the genetic material of seven Italian populations of the Ophrys bertolonii aggregate (Orchidaceae). For comparison the related species O. sphegodes and O. fuciflora have also been analyzed. A high genetic variability has been observed within the same populations, and on the whole only O. bertolonii can be safely differentiated from the other taxa of the aggregate, which are undistinguishable with this method.
23672721|The pollen fertility and seed formation of six species of the Ornithogalum umbellatum/angustifolium complex and of seven related species were studied. Four types of pollen grains could be recognized. The pollen fertility varied greatly in this complex and is not related to the ploidy level. The seed formation of O. umbellatum showed an adaptation to a subcontinental-Mediterranean climate, that of O. angustifolium to an Atlantic climate. In both cases raindrops seem to be important for pollination, in view of the absence of insect pollinators. After open pollination 113 seedlings were obtained in four species. Their chromosome numbers were determined. Nearly all the cultivated seedlings were aneuploid, which points to a positive selection of euploids in nature, because aneuploid individuals are rare in the wild.
23674315|Patterns of intraspecific variation were examined in Antennaria alborosea A. E. Porsild, A. corymbosa E. Nels, A. marginata Greene, A. microphylla Rydb., A. parvifolia Nutt., and A. umbrinella Rydb. Although A. alborosea was initially considered arctic in distribution, it became apparent that a southern montane element also exists. Our results suggest that morphological differences between arctic and southern montane specimens represent clinal variation. The additional morphological data for specimens that occur more than 1,500 km south of the species' range as it was initially described result in a better understanding of this once presumed arctic taxon. Morphological variation in the dioecious species A. corymbosa, A. marginata, A. microphylla, A. parvifolia, and A. umbrinella was greater between the genders than was geographic variation within each gender. These results demonstrate that both pistillate and staminate specimens must be examined in dioecious species of Antennaria if morphological variation in the respective species is to be fully understood. Character size or number of broadly distributed species (A. microphylla and A. parvifolia) generally decreased with increasing longitude, whereas characters of species with more restricted distributions (A. alborosea, A. corymbosa, and A. marginata) generally increased in size or number with increasing latitude or longitude. Antennaria umbrinella was an exception in this respect.
23643183|Fall rates of tumblers of Combretum and of parachutes of Leucadendron are shown to be generally high (> 1.8 ms-1). Tumblers contribute up to 77% of the mass of the dispersal unit and parachutes upto 22%. This implies that they are relatively expensive and inefficient in comparison with other propagule types. Morphometric analyses confirm previous findings that species with large seeds also have the largest dispersal structures, but the lowest dispersibility. Finally, there is a correlation between the sizes of these propagules and their associated leaf-size, confirming other studies that link the relative sizes of various plant attributes.
43558358|In landscapes which are predominately characterised by agriculture, natural ecosystems are often reduced to a mosaic of scattered patches of natural vegetation. Species with formerly connected distribution ranges now have restricted gene flow among populations. This has isolating effects upon population structure, because species are often confined by their limited dispersal capabilities. In this study, we test the effects of habitat fragmentation, precipitation, and isolation of populations on the genetic structure (AFLP) and fitness of the Asteraceae Catananche lutea.Our study area is an agro-dominated ecosystem in the desert-Mediterranean transition zone of the Southern Judea Lowlands in Israel. Our analysis revealed an intermediate level of intra-population genetic diversity across the study site with reduced genetic diversity on smaller scale. Although the size of the whole study area was relatively small (20  45 km), we found isolation by distance to be effective. We detected a high level of genetic differentiation among populations but genetic structure did not reflect spatial patterns. Population genetic diversity was correlated neither with position along the precipitation gradient nor with different seed types or other plant fitness variables in C. lutea.
23674630|We examined chlL (frxC) gene evolution using several approaches. Sequences from the chloroplast genome of the fern Polystichum acrostichoides and from the cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. 7002 were determined and found to be highly conserved. A complete physical map of the fern chloroplast genome and partial maps of other vascular plant taxa show that chlL is located primarily in the small single copy region as in Marchantia polymorpha. A survey of a wide variety of non-angiospermous vascular plant DNAs shows that chlL is widely distributed but has been lost in the pteridophyte Psilotum and (presumably independently) within the Gnetalean gymnosperms.
23645048|Pollen and tapetal characters in the mycoheterotrophic monocot family Triuridaceae are here compared with those of their putative relatives, including the lilioid order Pandanales (Pandanaceae, Cyclanthaceae, Velloziaceae and Stemonaceae), with which Triuridaceae have recently been associated following analyses of molecular data. Triuridaceae have small, inaperturate (functionally monoaperturate) pollen grains with the exine reduced to gemmae which have distinctive protruberances or spines. Microsporogenesis is of the successive type. Some genera have a plasmodial tapetum. Orbicules are absent. These characters are compatible with a relationship with Pandanaceae, but a relationship with Alismatales, as suggested by earlier authors, cannot be excluded.
23673723|The DNA base compositions of 60 strains of Scenedesmus were determined and found to be a valuable indicator for the differentiation within this genus (except for the very closely related species of the subsect. Desmodesmus). The range for all Scenedesmus species was 49.9-69.3 mol% GC for nuclear DNA and 36.8-39.9 mol% GC for chloroplast DNA. The separation of the genus Tetradesmus cannot be verified by GC values, because S. obliquus and S. (" Tetradesmus") wisconsinensis have a similar GC content. S. ("Chlorella") ultrasquamata, S. costato-granulatus (sect. Costato-granulati) and S. lunatus are separated clearly from all other species of the genus because of their high GC content.
23673696|A brief survey is presented on fossil reproductive structures of early Angiosperms from the Lower and mid-Cretaceous and at the same time on the reproductive structures of those extant Angiosperms which resemble most closely these fossils and which seem to be especially primitive also on other grounds: a first group (Degeneriaceae, Himantandraceae, Eupomatiaceae, Austrobaileyaceae) possessing relatively complicated and conspicuous flowers with elaborated inner staminodes, a second group (Chloranthaceae, Trimeniaceae, Amborellaceae) possessing small and relatively simple, inconspicuous flowers with peculiar features in the carpels, and a third group (Winteraceae) possessing flowers with unusual variability in organ number and size. The three groups exhibit a certain diversity in pollination biology, although cantharophily seems to prevail, however different the cantharophily character syndromes may be between the groups. In the extant primitive Magnoliidae variability occurs on other morphological levels than in the higher advanced Angiosperms. This has to be taken into consideration in evaluations of the systematic relationships of the various groups of the Magnoliidae. Presumably often their relationships are closer than it may appear at first sight. This is also true for the three groups here discussed.
23643078|Variation in the fire-survival strategy of the fynbos, legume tribes Podalyrieae and Liparieae was studied, since it is often the only conspicuous difference between morphologically similar taxa. Two main strategies are apparent: sprouters, taxa which are able to sprout from a woody rootstock after fire and non-sprouters, those which only recruit from seed after fire. In fynbos legumes sprouting and non-sprouting taxa differ in their habitat specificity, population densities, relative regional abundance, and in seed germination tempo. Speciation patterns, as inferred from an analysis of the geographical distribution and habitat specificity of the species, are discussed. Problems relating to the use of sprouting versus non-sprouting as a taxonomic character in fynbos legumes are addressed and possible solutions are given.
23671566|Sixty-one populations of Limnanthes sect. Reflexae were surveyed for variation at 19 allozyme loci and reassessed for their morphological diversity and biosystematic relationships. Cluster analysis of allozyme data at individual population level provided evidence for a fairly good fit with the earlier systematic work on this genus but both morphological and allozyme data together defined some new clusters as well as exceptional entities. For example, only var. rosea of the four L. douglasii varieties described by Mason (1952) on the basis of geographical distribution, flower color and leaf morphology, remained as a distinct entity; the others were realigned along new geographic boundaries. L. striata appeared to have two well-developed subgroups, one of which was closely related to the L. douglasii complex. Further ecogeographic and hybridization studies are needed to fully describe these new phenetic findings in the context of phylogenetic inference. Section Inflexae was readily distinguished from sect. Reflexae by several diagnostic loci, thus supporting the validity of this division. Interspecific variation levels and population differentiation in Limnanthes were high when compared to other plant taxa, possibly indicating highly dynamic evolutionary processes for which variable habitats and extreme subdivision within species have been suggested as explanations.
23643687|Somatic chromosome numbers have been determined for the following Cerastium taxa: C. eriophorum (2n = 36), C. alpinum (2n = 72), C. transsylvanicum (2n = 108), C. arcticum (2n = 108), C. latifolium (2n = 36), C. carinthiacum (2n = 36), C. banaticum (2n = 36), C. arvense subsp. glandulosum (2n = 36), C. arvense subsp. arvense (2n = 72) and C. fontanum (2n = 144). Karyotypes of three diploid species (C. eriophorum, C. banaticum and C. latifolium), belonging to three different taxonomic groups, were analysed and found to be similar. The relative nuclear DNA contents of all taxa were determined by flow cytometry and, for five species, also by Feulgen cytophotometry. The values obtained by the two methods are similar. A comparison of nuclear DNA contents among diploids shows that values differ significantly between different taxonomic groups, and are correlated with average chromosome size. Within closely related polyploid groups nuclear DNA amounts increase from 2x- to 4x- and 6x taxa as 1 : 1.4 : 2.4 in the C. alpinum complex, whereas DNA amounts are doubled comparing 2x- and 4x-subspecies in the C. arvense complex.
23669752|Campanula schimaniana is a new species of sect. Campanula subsect. Rupestres, distributed in the westernmost mountains affected by monsoon.
23674705|The similar-looking basic genomes of Hordeum bulbosum (2 x and 4 x) have five rather similar metacentric, one submetacentric, and one satellited choromosome. C-banding patterns are characterized by one or two centromeric, or juxtacentromeric, small to larger bands in most chromosomes, by bands at the nucleolar organizers, by small or very small telomeric bands, and by the nearly complete lack of intercalary bands. Banding pattern polymorphism is widespread. Banding patterns supported by chromosome morphology enable identification of homologues, and discrimination between non-homologues in H. bulbosum (2 x). The C-banded karyotype of H. bulbosum (4 x) supports an autopolyploid origin, but it was possible to identify only homologues of submetacentrics and SAT-chromosomes.
23654227|Aichryson is a genus of annual or perennial herbs, comprising approximately 13 species. The genus is nearly endemic to Macaronesia, with the center of diversity on the Canary Islands. Previous studies indicate that Aichryson is monophyletic and sister to a clade comprising two other genera, Monanthes and Aeonium. However, phylogenetic relationships within the genus have yet to be investigated. Phylogenetic relationships were estimated for Aichryson using DNA sequence data from both the nuclear and chloroplast genome. Parsimony analyses were conducted using separate nuclear and chloroplast data sets, as well as a combined data set. These combined analyses provide a well-resolved topology that is used to investigate patterns of evolution within the genus. For example, although typically herbaceous in habit, two members display a woody growth form. Our analyses indicate that woodiness is a derived feature in Aichryson that has arisen once. Furthermore, the data presented suggest that the Aichryson pachycaulon group, a group of five subspecies, are in fact not monophyletic and that a reexamination of classification is necessary. The present study indicates that the biogeographical patterns exhibited by Aichryson appear to be rare, occurring in only one other known genus.
23642358|The esterase and peroxidase patterns in five varieties of Aegilops caudata (genome type C) and Ae. comosa (genome type M) were studied in order to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships within and between the two groups. The electrostarch gel electrophoresis technique was applied to extracts of shoot and root of 4-day-old seedlings, and the electropherograms were evaluated by gel densitometer traces. Inspite of considerable isozyme polymorphism, closer relationships in the banding patterns were found between different varieties of a single species than between varieties of the two different species. Esterase and peroxidase patterns of the two Ae. caudata varieties (caudata and polyathera) are very similar and prove their close phylogenetic relationship. The isozyme affinities within Ae. comosa varieties are illustrated by the series subventricosabiaristatathessalica. The latter endemic variety has quite a number of characteristic bands and is relatively isolated. Altogether, the electrophoretic data agree well with morphological and cytological similarities (Zhukovsky 1928, Eig 1929, Karataglis 1973, 1975 b).
23643185|The circumscription of Potentilla has varied widely. To investigate the monophyly of Potentilla and the phylogenetic relationships of associated genera we used nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) DNA sequences. Fourteen species of Potentilla (sensu Wolf 1908) were included, some of which represent proposed segregate genera (such as Argentina, Comarum, Drymocallis, Duchesnea, Pentaphylloides, and Sibbaldiopsis), and 17 other genera of Rosoideae, using Prunus as outgroup. Our most parsimonious tree strongly implies that Potentilla is not monophyletic. Forcing the monophyly of Potentilla yields distinctly longer trees. Several morphological features appear to have evolved several times independently, including the swollen receptacle ("strawberry") and ternate leaves. In order to minimise nomenclatural change and to name only well supported clades, Potentilla should be split into several genera, while other previously recognised genera such as Duchesnea, Horkelia, and Ivesia are best included in Potentilla. We suggest, however, that a phylogenetic nomenclature (sensu de Queiroz & Gauthier 1994) might be a better solution.
23674579|The mRNAs encoding the chlorophyll a/b binding (cab) proteins of the light harvesting system were monitored in the wild cereals, wild emmer wheat, Triticum dicoccoides, and wild barley, Hordeum spontaneum, the progenitors of all cultivated wheats and barley, respectively. Significantly different mRNA levels were detected at different time points during the day, with generally low levels around sunrise, sunset and midnight, and maximum levels around noon. These results indicate that a diurnal control of the cab gene expression is present in these ancient species.
23643514|The genus Cheirolophus has an interesting western Mediterranean and Macaronesian distribution. Here we investigate the delimitation of the genus and its exclusion from the large genus Centaurea, the systematic position of the related genus Paleocyanus, the delimitation of some species and the phylogeny of the group. We have carried out a phylogenetic analysis of the PCR-generated sequences of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS-1 and ITS-2) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA. The results suggest that the genus, including Paleocyanus crassifolius is monophyletic; thus, a new combination of this species under Cheirolophus is proposed. The Macaronesian group of species is also monophyletic, indicating a single colonization of the archipelago. The poor resolution of microspecies in the Macaronesian group reinforces the hypothesis of a very recent differentiation of the group.
23642604|In Cymbella the position of the chromatophore corresponds to the taxonomic differentiation into sections. The pyrenoid always shows the same right hand  left hand inclination.
23645371|The leaf structure of Galanthus nivalis L. (snowdrop) and Leucojum aestivum L. (snowflake) is characterized by a homogeneous mesophyll tissue. The dominant characters of the leaves are cavities with mucose substance. There is a striking difference between these plants tepal anatomy. A central cavity occurs only in snowdrop tepals. Plastids from white parts of the tepals have a poorly developed membrane system. Leaves and green parts of tepals of both species possess amoeboid chloroplasts and contain chlorophyll a and b. The chlorophyll content in tepals is lower than in leaves, but the chlorophyll a:b ratio is always 2:1. Both, snowdrop and snowflake are from the family Amaryllidaceae, but their ecology is different. This paper presents common features related to systematic relatedness and differences induced by ecological factors.
23644289|The reproductive ecology of Euphrasia willkommii (Scrophulariaceae), an endemic species from the Mediterranean alpine environments of the SE Spain, has been experimentally studied during two reproductive seasons. The flowers of this plant species were visited by very few insects belonging only to two generalist taxa, thrips and ants. Nevertheless, reproduction is not pollen limited in E. willkommii. Hand-pollinations demonstrated that this plant species is capable of selfing, reproductive success being similar in autogamous and allogamous crosses. Moreover, pollinator-exclusion experiments also showed that, under natural conditions, this plant relies predominantly on selfing, seed production being similar in presence or absence of pollinators. Selfing in E. willkommii is presumably an ecological mechanism to ensure successful reproduction in a harsh environment where pollinator availability is extremely low.
43558057|Variation among 17 accessions of Citrullus lanatus from different geographic regions and interspecific relationships of six taxa of Citrullus and Praecitrullus were studied using electrophoretic patterns of their seed storage proteins. Globulins, the salt soluble proteins, represented the major fraction with their proportion varying between 56.6% and 67.0%. These were followed by albumins (16.6-20.8%) and glutelins (13.5-18.5%) with prolamins as the lowest (2.2-4.1%) of the four fractions. Twodimensional gel electrophoresis under nonreducing conditions in the first dimension and reducing conditions in the second revealed disulphide-bonded subunit pairs of molecular weight 53, 52, 50 and 41 kDa, unlike the single subunit pair generally reported in different cucurbits, each consisting of a large and a small subunit. In the UPGMA dendrogram based on polypeptide patterns, the occurrence of C. lanatus var. lanatus, C. lanatus var. citroides and C. lanatus accession PI 482318 in one subcluster suggested that phylogenetically C. lanatus var. citroides and C lanatus var. lanatus are closely related. The recently described annual wild species, Citrullus rehmii, occurred independently nearest to the subcluster of these cultivated and wild taxa. Citrullus colocynthis, the perennial wild species occurred farther from this cluster showing relatively more genetic distance from the watermelons. Praecitrullus fistulosus was outclustered and appeared genetically distant from all the Citrullus taxa; this supported its placement in a separate genus unlike its nomenclature as a botanical variety of watermelon or as a separate species of Citrullus proposed in certain earlier studies.
23642248|The studies of the cell cycle of Diatoma hiemale var. mesodon have been continued on a population during the whole vegetative period (AugustOctober 1976). The lapse of time between the maxima of the chromatophore division and the mitosis is 8 hours in the exponentional and stationary phase of growth of the population; during the decline and decay of the population it is shortening to 24 hours. The sequence of phases is maintained, but the stage of praemitotic stagnation is shortened to a minimum. During the stage of the chromatophore division a relationship was found between time lapse and chromatophore number per cell. The cell cycle (asexual life cycle) of Diatoma hiemale var. mesodon has been schematically illustrated during optimal development and its different stages are discussed. Die Untersuchungen des Zellzyklus von Diatoma hiemale var. mesodon wurden an einer Population whrend der ganzen Vegetationsperiode (AugustOktober 1976) fortgesetzt. Zwischen den Maxima der Chromatophorenteilung und der Mitose besteht ein Zeitabstand, der whrend der exponentialen und stationren Wachstumsphase der Population etwa 8 Stunden dauert, bei Schwund und beim Absterben der Population auf 24 Stunden verkrzt wird. Die Reihenfolge der einzelnen Etappen im Zellzyklus bleibt erhalten, doch verkrzt sich die Etappe der prmitotischen Stagnation der Teilungsvorgnge bis auf ein Minimum. Whrend der Etappe der Chromatophorenteilung wurden entsprechende Zeitabschnitte fr die verschiedene Anzahl der Chromatophoren pro Zelle gefunden. Der Zellzyklus von Diatoma hiemale var. mesodon wird an einer natrlichen Population whrend ihrer maximalen Entfaltung schematisch dargelegt, und die einzelnen Etappen werden diskutiert.
23643351|A phylogenetic study based on sequence data from the complete internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA for sect. Polium of the genus Teucrium shows both intersectional congruence and intrasectional incongruence with traditional morphological classifications. We attribute this incongruence largely to problems related to the polyploid complex studied. Section Polium includes many poorly differentiated taxa of probable recent origin through hybridization followed by polyploidization. Both on the basis of parsimony and distance (Neighbor-Joining method) analyses, T. dunense and T. thymifolium are the species that diverge most from the sampled taxa. However, unlike T. thymifolium, the morphology of T. dunense is not much differentiated in relation to the other taxa. Both species are, nonetheless, the only sampled species to occupy isolated, exclusive environments and which may have undergone rapid evolution by a bottleneck effect. Teucrium dunense is found only on dunes along the Spanish and French coasts and T. thymifolium, a chasmophytic species with limited endemism, is found solely on limestone and dolomite cliffs in the low mountains in south-eastern Spain. A hypothesis is presented to explain the discrepancy between the observed comparatively large amount of ITS sequence divergence and the low morphological differentiation in T. dunense.
23673104|Sequence polymorphisms and phylogenetic relationships from different genomes of 25 diploid species in Triticeae (Poaceae) were evaluated by using the sequences of y-type high-molecular-weight glutenin promoter (h-HGP). The length of the amplified y-HGP sequences ranged from 845 to 915 base pairs (bp) in the 25 species of Triticeae. Multiple sequence alignment showed conserved and variable parts in the y-HGP sequences. Higher sequence conservation was detected in the regulatory elements of y-HGP. An 85-bp deletion was found in eight species of Triticum, Aegilops, and Hordeum. Several species-specific indels were identified in the y-HGP from Psathyrostachys, Hordeum, and Pseudoroegneria. Maximum parsimony (MP) and Bayesian analyses defined an Aegilops/Triticum group consisting of closely related species. A close relationship between Pseudoroegneria and the clade of Australopyrum, Dasypyrum, and Agropyron was also strongly supported in the topologies of MP and Bayesian trees. As y-HGP has sufficient amounts of genetic variation and is a single-copy region in diploid Triticeae, it is useful in phylogenetic analyses of this group.
23642337|In 83 species of the families Monotropaceae, Apocynaceae, Oleaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Lentibulariaceae, Bignoniaceae, Martyniaceae, Myoporaceae, Verbenaceae, Lamiaceae, Campanulaceae, and Liliaceae, protein bodies in the cell nuclei have been found, in 68 of these species for the first time. On the basis of their structure in accordance with morphological characters the genera Burgsdorfia, Hesiodia, Olisia, and Phlomoides of the Lamiaceae are accepted; Lamium is divided into Lamium, Lamiastrum and Orvala; two new combinations are established: Kickxia campyloceras (Rech. fil. & Esfandiari) Speta and Etornotus papilionaceus (Burm. in L.) Speta. Deviating shape or lack of protein bodies corroborate former taxonomic decisions, e.g. the transfer of Monotropa to Monotropaceae or the separation of Galeopsis and Ladanum; Veronica schmidtiana should not be included in Pseudolysimachion. Systematic affinities are discussed primarily within Scrophulariaceae because nuclear protein bodies have been studied already in many species of this family. For Campanula patula two 2  populations are reported.
23642586|Reassociation kinetics of Daucus carota and Petroselinum crispum (Apiaceae), and Datura innoxia (Solanaceae) are presented. Hybridization of 3H-labelled DNA of two carrot cultivars indicate strong qualitative homologies of DNA sequences; nevertheless, certain quantitative differences in some Cotregions seem to exist. However, homologous sequences of Daucus DNA with DNA of Datura, and, suprisingly, even with DNA of Petroselinum are very restricted : between 8% in the repeated regions and ca. 7-9% in the unique regions.
23655779|Tribe Spiraeeae has generally been defined to include Aruncus, Kelseya, Luetkea, Pentactina, Petrophyton, Sibiraea, and Spiraea. Recent phylogenetic analyses have supported inclusion of Holodiscus in this group. Spiraea, with 50-80 species distributed throughout the north temperate regions of the world, is by far the largest and most widespread genus in the tribe; the remaining genera have one to several species each. Phylogenetic analyses of nuclear ITS and chloroplast trnL-trnF nucleotide sequences for 33 species representing seven of the aforementioned genera plus Xerospiraea divided the tribe into two well supported clades, one including Aruncus, Luetkea, Holodiscus, and Xerospiraea, the second including the other genera. Within Spiraea, none of the three sections recognized by Rehder based on inflorescence morphology is supported as monophyletic. Our analyses suggest a western North American origin for the tribe, with several biogeographic events involving vicariance or dispersal between the Old and New Worlds having occurred within this group.
23642315|The lichen genus Bryostigma with the single species Br. leucodontis is described as new. It is characterized by the red or blue iodine staining of its hyphae, the undifferentiated excipulum, the type of asci, the small size of the fruiting bodies and its growth on moss. The taxonomic position remains open. Die neue Flechtengattung Bryostigma mit der einzigen Art Br. leucodontis wird beschrieben. Die Sippe ist gekennzeichnet durch die in Jod sich rot bzw. blau frbenden Hyphen, das undifferenzierte Gehuse und Interascalgeflecht, den eigenartigen Ascus-Typ, die Kleinheit der Fruchtkrper und das Wachstum auf Moos. Die Verwandtschaft ist vorlufig unklar.
23643936|Taxonomic complexity has hindered partitioning the genus Centaurea into natural subdivisions, even though it has long been recognized as an unwieldy, artificial assemblage. Most of the remaining difficulties center in the Centaurea jacea group, whose taxa share a common advanced type of pollen. Because it comprises half the species of the genus Centaurea, as well as five other disputed genera previously segregated from Centaurea (Chartolepis, Cheirolepis, Cnicus, Grossheimia and Tomanthea), the Centaurea jacea group is a significant taxonomic challenge. Newer molecular approaches are useful for resolving complex relationships because they provide more precise inferences of evolutionary relationships than traditional morphological characters. Sequences of the Internal Transcribed Spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA were analyzed for a comprehensive sample of this group. Results indicated that the Centaurea jacea group is monophyletic and includes the segregated genera, but not two other genera (Oligochaeta and Zoegea), whose inclusion in the Centaurea jacea group was doubtful. In addition to pollen morphology, the ITS phylogeny is also supported by karyological evidence and by good correlation with biogeographic distribution of the species. The monophyly of the Centaurea jacea group suggests that a natural delimitation of Centaurea that minimizes nomenclatural changes is possible, but only if a new type of the genus is designated.
23642979|The flora of the copper-cobalt ores of Upper Shaba, Zare, comprises some 220 taxa including 42 endemics. The origin of this flora is examined and an assessment has been made of its relationship with the flora of the high plateaux steppe-savannah (dilunguan flora). A first group consists of undifferentiated species limited to these two floras. A second group comprises cupriphilous taxa derived from closely-related and widely distributed species observed on the high plateaux and elsewhere. A third group consists of closelyrelated species or ecotypes confined to the areas. In the Silene burchelli complex (Caryophyllaceae) there is a gradual transition from the widespread S. burchelli var. angustifolia on the high plateaux to a newly discovered S. burchelli ecotype from a cupriferous outcrop at Luita, and to 8. cobalticola from highly mineralized copper-cobalt deposits at Mindigi. This ecophyletic series provides a gradient of morphological anatomical, and physiological changes whose end members are distinct species. The subject of palaeoendemism and neoendemism in relation to metallophytes of Upper Shaba is also discussed. Colonisation of metalliferous soils by elements of the non-mineralised high plateau is believed to be a neoendemic process.
23673648|The ultrastructure of the early stages of carposporophyte development in the marine red alga Chondria tenuissima has been studied. The diploid carposporophyte grows on the gametophyte. Apical gonimoblast cells develop into diploid carpospores. The basal gonimoblast cells cease to divide and undergo considerable cytoplasmic changes before they become incorporated into the expanding fusion cell. Nucleus and plastids degenerate gradually, while mitochondria remain intact. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum becomes prominent, it seems to produce small vesicles with electron dense contents. Simultaneously, numerous mucilage sacs are formed, presumably from dilating ER cisternae. The contents of the mucilage sacs are secreted by exocytosis. The pit connections between gonimoblast cells flare out. They remain as isolated bodies without connection to a wall after fusion. Secondary pit connections occur between vegetative gametophyte cells and sterile carposporophyte cells. There are three different morphological types of pit connections.
23664807|A new species of Rhetinantha from Colombian department of Antioquia is described, illustrated and placed within the key for the determination of national Rhetinantha species. The taxonomic affinity of the new entity is briefly discussed and the information about its distribution and ecology is provided.
23662380|To clarify the taxonomic status of tomatoes ("Lycopersicon") and their relationship to the members of sect. Petota of genus Solanum L., organization of the rDNA external transcribed spacer (5 ETS) was studied in 33 Solanum and "Lycopersicon" species. Phylogenetic reconstruction revealed that three major groups can be distinguished. Non-tuber-bearing species of ser. Etuberosa as well as tuber-bearing Central American diploids appeared as a paraphyletic group. The first of two well-defined clades embraced all tuber-bearing South American species and Central American polyploids. The other clade (named "tomato clade") contains non-tuber-bearing species of ser. Juglandifolia and tomato species of ser. Neolycopersicon, which appears to be imbedded in sect. Petota. The new 5 ETS variant D characterized by a cluster of downstream subrepeats is characteristic for the tomato clade. The variant D originated directly from the most ancestral variant A found in ser. Etuberosa and the Central American diploids, whereas variants B and C specific for the tuber-bearing South American species and Central American polyploids represent a parallel lineage of molecular evolution. The sequence analysis demonstrates the existence of an evolutionary trend of parallel multiplication of specific motifs in 5 ETS in different groups of sect. Petota.
23642688|Cynoglossopsis somaliensis H. Riedl, sp. nov., is described as a new species of the hitherto monotypic genus Cynoglossopsis Brand which is closest related to Cynoglossum L. but has to be included in BoraginoideaeEritrichieae from the way the nutlets are attached to the gynobasis.
23643760|A phylogenetic reconstruction of eight species of the genus Brachypodium P. Beauv. (Poaceae) has been obtained combining sequence data from the chloroplast ndhF gene and the nuclear ITS, and using five representatives of tribes Triticeae (Secale), Poeae (Lolium), Meliceae (Melica, Glyceria) and Oryzeae (Oryza) as outgroups. Similar numbers of informative substitutions for the ingroup species were provided by both the 3 region of the chloroplast ndhF gene and the nuclear ITS region. The Mediterranean annual Brachypodium distachyon appears to be the basal lineage, followed by the divergence of the New World non-rhizomatous B. mexicanum, which antedates the separation of a core of six European and Eurosiberian rhizomatous perennials (Brachypodium arbuscula, B. retusum, B. rupestre, B. phoenicoides, B. pinnatum, and B. sylvaticum). The evolutionary reconstruction based on sequences of the chloroplast and the nuclear genomes is congruent with topologies obtained from analysis of RAPD data.
23660110|This paper examines macro and micro-level patterns of genome size evolution in the Brassicaceae. A phylogeny of 25 relatives of Arabidopsis thaliana was reconstructed using four molecular markers under both parsimony and Bayesian methods. Reconstruction of genome size (C value) evolution as a discrete character and as a continuous character was also performed. In addition, size dynamics in small chromosomal regions were assessed by comparing genomic clones generated for Arabidopsis lyrata and for Boechera stricta to the fully sequenced genome of A. thaliana. The results reveal a sevenfold variation in genome size among the taxa investigated and that the small genome size of A. thaliana is derived. Our results also indicate that the genome is free to increase or decrease in size across these evolutionary lineages without a directional bias. These changes are accomplished by insertions and deletions at both large and small-scales occurring mostly in intergenic regions, with repetitive sequences and transposable elements implicated in genome size increases. The focus upon taxa relatively closely related to the model organism A. thaliana, and the combination of complementary approaches, allows for unique insights into the processes driving genome size changes.
23674770|The question whether the uniseriate perianth of Zanthoxylum L. s. str. is homologous with the calyx or the corolla of taxa included in Fagara, or of an independent origin, has been controversial for a long time, but the arguments mostly have remained theoretical. The present investigation of floral structures indicates that there are two different types of uniseriate perianth in Zanthoxylum s. str. Therefore, this taxon does not represent a natural group and should be united with Fagara as Zanthoxylum s. l. The infrageneric taxonomy of this genus is still very ambiguous. It is shown that differences in indumentum, number of sepals and petals (5-4-3) resp. perianth segments (49), stamens (36), and free carpels (15) are of systematic relevance. Particularly important but so far neglected is carpel shape, where an acrostylous and an anacrostylous-basistylous type can be recognized. Stigmata of 2 or more carpels mostly fuse to form a compitum. 45-merous flowers with calyx and corolla, and acrostylous carpels are considered as plesiomorphic character states in the genus. On the basis of  corresponding morphological and phytochemical progressions a working hypothesis about the relationships within Zanthoxylum s. l. is presented in graphical form (Fig. 9).
23645035|Morphological variation of Pinus canariensis cones was studied, based on a sample of 891 cones collected at 23 populations covering the entire natural range of distribution of the species. Both categorical and quantitative traits were used for the analyses. The categorical traits of the apophysis and umbo were subjected to Multiple Correspondence Analysis (MCA). The categories related to apophysis type were found to be the most important variables for ordination. Three cone groups were defined through clustering, generally differentiated according to apophysis prominence. Approximately half of the studied cones were classified within one group, denominated form gibba and corresponding to the majority of previous descriptions of the species. In addition, we found some other, less frequent cone forms (called plana, gibberosa protuberans and reflexa), which have not been traditionally considered in Pinus canariensis. Cones and seeds were larger in stands at higher altitude, possibly adapted to unfavourable (cold and dry) environment. No clear geographical structure was found in the studied traits at the population level. However, variation of cone morphology among islands was found to be related to the extension of pine forests.
23673174|The phylogenetic placement of Kuhlmanniodendron Fiaschi & Groppo (Achariaceae) within Malpighiales was investigated with rbcL sequence data. This genus was recently created to accommodate Carpotroche apterocarpa Kuhlm., a poorly known species from the rainforests of Esprito Santo, Brazil. One rbcL sequence was obtained from Kuhlmanniodendron and analyzed with 73 additional sequences from Malpighiales, and 8 from two closer orders, Oxalidales and Celastrales, all of which were available at Genbank. Phylogenetic analyses were carried out with maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference; bootstrap analyses were used in maximum parsimony to evaluate branch support. The results confirmed the placement of Kuhlmanniodendron together with Camptostylus, Lindackeria, Xylotheca, and Caloncoba in a strongly supported clade (posterior probability = 0.99) that corresponds with the tribe Lindackerieae of Achariaceae (Malpighiales). Kuhlmanniodendron also does not appear to be closely related to Oncoba (Salicaceae), an African genus with similar floral and fruit morphology that has been traditionally placed among cyanogenic Flacourtiaceae (now Achariaceae). A picrosodic paper test was performed in herbarium dry leaves, and the presence of cyanogenic glycosides, a class of compounds usually found in Achariaceae, was detected. Pollen morphology and wood anatomy of Kuhlmanniodendron were also investigated, but both pollen (3-colporate and microreticulate) and wood, with solitary to multiple vessels, scalariform perforation plates and other features, do not seem to be useful to distinguish this genus from other members of the Achariaceae and are rather common among the eudicotyledons as a whole. However, perforated ray cells with scalariform plates, an uncommon wood character, present in Kuhlmanniodendron are similar to those found in Kiggelaria africana (Pangieae, Achariaceae), but the occurrence of such cells is not mapped among the angiosperms, and it is not clear how homoplastic this character could be.
23645042|Sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer of the 18S-5.8S-26S rDNA (ITS-1) region was performed in order to analyse the phylogenetic relationships of eleven taxa of cultivated and wild rye species. The ITS regions were amplified using designed primers. At least ten positive clones of each taxonomic unit were sequenced and compared. Two different ITS sequences were found in three taxa: Secale sylvestre Host, Secale strictum spp. kuprijanovii Grossh. and Secale strictum ssp. africanum Stapf. Secale sylvestre Host was the species that showed the greatest number of comparative differences in the sequences, and was the most distant of all the taxonomic units analysed. A certain degree of variation was found among all four subspecies of S. strictum analysed. S. strictum Presl ssp. strictum was most closely related to S. strictum ssp. africanum Stapf and S. strictum ssp. kuprijanovii Grossh to S. strictum ssp. anatolicum (Boiss.) Hammer. S. vavilovii showed similarities with this group of subspecies and with the S. cereale group. No differences were found between the weed forms of S. cereale and cultivated rye.
23669420|This study characterises the micromorphology, ultrastructure and main chemical constituents of the foliar glandular trichomes of Ocimum obovatum using light and electron microscopy and a variety of histochemical tests. Two types of glandular trichomes occur on the leaves: large peltate and small capitate. The head of each peltate trichome is made up of four broad head cells in one layer. The head of each capitate trichome is composed of two broad head cells in one layer (type I) or a single oval head cell (type II, rare). In peltate heads, secretory materials are gradually transported to the subcuticular space via fracture in the four sutures at the connecting walls of the head cells. Release to the head periphery occurs through opposite fracture in the four sutures in the head cuticle. In type I capitate trichomes, release of the secretions to the subcuticular space occurs via a pore between the two head cells, and release to the head periphery occurs through the opposite pore in the head cuticle. In type II capitate trichomes, the secreted material is released from the head cell through a ruptured particular squared area at the central part of the head cuticle. These secretion modes are reported for the first time in the family Lamiaceae. Histochemical tests showed that the secretory materials in the glandular trichomes are mainly essential oils, lipophilic substances and polysaccharides. Large peltate trichomes contain a large quantity of these substances than the small capitate trichomes. Ultrastructural evidence suggests that the plastids produce numerous lipid droplets, and the numerous polysaccharide small vesicles are derived from Golgi bodies.
23643040|Microgametophytic plastid nucleoids were quantified for 18 species representing the four core genera of the tribe Trifolieae (Fabaceae), Medicago, Melilotus, Trigonella, and Trifolium. Generative cells of all taxa contained nucleoids, establishing that biparental plastid inheritance is common in the Trifolieae. Nucleoid number and volumes of pollen grains and generative cell nuclei differed among taxa. Nucleoid number was positively correlated with pollen grain and generative cell nuclear volumes, flower size and style length. These relationships disappeared after adjusting nucleoid number for pollen grain and generative cell nuclear volumes. Adjusted nucleoid numbers provided no evidence to support hypotheses that plastid content is associated with ploidy level, mating system, perenniality or size of the reproductive apparatus.
23644335|Bees require pollen for their reproduction and pollen comprises the basic larval food for bees. Most bees acquire pollen passively during flower visitation, but female bees may also collect pollen actively with the aid of various structural and behavioral adaptations. Most bees have evolved adaptations to concentrate pollen into discrete loads and transport pollen back to their nests. The various structural and behavioral adaptations of female bees for acquiring and transporting pollen are the basis of this review.
43496746|Nomocharis aperta (Franchet) E. Wilson is a heterogeneous species including morphotypes with pink tepals bearing swellings on both sides of the inner tepal's basal median channel and those with yellow tepals lacking swellings. Molecular phylogenetic and pair-wise distance analyses of nrITS and chloroplast psbA-trnH support recognition of the yellow-flowered morphotype lacking nectary processes as a new, separate species of Nomocharis. Here, we present the new species, Nomocharis gongshanensis Y. D. Gao et X. J. He sp. nov., and resolve its systematic position in the Lilium-Nomocharis complex using the ITS and psbA-trnH markers. Seven variant copies of ITS were isolated from N. gongshanensis. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses placed the clones in two different Nomocharis clades, N. aperta + N. saluenensis and sect. Eunomocharis, suggesting a putative hybrid origin of the new species. The psbA-trnH sequence of N. gongshanensis is identical to that of N. saluenensis, indicating that the latter may be the maternal ancestor. Our analyses support the monophyly of Lilium-Nomocharis and mutual paraphyly of the two genera. Nomocharis was resolved within Lilium as sister to the European lilies of sect. Liriotypus (sensu kinci). The 12 Lilium-Nomocharis clades recovered in this study are consistent with previous molecular studies but are incongruent with traditional circumscription of and subgeneric divisions within Lilium. These results highlight the need for taxonomic revision of Lilium to accommodate Nomocharis and reconsideration of the origin and evolution of Nomocharis.
23655749|Floral development and inflorescence structure within Streptocarpus and Saintpaulia were investigated using Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM). We discuss the structure and development of the pair-flowered cyme and the floral ontogeny found in the Gesneriaceae in a phylogenetic context with particular reference to an East African clade of Streptocarpus and Saintpaulia. Current phylogenetic hypotheses divide the caulescent East African Streptocarpus species into two distinct clades, in relation to which the position of Saintpaulia is not yet clear. Variation in the branching of the inflorescence showed phylogenetic significance and included dichasial, monochasial and unbranched patterns. In four of the East African Streptocarpus species sampled a single lateral bracteole was present on the first to third axes, after which the inflorescence was ebracteolate. Our results indicate that there may be some link between bracteole suppression and an alteration in the order of sepal initiation. The loss or suppression of lateral bracteoles also appears to result in the precocious development of the lateral cyme meristem.
23674226|The five annual species of Adonis L., sect. Adonis, growing in Israel, form a series of diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid species. Their somatic chromosome numbers are 2 n = 16 in A. annua L., A. dentata Del. and A. palaestina Boiss., 2 n = 32 in A. microcarpa DC., 2 n = 48 in A. aestivalis L.; counts for A. dentata, A. palaestina and A. microcarpa are new records. There are indications that alloploidization may have been involved in the process of speciation in sect. Adonis. A taxonomic survey of the 8 species of the section reveals that a higher ploidy level is usually combined with a larger distribution area.
23642459|Based on an analysis of results from experimental hybridization, the plants assigned by Munz to Oenothera subg. Oenothera and subg. Raimannia, now divided into approximately 76 species, are referred to a single section, Oenothera. This section is in turn divided into five subsections: Euoenothera, Munzia, Raimannia, Emersonia, and an undescribed group of three species related to Oenothera pubescens. Euoenothera is maintained in the traditional sense, and includes about 14 species of North America, widely naturalized elsewhere. Munzia consists of 45 species, comprising three series, and native to South America. Raimannia is restricted to a group of approximately 11 North American species. Emersonia comprises four rather heterogenous species of northern Mexico and southern New Mexico, of which Oenothera macrosceles, O. maysillesii, and O. organensis have been described. Within these four subsections, interspecific hybrids can be made in general, although plastid differentiation often leads to incompatibilities. With varying degrees of difficulty, hybrids were produced in all intersectional combinations involving Euoenothera, Emersonia, Munzia, and Raimannia, the most difficult being those between Emersonia and Raimannia. Based on their habit and distribution, Emersonia species, and especially Oenothera maysillesii, appear to resemble most closely the common ancestor of the section, Euoenothera and Munzia to have been derived from it or its common ancestor, and Raimannia perhaps to be more closely related to the phylogenetic branch that leads to Euoenothera.
23643698|Detailed chloroplast DNA restriction site maps for two species in the genus Adonis (Ranunculaceae), A. annua and A. vernalis, were constructed using single and double digests and the sizes of these genomes are 151.3 and 156.5 kilobases, respectively. Three inversions were found in Adonis, relative to the gene order in the majority of land plants. These rearrangements represent two different gene orders and mark an ancient split in the evolutionary history of this genus. Gene probes were used in order to map the endpoints of the inversions and the inverted repeat regions. The inverted repeat is approximately 400 base pairs shorter in A. annua than in A. vernalis. Two inversions, 39 kilobases and 24 kilobases in size, occur in A. annua and one inversion, 42 kilobases in size, is present in the remaining investigated species of Adonis. The gene rps16 is absent from the chloroplast genome in Adonis annua. Restriction sites for eleven restriction endonucleases were mapped for A. annua, A. vernalis and four additional species of Adonis and two species of Trollius. Eighty-six phylogenetically informative sites were analysed cladistically in order to evaluate the main clades within Adonis.
23660154|Lepidodendralean lycopsids, a dominant component in Late Palaeozoic wetland plant communities, possess a diversity of reproductive structures that are primarily known from the Late Palaeozoic floras of Europe and North America. Here we document an anatomically preserved lepidodendralean lycopsid sporophyll with attached megasporangium from the Lower Permian Taiyuan Formation in Shanxi Province, northern China. The sporophyll has a pedicel onto which the sporangium is attached, and the sporangium is dorsiventrally flattened, proximally dehiscent and longitudinal ridged. The megasporangial wall comprises three zones: an outer uniseriate layer of columnar cells, a middle layer 13 cells thick comprising isodiametric parenchymatous cells, and an inner zone 13 cells thick of thick-walled cells. The vascular system comprises a single xylem strand surrounded by zone of parenchyma that continues through the pedicel into the lamina. Within the megasporangium a single functional megaspore and three abortive megaspores occur. Features of this specimen conform to Achlamydocarpon Schumacher-Lambry, and comparisons with other species show it shares similarities with A. takhtajanii (Sni.) Schumacher-Lambry and A. varius Taylor and Brack-Hanes. Although the morphology and anatomy of the specimen we describe overlaps with these two species, it is distinct from both leading to the erection of the new species A. intermedium sp. nov. The evolutionary significance of A. intermedium sp. nov. and the identity of its parent plant are considered, and the status and systematic position of "Oriental lepidophytes" from the Cathaysian floras are discussed.
23643763|The root structure of Podostemum subulatum is investigated and compared with that of Zeylanidium olivaceum. Podostemum has thread- or ribbon-like roots. The root tip consists of an inner apical meristem and a single-layered root cap. From roots arise numerous shoots of endogeneous origin. Their vascular bundle is ab initio connected with the root bundle. By the simple (reduced) apical zonation, the roots of Podostemum subulatum appear more advanced than the crustose roots of Zeylanidium olivaceum, which bear an ordinary (though asymmetrical) root cap. With regard to the endogeneous root-borne shoots, however, Zeylanidium appears more advanced because of the shoot dimorphism. The floriferous shoots have a short axis that grows plagiotropously above the crust surface, whereas the axes of the vegetative shoots are extremely short and remain, together with the apical meristem, within the crust. Only the leaves protrude from the crust surface.
23655552|Relationships among the taxa of Umbelliferae, presumably close to Ligusticum and Selinum were investigated by two independent molecular taxonomic methods. 134 ITS 1-2 sequences were analyzed (29 new and 2 reinvestigated species) and immunochemical comparison of storage seed proteins for 38 species of Apioideae of Ligusticum affinity was performed, eight reference systems (antisera) were used. Both approaches yield similar results, showing the extremely polyphyletic nature of this group and some large genera (Ligusticum s.l., Selinum s.l., Pachypleurum) in the Umbelliferae. The independent status of the genera Magadania, Sphaenolobium, Arafoe, Lomatocarpa, Dimorphosciadium and some other segregates of Ligusticum, Cnidium and Selinum have been confirmed, but Cnidium proved to be unnatural even as currently circumscribed. In the group of East Asian taxa the genera Oreocome, Ligusticopsis, Cortia and Cortiella appeared to be closely related. Haplosphaera was shown to be a genus of Hansenia-Notopterygium group.
23654187|Floral development of Polygala myrtifolia was studied by the use of SEM, and compared with floral development in Leguminosae, with which Polygalaceae is grouped in Fabales. Five sepals and petals are formed in a helix, the direction of which is predetermined by the sequentially formed bracteoles. The two lateral sepals are delayed in their development, and the two lateral petals are suppressed early. For stamen initiation a hypothetical pathway is presented, in which the initiation is in two helical whorls. The abaxial, antesepalous stamen and the adaxial, antepetalous stamen are lost. In the gynoecium the late closure is distinct. Although the floral morphology of Polygalaceae and Leguminosae differs clearly, the two families do share some developmental features: (1) The formation of a racemose inflorescence, (2) the acropetal and helical initiation of floral organs, (3) the morphogenetic function of bracteoles, (4) the suppression and loss of organs, (5) the synchronous stamen differentiation (after asynchronous initiation) and late fusion of filaments, (6) the late closure of the gynoecium, and (7) the late expression of floral asymmetry. On the basis of these developmental similarities, the placement of Polygalaceae in Fabales becomes more plausible. Further insights in floral evolution of Fabales will be possible by means of a detailed phylogenetic analysis of developmental characters, based on a broadened data matrix.
43496765|Distributional patterns of Valeriana species from southern South America were analyzed. We prepared a database with the records of 40 species from Argentina and Chile south of 33S, obtained from herbarium specimens, published taxonomic studies and field trips. We undertook a track analysis and a parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE), the latter with 134 grid cells of 1.5 latitude by 1.5 longitude. Three generalized tracks and one node were obtained, and three areas of endemism were identified. These general patterns of distribution in Valeriana were used to infer possible vicariance and dispersal events that might have shaped them. We identified a center of diversification in Central Chile and the Argentinean province of Neuqun. It represents a complex area that is related to both the Central Chilean and Subantarctic subregions.
43558151|The large terrestrial orchid genus Satyrium underwent evolutionary radiations in the Cape floral region and the grasslands of southern and eastern Africa. These radiations were accompanied by tremendous diversification of the unusual twin-spurred flowers that characterize the genus, but pollination data required to interpret these patterns of floral evolution have been lacking for grassland species in the genus. Here we document pollinators, nectar properties, and levels of pollination success for 11 grassland Satyrium species in southern and south-central Africa.Pollinators of these species include bees, beetles, butterflies, hawkmoths, noctuid moths, long-proboscid flies, and sunbirds. Most species appear to be specialized for pollination by one functional pollinator group. Longproboscid fly pollination systems are reported for the first time in Satyrium (in S. macrophyllum and a high-altitude form of S. neglectum). Floral morphology, especially spur length and rostellum structure, differs markedly among plants with different pollinators, while nectar volume, concentration, and sugar composition are fairly uniform across species. Most taxa exhibited high levels of pollination success (> 50% of flowers pollinated), a trend that can be attributed to the presence of nectar in the twin spurs.
23642295|Erysimum cephalonicum Polatschek is a new taxon, endemic to the isle of Kefallinia. Its closest allies are Erysimum pusillum Bory et Chaub. and E. trichophyllum Heldr. ex sched.
43496771|Genetic diversity within and between seedstocks of autochthonous provenances of common blackthorn (Prunus spinosa L.) from several locations in Germany was determined and compared with the diversity in conventionally propagated (German and Hungarian) seedstocks using a highly reproducible high-annealing-temperature random amplified polymorphic DNA (HAT-RAPD) protocol. Based on the distribution of 359 markers obtained with 11 primers we found relatively low genetic diversity in the studied autochthonous blackthorn populations (H 0.1182-0.1333), with the majority distributed within the populations (92.22%) and only 7.78% among them. Similar levels of diversity were also found in the conventional seedstocks. Accordingly, genetic differentiation among these populations is rather low (pairwise Fst 0.0284-0.1266). In one case, we were not able to differentiate between an autochthonous population and conventional (Fst 0.0284) one. We discuss the results with respect to German conservation laws and their practical implementation.
23643659|Cenomanian-Turonian sediments from the Sarbay locality in north-western Kazakhstan have yielded a rich assemblage of plant fossils including well preserved flowers, fruits, and seeds of angiosperms. This work describes fossil seeds assigned to the Magnoliaceae and the Illiciaceae. Three new species of the extinct magnoliaceous genus Liriodendroidea, L. asiatica, L. costata, and L. tenuitesta, are established and new information on the previously described species, L. alata, is provided. The Liriodendroidea seeds are closely similar to seeds of extant Liriodendron, but are distinguished in being much smaller and winged. A new genus and species, Illiciospermum pusillum, is established based on seeds with close similarity to those of the extant genus Illicium. The seeds are small, anatropous and exotestal with outer epidermis of testa forming a palisade layer. The facets of the palisade cells have deeply undulate anticlinal walls. The micropyle area is seen on the outer integument as a transverse slit placed on a raised strophiole-like structure close to the hilum. The Illiciospermum seeds represent the first unequivocal record of the Illiciaceae in the Cretaceous. Another seed of possible illiciaceous affinity is described as aff. Illiciospermum sp.
23674537|To investigate why some species are dioecious and others monoecious, a data set of 14 morphological characters in 106 species of Elatostema was regressed onto mating system using partial multiple regression (controlling for subgeneric classification to avoid spurious associations). Morphology and mating system are significantly related (p = 0.05), and dioecious species tend to have large stipules, woody habit, and large leaves. The correlation of dioecy with large stipules is reported for the first time, but this character, like woodiness, is an indicator of plant size, suggesting a functional relationship of large plants (of the under-canopy) with dioecy.
23674698|The taxonomy of the genus Fumaria has not been considered in detail since Pugsley's work in 1919 ff., and few modern methods have been applied to it. In a phenetic study, 33 populations of 11 Fumaria spp. were grown in uniform conditions, and seven morphological characters measured. After re-expression and transformation the data were analysed by cluster analysis and principal components analysis. Alternative analyses did not indicate contradictory taxonomic conclusions. Artificial crosses gave some evidence on interfertility, and suggested F. occidentalis to be an allopolyploid of F. bastardii  F. capreolata. Pugsley's subsectional classification is supported within sect. Parviflora, but not within sect. Grandiflora. His two sections are seen to be meaningful, but not discrete.
23643646|Cluster analysis and principal components analysis were used to investigate patterns of morphological variation among specimens of European species of sect. Somera of the genus Hyacinthoides (Hyacinthaceae). The results are clearly consistent with the existence of four species (H. italica, H. paivae, H. reverchonii and H. mauritanica). It is proposed that the latter be considered to comprise two subspecies, H. mauritanica subsp. mauritanica and H. mauritanica subsp. vincentina (comb. nov.). A key is presented, together with distribution maps for the five taxa.
23654231|Morphological traits were investigated in Gentianella section Gentianella by morphometrics and Scanning Electronic Microscopy (SEM). Variation in vegetative measures and in calyx, corolla, ovary, and gynophor was analyzed in populational samples and herbarium material. Special emphasis was given to micro-morphology and variation of papillae on the calyx using SEM. Three types of papillae on the calyx lobes were found: (A) short conical (G. amarella-group, G. insubrica, G. germanica); (B) long conical often curved (G. campestris, G. anisodonta, G. engadinsesis, and G. liburnica; (C) long cylindrical (G. aspera and G. pilosa). G. austriaca, G. caucasea, G. crispata, G. fatrae, and G. ramosa usually lack any papillae. Plants without and with short conical papillae were found in G. bulgarica and G. lutescens as well as in the intermediate taxa G. bohemica and G. stiriaca. The different types of papillae together with other calyx characters (sinus, shape and margin of lobe) are of high systematic importance and provide more stable characters than morphometric flower measures. Principal component and correlation analysis revealed a strong response of nearly all morphometric traits to the environmental variable altitude. Adaptive and historical causes of morphological variation as well as taxonomical consequences are discussed and a determination key is provided.
23643195|Sequence data from internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of rDNA and data from morphology, cytology and wood anatomy are used to study phylogenetic relationships in Pseudopanax. The molecular and non-molecular data are analysed as independent data sets and in combination using parsimony. Results supported the conclusion that the genus Pseudopanax is polyphyletic. Pseudopanax species emerge in two major monophyletic groups. The Anomalus group contains Pseudopanax anomalus, P. edgerleyi, and P. simplex; these species share a common ancestor with Cheirodendron trigynum and more distantly with Pseudopanax gunnii. The second major group consists of two smaller groups: the Arboreus group, including Pseudopanax arboreus, P. colensoi, P. kermadecensis, P. laetus, and P. macintyrei, and the Crassifolius/Discolor group, including P. chathamicus, P. crassifolius, P. discolor, P. ferox, P. gilliesii, P. lessonii, and P. linearis. Meryta species are close relatives of the Pseudopanax Arboreus and Crassifolius/Discolor groups.
23655627|Morphological variation of flowers with different pollination modes was studied in 53 species representing five genera (Agrostemma, Dianthus, Saponaria, Silene s.l., Vaccaria) of the subfamily Caryophylloideae. All species were classified a priori as either diurnal, nocturnal, or selfing. Canonical discriminant analysis (CDA) of 13 floral characters revealed significant correlations between floral morphometry and pollination modes. A CDA of taxonomical groups represented with more than three species (Dianthus, and subgroups of Silene s.l.: Lychnis, Silene s.str., and Viscaria), revealed that the discrimination between these four taxa, based on the same floral characters, is also well supported. Main factors for the discrimination of the species with different pollination modes were characters that (a) define nectar accessibility (calyx length, calyx tooth length), (b) are related to the positioning of anthers and stigmatic areas in relation to pollinators and (c) are important for the visual attractiveness of flowers (plate width). The functional distance between the nectar source (anthophore base) and contact zone with pollinators (style tips), given as the sum of anthophore length, ovary length, and style length (hence called AOS-complex) is better correlated with the calyx length than the single characters. Further, the total AOS-complex length differs significantly between pollination modes suggesting that these characters form a functionally linked complex that is related to the pollen placement on, and stigma contact with, the pollinator's body. However, the contribution of anthophore and style length to the total AOS-complex differed significantly between Silene s.l. and other taxa indicating that the taxonomic groups follow different evolutionary ways for the construction of the functionally linked AOS-complex.
23673866|Studies were made on the chromosome complements and chloroplast genomes of Medicago lupulina and M. secundiflora, which comprise section Lupularia of Medicago. Both types of analyses indicated more substantial differences between these species than suggested by external morphology. Medicago lupulina has a relatively asymmetrical karyotype in terms of centromeric position and relative length. The karyotype of M. secundiflora is comparatively more asymmetrical in centromeric position and reduced in absolute size but exhibits greater symmetry in relative length. The restriction endonuclease fragmentation patterns of the chloroplast DNA of these two species (with Bam HI, Eco RI, Bgl II, and Xho I) show little similarity, with only 17% of the fragments matching in size. The lack of interspecific congruence among data of morphology, karyology and cpDNA in Lupularia is contrary to consistency exhibited among these data in Medicago subsect. Intertextae.
23642587|Before cytokinesis, the identically constructed chromatophores of Hantzschia amphioxys and Achnanthes coarctata are transformed into less effigurated bodies. In normal cytokinesis, the course of mitosis, chromatophore division, and cleavage furrowing are exactly synchronized. The division of the chromatophore appears as a passive process, i.e. intersection by the cleavage furrow. In inequal cell divisions before the formation of inner valves cytokinesis can take place without chromatophore division. Once chromatophore division without mitosis and cytokinesis was observed. In Hantzschia there are three types of inner valve formation, in Achnanthes coarctata only two. The inner valves develop under unfavorable growth conditions, the cells possessing them, however, are not resting spores as in some other diatoms. In Hantzschia, auxospore formation is suppressed under the cultural conditions used, the cells multiply intensely without diminution. Die Chromatophoren von Hantzschia amphioxys und Achnanthes coarctata erfahren vor ihrer Teilung eine Gestaltsnderung, die eine Verkleinerung der Oberflche bewirkt und die leichtere Durchfhrung der Teilung ermglicht. Die normale Cytokinese erfolgt unter exakter Synchronisation von Mitose und Entwicklung des Teilungsspalts, von dem der Chromatophor zerschnitten wird ; der Chromatophor scheint sich dabei rein passiv zu verhalten. Beim Ablauf inqualer Teilungen, die der Bildung von Innenschalen vorangehen, wird das Geschehen entsprechend abgendert; in einem Fall wurde Teilung der Chromato-phoren ohne Kern- und Zellteilung beobachtet. Innenschalen entstehen als Folge inqualer Teilungen bei Hantzschia auf drei verschiedene Arten; im extremen Fall bildet sich der Teilungsspalt auerhalb des Paares der Tochterkerne (und der Chromatophoren), ein Kern geht im gemeinsamen Protoplasten zugrunde; bei Achnanthes coarctata kamen nur zwei Typen zur Beobachtung. Innenschalen werden unter un-gnstigen Wachstumsbedingungen, so in beralterten Kulturen, ge-bildet, die sie besitzenden Zellen funktionieren nicht als Dauerzellen. Hantzschia amphioxys gibt bei lngerer Kultur das Verkleinerungs-wachstum auf, die Zellen teilen sich bei gleichbleibender Gre lebhaft weiter.
23644994|Isozyme markers and morphological characters were studied in four populations of Sphagnum capillifolium and S. quinquefarium. Recombinant plants were found in three populations, where the two species occur sympatrically. All recombinants possessed different haplotypes and combinations of morphological characters, which show that they are results of independent hybridization events. Strongly male-biased sex ratios were found for Sphagnum capillifolium in all populations where it grew sympatrically with S. quinquefarium. Most of the recombinants were also male fertile. These observations suggest that S. quinquefarium is the female parent in the primary crosses and in subsequent backcrosses.
23674592|Primarily, 50 characters taken from herbarium specimens, cultivated plants, and whole populations of Primula veris L. were critically evaluated. Only 24 characters were found to be suitable for taxonomic use. The geographical and multivariate analysis of about 1000 herbarium specimens from the whole area lead to a reduction of the number of subspecies. Only a less restricted subsp. veris (incl. subsp. canescens, subsp. inflata and probably including subsp. macrocalyx) and subsp. columnae (incl. subsp. suaveolens) can be distinguished considering the variability of characters within an individuum, under different culture conditions, and during the growth period. The status of the taxon "ma crocalyx" cannot be cleared presently.
23644202|The high polyploids Cerastium alpinum (8) and C. nigrescens (12) were investigated in a mixed population in central Norway to evaluate whether hybridisation has resulted in continuous variation in morphology and genetic markers, a hypothesis previously proposed to account for the extensive taxonomic confusion in this species group. Isozyme, fertility, and morphological (37 characters) variation were examined among 347, 265, and 237 plants, respectively. A PCO analysis based on 23 quantitative morphological characters identified two main groups, corresponding to C. alpinum and C. nigrescens. The groups were also clearly separated in isozyme markers, several qualitative morphological characters, and chromosome numbers. Only 20 plants (8.4%) were more or less intermediate in the PCO analysis. These plants had a parental or hybrid isozyme multilocus phenotype and typically few well-developed anthers, low pollen stainability, and no seed set. Several plants within the C. nigrescens group also had reduced pollen stainability. These results indicate that later-generation hybrids and/or backcrosses towards C. nigrescens are formed. Thus, interspecific, interploidal gene flow probably occurs, but at rates that are insufficient to break down species integrity.
23655692|Angiosperms show an evolutionary trend from an indefinite to a fixed number of floral organs. When floral formula inconstancy in recent angiosperms is reported, it is often considered as a byproduct of stress and its fitness consequences remain mostly unexplored. We report substantial nonhomeotic meristic variation in stamen number (010 stamens per flower) in two populations of Hormathophylla spinosa during four years. This variation was plastic, suggesting its functional role in the adjustment of phenotypic gender. However, no correlations were found between phenotypic gender and plant size, pollinator or herbivore abundance. Effects on female reproductive success were inconsistent on a per-flower and on a per-plant basis, rendering adaptive explanations in terms of selfing or resource adjustment unsatisfactory with the data available. Nevertheless, individuals showing larger interannual variation in phenotypic gender showed higher female reproductive success, suggesting an advantage for gender modification. Although our results do not easily conform to any adaptive explanation, this remarkable example of breakdown of trait canalization should stimulate the study of the mechanisms and ultimate causes responsible for the maintenance of fixed floral traits.
23642343|One of the most common types of cactus flower in the southwestern United States is the large, colorful, cup-shaped flower. Echinocereus fasciculatus var. boyce-thompsonii in Arizona is a representative of this class of flowers. Its flowers are visited by three common types of insect visitors: medium-sized bees, small solitary bees, and beetles. All three types of visitors come into contact with the pollen, but only the mediumsized bees regularly touch the stigma in their visitations. The main effective pollinators are therefore the medium-sized bees (Megachile, etc.). Ferocactus wislizenii has a similar floral mechanism and is likewise pollinated mainly by medium-sized bees (Megachile, Lithurge, Diadasia, etc.).
23645344|The flora of 17 islets was studied during the period 19682000, with thorough inventories from 1971. At each visit the species present and their population sizes were noted. The flora of the smallest islets of hard rock consisted mainly of perennials, and remained unchanged in terms of species present throughout the period of study. In the larger and more complex islets the major part of the flora consisted of islet-specialised taxa staying for long periods of time. To them are added some other mostly casual species from the close large islands, introduced by human influence, birds or winds and standing for most of the turnover in the islets' flora. Few changes were observed in the plant communities of rock crevices, the spray zone of the shores and other constant habitats. The dominant perennial species forming layer of shrubs or subshrubs also mostly remained the same. Most of the changes concerned soil spaces opened by animals or erosion. Most annual species were found to survive by an extreme seed bank strategy. Many taxa common on the neighbouring islands were lacking or casual on the islets. Some others reached dominance or high frequencies that have not been observed on islands or in mainland areas. The conditions for the flora on the Aegean islets are considered to differ fundamentally from that on large isolated islands because they are situated comparatively close among each other and to islands and mainland areas. They are also vulnerable towards catastrophic events and therefore frequently presenting opened targets for invasions. The islet-specialised taxa are found to retain good ability for dispersal over moderately long distances. The grazing of the islets is stated to be an important factor for the evolution of islet adapted and specialised taxa.
23659851|The PCK Clade, represented by six to nine genera, is a monophyletic group situated within the Paniceae tribe. The highly diverse inflorescences within the PCK Clade provide an interesting system for the study of morphological evolution and also may aid in better understanding its unclear systematics. The inflorescence structure of 110 members of the PCK Clade has been investigated. Inflorescences are polytelic showing different levels of truncation. At least 21 different inflorescence subtypes were identified. Fourteen variable inflorescence characters were found, among which some have suprageneric or infrageneric value and others are polymorphic. A key for the identification of inflorescence types is presented. Nine processes have been identified as responsible for inflorescence diversification. Highly branched inflorescences with different internode lengths are present in the basal genus whereas truncated inflorescence morphologies appear late in the history of the clade. The precise timing of morphological changes is impossible to assess until we have a well supported phylogeny for the PCK Clade.
23673728|The European orchids Orchis mascula, O. pallens and their hybrids have been analysed by enzyme electrophoresis on starch gels. The two species differ in the electrophoretic mobilities of four out of eight enzymes tested. Three enzymes, phosphoglucomutase, phosphoglucoisomerase and "malic enzyme" exhibit typical heterozygote patterns in the hybrid plants demonstrating the presence of both differing parental alleles. Thus, species identification is easy by the electrophoretic analysis of a low number of enzyme loci, and hybrids are detectable even if morphological characters fail.
23655701|The genus Triticum L. includes the major cereal crop, common or bread wheat (hexaploid Triticum aestivum L.), and other important cultivated species. Here, we conducted a phylogenetic analysis of all known wheat species and the closely related Aegilops species. This analysis was based on chloroplast matK gene comparison along with trnL intron sequences of some species. Polyploid wheat species are successfully divided only into two groups  Emmer (sections Dicoccoides and Triticum) and Timopheevii (section Timopheevii). Results reveal strictly maternal plastid inheritance of synthetic wheat amphiploids included in the study. A concordance of chloroplast origin with the definite nuclear genomes of polyploid species that were inherited at the last hybridization events was found. Our analysis suggests that there were two ancestral representatives of Aegilops speltoides Tausch that participated in the speciation of polyploid wheats with B and G genome in their genome composition. However, G genome species are younger in evolution than ones with B genome. B genome-specific PCR primers were developed for amplification of Acc-1 gene.
23662397|Polyploidy is a prominent process in plants and has been significant in the evolutionary history of vertebrates and other eukaryotes. Polyploidy induces genome-wide duplication. Studies on nucleotide diversity at homoeologous loci may provide insight into the evolutionary dynamics of duplicate genes. In the present study, we estimated the levels and patterns of nucleotide diversity for alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (adh1) loci in three American allotetraploid Oryza species: O. alta, O. grandiglumis, and O. latifolia. Higher nucleotide diversity was revealed in the C genome. This result suggested the different evolutionary dynamics of homoeologous adh1 loci in these allotetraploid Oryza species.
23669396|Three new species of Ponthieva, P. camargoi, P. castanedoi, and P. cesarensis are described and illustrated based on Colombian and Venezuelan material. The comparisons of the floral characters of the new entities and closely allied species are illustrated. The information about habitat and ecology of all three species is provided and their distribution map is presented.
23656645|Natural hybridisation was postulated between the closely related pine species Pinus sylvestris and the P. mugo complex, however no clear evidence on propagation of mature hybrids in nature has been documented so far. To test the hybridisation hypothesis we applied chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) markers and isozymes in the analyses of 300 individuals representing the variety of morphological forms in the sympatric populations of P. sylvestris, P. mugo and P. uliginosa at the peat bog complex in the Sudety Mts., Poland. Additionally, the haplotypes of paternally inherited cpDNA of 149 open pollinated progeny derived from seeds were compared to the haplotypes of parental trees to access the intensity and direction of contemporary hybridisation. The morphologically highly variable polycormic (multistemmed) hybrids between P. mugo and P. uliginosa were identified. The second group of hybrids was found among the monocormic (single-stemmed) P. sylvestris-like individuals carrying the cpDNA from P. mugo complex. Hybrids of P. sylvestris as a pollen donor and P. mugo or P. uliginosa as a mother were not found, either in the group of examined trees, or among the open pollinated progeny. The results indicate that numerous hybrids can exist in the sympatric population of the species studied and that gene flow can successfully proceed from P. mugo complex to P. sylvestris. Hybridisation and ecological selection seems to play a significant role in diversification and evolution of the investigated species.
23674074|A cladistic study of all 44 species of North American Coreopsis was performed using 35 characters. The resulting cladogram indicated that all 11 sections are monophyletic. At the intersectional level, two lineages were revealed, one consisting of six sections occurring almost exclusively in Mexico and California, and another comprising five sections restricted largely to the eastern and southeastern United States. The cladogram is similar to phylogenies produced by less explicit methods but it differs in two major respects: the monotypic sect. Silphidium is placed with other sections from the southeastern United States rather than with Mexican sections, and sect. Anathysana from Mexico is more closely allied with the three California sections than with sect. Electra from Mexico.
23643439|On the Canary Islands, we studied reproductive ecology of the perennial laurel forest herb Cedronella canariensis (Lamiaceae). Flowers contained small quantities of concentrated nectar. Flower visitors were mainly bumblebees (Bombus terrestris subsp. canariensis) and lepidopterans (especially Macroglossa stellatarum). Their abundance, pollen load, and behaviour are reported. Cedronella canariensis was facultatively autogamous. The P:O ratio was higher than expected for a plant with a breeding system of this nature. Seed set was not pollen-limited. Selfed and outcrossed seeds differed in weight. Small, lightly coloured flowers with dysfunctional stamens appeared towards the end of the season. This male-sterility might be induced by drought.
23655227|We evaluated the effect of stigma-anther separation (SAS) in flowers of the self-incompatible tropical tree Ipomoea wolcottiana (Convolvulaceae). We measured the deposition of self pollen on the stigma and the growth of pollen tubes. We also evaluated phenotypic selection on female fertility using univariate regressions of SAS with fruit production. SAS varied among individuals in two years, with a range of 06 mm. There was a negative correlation between SAS and the number of self pollen grains on the stigma; trees with SAS of 02 mm received averages of ca 80130 self grains. The effect of loading the stigma with self-pollen was tested by allowing isolated flowers to self-pollinate, then cross-pollinating by hand: there was a negative correlation between the pollen load and the proportion of grains forming pollen tubes. The highest proportion of grains forming tubes was found with loads of <10 grains, while the minimum frequency of tubes occurred with loads of >50 grains. The results suggest that more self pollen deposition leads to fewer tubes from outcross pollen. There was a significant effect of SAS on fruit production in both years. The analyses suggested stabilizing selection; very small SAS is disadvantageous due to the high load of self pollen, while very large SAS probably led to damage to the style during pollinator visits. We suggest that herkogamy may be a key character for determining the success of fruit production in self-incompatible hermaphroditic species.
23672716|A preliminary report is given on the pollen morphology of eight species of the genus Arum examined by scanning electron microscopy. The pollen grains are spheroidal and their sporoderm sculpture possesses spines. The species vary mainly in number, shape and distribution of the spines on the pollen surface and these characters can be used to differentiate them.
23674978|Various aspects of the reproductive biology of the perennial hermaphrodite Frangula alnus Mill. were studied in two populations located in the province of Cdiz, southern Spain. Flowering extends from the second week of May to early July. The small, white-greenish, entomophilous flowers are incompletely protandrous and last 810 days, but pollen transfer takes place only on days 13. A very weak, pleasant odour along with nectar and pollen attract over 45 insect species, of which 21 are probable pollinators. These are mainly Diptera but also include Hymenoptera and the unusual (as flower visitors) Mecoptera. Reproduction is exclusively sexual and strictly xenogamous, with pollen transfer depending solely on insect vectors. Although flower morphology and individual flower phenology do not fully prevent self-pollination, and geitonogamy can easily take place, the level of autogamy was negligible. Therefore, some self-incompatibility mechanism is operative in this species. Only 2.8% of open-pollinated flowers set fruit. At the flower level, fruit initiation was apparently limited by availability of cross-pollen, which in turn seemed influenced by the structure of the population. The seed/ovule ratio in ripe fruits was ca. 50%. Predispersal (maternal) reproductive success (percent ovules becoming filled seeds) was 1.42%. For mature individuals this corresponded to ca. 430 to 1560 potential offspring per year.
23673855|Within the large palaeotropical genus Polyalthia so far five different pollen types are described (two monosulcate types, two disulcate types, and a single omniaperturate type). One of the disulcate Polyalthia types is similar to the disulcate neotropical genus Sapranthus. All the newly described types differ predominantly not in exine but rather in intine characters. From this it can be concluded that seemingly "inaperturate" grains are disculcate in function, generally with two clearly recognizable germination zones, or omniaperturate, with the whole sporoderm capable of germination. The functions of the intine layers within the germination zones and within the nongerminating areas are very different and cooperate during the first germination steps in bursting the exine. It is difficult clearly to define the germination zones of pollen grains if the exine exhibits no modifications. Based on our and other results a more precise definition is suggested.
23655734|Genomic in situ hybridisation (GISH) and Southern genomic hybridisation were applied in order to gain further knowledge regarding generic delimitation of the genus Hystrix as well as to clarify the genomes of the Hystrix species H. patula, H. longearistata, H. coreana, H. duthiei and H. komarovii. The hybridisation intensity of different genomic probes was compared among the Hystrix species and with other Triticeae species. The Southern- and GISH results confirm that H. patula contains the StH genome and show that H. komarovii most likely has a variant of this StH genome. The other Hystrix species under study, i.e. H. longearistata, H. coreana and H. duthiei, contain an Ns basic genome, and most probably two variants of this basic genome, Ns1Ns2. The genus Hystrix is thus not a monophyletic group of species.
23642559|A SEM investigation of the seeds of 40 European and 5 Asiatic species of Sedum revealed three fundamentally different types of ornamentation of the testa. The most prominent difference in the ontogeny of the seeds differing in ornamentation is the ovular envelope, which is a mucous membrane enclosing the ovules and young seeds and occurring only in plants whose seeds have a simple type of ornamentation. The ornamentation of the testa was found to be a very constant character. Because the ornamentation is highly correlated with the hybridization pattern of the species it is considered to be an important character in the infrageneric classification of Sedum.
23643737|We investigated if differences in morphological characters in two species of Metrodorea (Rutaceae) from Brazilian semideciduous forests correspond to some pollination divergence. M. nigra and M. stipularis are sympatric species, display a similar floral morphology, are protandrous, self-incompatible, their flower periods overlap, and both are pollinated by flies. M. nigra main pollinators are Pseudoptiloleps nigripoda (Muscidae) and Fannia sp. (Fanniidae); M. stipularis major pollinators are Phaenicia eximia (Calliphoridae), Palpada sp. and Ornidia obesa (Syrphidae). The distinct floral odor (disagreeable in M. nigra and sweet in M. stipularis) and color (brownish violet vs. pale yellow) determine the differences on type and number of floral visitors observed. Several species from semideciduous forests initially considered to be pollinated by diverse insects, present flies as main pollinators, stressing the importance of fly pollination in such habitats.
23660116|The aim of this study is to determine the origin, genetic relationships and morphological differences between diploid and hexaploid cytotypes of Aster amellus aggregate (Asteraceae) at their contact zone in the Czech Republic. We collected data on morphological and isozyme variation in a range of populations of the two cytotypes. We also studied the plasticity of the morphological traits in a common garden. The results suggest that hexaploid individuals of Aster amellus aggregate are of autopolyploid origin. The isozyme data indicate that diploids and hexaploids have different evolutionary histories. This, together with previous detailed cytological and ecological analyses, suggests that there is a secondary contact zone between the two cytotypes in the Czech Republic. The results of multivariate morphometric analyses and data on plasticity of the morphological traits indicate that it is not possible to distinguish the two cytotypes morphologically. The previously published morphological distinction between the cytotypes is thus not supported.
23674532|Flowers of Platanthera bifolia were hand-pollinated and fixed in FPA50 after 2, 5, 7, 14, and 21 days. Ovules, made transparent in Herr's clearing fluid, were investigated using confocal scanning laser microscopy. Pollination initiates the megasporogenesis. Two days after pollination dyads are frequent. Three days later most embryo sacs contain two nuclei. Seven days after pollination the embryo sacs are 4  8-nucleate and some are organized, and a week later all embryo sacs are organized and fertilization takes place. The embryo sac development follows the Polygonum type. Twenty-one days after pollination the egg nuclei have been fertilized and the embryo sacs contain 2- to many-celled embryos. A suspensor is formed during early stages of embryo development but degenerates later. Fertilization of the central nucleus does not lead to endosperm development.
23673671|Symbiodinium microadriaticum Freudenthal is widely regarded to represent one pandemic species of endosymbiotic dinoflagellates. Thin-sectioned and freeze-fractured chloroplasts of symbionts derived from different hosts reveal the envelope to be composed of three membraneous layers, the middle one featuring an uncommon cleavage pattern. Unusual thylakoid arrangement and inclusions indicate intrinsic differences in the chloroplasts among these algae. The results are discussed in the light of evolutionary differentiation within Symbiodinium.
23655539|Dendrobium sect. Dendrocoryne is a difficult taxonomic group of allied species and species complexes, occurring on the eastern Australian coastline, Lord Howe Island and New Caledonia. Significant morphological characters were assessed from all key areas of the distribution range. Patterns of variation between species, varieties and hybrids were investigated by principal coordinate analysis. The analyses affirm 12 species in the sect. Dendrocoryne described by Schlechter (1912, 1982) and Dockrill (1969, 1992), including a cluster of small statured D. gracilicaule, D. adae, D. fleckeri, and D. finniganense, and three variable species complexes  D. speciosum, D. kingianum and D. tetragonum. Recently described D. finniganense and D. callitrophilum are interpreted as members of the section. Phylogenetic relationships are presented based on parsimony analysis of 31 morphological characters. Analyses do not support proposals to recognize new genera for D. tetragonum, D. callitrophilum and D. aemulum, or to create new species within D. tetragonum, D. jonesii, D. speciosum and D. kingianum. The phylogeny indicates that rainforest taxa are earlier lineages and xerophytic taxa are more derived.
23643693|The high frequency of dioecy on oceanic islands has attracted a great deal of attention in plant evolution. In this study we quantify variation in the breeding system of two sympatric Dombeya species on La Runion island. Both Dombeya species are cryptically dioecious, each sex retaining non-functional morphological structures of the other sex. One species is strictly dioecious, whilst the other shows leaky dioecy, with 8/13 males producing fruit during two years of study. Males that set fruit did so following outcrossing but not after self-pollination despite the growth of self-pollen tubes in the style. This suggests the occurrence of a late-acting self-incompatibility system. Several morphologically intermediate individuals are recognized and suggested to be a result of interspecific hybridization. These purported hybrids are hermaphrodite and self-compatible, consistent with a complementary breakdown in dioecy and self-compatibility.
23655147|The first proven data on natural hybridization in the genus Hieracium s. str. are presented. Plants with intermediate morphological characters between the diploids H. alpinum and H. transsilvanicum were found in the Muntii Rodnei (Romanian Eastern Carpathians) in 2001 and in the Chornohora Mts (Ukrainian Eastern Carpathians) in 2003. While plants of intermediate morphology between usually so called basic species are usually tri- or tetraploid in Hieracium s. str., these plants were diploid (2n = 18) like both parental species in this region. The Romanian plant did not produce fertile achenes in free pollination and in control backcrosses with H. transsilvanicum, two hybrids from Ukraine were completly seed sterile in free pollination and reciprocal crosses. Pollen stainability as an indirect measure of male fertility was quite high in the studied Ukrainian hybrid plants and similar to the parental taxa. Evidence from allozyme analysis also confirmed the hybrid origin of the studied plants. Sequencing and PCR-RFLP analyses of the trnT-trnL intergenic spacer revealed that all hybrid plants had the H. transsilvanicum chloroplast DNA haplotype. Maternal inheritance of chloroplast DNA in this particular cross was proved with artificial hybrids from reciprocal experimental crosses between H. alpinum and H. transsilvanicum. In both localities, the natural hybrid plants were found in disturbed habitats, exceptionally allowing contact of the otherwise ecologically vicariate parental species. Morphologically, the hybrid plants belong to H. krasani Wo.
23643060|On the leaves and sepals of 52 species, representing all sections of the genus Drosera except one, 14 different types of glandular hairs were found: two-celled papillae, peltate scales, several types with unbranched, bi- or multiseriate stalk with a two- or multicellular gland, and one type with a multiseriate stalk and a two-armed gland. The combination of these hairs and the presence of non-glandular hairs confirm the actual classification of the genus. In combination with simple morphological characters (e.g., the type of insertion of the petiole) glandular hairs facilitate the identification of species even in the pharmaceutically important cut crude drug.
23664068|Ranunculus parnassifolius is an orophilous plant distributed throughout Central and Southwestern Europe (Alps, Pyrenees and Cantabrian Mountains). Its evolutionary history and taxonomy are often complicated, having been little studied before now. The purpose of this article is to present flow cytometry measurements and multivariate morphometric analyses to ascertain cytotype distribution patterns and the morphological differentiation of R. parnassifolius s.l. from calcareous screes in the Northwest of Spain. DNA ploidy level and morphometric analysis were determined for plants of R. parnassifolius s.l. using flow cytometry (112 individuals) and multivariate analysis (152 individuals). Specimens were collected in eight localities in the Northwest of the Iberian Peninsula. Different sample preservation methods (fresh, frozen, and herbarium specimens) were employed as well as the use of various buffers and internal standards, in order to test the reproducibility of DNA flow cytometry. Three ploidy levels were detected in the study area (diploid, tetraploid, and pentaploid), and mixed-cytotype populations were also found. The mean nuclear DNA content of the R. parnassifolius group ranged from 7.43  0.185 to 7.63  0.339 pg/2C in diploids and from 15.09  0.161 to 15.85  0.587 pg/2C in tetraploids. The analysis of the monoploid genome sizes (1Cx) did not reveal a clear difference among cytotypes. These results suggest low intraspecific variation, at least among the populations studied. In addition, a comparison of different DNA reference standards was conducted. A new value for the chicken genome size was used as internal reference standard (2C = 3.14  0.155 pg), with similar results found using both animal and plant standards (Pisum sativum and Solanum lycopersicum). Finally, herbarium vouchers and frozen tissue were proved to be suitable for DNA ploidy level measurements. This study provided a first assessment of C values in the R. parnassifolius group using flow cytometry. The weak morphological distinction of the cytotypes and the existence of mixed-cytotype populations in the Northwest of Spain are reported here for the first time. The different distribution pattern of the two cytotypes is discussed.
23673263|Although most of the hybrid embryos aborted at an early developmental stage, a 2n = 27 true intergeneric hybrid between Dendranthema indica (L.) Des Moul (2n = 36) as  and Crossostephium chinense (L.) Makino (2n = 18) as  was produced following pollination and ovule rescue. The morphology of the resulting adult putative hybrid and the two parents differed significantly from one another in seven of the nine traits measured, the exceptions being leaf width and leaf length, for which the putative hybrid was indistinguishable from the maternal plant. Genomic in situ hybridization experiments were able to successfully distinguish the genomic origin of both mitotic and meiotic metaphase chromosomes in the hybrid. In addition, the 18 D. indica chromosomes were paired as bivalents at meiotic metaphase in the hybrid.
23674229|The extent of self-fertility was examined in 16 populations of Crepis tectorum. A hypothesis that a weedy habit favours autogamy was only partly supported. Low levels of self-fertility characterized non-weedy populations from calcareous grasslands ("alvars") on the Baltic island in land. By contrast, plants in nearly all weed populations studied were more or less self-fertile. However, the trend towards autogamy may have occurred independently of the trend towards a weedy habit, as shown by moderately to high levels of self-fertility in alvar populations from two other Baltic islands. In the weed group, there was a tendency for plants from two field populations to be more autogamous than plants from more "ruderal" habitats. There was an association between self-fertility and small, inconspicious heads in the alvar group but the association was weaker when weed populations were also considered. The relatively wide heads characterizing the ruderal weed populations may, at least partly, be an indirect effect of increases in overall plant size and/or in the size of the fruit associated with each flower.
23671348|A phylogenetic analysis of the leafy liverwort genus Mesoptychia (incl. Leiocolea and Hattoriella), using two chloroplast markers, rbcL and rps4, was performed to clarify the circumscription of the genus and to establish its systematic position within the Jungermanniales. Ten species and one variety of Mesoptychia (out of a total of 17 accepted specific names), together with 85 species from 57 genera representing different lineages of Jungermanniales, were sampled. The results support the monophyly of Mesoptychia and its inclusion within the Jungermanniaceae, which itself forms a clade with the Delavayellaceae. Gymnocolea borealis, previously treated under Leiocolea (= Mesoptychia), is nested in the Anastrophyllaceae. The synonymy of Hattoriella with Mesoptychia is phylogenetically confirmed. Four major clades are identified within Mesoptychia and their circumscriptions and distinguishing morphological features are discussed.
23655565|The phylogenetic relationships among the three species of Tinospora found in India are poorly understood. Morphology does not fully help to resolve the phylogeny and therefore a fast approach using molecular analysis was explored. Two molecular approaches viz Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) assay and restriction digestion of ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 rDNA (PCR-RFLP) were used to evaluate the genetic similarities between 40 different accessions belonging to three species. Of the 38 random primers used only six generated the polymorphism, while as three out of 11 restriction enzymes used gave polymorphic restriction patterns. The average proportion of polymorphic markers across primers was 95%, however restriction endonucleases showed 92% polymorphism. RAPD alone was found suitable for the species diversions. In contrast PCR-RFLP showed bias in detecting exact species variation. The correlation between the two markers was performed by Jaccard's coefficient of similarity. A significant (r = 0.574) but not very high correlation was obtained. Further to authenticate the results obtained by two markers, sequence analysis of ITS region of ribosomal DNA (ITS1 and ITS2, including 5.8S rDNA) was performed. Three independent clones of each species T. cordifolia, T. malabarica and T. crispa were sequenced. Phylogenetic relationship inferred from ITS sequences is in agreement with RAPD data.
23655908|Seven populations of Hordelymus europaeus and four populations of Leymus arenarius from Poland were subjected to examination of 36 morphological characters. This study showed that both species are relatively uniform and that morphological variation of their populations represents a continuum. Of those, three populations of either species were selected for analysis with molecular markers  RAPDs and AFLPs. These populations differed with respect of geographical location as well as syntaxa and habitat. RAPD-PCR was performed for individual plants and clearly grouped them according to the population origin. For either H. europaeus or L. arenarius - the studied populations differed in degree of their intrinsic variation while none of them as a whole was significantly different from the remaining ones. In AFLP analysis the studied populations were represented by DNA pools of several individual plants. Also this approach allowed discrimination among the population samples of both H. europaeus and L. arenarius. Both RAPDs and AFLPs were accordant in indication that H. europaeus exceeds L. arenarius with respect to variation accumulated at the DNA level.
23654270|Parsimony analyses of the internal transcribed spacer regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS 1 & ITS 2) for 38 taxa sampled from the Phebalium group (Rutaceae: Boronieae) and two outgroups confirm that, with the exception of Phebalium sensu stricto and Rhadinothamnus, six of the currently recognised genera within the group are monophyletic. The data indicate that Phebalium s. str. is paraphyletic with respect to Microcybe, and Rhadinothamnus is paraphyletic with respect to Chorilaena. Rhadinothamnus and Chorilaena together are the sister group to Nematolepis. Drummondita, included as an outgroup taxon, clustered within the ingroup as sister to Muiriantha and related to Asterolasia. The phylogeny suggests that the evolution of major clades within a number of these genera (e.g. Phebalium) relates to vicariance events between eastern and south-western Australia. Leionema is an eastern genus, with the most basal taxon being the morphologically distinct Leionema ellipticum from northern Queensland. Leionema also includes one species from New Zealand, but this species (as with some others) proved difficult to sequence and its phylogenetic position remains unknown. Taxonomic changes at the generic level are recommended.
23643509|A clone-bank of Sac I restriction fragments was constructed from the chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) of Lobelia thuliniana E. B. Knox (Lobeliaceae). These cloned fragments and a set of 106 clones spanning the tobacco chloroplast genome were used as probes to determine the cpDNA restriction fragment arrangement for Sac I and six other restriction enzymes (BamH I, EcoR V, Hind III, Nci I, Pst I, and Xho I) and the chloroplast genome arrangement of L. thuliniana relative to tobacco, which has been fully sequenced and is collinear with the hypothesized ancestral genome arrangement of angiosperms. The results confirm and refine our previous understanding of the chloroplast genome arrangement in the large single-copy region (LSC) and reveal (1) a roughly 11 kilobase (kb) expansion of the inverted repeat (IR) into the small single-copy region (SSC) and (2) apparent sequence divergence of the DNA segment in L. thuliniana that corresponds to ORF1901 in tobacco. The expansion of the IR into the SSC is present in all other examined members of Lobeliaceae, Cyphiaceae, and Campanulaceae, which indicates that the IR expansion was an early event in the cpDNA evolution of the Campanulales. The IR expansion into the SSC was not present in Sphenoclea, which additionally supports exclusion of this genus from the Campanulaceae.
23655799|Chemical surface characters play a decisive role in the interaction between plants and their environment. Maternal or paternal inheritance of wax characters in Rosa, section Caninae may allow for ecological niche differentiation according to the parental evolutionary constraints. If so, the radiation of hybrid offspring may reflect the parentally determined framework of interaction and selection against pathogens and abiotic stresses. We tested the inheritance of cuticular chemical wax parameters of reciprocal hybrids within Rosa, section Caninae, the dogroses. We not only found an extremely rich spectrum of chemical compounds on abaxial and adaxial leaf surfaces of dogroses, but also a maternally skewed inheritance of some of these wax characters. The possible role of these findings for the evolution of the allopolyploid dogrose complex is discussed.
23655617|This study addresses the phylogenetic relationships among Pistacia species by amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). A total of 31 wild Pistacia accessions belonging to P. eurycarpa, P. khinjuk, P. atlantica, P. mutica, P. integerrima, P. terebinthus, P. palaestina, P. mexicana, P. lentiscus species and to a hybrid between P. atlantica and P. integerrima and four P. vera cultivars were the plant materials of this study. Six AFLP primer combinations generated a total of 275 fragments, an average of 45.8 bands per primer pair, of which 254 (92.4) were polymorphic. Unweighted pair group method based on arithmetic average (UPGMA) and principle coordinates (PCo) analysis were performed using both mean character difference and Jaccard similarity matrices. According to the results, P. vera, P. khinjuk, P. eurycarpa, P. atlantica, P. mutica, P. integerrima and P. atlantica  P. integerrima hybrids were in the first cluster. UPGMA analysis using mean character difference clustered P. palaestina, P. terebinthus, P. mexicana and P. lentiscus in the second cluster, whereas UPGMA analysis using Jaccard coefficient separated P. palaestina and P. terebinthus from P. lentiscus and P. mexicana. The P. khinjuk accessions had closer relationships to P. eurycarpa and P. atlantica than to P. vera which led to mis-identification of P. khinjuk samples as P. eurycarpa in this tudy. P. atlantica  P. mutica and P. terebinthus P. palaestina pairs were the closest species, and therefore P. mutica were classified as P. atlantica, and P. palaestina were as P. terebinthus. The resulted dendrograms and the PCo plots in this study did not support evergreen versus deciduous sectional division of Pistacia species and suggested classifying P. terebinthus in a separate group rather than being in the first cluster. Further study is inevitable including more evergreen species and accessions to clarify the position of P. terebinthus and the evergreen species.
23674744|We present a key synthesizing pollen-sculpture terminology for grains having perforations or lumina of any size and spatial distribution. The key uses quantitative criteria to distinguish five non-overlapping qualitative terms (reticulate, microreticulate, foveolate, scrobiculate, and punctate). In addition, the range of quantitative variation encompassed by these qualitative terms is highlighted, including ways to express and compare that variation using computerized image analysis of SEM micrographs. Finally, a mathematical analysis combined with image-analysis measurements is used to explore the relationships between the terms outlined above and two closely related terms, tectate and semitectate.
23644096|The flowering of Clutia pulchella was studied in a coastal scarp forest community in southern KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Sex dependent differences in the frequency and magnitude of floral output were recorded, with male individuals producing 4.32 times more flowers per leaf axis than females. Increased node production, as a manifestation of significantly increased branching, allowed for prolific flower production in males. Energy investment per flower was marginally greater in females (0.045 J/mg), despite copious pollen production and glandular secretion in males (0.035 J/mg). Differential flower production, reproductive organ dry mass and an unbalanced branching ratio revealed that "per plant" expenditure towards flowering was more pronounced in males ( flowering  5.04). The elevated cost of fruit production ( flowering  5.5), inclusive of imperfect fruit set, resulted in overall reproductive expense being slightly higher for females. Such sex-dependent reproductive investment was shown to have minimal influence on the population sex ratio, with sex frequencies and nearest neighbor distances yielding a non-significant male bias of 1.16. No evidence of spatial asymmetry was found.
23657048|Twenty-nine genera of the tribe Anthemideae (Compositae) (111 genera, ca. 1,800 species) are either restricted to or have their distributional centre in the S hemisphere. We here present a phylogenetic study based on nrDNA ITS and cpDNA ndhF sequence variation for a complete generic sampling of this S hemisphere group of the tribe with its paramount importance for the understanding of the evolutionary history of this plant group. Our results corroborate the paraphyletic nature of the S hemisphere group of Anthemideae as a whole and of the four subtribes (Ursiniinae, Gonosperminae, Thaminophyllinae, Matricariinae) erected by Bremer and Humphries (1993) to accommodate its members. We further show that the genus Osmitopsis and the Cotula-group hold a basal position in the tribe. Members of the subtribe Ursiniinae (that is characterised by the possession of anthers with polarised endothecial tissue) form a paraphyletic group that may, together with a strongly supported monophyletic group around the genus Pentzia, contain the sister group(s) of the Asian and Mediterranean clades of the tribe. As a consequence of the non-monophyletic nature of the subtribes according to Bremer and Humphries (1993), we discuss an alternative generic grouping of the S hemisphere Anthemideae.
23655187|We estimated the outcrossing rate in a population of 14 individuals of Dolichandra cynanchoides (Bignoniaceae), a species with late-acting self-incompatibility (LSI), at a site in Chaco woodland in Santa Fe province, Argentina. A subsample of five arbitrarily chosen loci from a total of 16 allozyme loci gave mating system parameters of tm = 0.881 (SD 0.039) and ts = 0.749 (SD 0.048), thus indicating that although predominantly outcrossing, D. cynanchoides has a mixed mating system. We draw attention to the fact that mixed mating in species with LSI is a very likely scenario, given that previous studies with diverse LSI taxa have shown that mixed cross-self pollen loads on the stigma, which is probably a common occurrence with natural pollinators, result in fruits with a proportion of selfed seeds.
23674172|Fossil chloranthoid androecia, Chloranthistemon endressii gen. et spec. nov. are described from the Upper Cretaceous (Upper Santonian or Lower Campanian) of Scania, southern Sweden. They are three-lobed and dorsiventrally flattened with all pollen sacs borne laterally and inclined toward the presumed adaxial surface. The central lobe bears two pairs of pollen sacs, the lateral lobes a single pair each. The morphology, anatomy and valvate dehiscence of the fossil androecia is very similar to that seen in extant species of Chloranthus and Sarcandra, but the in situ pollen differs from that of all extant Chloranthaceae in being spiraperturate. A single chloranthoid androecium from the Lower Cretaceous (Upper Albian) of Maryland, North America has a more generalized structure than Chloranthistemon endressii. It consists of three stamens that are fused at the base, and each stamen bears two pairs of oppositely positioned pollen sacs. Combined with anatomical information from recent Chloranthus the Lower Cretaceous specimen suggests that the androecium in the living genus has arisen by fusion and other modifications of three separate stamens each with a normal complement of four pollen sacs. The structure of both the Upper and Lower Cretaceous androecia suggest that these fossil Chloranthaceae were insectpollinated. Macrofossil evidence combined with information from dispersed pollen indicates that the Chloranthaceae diversified early in angiosperm fossil history and were an important component of Mid-Cretaceous plant communities.
23673883|The effect of six resemblance coefficients (taxonomic distance, Manhattan distance, correlations, cosines, and two new general dissimilarity coefficients) on the character stability of classifications based on six data sets was evaluated. The six data sets represent a variety of organisms, and of ratios of number of characters to number of OTUs, and were randomly bipartitioned 100 times. The results of matrix correlations, cophenetic correlations and two consensus measures indicate that no one resemblance coefficient is uniformly better than all others when evaluated in terms of the stability of a classification, although taxonomic distance and Manhattan distance produce relatively more stable classifications than the other resemblance coefficients. An index of dimensionality, the stemminess and cophenetic correlations of classifications were calculated for the six data sets and also for 20 data sets analyzed in an earlier study. Regression analysis of stability on the ratio of number of characters to the number of OTUs, dimensionality, stemminess, and cophenetic correlations explained more than 70% of the variance in stability. Of the four factors, the ratio was by far the most important. Stemminess and dimensionality contributed little when considered singly, and did not add appreciably to the variance explained by ratio and cophenetic correlations.
43558299|The aim of this research was to study the genetic diversity of Pistacia khinjuk Stocks, and also to reveal the genetic relationships. Leaf morphological characters of 16 genotypes together with Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) marker data were used for this purpose. Leaf morphological characters were used for factor analysis, which determined four main factors. Grouping of genotypes by these factors was performed by Ward's method. Fifteen primers produced a total of 146 fragments, with an average of 9.73 fragments per primer, of which 129 were polymorphic. The unweighted pair group method based on arithmetic average (UPGMA) analysis was performed on Jaccard's similarity coefficient matrix. According to RAPD data, genotypes were separated into three groups. The first contained the genotypes with round leaflets. Genotypes with three lanceolate leaflets were located in the second and third groups, respectively. This study revealed that high diversity exists among genotypes of P. khinjuk, like in P. vera. Also it could be postulated that genotypes of P. khinjuk with oblique and lanceolate leaflets are probably descendents of the genotypes with acuminate and roundish leaflets.
23673950|A cytofluorimetric method for DNA amount determination on nuclei released from fixed leaves has been successfully tested on samples belonging to the polyploid series of Ranunculus marsicus Guss & Ten. (sect. Auricomus). The procedure was devised to screen rapidly for different ploidy levels within topodemes and progenies.
23672722|A population of Wurmbea dioica subsp. alba in Western Australia contained monoclinous and andromonoecious individuals in roughly equal proportions. The average number of flowers per inflorescence for the former was 2.6 and for the latter 2.9, with its terminal flower staminate. Ovule number and seed production per perfect flower of both morphs decreased progressively from lower to upper flowers in the inflorescence. Two-flowered monoclinous individuals had a greater percentage of ovules maturing to seed than did three-flowered ones, but seed production of the latter exceeded that of the former. No differences in percent seed set or in seed production were noted for similar individuals of andromonoecious individuals. Although monoclinous and andromonoecious plants apparently contributed equally to the pollen pool, seed production of the former exceeded that of the latter. Thus, the energetic costs of monocliny exceed those of andromonoecy in this population.
23642631|Lupinus pilosus Murr, and L. palaestinus Boiss., are both East Mediterranean annuals, greatly resemble each other in morphology, and have the same chromosome number (2 n = 42). Some fertile hybrids can be formed by artificial hybridization or under unusual habitat conditions. Isolation in nature between the species is, however, maintained by prevalent selfing, partial reproductive barriers and genie imbalance, together with differences in ecological requirements. It is suggested that this speciation pattern which includes little morphological and hardly any chromosomal divergence might have occurred in other cases of edaphic vicariants too.
23655133|The presence of a shoot apex and shoot apical meristem (SAM), said to be absent in subfamily Podostemoideae (Podostemaceae), is confirmed for Marathrum utile and M. foeniculaceum. The vegetative shoot axis is terminated by a small group of meristematic cells which are surrounded by the tissue of the adnate bases of foliage leaves. The slightly bulged tip of the shoot apex is embraced by the youngest leaf, facing the apex with its adaxial side. The study also refers to the spathella, a cupshaped structure covering obligatorily the young flower bud in Podostemoideae. The occurrence of two separate peaks in the young spathella of M. foeniculaceum supports the view that the spathella is formed by two fused bracts (hypsophylls). The two bracts are perpendicular to the distichous foliage leaves below the spathella. The scaly leaflet on the spathella of A. latifolia apparently does not represent a rudimentary blade of the spathella, but is interpreted as a separate bract. The occasional occurrence of scales below or above the spathella points to a reduction of bracts that were originally present in greater number on the pedicels.
23673260|Co-occurring congener plant species in the highly diverse Atlantic forests of southeastern Brazil may act as natural laboratories for evaluating evolution of reproductive shifts. We assessed the breeding systems in a sympatric assemblage of bromeliad species and compiled literature available for the family to compare our experments with available information. We performed controlled experiments of autonomous selfing, self- and cross-pollination in 40 species of 11 genera of two subfamilies that, in general, overlap their blooming period and share the same pollination vectors. We also tested for differences between self-compatible (SC) and self-incompatible (SI) species with regard to ecological factors such as abundance, co-flowering and co-occurrence. Most species experimentally tested and surveyed in the literature (75%) were SC. Species from the subfamily Tillandsioideae were predominantly SC, while Bromelioideae showed greater variation in breeding systems. About 43% of the species studied set fruits spontaneously in the absence of pollinator vectors. We found that SC species were the more abundant, were more frequently associated with other relatives and over-lapped their blooming period with other species more than SI species. Thus, our results suggest that self-compatibility is common for Bromeliaceae and do not support the traditional hypothesis of reproductive assurance used to explain the evolution of selfing. We discuss self-compatibility as a reproductive isolating mechanism in the presence of pollen flow among sympatric congener species.
43558181|During the rainy season many species of Convolvulaceae bloom simultaneously in the Caatinga of northeast Brazil. In a Caatinga nature reserve we studied pollination and breeding systems of three sympatric species of Convolvulaceae, Ipomoea bahiensis, I. nil, and Merremia aegyptia, focusing on pollen partitioning among flower visitors and pollen flow. The study showed that only oligolectic bees collected pollen and that these species had different preferences among the three species of Convolvulaceae: pollen of Ipomoea bahiensis, the only self-incompatible species, was collected mainly by Melitoma segmentaria, M. osmioides, and Melitomella murihirta; pollen of I. nil by Lithurgus huberi, and that of Merremia aegyptia by Ancyloscelis apiformis and an undescribed species of this genus. Introduced honey bees visited only flowers of Merremia aegyptia, where they were extraordinarily frequent flower visitors. However, they discarded the pollen grains, which led to almost 50% pollen loss. No polylectic bee species compete for pollen with the oligolectic species. Partitioning of pollen diminishes competition for floral resources in this specialized plant-pollinator association.
23643320|Stylosanthes sp. aff. S. scabra is an undescribed taxon showing affinities with the allotetraploid species S. scabra, but distinct in a number of attibutes. Several collections show potential as forage for clay soils in northern Australia. Twelve accessions have been analysed using STS (sequence-tagged-sites) as genetic markers, and they all displayed STS phenotypes of typical diploid species. Taking into account their morphological similarities, the STS analysis provides strong evidence that Stylosanthes sp. aff. S. scabra might be a diploid progenitor of the allotetraploid S. scabra. This speculation was supported by cytological examinations. Somatic chromosome numbers of two of these accessions were counted and both were found to be diploid (2n = 20). The level of polymorphism among the 12 Stylosanthes sp. aff. S. scabra accessions, estimated using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) as markers, was 7.8%, and the dissimilarity value between Stylosanthes sp. aff. S. scabra and S. viscosa (the other putative progenitor of S. scabra) was 89%.
23673656|The proportion of the outer, "hairy" achenes in capitula of hybrid D14 (Microseris pygmaea  M. bigelovii) is determined by the same major gene as in its sister hybrid, B87, as shown by marker segregation. Crossover between major gene and markers shows their genetic independence. Two modifiers segregating 9:7 influence the proportion of hairies in plants homozygous for the major gene. These same modifiers (or two genes linked with them) also determine the segregation of the number of achenes per head. Most likely, the modifiers act indirectly via a residual dependence of heterocarpy on capitulum size within strict quantitative limits set by the major gene. The identification of modifiers in a polygenic system as major genes for another character acting pleiotropically supports our contention that relatively few genes interact in plant development to determine key morphological characteristics at the organismic level.
43558348|Dendrobium officinale (Orchidaceae) is an endangered plant species with important medicinal value.To evaluate the effectiveness of ex situ collection of D. officinale genetic diversity, we developed 15 polymorphic trinucleotide microsatellite loci of D. officinale to examine the genetic diversity and structure of three D. officinale germplasm collections comprising 120 individuals from its germplasm collection base and their respective wild populations consisting of 62 individuals from three provinces in China. The three germplasm collections showed reductions in gene diversity and average number of aleles per locus, but an increase in average number of rare alleles (frequency  0.05) per locus in comparison to their wild populations. However, the differences in gene diversity between the germplasm collections and wild populations were not statistically significant.The analysis using STRUCTURE revealed evident differences in genetic composition between each germplasm collection and its wild population, probably because the D. officinale individuals with distinct genotypes in each wild population were unevenly selected for establishing its germplasm collection. For conservation management plans, we propose that D. officinale individuals with rare alleles need to be conserved with top priority, and those individuals with the most common alleles also should be concerned. The 15 new microsatellite loci may be used as a powerful tool for further evaluation and conservation of the genetic diversity of D. officinale germplasm resources.
43558614|Plant life on serpentine soils has been a topic of research for decades, but the evolutionary dynamics of adaptation to such a stressful habitat is still incompletely understood, especially in old-world groups. We present a study addressing this issue using Onosma (Boraginaceae) as the model system and a molecular phylogenetic approach. Original ITS sequences were generated for all the obligate endemics allopatrically distributed on the ophiolitic "islands" of the southeastern Euro-Mediterranean region, in addition to most of the species facultatively growing on ultramafics and a broad sample of non-serpentine species. Parsimony and Bayesian reconstructions showed that obligate endemics belonged to six distantly related clades, five continental and one insular in the Aegean sea (Cyprus). Lack of a common ancestor and of correlation between geographic and genetic distances between the endemics suggested polyphyletic and polytopic evolution on the different outcrops. Preference for non-serpentine habitats appeared as the ancestral condition, but constitutive preadaptive traits such as drought tolerance and ability to cope with high soil concentrations of magnesium have probably favoured multiple events in the colonization of ultramafics. Tree topology and absolute age estimations suggest that xerophytic Onosma underwent a rapid radiation in correspondence with the Messinian salinity crisis of the Mediterranean (6-5.3 mya), and that the endemic lineages originated at the beginning of the Pleistocene. Serpentine "islands" may have acted as refugial habitats during the cold climatic phases, and then as major determinants of adaptive speciation due to isolation of populations and the selective pressure of soil constraints.
23655507|Paspalum notatum Flgge is a warm-season forage grass with sexual diploid and apomictic tetraploid races. Genetic improvement was achieved in out-breeding diploids. The acquisition of artificial sexual tetraploids has raised the possibility of performing crosses and plant improvement at the tetraploid level. The objective of our study was to obtain a genetic and cytoembryological characterization of a germplasm collection of P. notatum, including 31 accessions from seven countries of America and 11 experimentally obtained genotypes. Morphology of mature gametophytes was observed to assess the mode of reproduction of the accessions. A total of 1342 AFLP fragments were generated across the 42 genotypes and from two reference taxa: P. urvillei and P. procurrens. AFLP data were converted into a binary matrix and similarity relationships were established. The genetic distance among all the accessions showed a maximum value of 0.36. In addition, eleven AFLP fragments were observed exclusively in apomictic plants, which could be linked to genomic regions implicated in the control of apospory.
23642079|Capsella bursa-pastoris (L.) Med. is a partially self-pollinating, autogamous plant. The selfing-rate depends on ecological factors. High atmospheric humidity at temperatures over 15 C and low light intensity, i.e. cloudy and rainy weather, lead to almost exclusive self-pollination, while dry and sunny weather favours outcrossing. At low temperatures (about 410 C) anthesis is prolongated up to five-fold, but allogamy is reduced. Day-length distinctly influences the beginning of flowering. Capsella bursa-pastoris is not a day-neutral plant (as was supposed up to now) but behaves as a quantitative long-day plant.
23674279|The 1.4kbp Xba I and the 1.3 kbp EcoRI repeat families in great millet were partially characterized with respect to their genomic distribution and their homology with the EcoRI and Xba I families of five other millet DNAs. The digestions of great millet DNA using increasing amounts of the two enzymes show that these two families are disperse in nature. The hybridization of these two families to the genomic digests of great millet indicates that they are arranged in a clustered and scrambled manner. Similarly, the hybridization with the EcoRI and Xba I digests of five other millet DNAs reveals the speciesspecific nature of these two repeat families. The latter also hybridize to the total repetitive fraction of great millet isolated at a highly stringent temperature of 75 C suggesting that the members of these two families are probably largely homogeneous.
23644308|Carex digitata and Melica nutans are forest understorey herbs with wide European distributions and their northern range margins in Fennoscandia. The species have closely similar habitat requirements, occur in small populations in old forest stands on base-rich to neutral soils and have restricted dispersal abilities at the present day. This study investigates the structure of allozyme variation (12 and 8 loci, respectively) in material of both species (38 and 37 populations, respectively) from throughout southern Sweden and southern Finland. Both species show a relatively low overall genetic diversity (HT excluding monomorphic loci = 0.17 and 0.18, respectively). The hierarchic structuring of allelic diversity in the species is similar, with a relatively high between-population component of diversity (GST = 0.36 and 0.37, respectively). Neither of the species shows a clear intraspecific pattern of geographic differentiation. The lack of large-scale patterns of geographic differentiation is not consistent with a simple scenario of discrete and independent waves of immigration into Fennoscandia. However, particularly in M. nutans, a group of populations from a lowland belt across southwestern Finland and southern central Sweden is somewhat differentiated from populations to the north and south. A number of rare alleles in both species are widely, but patchily distributed in low frequencies. Hybridization may account for the scattered occurence of some of the rare alleles in Carex digitata, but cannot explain the distribution of rare alleles in Melica nutans.
23655159|The problem of relationships among the major basal living groups of land plants is long standing, yet the uncertainty as to the phylogenetic affinity of these lines persists in the literature. Molecular and modern cladistic studies of the phylogenetic relationships of the above groups resulted in a large number of conflicting topologies. However, with the exception of the cladistic analyses of spermatogenesis, suggesting monophyly of extant bryophytes, these studies agree the paraphyletic bryophyte grade is basal within the embryophyte tree. Here we would like to present analyses on the basis of the concatenated datasets of nucleotide and amino-acid sequences of 57 protein-coding genes common to 17 chloroplast genomes of land plants and a charophyte alga Chaetosphaeridium globosum. Character-wise, these are the largest datasets currently available to address the problem of basal relationships within embryophytes. Main lineages of bryophytes, i.e liverworts, hornworts and mosses are represented in our alignments with a single taxon, whereas 14 taxa represent the tracheophytes. With our data, phylogeny with liverwort basal appears to be and artifact related to high and unequal A + T contents among the sequences analysed. Reducing this compositional bias and applying methods developed to counter it, we recovered an alternative, strongly supported topology wherein both bryophytes and tracheophytes are monophyletic. Within bryophytes, hornworts are basal and liverworts are sister to mosses.
23674852|Restriction fragment length polymorphisms at the phytohemagglutinin (PHA) locus were determined among 21 genotypes of Phaseolus vulgaris, P. coccineus, P. acutifolius, P. lunatus, and three Vigna species, using five restriction enzymes and one double digestion, in order to provide molecular evidence for their genetic relatedness. The dissimilarity between genotypes was estimated from binary RFLP data. The dissimilarity was high among species (from 0.75 to 0.95), and of variable extent among genotypes of the same species (0.330.89). In P. vulgaris, two different DNA hybridization patterns were found, giving further evidence for two major gene pools in that species. The restriction patterns of P. vulgaris var. aborigineus, the putative ancestral form of P. vulgaris, exhibit clear homology to P. vulgaris genotypes. An undefined landrace from Taiwan could be identified as a P. vulgaris genotype. RFLP-based trees for the phytohemagglutinin genes of the species studied were computed with several distance matrix and parsimony methods.
23643055|Prospero is a Mediterranean autumn-flowering genus of Hyacinthaceae commonly classified in Scilla as S. autumnalis and S. obtusifolia. Extensive dysploid and polyploid variation has been reported. In the present study 77 diploid accessions from the western to the eastern part of the area of distribution, the major part being from continental Greece and Crete, have been analysed for karyotype structure and, in part, for genome size. Methods employed were acetocarmine staining, Giemsa C-banding, fluorochrome staining mainly with chromomycin A3/DAPI, silver impregnation, and Feulgen densitometry. Banded idiograms were established with a computer assisted karyotype analysis procedure. Chromosome numbers were 2n = 8 in P. obtusifolium, and 2n = 12 and 14 in P. autumnale s. 1. Dispensable euchromatic chromosome segments and different types of B chromosomes occurred. Among the cytotypes with 2n = 14 two karyotypes from Turkey differed from each other and from the rest in form, position of the nucleolar constriction, and in genome size. The remaining accessions were similar in karyotype shape but three levels of genome size could be discerned, the highest (1C = 7.50 pg) being found on the Iberian Peninsula, an intermediate one on Corsica and Malta, and the lowest (4.27 pg) in the Aegean. The karyotype with 2n = 12 had an intermediate genome size, and that of P. obtusifolium a relatively low one. Heterochromatin amount was generally low, but some karyotypes showed characteristic banding patterns. The relationship between the chromosome complements with 2n = 14, 12 and 8 is discussed on the basis of idiograms and DNA amounts.
23656079|Vitis (Vitaceae) is a taxonomically complicated genus with ca. 60 taxa divided into two subgenera, Vitis and Muscadinia. We used population genetic approaches to gain insights into the genetic diversity, patterns of evolutionary differentiation and to decipher the taxonomic status of some of the controversial taxa within the genus Vitis. The distance- and model-based analyses were used to examine the phylogenetic structure within the genus Vitis using simple sequence repeat (SSR) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers. The results closely matched the current classification, but some discrepancies in the identity of taxa at the specific and subspecific levels were still evident. The East Asia and the North American Vitis exhibited strong divergence and each group showed further differentiation into several subgroups with North American subgroups roughly matching the described series. The model based cluster analysis indicated 14 clusters as optimum to explain the genetic structure within the genus Vitis with most clusters containing a moderate frequency of admixed genotypes suggesting interspecific gene flow within the subgenus Vitis. Hierarchical partitioning of molecular variation indicated that a significant amount of the total variation (74 % and 69 % for SSRs and AFLPs, respectively) is accounted for by intraspecific variation as compared to the levels due to genetic differentiation among species within series (17 % and 20 % for SSRs and AFLPs, respectively) and among series within the genus Vitis (9 % and 10 % for SSRs and AFLPs, respectively). Overall, Vitis possesses mild genetic structure characterized by reticulation and incomplete lineage sorting of ancestral polymorphisms.
23642304|Monsonia nivea is a hemicryptophyte which shows spiny petioles after the loss of leaf blades. Anthocladial inflorescences and their supporting vegetative parts are spineless. Spines are formed only by vigorous rosettes. Similar spiny petioles can be found in all other genera of the tribe Geranieae. Die saharo-sindische Geraniacee Monsonia nivea ist ein Hemikryptophyt mit gestauchten, halbrosettigen und gestreckten Erneuerungstrieben. Die verlngerten Spropartien werden nahezu ausschlielich von dornfreien anthokladialen Infloreszenzen gestellt. Nur krftige, rein vegetative Rosetten behalten nach Spreitenverlust ihre Petioli als Blattstieldornen. Solche Dornen finden sich in allen fnf Gattungen der Tribus Geranieae. Die saharo-sindische Geraniacee Monsonia nivea ist ein Hemikryptophyt mit gestauchten, halbrosettigen und gestreckten Erneuerungstrieben. Die verlngerten Spropartien werden nahezu ausschlielich von dornfreien anthokladialen Infloreszenzen gestellt. Nur krftige, rein vegetative Rosetten behalten nach Spreitenverlust ihre Petioli als Blattstieldornen. Solche Dornen finden sich in allen fnf Gattungen der Tribus Geranieae.
43496768|The hypothesis of this study was that in the Galpagos Islands, fruit and seed set via nocturnal pollination would exceed that of diurnal pollination due to greater insect activity at night typical of hot, arid regions. Cordia lutea, a heterostylous member of the Galpagos flora, was submitted to pollination experiments, visitor observations, nectar sampling, pollen transfer studies, pollen-ovule ratio studies, and pollen measurements. Flowers set fruit and seed via open pollination, autonomous autogamy, facilitated autogamy, facilitated cross-pollination, diurnal pollination, and nocturnal pollination. There was a significant difference in fruit set between flowers experiencing legitimate cross-pollinations (pin  thrum) and those experiencing all other pollination treatments except facilitated autogamy. There was no significant difference in seed set among any of the treatments, but there was a trend toward greater seed set for flowers experiencing open-pollination, legitimate cross-pollination, and nocturnal pollination. There was no significant difference in fruit set or seed set between flowers experiencing diurnal pollination and nocturnal pollination, although there was a trend toward greater seed set resulting from nocturnal pollination. Carpenter bees were the most effective diurnal pollinators, whereas moths were the most effective nocturnal pollinators. Of the two, moths are more efficient at transporting pollen from plant to plant. Results indicate that an overall low productivity of this species is due to pollen limitation exacerbated by nectar robbing. Cordia lutea exhibits a mixed mating system, producing a relatively low level of fruits through a combination of self- and cross-pollination, facilitated by the relatively few insects that are available.
43558265|The leaf anatomy of 81 species of Syzygium was examined. General generic and subgeneric descriptions of Syzygium leaf anatomy are given. Four stomatal types (anisocytic, anomocytic, cyclo-staurocytic and paracytic) that occur exclusively or in combinations are recognised. Two major vascular systems are differentiated by the presence or absence of adaxial phloem partition. Phylogenetic inferences using maximum parsimony and Bayesian methods for separate and combined analyses of DNA (ETS and ITS) sequences and morphological (leaf anatomy and macromorphology) data were conducted. Results of the combined analyses gave slightly higher support value for clade than analyses based on DNA sequences. The subgenera Perikion, Sequestratum and Syzygium are strongly supported, but the subgenus Acmena is moderately supported in the Bayesian but not in the parsimony analysis of combined data sets. The relationships among subgenera are not fully resolved. All the leaf anatomical characters examined are homoplastic. We did not find any unique leaf anatomical characters allowing delimiting of the four subgenera in Syzygium. However, a combinations of non-unique leaf anatomical characters, including stomatal types, crystal types and frequency, and midrib vascular system (adaxial phloem partition) are diagnostic for subgeneric groups.
23674263|The broad knowledge of the chemistry of the Compositae allows the discussion of its relevance for the systematics and evolution within the family. Furthermore a separation into subfamilies can be supported by the observed differences in the distribution of the main constituents in the tribes.
23672608|The experiments on cultured pea roots (Pisum sativum cv. 'Alaska' and 'Dwarf Telephone') are summarized in Table 1. Nuclear growth and mitosis occurred mainly in cultures in which the medium of Torrey and Shigemura was supplemented with 6 p.p.m. 2,4-D and 1 p.p.m. kinetin. The greatest reaction was observed in 16-day cultures of cv. 'Alaska'. Nuclei had increased in size, and prophases diploid and polyploid, with normal chromosomes, diplochromosomes or larger bundles of chromatids were visible. Metaphases which ranged from 2 n to an estimated 32 n had normal chromosomes with two chromatids. Polytene chromosomes, in diploid, rarely in tetraploid number, occurred in numerous cortex cells. They did not show banding, and their telomeres, spread into individual chromatids, were attached to the nuclear membrane. In some cells the polytene chromosomes were condensed into spherical structures, obviously a stage in their falling apart; the last stage of this process is a polyploid metaphase.
23645334|Phylogenetic relationships among 17 taxa of Dipsacaceae were inferred from nucleotide sequence variation in both the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA and the chloroplast trnL(UAA) intron sequences. The combined phylogenetic analysis, carried out by using two taxa from Valerianaceae as an outgroup yielded a single most parsimonious tree, in which Dipsacaceae are divided into two major clades: one including Lomelosia and Pycnocomon, both in a sister group relationship with a clade containing Pterocephalus, Scabiosa and Sixalix; the other including Pseudoscabiosa, Succisa and Succisella is sister group to Knautia, Pterocephalidium, Dipsacus and Cephalaria. The results obtained here greatly differ from previous ones based on classical morphology, but are congruent with recent findings on epicalyx differentiation and with pollen characters. In particular, our results would confirm on molecular grounds the recently restricted circumscription for Scabioseae proposed by other authors. Our phylogenetic hypothesis indicates that adaptations to seed dispersal have been a very strong driving force in Dipsacaceae evolution, with similar selective pressures causing the onset of similar epicalyx shapes and dispersal modes in a parallel fashion in various taxa. For this reason, the gross morphology of the involucel is deceptive in inferring relationships.
23674070|Recent studies have improved the infrageneric classification of Rhododendron, including my own investigations on flavonoids and anthocyanins as chemosystematic markers. From a synoptical comparison of morphological, anatomical and phytochemical characters a new system for the genus is proposed. Phylogenetic character progressions and relationships among subgenera, sections and subsections are discussed and illustrated. Key positions for subg. Candidastrum between chori subgenerum Rhododendron and Nomazalea, and for subg. Choniastrum between chori subgenerum Hymenanthes and Nomazalea are suggested.
43498292|Mitotic chromosome numbers of 32 populations belonging to 23 species of the genus Lessingianthus H. Rob. (Vernonieae, Asteraceae) were determined. The chromosome number of all examined plants was found to be based on x = 16. The numbers observed varied from 2n = 32 to 2n = 176. The results include the first report of the chromosome number for 11 species: L. lanatus (2n = 32), L. varroniifolius (2n = 32), L. cataractarum (2n = 64), L. intermedius (2n = 64), L. argenteus (2n = 96), L. centauropsideus (2n = 96), L. profusas (2n = 96), Lessingianthus sp. nov. 1 (2n = 96), Lessingianthus sp. nov. 2 (2n = 128), L. robustus (2n = 160), and L. macrocephalus (2n = 176). New chromosome numbers were found in the four other species: L. rubricaulis, L. laniferus, and L. sellowii were tetraploid with 2n = 64, while L. oxyodontus was hexaploid with 2n = 96. B. chromosomes were observed in L. coriaceus and L. varroniifolius. Lessingianthus macrocephalus (2n = 11x = 176) is reported as the first case of an odd polyploid and the higher chromosome number of Lessingianthus. The significance of the results is discussed in relation to chromosomal data available for the genus.
23655501|A summary of chromosome numbers has been prepared for the Brassicaceae (Cruciferae) family. Over 9000 chromosome counts have been compiled from the literature. Chromosome numbers are known from 232 of the 338 (68.6%) genera and 1558 of the 3709 (42.0%) of the species in the family. Counts in the excel database have been arranged according to currently accepted taxonomy, and includes for each count, country of origin and reference citation.
23642458|The cacti of the American Southwest, defined as the region from southern California to Texas, are surveyed for types of pollination systems and their frequencies. Four types of pollination systems are known to occur in the southwestern cactus flora: bee, hummingbird, hawkmoth, and bat pollination. Two other modes are suspected but not documented: miscellaneous smallinsect pollination and autogamy.Bee flowers comprise a wide and nearly continuous series of size classes from very small to very large. The large bee flowers, with perianths 5.5 to 12.5 cm in diameter, form a prominent but arbitrarily delimited subcategory in the bee pollination system. Promiscuous flowers and autogamous flowers, if they occur, are included with the mediumsized and small bee flowers in our present classification, due to lack of information, and will have to be separated out when our knowledge is more complete. The overwhelming majority of species in the southwestern cactus flora are bee flowers. Between 39 and 44% of the species are large bee flowers. Another 50 to 56% of the species are classified as medium-sized and small bee flowers; while some of these may turn out to be promiscuous flowers and autogamous flowers, most of them are undoubtedly bee flowers.Hummingbird, hawkmoth, and bat pollination are conspicuous but statistically minor components of the pollination spectrum, occurring in only one or a few species (see Table 2). Hummingbird pollination has arisen from bee pollination in the Southwest. The species or species groups with hawkmoth and bat pollination, on the other hand, are basically tropical groups which developed their advanced pollination systems in the tropics.
23673686|Verbesina sect. Pseudomontanoa is revised. The last treatment of the group by Robinson & Greenman (1899) recognized 5 species; the present treatment recognizes 12 species, 3 of which (V. breedlovei, V. cronquistii and V. olsenii) are described as new. A key to species, phyletic diagram and distribution maps are provided.
43558246|The interaction between Ficus spp. (Moraceae) and their pollinating wasps (Chalcidoidae: Agaonidae) is a highly co-evolved mutualism. Approximately half of all fig species are monoecious and produce a mixture of wasps and seeds within the same fig. In functionally dioecious fig trees male and female functions are separate. Figs on male trees produce wasps and pollen, whereas figs borne on female plants produce only seeds. Dioecious fig phenology provides an excellent opportunity to investigate the effect of sexual specialization on the obligate fig-fig wasp interaction and the non-pollinators associated with the system. Here we describe laboratory studies of phenological variation between two sexes in terms of vegetative growth and fig production in a dioecious fig tree Ficus montana. We also describe reproductive output in terms of wasp production in males and seeds in females. Intrasexual asynchrony was observed for the plants, with synchrony between the sexes with year-round production of figs. Male plants grew more rapidly, but leaf phenology was very similar. Crop sizes and development times were the same for males and females. Seasonal effects were strong for leaf phenology and fig initiation, but had a very limited effect on fig composition. The results show that the phenological differences described for other dioecious figs do not apply to all species.
43558669|The ultrastructure of the stigmas and styles of Colletta paradoxa, Colletta spinosissima, and Discaria americana was studied by transmission electron microscopy before and during anthesis. The purpose of the study was to contribute a full description of possible interactions between the male gametophyte and the sporophytic tissues of the stigma and the style. Ultrastructure changes in the stigmatic papillae and epithelial and sub-epithelial cells of the stylar channels in relation to pollen tube growth are discussed and compared between species. New pollen tube pathways are described for hollow styles.
23643152|The sectile state, in which pollinia are subdivided into units larger than tetrads, is one of several systematically important orchid pollinium characters. We recognize two types of sectile pollinia, based upon form and arrangement of massulae. One type is found primarily in members of Orchidoideae-Spiranthoideae, while the other characterizes epidendroid genera. Additional characters that have systematic potential are massula dimorphism, caudicle composition, and degree of tetrad packing. Hollow sectile pollinia unite Arethusa and Calopogon; Stereosandra and Epipogium have dissimilar pollina, but other characters support a close relationship between them. The sectile condition is interpreted as resulting from a shift in the timing of cohesion of developing pollen cells.
43498308|At present 14 species of Potentilla L. have been cytologically worked out from different geographical areas of Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh in the Western Himalayas. New chromosome numbers in nine speciesPotentilla argyrophylla (n = 14), P. atrosanguinea (n = 7, 14), P. desertorum (n = 7), P. gerardiana (n = 14), P. indica (n = 14), P. micropetala (n = 14), P. nepalensis (n = 14), P. sibbaldia (n = 14) and P. thomsonii (n = 7)have been reported on a worldwide basis for the first time. Additional chromosomal races of polyploid cytotypes for P. argyrophylla (n = 28) and P. desertorum (n = 14) along with a diploid cytotype for P. micropetala (n = 7) plus diploid cytotypes for the five species as P. fulgens (n = 7), P. gelida (n = 7), P. kleiniana (n = 7), P. sibbaldia (n = 7) and P. sundaica (n = 7) as well as a tetraploid cytotype for P. fruticosa (n = 14) all have been cytologically worked out from India for the first time. The course of meiosis varies from normal to abnormal in different populations of the majority of the species, such as P. argyrophylla, P. atrosanguinea, P. desertorum, P. fruticosa, P. fulgens, P. gelida, P. indica, P. nepalensis, P. sibbaldia and P. sundaica, except for normal meiosis observed in P. gerardiana, P. kleiniana, P. micropetala and P. thomsonii. The anomalous taxa are marked with meiotic abnormalities in the form of cytomixis, chromosomal stickiness, unoriented bivalents, formation of laggards and bridges resulting in abnormal microsporogenesis, and production of heterogenous-sized fertile pollen grains along with reduced pollen fertility. All the taxa with normal meiotic courses show nearly one hundred percent pollen fertility.
23674670|Isozyme variation was investigated in populations of Phragmites australis (Poaceae) which have recently invaded and taken over marsh habitat of the Mississippi River delta. Infrared aerial photographs in the Garden Island Bay subdelta of the extensive P. australis populations reveal distinct, clone-like circular patches within a predominant background. Preliminary evidence indicates that the infrared color differences represent distinct morphological types. However, there are no obvious environmental factors that could account for the peculiar patterns. P. australis collections were taken from five separate and distinct "patches" and adjacent "background". Only two electrophoretic phenotypes were found: one from "patches" and one from the "background". In comparing the two, 20% of the 40 loci scored are fixed for alternate alleles. These results indicate a clear correspondence of infrared reflectance with electrophoretic phenotype. In addition, the genetic uniformity as evidenced by the discovery of only two electrophoretic phenotypes supports the contention that the recent spread of P. australis throughout the Mississippi River delta has been primarily, if not exclusively, a result of vegetative propagation.
23669398|'Gynodioecydioecy' is one of the pathways by which dioecy can arise from hermaphroditism. Studies on sex determination and development of gynodioecious systems have focused on temperate and/or annual species. Little is known about the evolutionary dynamics of gynodioecy and dioecy in perennial tropical species, where these systems have more frequently evolved. Maytenus obtusifolia is an abundant species in restingas in southeastern Brazil. The sexual system of M. obtusifolia was investigated by studying the floral structure and reproductive biology. We considered the sexual system as an intermediate step in the pathway gynodioecy-dioecy. The characterization of the hermaphrodite morph was complex, because of a gradient of variation in floral morphology and reproductive characteristics (sizes of the style and stigmatic surface, pollen viability, embryo sacs containing hypertrophied synergids, and fruit set). This variation leads to different proportions of functional male and female flowers among hermaphrodite plants and is responsible for the different levels of reproductive success. Female reproductive success and pollen viability were negatively correlated with the hermaphrodite morph (r = -0.67). The higher fruiting intensity and fruit/flower ratio of females (41 %) compared to hermaphrodites (2 %) and the fact that female plants produce more and better-quality seeds support the female compensation. We suggest that female sterility may be linked to the set of changes in the carpels. The differences in the quality and quantity of pollen grains of hermaphrodite plants, and the similar individual rates of pollen viability observed for three consecutive flowering events, may indicate a relationship with nuclear cytoplasmic sex determination.
23669984|In haploid, diploid, triploid, tetraploid and hexaploid cytotypes of the scopalamine-yielding Datura innoxia, the amino acid profiles were studied. The results suggest that the amino acid composition is influenced quantitatively by increasing ploidy levels, but in an irregular way.
43558203|The phylogenetic position of Pentactina Nakai, one of only six endemic genera in the Korean peninsula, has been elusive and difficult to determine due to inaccessibility of plant materials. In this paper, we were able to obtain material from the one and only living collection of Pentactina outside of its native range in North Korea and determined its phylogenetic relationship relative to the other genera within the tribe Spiraeeae (Rosaceae). This paper presents the first molecular phylogeny of the genus Pentactina using both nuclear ribosomal ITS regions as well as chloroplast DNA trnL-trnF intergenic spacers to conduct phylogenetic analyses (maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood) of the Spiraeeae. The ITS and combined data set trees suggest that Pentactina shares its most recent common ancestor with Petrophyton, a small western North American genus, while cpDNA suggests close relationships to Kelseya, Sibiraea, and Petrophyton. Therefore, based on the present molecular sequence data, we suggest that the rare Korean monotypic endemic genus Pentactina possibly has a close relationship with the small western North American genus Petrophyton, although receiving a weak support. In addition, our current study suggests that Pentactina is not part of the large genus Spiraea as previously hypothesized by Hutchinson. Pentactina possess combinations of several morphological features within the Spiraeeae such as an erect shrub habit, simple serrate leaves, and raceme inflorescences, and recognition as a distinct endemic genus in Korea is warranted.
23664063|We examined 532 specimens representing eight species of Didymaea (Rubiaceae) to describe their leaf architecture. Characters observed in the herbarium specimens and cleared leaves were leaf base, apex, and margin; trichome type and distribution; vein orders from primary to higher order veins, veinlets, and ultimate marginal vein. Six morphometric variables were analyzed using variance and principal component analysis to identify which characters are useful to distinguish species. Most of the species present brochidodromous venation pattern, except D. hispidula, which has eucamptodromous venation pattern; Didymaea floribunda is unique in having cylindrical and bicellular trichomes. Principal component analysis revealed that 78% of the total variation is mainly related to leaf maximum width. Variance analysis showed significant differences between D. microflosculosa and the other species. Architectural features were useful for differentiating all the species, and an identification key for the species of Didymaea based only on leaf characters is presented.
23643823|The sori of the Dicksoniaceae and Hymenophyllaceae represent further examples of the "basipetal marginal sorus" as defined in a previous paper. Marginal sori arise as the result of a distinct differentiation of the sporophyll into a vegetative and a reproductive phase. Phase differentiation may have occurred more than once in evolution, and the occurrence of the basipetal marginal sorus, therefore, may include homologous convergences. With regard to the phylogenetic relationships the present studies allow the following conclusions: (1) Because of the marginal position and the high complexity of the sori, the Dicksoniaceae and Hymenophyllaceae cannot be considered primitive groups. (2) The sorus of the Hymenophyllaceae corresponds neither to that of Dennstaedtia nor to that of Dicksonia; the similarity is due to homologous convergence. Therefore, the Hymenophyllaceae cannot be regarded as closely related to the Dennstaedtiaceae or the Dicksoniaceae.
23656085|Heterostyly is a stylar polymorphism that has been shaped by the evolution of floral characters adapted for efficient pollen transfer. Different types of stylar polymorphism are described in which the discrete characterization of the exact polymorphic type (e.g., distyly vs. stigma-height dimorphism) requires detailed floral measurements (e.g., sex-organ reciprocity). In clonal and aquatic Nymphoides montana, although the presence of two floral morphs that contain styles of two lengths has been previously reported, no studies have quantitatively estimated the level of reciprocity and/or described the stylar condition. Morphological variations and incompatibility relationships were explored between the two morphs in three southeastern Australian populations. In this study, one population is characterized as stigma-height dimorphism (i.e., two morphs with discrete variation in stigma height but little variation in anther height), whereas the other two populations are typical distylous (i.e., two morphs for reciprocal stigma and anther height). Nymphoides montana is dimorphic in a wide range of ancillary characters, including corolla size, stigma size, shape and papillae morphology, and pollen size, number and exine sculpture. Following glasshouse pollinations, full incompatibility systems were observed in the distylous populations, whereas the stigma-height dimorphic population showed between-morph variation in the extent of incompatibility. Despite the variation in sex-organ reciprocity and incompatibility, other lines of evidence appear to assure the maintenance of the stylar polymorphism in the N. montana study populations. All populations are nearly isoplethic (i.e., both morphs in equal frequencies), which is indicative of balanced polymorphisms that appear to be maintained by legitimate pollen transfer between the morphs.
23643673|Morphological and cytological studies of three tetraploid Roegneria species, R. tenuispica, R. pendulina and R. ciliaris, and their artificial hybrids were carried out. Roegneria tenuispica was morphologically similar to R. pendulina. The general appearance of the interspecific hybrids was intermediate between the parents. The hybrids showed comparatively high chromosome pairing at meiosis, but were completely or almost completely sterile. The results indicate that the three independent species share two basic genomes (StY) and that R. tenuispica is more closely related to R. pendulina than to R. ciliaris. The genomes of R. tenuispica could be designated as ${\mathrm{S}}_{\mathrm{t}}^{\mathrm{t}}{\mathrm{Y}}^{\mathrm{t}}$.
23674846|Morphological relationships were investigated among diploid Stellaria porsildii, polyploid S. longipes, and diploid S. longifolia. Canonical discriminant analysis, based on a priori assumptions to maximize differences among groups, showed that S. longipes clusters equally distant between the two diploid species along an axis connecting the diploids' centroids, but it differs along an axis perpendicular to this axis. The intermediacy along the former axis is evidence that S. longipes is an amphiploid derived from S. longifolia and S. porsildii. The divergence along the latter axis may be attributable to adaptively valuable heterotic traits which were retained following amphidiploidization. The only morphological discontinuity occurred between the two diploids, whereas the morphological range of S. longipes overlapped the range of both diploids forming a continuum. The lack of discrete clusters is likely due to hybridization and introgression with S. longifolia on one hand, and convergence of traits between S. longipes var. monantha and S. porsildii on the other. High a posteriori assignments in classificatory discriminant analysis supports the separation of S. longipes var. monantha from other S. longipes specimens. Although S. longipes var. monantha grouped close to S. porsildii, the two groups separate based on leaf shape traits. Overall results support firstly, the hypothesis that S. porsildii is a diploid parent species which by hybridizing with S. longifolia gave rise to polyploid S. longipes. Secondly, results suggest that S. longipes var. monantha converged morphologically towards S. porsildii relatively recently due to ecological specialization, and merits distinction at least as a variety of S. longipes.
23644993|Phylogenetic relationships in Stylosanthes are inferred by DNA sequence analysis of the ITS region (ITS15.8SITS2) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA in 119 specimens, representing 36 species of Stylosanthes and 7 species of the outgroup genera Arachis and Chapmannia. In all examined specimens of any particular diploid and (allo)polyploid species, only a single ITS sequence type was observed. This allowed us to identify a parental genome donor for some of the polyploids. In several diploid and polyploid species, different specimens contained a different ITS sequence. Some of these sequence types were present in more than one species. Parsimony analysis yielded several well-supported clades that agree largely with analyses of the chloroplast trnL intron and partially with the current sectional classification. Discordances between the nuclear and cpDNA analyses are explained by a process of allopolyploidization with inheritance of the cpDNA of one parent and fixation of the ITS sequences of the other. S. viscosa has been an important genome donor in this process of speciation by allopolyploidy.
23642637|Field studies in Amazonian Peru show that the Passiflora vitifolia complex, a microcosm of many larger taxa, is concentrated in Amazonia with 4 ecologically separated species. One species is restricted to seasonally inundated forests, a second to non-inundated white sand soils, a third to non-inundated lateritic soils, and the fourth mostly to non-inundated alluvial soils. A new combination is formally proposed to recognize the white sand taxon, previously regarded as a variety, as a distinct species : P. involucrata. The importance of -diversity in maintaining high Amazonian species diversity is emphasized.
23643330|Allozyme variation was examined in Carex sect. Phyllostachys (Cyperaceae) to provide insight into phylogenetic relationships hypothesized in an earlier study and to determine the degree of genetic differentiation within and between taxa. Genetic identity values are concordant with the morphological differences found between species. The lowest values are found between species with the greatest morphological dissimilarity. Conversely, the highest values are associated with species pairs distinguished by relatively few morphological differences. Conspecific populations possess high genetic identities, although interpopulation differentiation has characterized the evolutionary history of some species. Geographic patterning is also evident within species, with geographically proximate populations often having the highest identity values. Phylogenetic trees produced using different cladistic methods were poorly supported and varied in their depiction of relationships among species. One cladogram produced using presence/absence allelic data is more or less congruent with a topology recovered from an earlier analysis utilizing molecular and morphological data. The wide- and narrow-scaled clades are maintained as are the sister species pairs C. backii/C. saximontana, C. basiantha/C. superata, and C. jamesii/C. juniperorum. Contrary to the finding of our previous study, however, C. willdenowii is aligned with C. jamesii/C. juniperorum.
23644072|Normania and Triguera comprise two genera of the Solanaceae whose affinities have been uncertain. Normania encompasses two species endemic to Macaronesia; Triguera is monotypic and found in Spain and northwestern Africa. Both have slightly zygomorphic flowers and horned anthers that dehisce by both apical pores and longitudinal slits. Micromorphological similarities include trichotomously colporate pollen grains and seed surface cells with radially thickened extensions. Molecular data from the chloroplast ndhF gene and the nuclear ITS region establish that Normania and Triguera are nested within the large genus Solanum, where together they form a well supported clade. However, the relationship of this clade to other Solanum subgroups is not resolved. Transfer of the Normania and Triguera epithets to Solanum is made, necessitating one new name. The molecular data confirm that the species of Solanum endemic to Macaronesia belong to two distinct clades, each showing an independent evolution of heteromorphic anthers.
23673760|In direct contrast to most Hibbertia spp., the flowers of H. fasciculata R. Br. ex D. C. bear only a single whorl of stamens and these stamens are arranged separately (not in typical "bundles"). The short filaments are appressed to the three carpels so that the inflated, porose and introrsive anthers form a centralized cluster obscuring the three ovaries. The three slender styles emerge at right angles from between the filaments. These styles curve upward and the stigmas form the three points of a triangle; each stigma is approximately one millimeter outside the centralized cluster of anthers. The flowers are nectarless and bear a bright yellow corolla. A pungent and unpleasant fragrance appears to be concentrated within the pollenkitt. When native bees attempt to forage for the pollen, within the cluster of anthers, the ventrally deposited loads of pollen, on the bees' abdomens, contact the outer triangle of stigmas. The major pollinators of H. fasciculata are female bees in the polylectic genera, Lasioglossum (subgenus Chilalictus, Halictidae) and Leioproctus (Colletidae). These bees carry an average of more than two pollen taxa when they are caught foraging on H. fasciculata. 78% of the 47 bees, captured on H. fasciculata carried the pollen from at least one sympatric taxon bearing nectariferous flowers (e.g., genera in the Myrtaceae, Compositae, and Epacridaceae). The pollination biology of H. fasciculata is assessed in relation to the known radiation of bee-pollinated flowers in the genus Hibbertia, and within the Dilleniaceae s. l.
23659860|Mitotic chromosome numbers and karyotypes of Grabowskia (G. boerhaviaefolia, G. duplicata, G. obtusa) and the monotypic genus Phrodus (P. microphyllus) were determined. Both genera were diploid with 2n = 24. The chromosome number of G. obtusa is reported here for the first time. Karyotypes of Grabowskia species were highly symmetrical with 11m + 1sm pairs. Phrodus microphyllus showed a different formula: 8m + 3sm + 1st pairs. Karyotypic features suggest that morphological differentiation in Grabowskia was not followed by chromosomal divergence, as previously found in Lycium as well. Although symmetrical karyotypes have been correlated with an ancestral condition of the taxa bearing them, in the tribe Lycieae the basal genus Phrodus showed the opposite trend.
23643048|A detailed karyotype analysis was made on the somatic complement of Picea rubens and P. glauca. B-chromosomes were observed in some P. glauca populations. The karyotypes are generally asymmetrical with most of the chromosomes having median to median-submedian centromeres. Picea glauca chromosomes 2, 3, 7, and 8 have secondary constriction on their short arm and chromosome 10 has a secondary constriction on the long arm. Chromosome 3 was the most easily identifiable, as it has two secondary constrictions located on the short arm. In P. rubens, all the chromosomes but chromosomes 8 and 9 have one to four distinctive secondary constrictions. In general, the diagrammatic comparisons show a high degree of similarity among P. mariana, P. rubens, and P. glauca. Genomic P. mariana probe strongly hybridized to dots of genomic DNA from P. rubens and P. glauca indicating that there is a high sequence homology among these three species. The synchronizing agent, hydroxyurea was used at different concentrations to enhance the mitotic index of cell suspensions derived from embryogenic cultures. Hydroxyurea at 1.25 mM increased significantly the mitotic index. An increase of hydroxyurea from 1.25 mM to 5 mM and 10 mM resulted in a steady decrease of mitotic index.
23642195|Trichocereus has 4 species in central Chile. Population analyses indicate that introgressive hybridization has occurred between T. chilensis and T. litoralis in the Valparaso and Santiago coast ranges. A taxonomic key is presented.
23642107|The new species Mallomonas transsylvanica is described in detail. Its silica armour has been examined by light and electron microscopy. Differences and possible relationships with other species are discussed.
23663577|Comparative analyses were made of agamospermous populations of Eupatorium sessilifolium, which have previously been documented to be polyploid, to determine whether they are alloploid or autoploid in origin and to assess the possibility that they have arisen more than once. There was no variability in ITS sequences among seven agamospermous and eight sexual diploid populations of E. sessilifolium, which is consistent with morphological observations in suggesting that the agamospermous populations were autoploids. The ITS sequence characteristic of E. sessilifolium differs from all other North American species by a minimum of 15 changes, and heterogeneity or polymorphism would be expected if the agamospermous populations were alloploids. Analysis of the chloroplast-based trnC-psbM spacer region showed variability among both sexual diploid and agamospermous populations of E. sessilifolium, which suggested that the agamospermous populations stem from multiple origins. Analysis of ISSR data revealed considerable intraspecific variability within E. sessilifolium, and the distribution of variability, with agamospermous populations showing variability from one another, added further evidence for multiple origins of agamospermous populations. The results in conjunction with distributional evidence that the sexual diploid populations of E. sessilifolium are geographically restricted and uncommon suggest that monitoring of populations might be warranted to evaluate whether measures are needed to enhance their continued survival.
23655688|Justicia areysiana Deflers (Acanthaceae) is an endemic shrub of the monsoon affected coastal mountains of the southern Arabian Peninsula with ballochorous seed dispersal. Its occurrence in a vegetation belt of relics of the (semi)-evergreen Afro-montane woodland characterised by Olea europaea subsp. cuspidata and Juniperus procera above an elevation of c. 750-800 m is strongly dependent on the activity of the Indian Ocean southwest monsoon. Therefore, the species offers a good model to study the palaeoclimate induced habitat fragmentation of the once continuous distribution range of the Afro-montane woodland belt on the southern Arabian Peninsula. Thirteen populations from the total distribution range of the species were analysed using AFLP fingerprinting and show a distinct geographic distribution pattern with a main split between eastern (Hawf Mountains/Dhofar) and western/central populations (Jabal Urays, Jabal Gedu, Kor Seiban). Our results on the genetic differentiation of populations clearly demonstrate the strong isolation among populations and confirm geographical patterns found in former studies based on chloroplast haplotypes. The dating of the main regional split between eastern and western/central populations based on nrDNA ITS sequence variation, is dated to 0.81.8 Myr before present. This indicates drastic habitat fragmentation processes during the Pleistocene which are compatible with periods of aridisation assumed for the African continent at around 1.7 Myr and 1.0 Myr before present.
23662382|The precise delimitation of Taxaceae and Cephalotaxaceae is not totally resolved. Some contradicting taxonomic proposals have been published, which demonstrates the difficulties in establishing a natural classification of the families and especially in proposing a relevant treatment within the genera Taxus and Cephalotaxus. The aims of this study are to contribute to the phylogeny and specific delineation of the two conifer families on the basis of molecular data. A cladistic analysis of the sequences of five chloroplast (matK, rbcL, trnL, trnL-trnF spacer, and psbA-trnH spacer) and one nuclear (ITS) molecular markers was carried out, both individually and in combination, by distance, parsimony, likelihood, and Bayesian methods. The results confirm that the two families are monophyletic. In the genus Taxus, T. floridana is the first-branching taxon; T. brevifolia and T. globosa cluster together and are sister to T. baccata; the endemic T. yunnanensis clusters with T. wallichiana in subclade B and is only distantly related with the other four Taxus species in China (subclade A); T. fuana is closer to T. baccata than to other Taxus species. Torreya jackii and A. formosana are the first-branching species within Torreya and Amentotaxus, respectively. C. koreana and C. wilsoniana could be treated as two varieties of C. harringtonia. The ancestral distribution area of Taxaceae and Cephalotaxaceae is restricted either to Southwest China or Southeast China by DIVA analysis. The relaxed molecular clock indicates that the deepest divergences in Taxus go back to the late-Cretaceous. psbA-trnH, rbcL third codon position, and matK first codon position contributed most to the separation of taxa in Discriminant function analysis. Our results confirm, on a basis of multiple molecular markers and a complete sampling of basic species, the suggested monophyly of Taxaceae and Cephalotaxaceae and propose interspecific relationships within each group, with profound nomenclatural and taxonomic implications. Combination of partitioned Bayesian analysis and likelihood-based methods produced a more robust phylogenetic hypothesis for the two studied families.
23642955|The karyotypes of two populations of Festucopsis serpentini (2n = 2x = 14) endemic to Albania were investigated in detail by Giemsa C- and N-banding, AgN3 staining, and in situ hybridization with an rDNA probe. The complements consisted of 14 large chromosomes, 10 metacentric and 4 SAT-chromosomes, a metacentric and a submetacentric pair. SAT-chromosomes from one population carried exclusively minute satellites, whereas SAT-chromosomes from another population also carried larger polymorphic satellites, suggesting a geographical differentiation. The existence of four chromosomes with nucleolus forming activity was established through AgNCh staining; however, the rDNA probe additionally hybridized to intercalary positions in the short arms of two metacentric chromosomes revealing two inactive rDNA sites. C-banding patterns comprised from zero and up to four very small to larger, generally telomeric bands per chromosome giving low levels of constitutive heterochromatin. Similarities in chromosome morphology and Cbanding patterns identified the homologous relationships of all chromosomes in one population, but of three pairs only in the other. Reliable identification of homologous chromosomes between plants was only possible for the SAT-chromosomes. A comparison between the C-banded karyotypes of F. serpentini and Peridictyon sanctum supports their position in two genera.
23642561|The epidermal nuclei of the ovary in Linaria vulgaris and L. alpina, and the nuclei in leaves of Incarvillea variabilis often contain crystalloid, tubular inclusions. The tubuli in both Linaria species have an average diameter of 200  with a width of 70  in the clear and are arranged in a higly organized manner: Parallel tubuli form layers which build up a crystal lattice. There are three directions of tubuli in each inclusion : In each layer they are aligned in an angle of 60 to those of the next, so that the tubuli of the fourth layer are in the same direction as those of the first one. In Incarvillea the tubuli (each with an average diameter of 220 , and 70  width in the clear) also exhibit compact packing, but their arrangement is not so highly ordered as in Linaria.
23669407|Detailed male meiosis, critical morphological observations and distribution pattern of diploid as well as tetraploid cytotypes of the Western Himalayan species, Bupleurum lanceolatum have been evaluated at present. A diploid (n = 8) cytotype is reported from Kashmir, whereas, both diploid (n = 8) and tetraploid (n = 16) cytotypes are available from two districts Kangra and Sirmaur of Himachal Pradesh. Out of these, the tetraploid cytotype makes new addition for the species on a worldwide basis. As per behavior, a tetraploid cytotype is characterized by abnormal meiosis leading to high pollen sterility and size variation of the pollen grains. Morphologically, tetraploids are noted to be luxuriant in comparison to the diploids.
23655108|We studied pollination ecology of the sympatric palms Attalea allenii and Wettinia quinaria in a tropical rain forest in Colombia. Attalea has a subterranean stem and Wettinia is tall and arboreal. Both species have thermogenesis and short anthesis, and their floral scents differ in chemical composition. Inflorescences of both palms are visited by beetles, bees and flies. Pollination is diurnal, and is effected mostly by two species of Mystrops (Nitidulidae: Nitidulinae: Mystropini) each of them specific to one palm species. Both palms share few visitors and no pollinators. Differences in scent composition probably cause this isolation. We contrast their diurnal pollination with nocturnal pollination of other palms by mystropines in Amazonia and elsewhere, and relate it to precipitation regimes. The diurnal anthesis of A. allenii and W. quinaria and the diurnal activity of their specific mystropines probably coevolved as a response to the high, predominantly nocturnal rainfall in the Choc.
23674843|Six Brassica species, known as the "triangle of U", and four species from related genera were characterized by DNA fingerprinting with simple repetitive oligonucleotide probes. Our results show that CT-, TCC-, and GTG-repeat motifs are equally abundant in the genomes of the six Brassica species. In contrast, GATA-, GGAT-, and GACA-multimers are unevenly distributed among different species. As judged from the number and strength of hybridization signals, the highest copy number of all three motifs occurs in Brassica nigra, while the lowest is observed in B. oleracea. The abundance of GATAand GACA-repeats varies in a coordinate way. The amphidiploid genomes of B. juncea, B. carinata, and B. napus each harbour intermediate amounts of (GATA)4 and (GACA)4-detected repeats as compared to their diploid progenitors, thus supporting the concept of the "U triangle". GATA-, GACA-, and GGAT-repeats were also abundant in Eruca sativa and Sinapis arvensis, but not in Raphanus sativus and Sinapis alba. These results support the idea that Brassica nigra is more closely related to Sinapis arvensis than to other Brassica species such as B. rapa and B. oleracea.
23645062|Taxa of the Viola alba complex were investigated using allozymes and morphometry. A taxonomic revision is presented. A wide delimitation of V. alba with only three morphological and geographical subspecies is suggested: (1) ssp. dehnhardtii distributed in the Mediterranean eastwards to Turkey; (2) ssp. alba flanking ssp. dehnhardtii in the north and east; and (3) ssp. cretica endemic to Crete. Ssp. cretica, up to now treated as a separate species, is particularly close to ssp. dehnhardtii. Viola cadevallii (NW Mediterranean) is included in the synonymy of ssp. dehnhardtii. Ssp. scotophylla (S Europe), ssp. thessala (Balkan), V. armena (Turkey), and V. besseri (Caucasus) are reduced to synonyms of V. alba ssp. alba. Viola pentelica (Greece) might represent transitional forms between ssp. alba and ssp. dehnhardtii. Glacial refugia for ssp. alba are suggested from the eastern Mediterranean via Turkey to the Caucasus, for ssp. dehnhardtii in the Mediterranean area in general, and for ssp. cretica in Crete. A key to the subspecies is provided. Taxonomic recombination: Viola alba Bess. ssp. cretica (Boiss. & Heldr.) Marcussen, comb. nov.
23674549|The interrelationships within the Heliantheae s. lato and the closely related Eupatorieae are analyzed and discussed. The basis to this discussion is a cladistic analysis of 141 morphological characters (172 apomorphic states) scored for 97 genera. The Heleniae s. lato, a subgroup of the Heliantheae s. lato, are paraphyletic, and a monophyletic group corresponding largely to the Heliantheae s. str. is recognized. The Ecliptinae sensu Robinson are polyphyletic. The Coreopsidinae form an ingroup in the Heliantheae s. str. The Tageteae (Pectidinae) and the Madieae (Madiinae) are two separate branches within the helenioid assemblage of taxa.
23654185|The New Zealand endemic species of Gnaphalieae (Asteraceae) present a bewildering array of morphological forms recalcitrant to phylogenetic analysis using molecular or traditional characters. The chloroplast psbA-trnH intergenic spacer is highly variable in this group, with substitutions distinguishing 18 cpDNA haplotypes distributed among samples of Raoulia species and those of related genera. A subset of haplotypes was combined with sequences of the more slowly evolving trnL intron and trnL-trnF intergenic spacer region and subjected to median network and parsimony analyses. Although a number of chloroplast lineages were resolved, these do not correspond with taxonomic units, nor with groups supported by analysis of morphological characters, nor with groups indicated by nuclear rDNA ITS sequences. These data, considered in the context of morphological character state distribution in the group, suggest a complex set of interrelationships among extant species and genera as currently circumscribed. General implications for phylogeny reconstruction are discussed.
43496775|Morphological variation was analyzed in wild accessions and cultivars of the vegetatively propagated dioecious Coccinia grandis. Variations of 43 morphological characters, 19 qualitative and 23 quantitative traits, were analyzed among 40 female accessions, including 25 cultivars and 15 wild accessions. Multivariate statistical analyses were used to group accessions according to their morphological similarity. Principal component (PC) analysis revealed that the first three PCs accounted for 50% of the total variance, and differences among the accessions were evidenced principally in relation to fruit characteristics such as fruit weight, fruit length and the number of seeds in each fruit. Analysis of variance carried out in the entire germplasm revealed significant differences within the germplasm, whereas ANOVA carried out between the wild accessions and the cultivars proved the null hypothesis that there are no significant differences between the two groups, and differences were observed only in fruit characters that are targets of human selection. Principal component analysis, UPGMA cluster analysis and discriminant factor analysis revealed strong overlaps between the two groups indicating the ongoing process of evolution and selection in the species.
23654230|Solanum section Petota, the potato and its wild relatives, includes about 200 wild species distributed from the southwestern United States to central Argentina and adjacent Chile, with about 30 species in North and Central America. The North/Central American region and the South American region all include diploids, tetraploids, and hexaploids. Chloroplast DNA restriction enzyme data from a prior study showed that 13 of the North/Central American species formed a clade containing only diploids, but there was low resolution within the clade. This Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) study is conducted to provide additional resolution within the North/Central American diploids and complements the chloroplast results, and prior morphological results. Wagner parsimony and phenetic analyses mostly agreed with the morphological data in supporting currently recognized species except that they suggest that S. brachistotrichium and S. stenophyllidium are conspecific. Our new AFLP data, in combination with the cpDNA and morphological data, also support sister taxon relationships for the following diploid species from North and Central America: 1) S. cardiophyllum subsp. ehrenbergii and S. stenophyllidium, 2) S. tarnii and S. trifidum, 3) S. jamesii and S. pinnatisectum, 4) S. lesteri and S. polyadenium, and 5) S. clarum and S. morel-liforme.
23655741|The wild common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) is widely but discontinuously distributed from northern Mexico to northern Argentina on both sides of the Isthmus of Panama. Little is known on how the species has reached its current disjunct distribution. In this research, chloroplast DNA polymorphisms in seven non-coding regions were used to study the history of migration of wild P. vulgaris between Mesoamerica and South America. A penalized likelihood analysis was applied to previously published Leguminosae ITS data to estimate divergence times between P. vulgaris and its sister taxa from Mesoamerica, and divergence times of populations within P. vulgaris. Fourteen chloroplast haplotypes were identified by PCR-RFLP and their geographical associations were studied by means of a Nested Clade Analysis and Mantel Tests. The results suggest that the haplotypes are not randomly distributed but occupy discrete parts of the geographic range of the species. The current distribution of haplotypes may be explained by isolation by distance and by at least two migration events between Mesoamerica and South America: one from Mesoamerica to South America and another one from northern South America to Mesoamerica. Age estimates place the divergence of P. vulgaris from its sister taxa from Mesoamerica at or before 1.3 Ma, and divergence of populations from Ecuador-northern Peru at or before 0.6 Ma. As these ages are taken as minimum divergence times, the influence of past events, such as the closure of the Isthmus of Panama and the final uplift of the Andes, on the migration history and population structure of this species cannot be disregarded.
43558616|Pistachio is economically important in Iran. Selection of suitable rootstocks, resistant to unfavorable and soil conditions and diseases, is important for increasing yield and the acreage of this crop. It is essential to identify the genetic relationships among Pistacia species for the breeding of pistachio rootstocks. The goal of this study was to determine the genetic relationship among Pistacia species (P. vera L., P. khinjuk Stocks., P. eurycarpa Yalt., P. atlantica subsp. atlantica Zoh., P. atlantica subsp. mutica Fish et C.A. Mey and P. atlantica subsp. cabulica Stocks.) with potential in the breeding of rootstocks using the selective amplification of microsatellite polymorphic loci (SAMPL) technique. Six primer combinations produced a total of 182 bands, with an average of 30.33 bands per primer pair, of which 128 were polymorphic. Three branches were obtained, the first containing P. vera, and the second containing P. khinjuk, P-eurycarpa, P. atlantica and subspecies mutica and cabulica, with numerous leaflets clustered in the third branch. UPGMA analysis separated P. atlantica subspecies from P. eurycarpa.
23674892|The sect. Cortusina (Dc.) Harv. s.l. is divided into the sectt. Cortusina (Dc.) Harv. s. str. and Reniformia (Knuth) Dreyer, comb. nov., P. cortusifolium L'Hrit., P. crassicaule L'Hrit., P. echinatum Curt., P. magenteum J. J. A. Van der Walt, and P. sibthorpifolium Harv. remain in the sect. Cortusina s. str., while the species P. album J. J. A. Van der Walt, P. dichondrifolium Dc., P. odoratissimum (L.) L'Hrit., P. reniforme Curt., and P. sidoides Dc. are removed from the sect. Cortusina s.l. and included in the revised sect. Reniformia. Both sections are well characterized by morphological, anatomical, karyological and palynological features. The chromosomes of Cortusina s. str. are small and based upon x = 11; those of Reniformia are larger and based upon x = 8. The size and surface sculpture of the pollen grains differ markedly between the two sections. Flavones and hydrolysable tannins occur in sect. Reniformia, but are absent in sect. Cortusina s. str. After hydrolysis hydroxybenzoic acids, which are present in large amounts in Reniformia, occur only in traces in Cortusina. The two sections also occupy distinctly different geographical areas. A close relationship between sect. Reniformia and some species of sect. Lingularia (Sweet) Harv. is indicated by the occurrence of artificial hybrids.
23664800|We assess population genetic structure and variability in the endangered Azorean endemic Viburnum treleasei Gand., an evergreen shrub or small tree, occurring in eight out of nine islands of the archipelago. We combine RAPD and ISSR markers in eight populations and four islands covering the three subgroups of islands that compose the archipelago, and one population of V. tinus from the Portuguese mainland. Most of the genetic variability was found within populations, which is in accordance with the bi-parental reproductive strategy favored by the taxon. Gene flow estimations for the combined RAPD and ISSR markers suggest that the main cause for population variability between the studied populations is genetic drift. In accordance with the genetic structure indicators obtained, conservation measures should consider that translocation of individuals between islands must be avoided. In specific cases, the analysed populations may require the implementation of augmentation strategies due to their depleted state. With this study, a genetic background is now available to better define conservation measures for the taxon.
23674808|Current taxonomic interpretations of Solanum microdontum Bitter partition the species into two or three infraspecific taxa, variously recognized as subspecies or varieties. The present study reexamines these taxa using morphological data from four individuals each of 69 accessions from most of the range of the species, planted in a common field plot. Our results show that the character states used to recognize infraspecific taxa in S. microdontum often vary within accessions and have no correlation with geography. We conclude that past hypotheses have used typological concepts and that infraspecific taxa are not warranted. This study questions other hypotheses of infraspecific taxa in sect. Petota.
23674483|The tandemly repeated multigene families encoding 18 S and 25 S rRNAs were studied at the restriction enzyme level in Populus alba L., Populus deltoides Bartr. ex Marsh., Populus trichocarpa Torr. & Gray and in the hybrids between the last two mentioned species. The analysis of single and double digestion with EcoRI, BamHI, XbaI, and SstI endonucleases showed the presence of single repetitive unit types of 12.25 and 11.75 kb in P. alba and P. trichocarpa, respectively. P. deltoides showed two rDNA gene types having the same length (12.25 Kb) but different nucleotide sequence in the IGS. The rDNAs genes of P. deltoides and P. triochocarpa are inherited codominantly in their hybrids.
23674530|Populations of Rumex acetosa and R. acetosella were studied during two growth seasons. The ramet sex ratios of R. acetosa were always female-biased. In R. acetosella the sex ratios expressed more variation but were mostly female-biased. In both species the sex ratios commonly varied between subpopulations reflecting a partial spatial segregation of the sexes. No marked differences between sexes in vegetative vigour were detected in either species. Interactions between sex ratios, various soil characteristics and population densities were determined. Possible mechanisms for causing biased sex ratios and partial spatial segregation of the sexes are discussed.
23644074|Bidens cordylocarpa is a high polyploid species restricted in distribution to stream sides in the mountains of Jalisco, Mexico. The morphologically enigmatic species was originally described as a member of the genus Coreopsis, but later transferred to Bidens, largely because the involucral bracts appear most similar to Bidens. Characters of the cypselae, often useful in generic placement, are of no value for this species because the fruits have features not detected in either Bidens or Coreopsis. Sequences from the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) were used to assess the relationships of Bidens cordylocarpa. The molecular phylogeny places B. cordylocarpa in a strongly supported clade of Mexican and South American Bidens, and provides more definitive evidence of relationships than morphology, chromosome number, or secondary chemistry. Molecular, morphological, and chromosomal data suggest that B. cordylocarpa is an ancient polyploid, perhaps the remnant of a polyploid complex.
23674650|A new stomatal type  paracytic mesoperigenous  which has not been separated from the paracytic mesogenous type in previous studies of the Chenopodiaceae, is described. The frequent occurrence of this previously unknown paracytic mesoperigenous type in this family is demonstrated. As a result a new phylogenetic pathway between anisocytic mesoperigenous and paracytic mesogenous types may be drawn.
23642686|The ultrastructure of the canal cells and the canal filling substance of Citrus limon have been studied. At maturity the canal cells are very rich in cytoplasm. Their inner tangential walls lining the canal are much thickened and formed by two layers : the outer corresponds to the original wall, the inner is formed by subsequent deposition of abundant materials of different origin. This thickening occurs at the same time as the filling of the stylar canal. Both events are paralleled by considerable dictyosomic activity, the formation of a large amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum, and the incorporation of small cytoplasmic masses into the cell wall, due to plasmalemma evaginations.  The material in the stylar canal has a heterogeneous ultrastructure aspect and consists of polysaccharides, proteins and lipids; it presumably provides nutrients for the growing pollen tubes.
23674400|The formation of sperm cells has been examined ultrastructurally in the tricellular pollen grains of Galium mollugo L. (Rubiaceae). Trichodiadema setuliferum Schwantes (Aizoaceae), and Avena sativa L. (Poaceae). After detachement from the intine the generative cell of all three species lies free within the vegetative cytoplasm. The two sperm cells are built in Trichodiadema and Avena by a single separating wall, while in Galium mollugo two independent walls are formed. However, both mechanisms separate the two male gametes completely.
23643764|The anatomy and morphology of the seed of Sobralia dichotoma was studied by means of light-(LM), scanning-(SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The seedcoat of S. dichotoma consists of three different cell types. Two of them form a coiled wick ending in a closed hilum. Imbibition leads to uncoiling and stretching of this pipe, thus shaping a central capillary. The reversible movement of the helical tracheoidal cells is interpreted as a mechanism of water uptake (uncoiling) and -storage (coiling). Moreover, a multilayered envelope surrounds the embryo. Its inward layer shows all features of a thick cuticle while the following layers are collapsed cells with walls rich in pectin. This semipermeable envelope may function in water storage by adjoining a water sheet to the embryo and thereby protecting the mature embryo against desiccation. It is suggested that this unique seed type is a derived condition and has evolved in adaptation to the specialised habitat in tropical montane cloud forests.
23669747|New data on the development of polarity in the ovules during megasporogenesis and early stages of embryo sac development in Oenothera-hybrids are presented. It is confirmed that all Oe. hookeri-hybrids show a strong tendency to form heteropolar tetrads, with the micropylar megaspore developing into an embryo sac. This preference is seen in the delay of the second meiotic division on the chalazal side, the absence of callose in the lateral wall of the micropylar megaspore, and the accumulation of starch in this megaspore. However, homopolar tetrads, chalazal preference, and ovules with two developing embryo sacs are also observed with considerable frequency. Quantitative data on the frequency of the different developmental types are compared with earlier genetic results about competition in the haplophase. There is sufficiently good agreement to support the hypothesis of Renner that there is a correlation between the developmental processes in the megaspore tetrad and the genetic phenomena of competition in the haplophase.
23655912|In Oleaceae the most outstanding biological issue is to clarify the taxonomic relationships of cultivated and wild olives. To establish the genetic relationships between the wild (Olea europaea subsp. europaea var. sylvestris (Mill.) Lehr.), the cultivated olive (Olea europaea subsp. europaea var. europaea), and other taxa of the genus Olea (Olea europaea subsp. cuspidata (Wall. ex G. Don) Cif., Olea europaea subsp. cerasiformis G. Kunkel & Sunding, Olea paniculata R. Br.) and other Oleaceae (represented by Ligustrum vulgaris) we carried out the amplification by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and the sequencing of the third nuclear intron of the nitrate reductase gene (nia-i3). Sequence analyses showed the presence of two different functional variants of the intron (nia1 and nia2) in the Oleaceae, in addition to a shorter non-functional one. Notably, while the shortest and the nia1 variants were present in all the taxa analysed, the nia2 variant was present only in the wild and the cultivated olive. These data confirm the close phylogenetic relationship between wild and cultivated olives and suggest that this gene could be duplicated in these two taxa after its divergence from the remaining Oleaceae. The presence of a target for AflII enzyme in nia2 and its absence in nia1 variant enables easy distinction by PCR-RFLP between, on the one hand, wild and cultivated olive, and on the other the remaining subspecies of the Olea europaea L. complex (O. e. subsp. cuspidata and O. e. subsp. cerasiformis) as well as other Oleaceae (O. paniculata, L. vulgaris L.). Additionally, nia1 sequences provide useful information about phylogeny of the wild and cultivated olives inside the genus Olea.
23642752|The subtype PIII plastids found in 16 additional species of Caryophyllales investigated here corroborate the homogeneity of this order with respect to the sieve-element plastids. While two new examples (Glinus, Allmania) which exhibit the rare presence of starch grains in the PIII-plastids are found, the restriction of the three forms of PIII-plastids to distinct taxa is maintained: PIIIf in Chenopodiineae; PIIIcf in Caryophyllaceae (3 species added), Stegnospermataceae and Achatocarpaceae; PIIIcf in all other families (among the 11 species investigated 5 from Molluginaceae).
23673867|Hypotheses on the evolution of the karyotypes of 8 chromosome races (2n = 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16-two forms, 26) within the Ornithogalum tenuifolium complex are discussed. Four of the karyotypes are strictly bimodal: 2n = 8 (6 long and two short chromosomes), 2n = 10 (6 long and 4 short chromosomes), 2n = 12 (6 long and 6 short chromosomes) and 2n = 16 (12 long and 4 short chromosomes). The hypotheses are tested by means of measurements of nuclear DNA content, studies of meiosis and pollen fertility of hybrids, and comparisons of karyotype morphology. The results indicate that the E. African 2n = 12 chromosome race is the most primitive and has given rise to the other chromosome races. The 2n = 6 race is found to have a significantly higher fitness than the 2n = 12 race.
23673911|Sex allocation theory predicts that: (1) resources allocated to androecium should decrease with an increase in selfing, (2) a decrease in androecium biomass should be accompanied by an increase in the biomass of pistils, and (3) a decrease in androecium biomass should be coupled with a decrease in flower size, specifically corolla biomass. Another predicted change in reproductive traits associated with variation in selfing concerns seed to ovule ratios, but does not directly stem from sex allocation theory. It has been postulated that seed to ovule ratios should be positively correlated with the amount of selfing. These predictions were tested for six accessions of pigeonpea, Cajanus cajan L., that differed in selfing rates. The results were remarkably in accordance with the predictions. We conclude that sex allocation theory provides a powerful tool to understand the evolution of many reproductive traits in plants.
23655659|Hordeum chilense Roem. et Schult. is a South American wild barley that occurs exclusively in Chile and Argentina, where it is a component of natural pastures. This species has been crossed with durum and bread wheats to obtain a new amphiploid, named tritordeum, which presents agronomic traits of a new crop. The knowledge of the reproductive system is very important for the management of any species with breeding purposes. In this work with this finality, two hundred seventy seeds of 32 original spikes from a natural population were analysed for the variation of gliadin by A-PAGE. The data suggested that 98% of the genetic diversity appeared between spikes whereas only the 2.0% was within spikes. Only four out of 32 analysed spikes showed certain level of heterozygosity for the -gliadins. The Wright's fixation index for this population was established in F = 0.993 and the cross-fertilisation rate was equal to 0.4%, which suggested that H. chilense is an autogamous species.
23642299|The ultrastructure of biflagellate zoospores in seven species of the green alga Chlorosarcinopsis (Chlorosarcinales) was studied, particularly the cruciate flagellar root system, and a comparative approach was attempted. The seven species constitute four groups on the basis of pyrenoid ultrastructure, presence or absence of a cell envelope covering zoospores, and details of the flagellar root system. Variable structures include root tubule number (4242 or 5252), association of electron dense material with root tubules and root tubule configurations. Otherwise the root system is similar in all species. Zoospores which lack a cell envelope (three species) show characteristic reorientation of basal bodies with flagellar beat. This results in different images of some basal body associated structures (e.g. distal striated fiber). A fixed basal body orientation was noted in those species where zoospores are covered by a cell envelope. Structural contact of root tubules from root type II (4- or 5-stranded root) with the outer chloroplast membrane in the region of the eyespot was demonstrated for all species. On the basis of some new observations a general description of the cruciate flagellar root system in biflagellate green algae is given and a new nomenclature is offered. Taxonomic implications and functional aspects of cruciate flagellar root systems in biflagellate green algae are discussed.
23655921|Phylogenetic relationship between O. malampuzhaensis Krish. et Chand. (2n = 4x = 48; Poaceae, Oryzeae), a South Indian endemic wild rice with a disputed taxonomic identity, and eight other species belonging to the O. officinalis complex of the genus Oryza was examined using 62 morphological characters and 445 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Multivariate and cluster analyses using both the data sets clearly separated all accessions of O. malampuzhaensis into a distinct group. Genetic distances between O. malampuzhaensis and other species in O. officinalis complex were comparable with the distance between any other two taxa with species rank in this complex. Case-by-case taxonomic treatment of O. malampuzhaensis in relation to other species examined is presented. A taxonomic key for the discrimination of O. malampuzhaensis from other species in the O. officinalis complex has been constructed. Based on the present results, we strongly argue to restore the species rank to O. malampuzhaensis, as originally proposed by Krishnaswamy and Chandrasekharan (1958).
23645209|A low-copy, non-coding chromosome-specific DNA sequence, isolated from common wheat, was physically mapped to the distal 19% region of the long arm of chromosome 3B (3BL) of common wheat. This sequence, designated WPG118, was then characterized by Southern hybridization, PCR amplification and sequence comparison using a large collection of polyploid wheats and diploid Triticum and Aegilops species. The data show that the sequence exists in all polyploid wheats containing the B genome and absent from those containing the G genome. At the diploid level, it exists only in Ae. searsii, a diploid species of section Sitopsis, and not in other diploids including Ae. speltoides, the closest extant relative to the donor of the B genome of polyploid wheat. This finding may support the hypothesis that the B-genome of polyploid wheat is of a polyphyletic origin, i.e. it is a recombined genome derived from two or more diploid Aegilops species.
23674233|Pelargonium sect. Ciconium and sect. Dibrachya have a basic chromosome number of x = 9, whereas sect. Jenkinsonia has x = 9, 11, and 17.
23673219|Protein phosphatases play essential roles in many cellular processes through the reversible protein phosphorylation that dictates many signal transduction pathways among organisms. Based on an in silico analysis, we classified 163 and 164 non-redundant protein phosphatases in rice and Arabidopsis, respectively. Protein serine/threonine phosphatases make up 67% of the total in both plants, in contrast to those of human, where this fraction is about 27%. Based on domain organization and intron composition analyses, we found that protein phosphatases in the two plants are highly conserved in structure. Evolutionary analysis suggests that segmental duplications occurring 4070 million years ago, contributed to the limited expansion of protein phosphatases. Gene expression analysis suggests that most phosphatases have broad expression spectra, with high abundance in four surveyed tissues (root, leaf, inflorescence, and seedling); only 46 and 12 phosphatases expressed in a single tissue of rice and Arabidopsis, respectively, regardless of their expression levels. Promoter analysis among different phosphatase subfamilies demonstrates a variable distribution of the w-box (a cis-element involved in disease resistance) between rice and Arabidopsis.
23664386|Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb. subsp. arundinacea) is one of the most economically important forage grasses in cold and temperate regions of the world. In this study, we have assessed the genetic diversity and structure of wild Iranian tall fescue populations. Thirty-seven individuals from nine natural populations from northern, western, and southern Iranian mountain ranges were analyzed using six genomic-SSRs and five EST-SSRs primer pairs. Our analysis has demonstrated that transcribed EST-SSR regions showed levels of polymorphism similar to genomic-SSR regions. UP-GMA, repeated bisection, and model-based Bayesian STRUCTURE clustering methods coupled with neighbornet network were used to establish six divergent groups of individuals. FST estimates among clusters showed moderate to low genetic structure. Within-group genetic diversity estimate H and partial correlations between genetic and geographic distances among populations suggested that western Zagros population was related to the rest of the Iranian individuals. The isolation-by-distance hypothesis was not supported by SSR data and the present geographical sampling.
23664353|To better understand relationships within the Asteroideae, the pollen morphology and exine structure of 10 genera and 15 species of Gnaphaliinae were investigated using light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. All taxa have a Gnaphalioid pattern of exine with an evidently rough foot layer. The tectal complex consists of three main layers that differ in morphology and thickness: a tectum, a median columellar layer, and an internal interlaced sub-columellar layer. The apertural system consists of an ectoaperture, a mesoaperture, and an endoaperture, which intersect, respectively, the tectal complex, the foot layer and the upper part of the endexine, and the inner part of the endexine. On the basis of pollen characteristics, especially those of the spines, all the species examined may be gathered into two groups, one including Helichrysum foetidum, H. italicum, Plecostachys serpyllifolia, and Pseudognaphalium luteo-album and the other including the other 11 species of Gnaphaliinae now investigated. In addition, because Gnaphalieae has been proposed as sister group to several tribes and clades of Asteroideae, a comparison was made between exine pattern in the Gnaphalieae and that in its putatively related tribes. On the basis of previous phylogenetic studies and our present pollen data we suggest that either Astereae, Astereae-Anthemideae clade, or Heliantheae s.l.-Anthemideae clade are the best candidates for the sister taxon/sister group of Gnaphalieae.
23642785|The DNA of the crucifer Matthiola incana (Brassicaceae, Capparales) has been investigated for the pattern of sequence interspersion and RNA transcription. A short period pattern of interspersion (Xenopus-like interspersion pattern) is predominant (60%). Similar to a series of other Angiosperms (tobacco, soybean, parsley and some cereals) repetitive clusters or inter-se interspersion patterns of repetitive DNA occur in Matthiola genome and amount to 12%. From the hybridization of single copy DNA with poly(A)-RNA and from cDNA/poly(A)+-RNA and cDNA/poly(A)-RNA hybridizations a number of about 9,400 active genes can be estimated for M. incana seedlings. Both RNA constituents (poly(A)+-RNA and poly(A)-RNA) contain mainly the same protein-coding mRNA sequences. Total mRNA is amounting to about 4% of the M. incana RNA population. A total of 1.2% (or about 30% of mRNA) of the M. incana RNA is represented by polyadenylated mRNA sequences. About 3.6% of single copy DNA hybridizes with poly(A)-RNA. Approximately 7% of the M. incana genome, organized in a short period pattern of DNA sequence interspersion, is transcribed into RNA sequences (mRNA). About 6% of clustered repetitive DNA is expressed into RNA sequences such as rRNA and tRNA. Approximately 1.6  106 rRNA, 1.75  107 tRNA and 3.7  105 mRNA molecules are present per Matthiola seedling cell. The transcription rate of single rRNA and tRNA genes can be estimated to be about 1,400 or 1,100 copies per gene, respectively.
23671776|Breeding experiments were carried out in Calendula species. In the annuals, which are selfers, rarely some outcrossing was observed only in the most peripheral flowers. In experimental crosses fruit was produced in all combinations. Fertile F1 and F2 hybrids could be grown from crosses between parents with similar chromosome numbers: C. palaestina  C. pachysperma and crosses of different morphological forms of C. arvensis. In crosses of species with different chromosome numbers at least partly fertile F1 hybrids were obtained from C. tripterocarpa  C. stellata and C. tripterocarpa  C. arvensis and crosses of the latter with C. palaestina. Fertile F2 plants were grown from the combination of C. arvensis  C. tripterocarpa. Considering this information and previously obtained data, a scheme is proposed for explaining speciation in the genus Calendula.
23644975|The structure of floral nectaries of Crataegus coccinea and C. crus-galli was examined using light and scanning electron microscopy. The radial length of the floral nectary, measured from longitudinal sections of flowers, was 30% larger in C. crus-galli than in C. coccinea. For both Crataegus species the glandular tissue thickness was similar  approx. 400 m. Also, the number of stomata per mm2 of nectary surface in C. crus-galli was much higher (by 43%) than for C. coccinea. Stomata were situated in deep hollows. For both taxa the period of nectar secretion was 4 days. The mean quantity of total sugar in nectar per 10 flowers of C. crus-galli and C. coccinea was 3.87 mg and 0.33 mg, respectively.
23673916|The somatic and gametic chromosomes of the monotypical genus Grahamia (G. bracteata) have been studied for the first time: 2n = 18, n = 9. The karyotype is symmetrical; of the nine m pairs one has microsatellites. The basic chromosome number x = 9 is considered to be primitive within the family.
23673840|Some new morphological features of the endemic Pinguicula lignicola of Cuba are discussed, a detailed description of the heteromorphic habit and illustrations of this epiphytic species are presented. The identity of the other member of sect. Discoradix, P. casabitoana from Espaola, is considered.
23643939|Hummingbird pollination is documented for a natural population of Stenorrhynchos lanceolatus Aublet. L. C. Rich. occurring in Rio de Janeiro State, southeastern Brazil. At the study site the plants are pollinated by Phaethornis eurynome (Phaethorninae), Thalurania glaucopis (females only) and Leucochloris albicollis (Trochilinae). The plants offer nectar as a reward and the pollinaria become stuck to the surface of the hummingbird's bill while it is probing the flowers. The orchid population received a few (04) hummingbird visits per day, with about 83% of the flowers being pollinated. In spite of the low frequency of visits, the granular structure of the pollinarium plus the behaviour of the most frequent pollinators, which tend to visit all the fresh-looking flowers of each inflorescence, a very high fruiting success was promoted. Experimental evidence suggests that the pollinaria may remain up to 6.30 hours on the hummingbird's bill, enhancing the chances of cross-pollination and long-distance pollen flow.
23644288|Bauhinia pottsii G. Don, B. subsessilis Craib, B. velutina (Wall. ex Benth.) Baker, B. mollissima (Wall.) Prain, and B. decipiens Craib were recently recognized as five varieties of Bauhinia pottsii G. Don. They grow naturally in southern Myanmar, Thailand, Indochina and the Malay Peninsula. Bauhinia pottsii var. decipiens (Craib) K. Larsen & S. S. Larsen is endemic to Thailand and known only from the type collection, so it was omitted from this study. Quantitative and qualitative morphological characters were examined in 200 specimens using multivariate and univariate analyses to determine the taxonomic relationship among the four. Some variation in qualitative characters was found between the varieties which separated them as previously defined in Flora of Thailand. Forty-three quantitative characters were subjected to cluster analysis to allow an objective classification into groups. The groups were subsequently evaluated by a canonical discriminant analysis. It was found that these characters collectively support the four varieties as defined by qualitative characters. However, the close relationship of varieties mollissima (Wall. ex Prain) K. Larsen & S. S. Larsen and velutina (Wall. ex Benth.) K. Larsen & S. S. Larsen is observed. The linear discriminant function has an overall rate of 98.5% correct classification and is useful for variety classification. Among quantitative characters, petal-claw length and ovarystalk length together with some qualitative characters are useful for key construction to separate the four varieties.
23672632|The taxonomic affinities, circumsciription and racial differentiation of E. alpina and its infraspecific synonymy are considered. Its diploid nature is confirmed. The yellow-flowering E. christii also diploid (2 n = 22, first account). A detailed comparison with E. alpina (Figs. 12) suggests the rank of subspecies only, and gives no hints as to its suggested hybrid origin. The distribution of the two taxa is documented in maps (Figs. 35).
23657061|The Solanum brevicaule complex contains about 20 species of diploids (2n = 2x = 24), tetraploids (2n = 4x = 48) and hexaploids (2n = 6x = 72), distributed from central Peru south to northwestern Argentina. The complex is defined entirely by morphological similarity of its constituent members, which are very similar to each other and to some landraces of the cultivated potato, Solanum tuberosum. Conflicting taxonomic treatments are common among authors. Species boundaries within the complex have been studied with morphological phenetics from germplasm accessions planted in a field plot in the north central US, and with molecular marker data from RAPDs, low-copy nuclear RFLPs, and AFLPs. The present study compares these results with an additional replicated morphological study of the same germplasm accessions in a greenhouse environment in the high Andes of central Peru. The results support extensive reduction of species in the complex.
23674761|A cladistic study of Dipsacaceae (Asteridae, Dipsacales) was undertaken, based mainly on morphological and palynological characters, obtained by investigations of herbarium material and from the literature. Outgroups included Morinaceae, Triplostegiaceae, and a subset of Valerianaceae. The consensus tree resulting from three equally parsimonious cladograms shows that Dipsacaceae are divided into two major clades, one with Dipsacus and Cephalaria, the other including the remaining genera. Within the latter clade, Knautia is the sister group of the rest of the taxa. This study is a reappraisal of Dipsacaceae phylogeny, and the results broadly match previous evidence.
23642811|Roots of Hectorella caespitosa Hook. f. were induced to produce a red pigment which was shown to be a betalain and not an anthocyanin. These data indicate that Hectorella belongs to the Chenopodiineae, the betalain suborder of the Centrospermae, and excludes alignment with the anthocyanin family the Caryophyllaceae.
23672624|LM, SEM and TEM observations document similar palynological features for paleo- and neotropical species of Anaxagorea. Pollen grains are solitary, heteropolar, ellipsoidal to globose, and broadly sulcate. The exine consists of a smooth and microperforated tectum, a granular to "protocolumellar" infratectal layer, and sometimes an initial, not foliated basal layer. The intine is stratified and tends to extrude with its considerably swelling alveolarfibrillar outer layer through the aperture, already inside the unopened pollen sacs. This appears as a new and irreversible harmomegathic mechanism, limited to Anaxagorea, Meiocarpidium and possibly other Annonaceae. These palynological data are discussed and coordinated with those from gross-morphological, anatomical, karyological, phytochemical and other studies. All this offers convincing proof for the sometimes questioned systematic and phylogenetic coherence of the widely disjunct S. & C. American and SE. Asian members of Anaxagorea. Furthermore, a broad comparison with other Annonaceae genera demonstrates somewhat closer links of Anaxagorea with several small and relictual African genera, i.e. Meiocarpidium and Polyceratocarpus, but also Lettowianthus and Piptostigma; Cleistopholis and Ambavia are more isolated. These genera which exhibit many "primitive" features are provisionally arranged under "tribe I" of the so-called "Fusaea subfamily". There are loose affinities with "tribe II", an assembly of more advanced and widespread, often proliferating generic groups, including the S. Asian Cananga, the pantropical Xylopia (with Pseudannona from Mauritius), a possible link to Anaxagorea and "tribe I", and the S. Asian Goniothalamus (with the Australasian Richella s. str. and the W. African Neostenanthera and Boutiquea); the neotropical Fusaea and Duckeanthus apparently are more remote. Because of relationships to several other Annonaceae groups and difficulties with its circumscription and definition, the maintainance of the "Fusaea subfamily" as a whole appears questionable.
23643938|Heterostyly rarely occurs in families with strongly zygomorphic flowers. For this reason Darwin (1877) doubted whether heterostyly would occur in the Lamiaceae and recent reviews have not reported the floral polymorphism in this family. Here we describe distyly in a rare species of Salvia restricted to bluffs and seaward canyons on Santa Rosa Island (Santa Barbara Co., California) and northwestern Baja California (Mexico). Salvia brandegeei is morphologically distylous with populations composed of equal frequencies of long- and short-styled morphs differing reciprocally in stigma and anther position. Controlled hand pollinations demonstrated no significant differences in the seed set of self, intramorph or intermorph pollinations. Unlike most heterostylous species investigated, S. brandegeei does not possess diallelic incompatibility or ancillary polymorphisms of pollen and stigmas. We propose that the evolution of distyly in S. brandegeei may have been associated with an ecological shift to a new environment in which protandry failed to prevent increased levels of geitonogamy. Heterostyly was then selected because it increased the proficiency of cross-pollination. The origin of distyly in selfcompatible S. brandegeei is consistent with Lloyd and Webb's theoretical model for the evolution of distyly.
23662400|Several species of the genus Rhipsalis (Cactaceae) are extremely important as ornamentals and are endangered in their natural habitat. However, only a few studies have addressed its taxonomy, morphology (including anatomy), phylogeny and evolutionary history. Consequently, the limited knowledge of the genus coupled with the problematic delimitation of species had led to problems in the identification of taxa. In the current work six species of Rhipsalis, R. cereoides, R. elliptica, R. grandiflora, R. paradoxa, R. pentaptera and R. teres were studied to evaluate the relevance of anatomical characters for the taxonomy of the genus. An anatomical characterization of the primary structure of the stem of Rhipsalis is provided highlighting the differences between species. Features of the stem epidermis are found to discriminate best between species and therefore provide clear and useful characters for the separation of species.
23675272|The dimension and variation range of terminal and intercalary cells, heterocysts, and akinetes of four Aphanizomenon taxa occurring in Czechoslovakia were studied. Statistical and graphical procedures were used for evaluation. With regard to A. flos-aquae, the results support the distinction of two varieties (var. flos-aquae and var. klebahnii). In the samples determined as A. gracile two clearly distinguishable morphological types could be found; one of them is recognized as a new species: A. flexuosum. Its diacritical features are established and problems of the intrageneric taxonomy of Aphanizomenon and its demarcation from the genus Anabaena are discussed.
23655665|To reexamine the relationships among the Japanese Trillium species that form a polyploid series, we performed principal-coordinates analysis (PCOA) based on proposed karyotypic compositions and on amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis. A hexaploid species, T. smallii, whose karyotypic composition had been hypothesized as K2K2SSUU, with hybridization between tetraploid T. apetalon (SSUU) and a presumed K2K2 diploid species, showed a genotype corresponding to T. yezoense (K1SU). Accordingly, T. smallii appears to be an allopolyploid of T. yezoense, with the karyotypic composition K1K1SSUU. Trillium channellii, a recently described tetraploid species whose origin and genealogical position remains unclear, showed a genotype corresponding to K1K1K2T. We conclude that T. channellii may be derived from hybridization of T. camschatcense (K1K1) as the seed parent and T. tschonoskii (K2K2TT) or hexaploid T. hagae (K1K1K2K2TT) as the pollen parent.
23642937|The partitioning of genetic variability within and between twelve British populations of the anemophilous aquatic Potamogeton coloratus Hornem. was investigated by isozyme analysis. Low levels of variability as measured by P, A and H were found. Calculation of Wright's F statistics revealed a high mean value of the overall inbreeding coefficient, (FIT = 0.939), which was attributed both to high levels of genetic subdivision among populations (mean FST = 0.702) and to a high frequency of inbreeding or clonal growth within them (mean FIS = 0.796). Only two populations are polymorphic; both inhabit sites with a long post-glacial history as wetlands. Populations of recent origin, as well as some of older vintage, contain only a single multi-locus isozyme genotype, homozygous at all loci except for IDH. A genetic bottleneck following the Devensian glaciation is discussed as a possible cause of the pattern of variation. Evidence for a duplicated IDH locus is presented.
23671559|The mature seeds of Hampea nutricia are glabrous, ovoid, arillate and dark tan in colour. Longitudinal streaks on the seed surface correspond to the underlying integumentary vascular strands. Testa and tegmen are derived from the outer and inner integuments, respectively. The outer epidermis of the tegmen forms a palisade-like macrosclereid layer, the inner epidermis a fringe layer. The endosperm is single-layered and also fills the space between the two cotyledons. The embryo is nearly straight, gland-dotted; it has asymmetrical and folded cotyledons, and gossypol ducts. Systematic position of Hampea is discussed and its placement in Malvaceae is supported.
23656040|The psbA-trnH intergenic region is among the most variable regions in the angiosperm chloroplast genome. It is a popular tool for plant population genetics and species level phylogenetics and has been proposed as suitable for DNA barcoding studies. This region contains two parts differing in their evolutionary conservation: 1) the psbA 3UTR (untranslated region) and 2) the psbA-trnH intergenic non-transcribed spacer. We compared the sequence and RNA secondary structure of the psbA 3 UTR across angiosperms and found consensus motifs corresponding to the stem portions of the RNA stem-loop structures and a consensus TTAGTGTATA box. The psbA-trnH spacer exhibited patterns that can be explained by the independent evolution of large inversions in the psbA 3UTR and mutational hot spots in the remaining portion of the psbA-trnH spacer. We conclude that a comparison of chloroplast UTRs across angiosperms offer clues to the identity of putative regulatory elements and information about selective constraints imposed on the chloroplast non-coding regions.
43498301|The phylogeny of the genus Nassauvia and closely related genera was reconstructed using sequences from the internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA. The genus Triptilion is nested within Nassauvia, making the latter genus paraphyletic. Neither of the two subgenera Nassauvia and Strongyloma is resolved as monophyletic, and none of the sections of subgenus Nassauvia is recovered as monophyletic. The evolution of the compound secondary inflorescences has been complex in Nassauvia, with the highly aggregated forms representing the original condition in the genus. However, the ancestral condition is equivocal in several clades, and there are alternative reconstructions for the gains-losses of the variously aggregated conditions. There has been at least one gain of solitary capitula in Nassauvia. The evolution of flavonoid chemistry has been complex in Nassauvia, and flavonoids are of limited phylogenetictaxonomic utility in the genus. Gains-losses of flavonols occur only on terminals whereas changes in flavones and C-glycosyl flavones occur at various levels in the tree. Gains-losses of methylation of flavones and flavonols occur only on terminals.
23671733|Quantitatively evaluated C-banding karyograms are presented for Allium carinatum, A. carinatum ssp. pulchellum, and A. flavum of the section Codonoprasum Reichenb. Accurate measurements revealed that constitutive heterochromatin (C-bands) is probably additional chromosomal material. The distribution of the C-heterochromatin follows the principle of the equilocal heterochromatin-distribution by Heitz (1933). Furthermore, the pattern shows a relationship to the relative arm-length of the chromosomes in the karyotype. Fluorochrome banding revealed various heterochromatintypes. The C-band patterns of Allium cupani (sect. Scorodon Koch) and A. vineale (sect. Allium), which are also rich in heterochromatin, are described.
23673727|Ten species of the genus Cassia show a range of 2C DNA amounts from 1.30 to 2.54 pg at the same ploidy level. Remarkably, a distinct 2-fold increase is depicted by an arboreal species C. excelsa while the rest comprising of herbs, trees and shrubs have a range from 1.30 to 1.47 pg. These form a natural grouping with respect to mean DNA amounts which differ by 0.05 pg in the herbs, trees and shrubs respectively.
23643396|Electrophoretic analysis of five enzyme systems, LAP, PGI, SKDH, SOD and 6-PGDH, among 102 Vicia accessions representing V. bithynica and seven species of the V. narbonensis complex, namely V. eristalioides, V. kalakhensis, V. johannis, V. galilaea, V. serratifolia, V. narbonensis and V. hyaeniscyamus, has been performed. The recorded variation was tentatively assigned to 41 allelic genes at eight loci; intraspecific variation was observed in all species except for V. eristalioides. The results obtained were compared with the corresponding data reported earlier for V. faba. Hierarchical grouping of the investigated taxa, including V. faba, was based on Nei's genetic identities calculated from the allozyme frequency data. Vicia faba and V. bithynica were shown to be most distantly related to one another and to the remaining species investigated. Vicia serratifolia appeared to be a peripheral member of the V. narbonensis complex. The results are discussed with reference to genetic diversity and taxonomic relationships of the species under study.
23656642|We used paternally inherited chloroplast microsatellites (cpSSR) to study population genetic structure in the endemic and highly restricted Serbian spruce Picea omorika. Fragment size polymorphism at the five cpSSR regions that could be amplified out of the nine tested combined into only four different haplotypes in the seven populations studied. Mean total haplotypic diversity was HT = 0.395, and mean within-population diversity was Hs = 0.279. Haplotypic variation was lower than in most conifers described so far and partitioned into two geographical groups. All northern P. omorika populations were fixed or nearly fixed for the common haplotype, while southern populations exhibited two to three haplotypes. We suggest that current P. omorika populations are shaped by extreme demographic bottleneck and random genetic drift linked to Quaternary glacial cycles. P. omorika thus belongs to the small group of genetically depauperate tree species.
23642916|The genetic variation between two allopatric populations of Bulnesia retama and that of B. schickendantzii and B. foliosa was investigated. The Peruvian population of B. retama showed low values of P (0.117) and He (0.057) compared to those in the Argentine population with P = 0.59 and He = 0.269; B. schickendantzii showed P = 0.54 and B. foliosa P = 0.17. Genetic identity between the latter was 0.836 and between the allopatric populations of B. retama was 0.89; the Peruvian population had reduced allelic variation per locus (A = 1.176) in comparison to the Argentine population (A = 1.955). The values of A, P, He and Wright's fixation indices suggest that the Peruvian population could have originated from a single or very few migrants from southern latitudes (founder effect).
23642493|A new species and a new subspecies of Asperula are described and discussed in regard to their affinities.
23642613|In fully developed parts of thalli of Lempholemma botryosum a relatively high number of algal cells is attacked by haustoria. They differ specifically in form and effect from haustoria of other Lempholemma species. Cells of the Nostoc phycobiont attacked by hyphae developing into haustoria may divide to give inequal besides equal daughter cells.
23664158|Cassava, Manihot esculenta Crantz (Euphorbiaceae), is a major tropical crop. It is a diploid and sexually fertile, but confined to vegetative propagation in agriculture. While polyploidization is a major evolutionary process in higher plants and is of importance in the creation of improved crop varieties, spontaneous polyploidization is poorly documented for M. esculenta. Molecular and cytological evidence is provided here for two cases of intraspecific triploidization events that occurred in smallholders' fields in Vanuatu, South Pacific. We then discuss the implications of triploidy for the crop and highlight the importance of this discovery for the evolution of this species in traditional cropping systems.
23673931|The biosystematic relationships of the apomictic complex Eragrostis curvula s. lato, is investigated by disc electrophoresis of seed extracts to obtain esterase patterns of 23 accessions representing the morphological variants of this complex: curvula, conferta, robusta, chloromelas and lehmanniana. The zymograms thus obtained were classified into four groups on the basis of the presence of certain bands taken as characteristic and constant markers. Within each group variations were found in strict accordance with the morphological and cytogenetic data available on the complex. Cluster analysis showed similarity levels between the strains studied, representing different genomic groups. The esterase pattern proved useful as an additional criterion for identifying the individual taxa making up the complex and for evaluating their reciprocal relationships.
23674267|Interrelationships of the ribbed araphid diatoms have been reinvestigated using a cladistic analysis of a revised morphological dataset. The presence of silicified transapical ribs has previously been used to distinguish between different groups and its ability to serve as a distinguishing feature is reevaluated. The importance of valve symmetry, not fully appreciated in a previous paper, is examined. The evolution of heteropolarity, and its importance in taxonomy appear more complex than is implied by a simple dichotomy dividing groups of species into heteropolar and isopolar forms, involving an inferred evolutionary transformation from one condition to the other. This analysis proposes a close relationship between Diatoma, Fragilariforma, Asterionella, Distrionella, Meridion, Tabellaria, and Tetracyclus. It also confirms the sub-division of Diatoma into two closely related taxa. The genus Meridion, however, should not include both heteropolar and isopolar species in a single genus. Although the species are closely related, the isopolar species are more closely related to Tabellaria and Tetracyclus than they are to the heteropolar species of Meridion.
23645282|Genetic variation within two closely related Diplotaxis species was studied as indicated by isozymes and RAPDs. These species differ in their mating systems, their life forms, and in their evolutionary history, but both are successful colonisers. The diploid perennial D. tenuifolia is an outbreeder, the allotetraploid annual to biennial D. muralis is predominantly selfing. D. muralis was nearly devoid of genetic variation due to a young phylogenetic age and/or population history. Estimations of genetic variation within D. tenuifolia and F-statistics indicated random mating at the species and population level and confirms obligate outbreeding. However, influence of genetic drift relative to gene flow was high and mirrors colonisation processes as indicated by considerable heterogeneity across populations and the lack of correlation between population divergence and geographic distance.
23669419|Floral size dimorphism, pollination, and genetic variation of Alpinia nieuwenhuizii (Zingiberaceae), a flexitylous ginger, were studied. This study revealed that floral size differed among habitats (i.e., roadsides/riversides vs. forest floors). The effective pollinators of small-flowered populations of the species on a forest floor were different from those of large-flowered populations along roadsides/riversides. Using inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) PCR, considerable genetic differentiation was detected between small- and large-flowered populations. These results indicate that reproductive isolation in A. nieuwenhuizii owing to the differentiation of pollen vectors between two floral size morphs may lead to genetic differentiation between the two morphs.
23642923|Schoenus ferrugineus and S. nigricans have restricted distributions in Sweden and are almost exclusively confined to calcareous fen habitats. At S. nigricans sites, S. ferrugineus is usually also present, and hybrids are frequently found. In this report, I used allozymes to estimate the amount of gene flow between the two species, and to compare the partitioning of genetic diversity in each of them. Thirteen loci were analysed at eight different enzyme systems. Seven loci were variable between or within the species. The two species had completely different alleles at two of the seven variable loci, whereas there was overlap at five loci. In all, 22 different alleles were found. Six of these alleles were confined to S. nigricans, and five alleles were confined to S. ferrugineus. Nei's genetic identity was 0.55.  In S. ferrugineus, three loci (23%) were polymorphic, and the average number of alleles per polymorphic locus was 2.0 (each polymorphic locus had two alleles). In S. nigricans, three loci (23%) were polymorphic, and the average number of alleles per polymorphic locus was 2.3.  The proportion of genetic diversity due to variation among sites (GST) was fairly similar in the two species, mean over loci = 0.12 in S. ferrugineus and 0.15 in S. nigricans. However, the proportion of genetic diversity due to variation among individuals within sites (GIS) differed markedly between the two species, mean over loci = 0.54 in S. ferrugineus and 0.17 in S. nigricans. Accordingly, there was a much higher individual heterozygosity in S. nigricans than in S. ferrugineus.  Most hybrids were interpreted as F1 hybrids. However, a small proportion, 0.51.6 %, were Fn hybrids or back-crosses.  On the Swedish mainland, all former occurrences of S. nigricans are extinct, but viable hybrids are still present at a few sites in southernmost Sweden.
23674426|Pollination of Dianthus gratianopolitanus was studied in a population of the Swiss Jura mountains. Pollinators of this plant species are reported here for the first time. The flowers were not only visited by butterflies as postulated in the literature, but also by diurnal hawkmoths (Macroglossum stellatarum) and by diurnal and nocturnal noctuid moths.  Nectar is sucrose-dominant, the sugar concentration is moderate but the amino acid concentration is high. Nectar characteristics correspond well with the syndrome of Lepidoptera-pollinated flowers.  Field observations and flower characters (colour, range of the calyx length) suggest that Dianthus gratianopolitanus is an intermediate species in the transition of butterfly to moth pollination.  Lack of reproductive success in Dianthus gratianopolitanus can not be attributed to lack of suitable pollinators.
23673687|The rDNA of five accessions of the giant fennel (Ferula communis, Umbelliferae) was analyzed. The restriction map of Bam H 1, Eco R 1 and Hind III sites was established for one of them. Variation between the five accessions was observed at several levels. Three have a homogeneous repeat size, whereas the two others are heterogeneous, one presenting an additional site heterogeneity. However, the general pattern of organization is very similar and there is much greater similarity between the Ferula accessions than with the pattern observed for carrot, a plant from the same family. Variation was also observed in the copy number of the rDNA repeats, which ranges from  900 to 3 500. The results demonstrate that the five accessions can be clearly differentiated by molecular analysis of their DNA although they belong to the same species or subspecies. They also demonstrate that different isolated populations of a species evolve independently, thus shedding light on the molecular mechanisms of speciation.
23643087|In Heliconia thread-like structures connecting the pollen grains are described. These threads are decay products of the walls separating the pollen chambers, and products of the rupture of the mature anthers in the stomium region. The pliable cell threads mix with the pollen and entangle individual grains to form aggregates. This ensures that the pollen becomes embedded in the feathers or attached to the smooth, unsculptured beak of pollinating hummingbirds (Trochilidae).  Structure and origin of the Heliconia threads differ from those of the related genus Strelitzia (Strelitziaceae).
23643987|Fluorochrome C-banding of Pinus radiata and P. taeda metaphase chromosomes showed many pericentromeric DAPI bands and interstitial CMA bands in P. radiata, and centromeric and interstitial CMA bands in P. taeda. Giemsa C-band patterns differed between the species with centromeric bands in P. radiata but no consistent bands in P. taeda. A karyotype of P. radiata was developed based on banding patterns that distinguished all but two of the 12 pairs of chromosomes. In situ hybridization (ISH) using probes for high-copy ribosomal DNA (rDNA) showed 10 pairs of 18S25S sites and two pairs of 5S sites in both species. Most of the sites were interstitial or centromeric.
43496756|Four species of the genus Berberis L. have been reported from different regions, including Khorassan provinces. In this article, a revision of this genus in Khorassan provinces is presented. For better validation of the results, morphological, palynological, chromosomal and molecular studies were conducted on specimens collected from Khorassan provinces and preserved in FUMH and TARI herbaria. Morphological study resulted in recognition of three species of Berberis, from which two species are new records for Khorassan. Four unknown new taxa with new morphological characters were also identified, but left for further analysis because of the high percentage of polyploidy and hybridization in this genus. In order to analyze morphological data, 35 OTUs were provided and scored using the distance method and PCoA. The shape and size of pollen grains were nearly equal in the examined taxa, and there were no obvious differences between them. Chromosomal examination indicated tetraploidy (2n = 4x = 56) in all of the studied taxa. Molecular studies were accomplished by RAPD and sequencing of the ITS region to construct a framework of relationships between the taxa. Molecular studies emphasized the difference in the four unknown taxa from others. The total evidence indicates that Berberis L. shows a high percentage of polyploidy and hybridization.
23642998|A new genus, Aurantiosporium Piepenbring, Vnky & Oberwinkler (Ustilaginales), is proposed for the smut species Ustilago subnitens Schrter & Hennings on Scleria melaleuca Reichb. The soral morphology, teliospore development, the ultrastructure of the teliospore wall and teliospore germination of Aurantiosporium subnitens, studied on collections from Costa Rica, are described for the first time. The character set of A. subnitens including intercellular teliospore development, spores in irregular groups and light coloured spore walls with numerous layers in TEM is neither known from Ustilago nor Cintractia nor any other smut species.
23643738|A molecular phylogeny of the Didiereaceae was produced through parsimony analysis of chloroplast rp1 16 intron and trnL-trnF and trnT-trnL intergenic spacer sequences of all eleven species of the Didiereaceae and several outgroup taxa from the Portulacaceae. Results indicated that: 1) the Didiereaceae were embedded within the Portulacaceae, with Calyptrotheca as the sister group of the family; 2) present generic limits were supported; 3) Alluaudiopsis was the most basal lineage; 4) at least two separate episodes of polyploidization within the genus Alluaudia had occurred, and 5) unusually low amounts of variation were present in rapidly evolving noncoding plastid sequences.
23642186|The pollenkitt of Tilia platyphyllos and T. tomentosa is produced during the tetrade-stage by the tapetum plastides. After tapetum degeneration pollenkitt and accompanying substances are deposited predominantly in the intrabacular spaces of the exine, and only in small quantities on the surface of the exine itself. Die Bildung des Pollenkitts lt sich in drei Abschnitte gliedern: 1. Die Pollenkitt-Vorstufen entstehen in den Plastiden des Tapetums und entwickeln sich in ihnen eine gewisse Zeit weiter. 2. Nach ihrer Freisetzung aus den Plastiden bilden sie klumpige, oft heterogene Massen im Cytoplasma des Tapetums. 3. Nach der Degeneration des Tapetums flottieren sie, allenfalls zusammen mit anderen Tapetumderivaten, frei im Loculus und werden auf und in der Exine abgesetzt. Die Vorgnge der Entwicklung und Verlagerung des Pollenkitts wurden bei Tilia platyphyllos und T. tomentosa untersucht. Dabei fanden sich zwar mehrere Beweise dafr, da die gesamte oder zumindest weitaus berwiegende Masse der Pollenkitt-Vorstufen in den Tapetumplastiden entsteht, ein Mitwirken anderer Organellen (ER, Golgi-Apparat) konnte jedoch bei der Produktion gewisser Fraktionen nicht ausgeschlossen werden. Die Tapetumplastiden produzieren sehr elektronendichte Globuli, daneben aber auch noch vereinzelt elektronentransparente Plastoglobuli. Sie fusionieren nach ihrer Entlassung aus dem produzierenden Organell im Tapetumcytoplasma und bilden bei T. platyphyllos schaumige Klumpen; bei T. tomentosa fehlen bei ansonst gleicher Entwicklung die schaumigen Klumpen, es bilden sich generell etwas weniger, dafr aber homogene Pollenkitt-Vorstufen. Nach der Tapetumdegeneration treiben bei beiden Arten Reste und Derivate des Tapetums (neben den Lipidmassen eine betrchtliche Menge cytoplasmatischen Materials, Ubisch-Krper u. a.) frei im Loculus, wobei aus den Klumpen der Pollenkitt-Vorstufen zu diesem Zeitpunkt kleine tropfige Gebilde werden: In dieser Transportform wird der Pollenkitt zusammen mit cytoplasmatischem Material auf der Exine abgesetzt. Die Substanzen wandern durch schmale Tectumperforationen in die interbaculren Rume ein, fllen diese praktisch vollstndig aus und erzeugen dort eine viskose homogene Pollenkittmasse, whrend auf dem Tectum selbst sehr wenig Material aufgelagert wird.
23673859|Crepidotus ehrendorferi spec. nova (sect. Sphaerula) is similar to the North American C. sinuosus and differs mainly by the anatomy of pileicutis with unseptated, long, slender terminal hyphae and some macroscopical characters. It is compared also with C. applanatus and C. crocophyllus. C. ehrendorferi is a very conspicuous, wood-inhabiting species known up to now from a very old forest reserve close to the city of Vienna (Austria).
23671355|Species delimitation has been a major research focus in evolutionary biology. However, the genetic delimitation of recently diverged species varies depending on the markers examined. In this study, we aimed to examine genetic differentiation and delimitations between only two species of Pugionium Gaertn (Brassicaceae) Pugionium cornutum (L.) Gaertn and Pugionium dolabratum Maximthat occur in the desert habitats of central Asia and have parapatric distributions. We genotyped 169 individuals from 25 populations, using two chloroplast (cp) DNA fragments (trnV-trnM and trnS-trnfM), seven simple repeated sequence (SSR) loci and the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS). Four cp haplotypes were identified, three of which commonly occur in the two species, suggesting incomplete species-specific lineage sorting. Between-species cpDNA differentiation (FCT) was low, even lower than among populations of the same species. However, we found higher than average SSR FCT values, and both Bayesian clustering of SSR variables and maximum-likelihood genetic analyses divided all sampled individuals into two groups, agreeing well with morphological separation, although gene flow between species was obvious according to the SSR loci data. However, two types of ITS sequences were highly consistent with the morphological delimitation of the two species in all sampled individuals. These results together suggest that these two species shared numerous ancestral cpDNA polymorphisms and point to the importance of nuclear DNA (ITS or genetic accumulation at multiple loci) in delimiting recently diverged species.
23643731|Scanning electron and fluorescence microscopy were used to clarify some aspects of the floral morphology of Apocynum cannabinum. Insects are required for pollination, since the floral morphology prevents autogamy and minimizes intrafloral self-pollination. Flowers hand-pollinated with self-pollen never set fruit, but 10.6% of cross-pollinations produced fruit. Self-pollen did germinate, however, and produced abundant tubes that grew through the pistil and entered the ovule micropyles. The proportion of ovules penetrated by self- and outcross-pollen tubes was not statistically significantly different. These results suggest that A. cannabium possesses late-acting self-incompatibility, similar to that in the closely related Asclepiadaceae.
23671349|Apomixis, or asexual reproduction through seeds, has been reported for species of the tribe Miconieae, Melastomataceae, but details of the process have yet to be described. We analyzed and compared sporogenesis and gametogenesis in the apomictic Miconia albicans and the sexual M. chamissois. The results point to some differences between species, which were related to the apomictic process. In M. albicans microsporogenesis, problems during meiosis and degeneration of its products led to total pollen sterility, while M. chamissois presented normal bicellular pollen grains in the mature anther. The absence or abnormality of meiosis in M. albicans megasporogenesis led to the formation of an unreduced embryo sac and also to egg cell parthenogenesis, which gave rise to the apomictic embryo. Embryo and endosperm development were autonomous, resulting in seeds and fruits independent of pollination and fertilization. Thus, in this species, apomixis can be classified as diplosporic and obligate. In contrast, meiosis was as expected in the sexual M. chamissois, and led to the development of a reduced embryo sac. Despite the divergent pathways, many embryological characteristics were similar between the studied species and other Melastomataceae and they seem to be conservative character states for the family.
43558063|Chromosome data are important for elucidating intergeneric relationships and delimiting infrafamilial tribes in plants. This paper reports karyological data for 12 Seriphidium (Bess.) Poljak. species from China, of these, five count as new reports and the others have been reported elsewhere. We also report the tetraploid level in S. schrenkianum for the first time. The karyotype formulae and types for the five new reports are: S. schrenkianum (Ledeb.) Poljak. 2n = 4x = 36 = 22m + 12sm + 2st, S. sublessingianum (Kell.) Poljak. 2n = 2x = 18 = 14m + 4sm and S. transiliense (Poljak.) Poljak. 2n = 2x = 18 = 4M + 6m + 2m(SAT) + 4sm + 2sm(SAT), belong to 2A type; S. cinum (Berg, ex Poljak.) Poljak. 2n = 2x = 18 = 8m + 10sm and S. sawanense Y. R. Ling et C. J. Humphries 2n = 2x = 18 = 10m + 2m(SAT) + 6sm, belong to 2B type. Furthermore, we estimated karyotype asymmetry in the 12 species by using an intrachromosomal asymmetry index and an interchromosomal asymmetry index. The data increase information about the karyosystematics of Seriphidium.
23674686|Four supposedly closely related taxa were crossed artificially to test for hybridization barriers. Intra- as well as inter-specific crossings were made. The intra-specific crossings resulted in a high portion of viable hybrids, whereas hybridization barriers were found in all inter-specific combinations except one. The hybrids were non-viable at different levels, viz., (1) no seeds germinated, (2) seeds formed lethal chlorotic seedlings, or (3) seeds formed chlorophyllous seedlings which survived the cotyledonary stage, but developed into intermediate forms with low pollen production and/or a strongly reduced pollen viability. Crossings between Campanula afra and any of the other three taxa resulted in a non-viable progeny. The crossing capacity among C. occidentalis, C. kremeri, and C. dichotoma varied. Combinations with large-flowered maternal taxa and small-flowered paternal ones usually failed, whereas a high number of the reciprocal crossings produced hybrids which survived the cotyledonary stage. The hybrid plants varied in pollen viability and pollen production, however. It is concluded that the Campanula dichotoma group should be treated as comprising four distinct species.
23670056|On the basis of newly collected and cultivated material full descriptions and illustrations are presented for Hapaline appendiculata Ridl. and Phymatarum borneense M. Hotta.
23664364|The reproductive morphology of Sargentodoxa cuneata (Oliv) Rehd. et Wils. is investigated through field, herbarium, and laboratory observations. Sargentodoxa may be either dioecious or monoecious. The functionally unisexual flowers are morphologically bisexual, at least developmentally. The anther is tetrasporangiate, and its wall, of which the development follows the basic type, is composed of an epidermis, endothecium, two middle layers, and a tapetum. The tapetum is of the glandular type. Microspore cytokinesis is simultaneous, and the microspore tetrads are tetrahedral. Pollen grains are two-celled when shed. The mature ovule is crassinucellate and bitegmic, and the micropyle is formed only by the inner integument. Megasporocytes undergo meiosis resulting in the formation of four megaspores in a linear tetrad. The functional megaspore develops into an eight-nucleate embryo sac after three rounds of mitosis. The mature embryo sac consists of an egg apparatus (an egg and two synergids), a central cell, and three antipodal cells. The pattern of the embryo sac development follows a monosporic Polygonum type. Comparisons with allied groups show that Sargentodoxa shares more synapomorphies with the Lardizabalaceae than other Ranunculales. Characteristics of its reproductive morphology are consistent with the placement of Sargentodoxa as the sister group of the remaining Lardizabalaceae. It does not possess a sufficient number of apomorphic characters to justify its separation into a separate family or subfamily. It is best retained as a member of the Lardizabalaceae.
23674717|The taxa in this study have in the past been treated together in sect. Tiniaria Meissner of Polygonum L. s.l., and more recently the large erect rhizomatous herbaceous perennials have been separated from the twining annuals and perennials as the genera Reynoutria and Fallopia respectively. These taxa range in ploidy level from diploid to octoploid, with base numbers of both 10 and 11 present. The plants are primarily Asiatic in distribution, although many of the large erect perennials are now naturalized in many parts of Europe. Cytological examination has revealed the presence of a number of previously unknown hybrid taxa in the British Isles. The readiness with which hybridisation occurs between taxa of differing base number and ploidy level, and similarities revealed in chromosome morphology, meiotic pairing and in DNA C-value, suggest to the authors that these two genera are best amalgamated under Fallopia.
23672635|Pollen of the two distylous species which make up Linum sect. Macrantholinum differs from that of other distylous species in the genus in being multiporate and in having much more modest differences in exine sculpturing between grains from long- and short-styled plants. Pollen morphology does not help in relating the two species to others in the genus but does support their retention in a separate section.
23642976|Flavonoid surveys of hydrolysed and direct leaf extracts of fifty two cocosoid palms revealed tricin, glycoflavones, proanthocyanidins, quercetin, flavonoid sulphates, isorhamnetin, and luteolin as regular constituents; present in 87, 77, 53, 47, 36, 26 and 26% of species, respectively. Kaempferol was found in 15% of the sample and apigenin in only one taxon of Attalea. Attalea and Syagrus were chemically heterogeneous groups. The flavonoid evidence suggested the removal of Polyandrocosus from the Allagoptera unit, the recognition of two Maximiliana species, the separation of Arecastrum and Arikuryroba from Syagrus and that Jubaea was closer to Butia than Jubaeopsis. Five morphologically similar Central American Scheelea species were distinguished by their flavonoid profiles.
23643254|Orcein staining, differential staining with CMA and DAPI, and FISH with an rDNA probe were used to compare somatic chromosomes of Ceratozamia mexicana and Microcycas calocoma. CMA-positive dots and hybridization signals appeared on chromosomes at early interphase and mitotic prophase, but in significantly different number in the two species. In Ceratozamia mexicana, the CMA-positive and DAPI-negative bands and the hybridization signal were located at the terminal region of the long arm of three median-centromeric chromosomes, the terminal region of the short arm of two median-centromeric chromosomes and the terminal region of the long arm of two subterminal-centromeric chromosomes. In Microcycas calocoma, they were located at the pericentric region of two median-centromeric chromosomes. These chromosome data suggested that Microcycas has no simple Robertsonian relationship to Ceratozamia.
23643389|Molecular studies of plants from the Pacific Northwest of North America suggest a recurrent pattern of genetic differentiation and geographic structuring. In each of five angiosperms and one fern species representing diverse life histories, cpDNA data indicate two clades of populations that are geographically structured. A northern group comprises populations from Alaska to central or southern Oregon, whereas populations from central Oregon southward to northern California form a southern group. In several of these species, a few populations having southern genotypes may have survived in glacial refugia further north in the Olympic Peninsula, Queen Charlotte Islands, and Prince of Wales Island. Allozyme data reveal a similar pattern of differentiation in several other plants from the Pacific Northwest. North-south partitioning of genotypes has also been reported for several animal species from this region. On a broader geographic scale, north-south partitioning of genotypes has also been observed in other plants from western North America having a variety of geographic distributions. Some species also display a reduction of genetic variability in the northern portion of their range compared to the south. The data suggest strongly that past glaciation profoundly influenced the genetic architecture of the flora and fauna of the Pacific Northwest. Two alternative hypotheses are advanced to explain the geographic structuring of genotypes. First, past glaciation may have created discontinuities in the geographic distributions of plant species, with populations surviving in several well-isolated northern and southern refugia. Following glaciation, migration of genetically differentiated, once-isolated populations resulted in the formation of a continuous geographic distribution with a major genetic discontinuity. Alternatively, plants survived and subsequently migrated northward from a southern refugium, and a genotype became fixed in one or a few populations at the leading edge of recolonization. Subsequent long-distance dispersal from this leading edge resulted in a relatively uniform northern genotype that differs from the southern genotype(s). Whatever the underlying mechanism, Pleistocence glaciation may have molded the intraspecific genetic architecture of both plants and animals from the Pacific Northwest in a geographically similar manner. Future studies should seek to obtain a comprehensive phylogeography for regions that includes a diversity of both plants and animals.
23674571|The term merosity stands for the number of parts within whorls of floral organs, leaves, or stems. Trimery is considered to be a basic condition that arose through the cyclisation of a spiral flower. Pentamery is mostly derived from trimery by the repetitive fusion of two different whorls. Dimery is either directly derived from trimery, or through pentamery as an intermediate stage. Tetramery is linked with pentamery and should not be confused with dimery. Possible causes for a change in merosity are the reduction of the number of carpels and zygomorphy in flowers. Derivations of different merosities have important consequences for the arrangement of the androecium (the insertion of stamen whorls, their identifications, and their number). It is concluded that two main groups can be identified within the angiosperms: magnolialean and monocotyledonean taxa are mostly trimerous or dimerous; non-magnolialean dicots are mostly pentamerous or tetramerous.
23673912|Phylogenetic relationships within the genus Chlorella were studied by means of DNA/DNA hybridization under both optimal and relaxed reassociation conditions as well as by determination of the thermal stability of hybrid DNA duplexes. The results indicate a relationship between C. fusca var. fusca, C. fusca var. rubescens, C. fusca var. vacuolata, and the genus Scenedesmus. In addition, the strains endosymbiotic with Paramecium bursaria seem to be related with the C. vulgaris/sorokiniana group. The relations between most other species, however, could not be sufficiently resolved by the above methods. This implies considerable phylogenetic divergency within the genus Chlorella.
23642204|In a special habitat near Lunz (Mittersee) long time epiphytism of Cocconeis placentula var. tenuistriata and var. klinoraphis on Fontinalis antipyretica leaves causes characteristic, strongly localized alterations in the walls of affected cells. They turn brown, may thicken, and may produce cystolithe-like protuberances into the cell lumina. These reactions obviously are brought about by a specific property of Cocconeis, for other epiphytes do not cause any change. The comparison of the Cocconeis vegetation on younger and older Fontinalis leaves shows a considerable variability of the reactions mentioned, and in another habitat none could be found. Apparently several factors cause these reactions. Altogether, Cocconeis placentula is not a completely harmless epiphyte under certain circumstances. The alterations of the moss cells may be interpreted partly as a premature aging process, partly as a defensive action corresponding to alterations induced by some parasitic fungi. Furthermore, the reactions of Cocconeis on Fontinalis are remarkably parallel to the influence of the dinococcalean alga Raciborskia inermis on Spirogyra grevilleana. An einem bestimmten Standort bewirkt der langfristige Bewuchs von Cocconeis placentula var. tenuistriata und var. klinoraphis auf den Blttern von Fontinalis antipyretica charakteristische, streng lokalisierte Vernderungen der Zellwnde der betroffenen Mooszellen. Die Wnde verfrben sich an der Cocconeis-nahen Seite nach Braun, werden oft zustzlich verdickt, manchmal entstehen ins Zellinnere hineinragende Zapfen. Es handelt sich offenbar um eine artspezifische Eigentmlichkeit von Cocconeis placentula, denn andere epiphytische Algen bewirken keine derartige Reaktion. Das Verhalten schwankt innerhalb bestimmter Grenzen stark, am Zustandekommen der Reaktion sind offenbar mehrere Faktoren beteiligt, an einem anderen Standort tritt berhaupt keine Reaktion auf. Die Reaktionen lassen sich teils als beschleunigter Alterungsvorgang auffassen, teils handelt es sich um eine Art von Abwehrreaktion, wie sie hnlich beim Befall mancher parasitischer Pilze auf Algen erfolgt. Cocconeis placentula erweist sich somit als nicht vllig harmloser Epiphyt. Es zeigt sich in dieser Hinsicht eine auffallende Parallele zu dem Verhalten von Raciborskia inermis auf Spirogyra grevilleana.
23674742|Among the Monimiaceae only five relatively primitive genera belonging to Hortonioideae and Atherospermoideae have regularly bisexual flowers. Three species of two genera (Hortonia, Daphnandra), one of each subfamily, were studied for the occurrence of dichogamy. In all of them protogyny occurs. Monimiaceae are, thus, a further example for the preponderant protogyny in Magnoliidae.
23643986|Parsimony analyses of 54 nrDNA ITS (Internal Transcribed Spacer) sequences of Saxifraga sect. Saxifraga were performed. In addition to some unresolved clades, there is strong disagreement between the ITS phylogeny and previous classifications based primarily on morphology. The extensive cytological instability of sect. Saxifraga prevents previous cytotaxonomical results from resolving the incongruence between molecular and morphological data. Dissimilar topologies between chloroplast (matK) and nuclear (ITS) trees for eight species of sect. Saxifraga suggest that gene trees and the true species tree are not coincident. Recent and mid-term reticulation is proposed as an explanation for the incongruence between morphological, cytological, organellar, and nuclear data. Homogenization in multigene families, such as the ITS region, via concerted evolution may be the key to the interpretation of results based on ITS sequences within sect. Saxifraga. The use of organellar genes in a larger sample should help to determine whether extensive reticulation occurs in sect. Saxifraga, as has been documented in various genera of Saxifragaceae.
23656650|Plant cells possess two more genomes besides the central nuclear genome: the mitochondrial genome and the chloroplast genome (or plastome). Compared to the gigantic nuclear genome, these organelle genomes are tiny and are present in high copy number. These genomes are less prone to recombination and, therefore, retain signatures of their age to a much better extent than their nuclear counterparts. Thus, they are valuable phylogenetic tools, giving useful information about the relative age and relatedness of the organisms possessing them. Unlike animal cells, mitochondrial genomes of plant cells are characterized by large size, extensive intramolecular recombination and low nucleotide substitution rates and are of limited phylogenetic utility. Chloroplast genomes, on the other hand, show resemblance to animal mitochondrial genomes in terms of phylogenetic utility and are more relevant and useful in case of plants. Conservation in gene order, content and lack of recombination make the plastome an attractive tool for plant phylogenetic studies. Their importance is reflected in the rapid increase in the availability of complete chloroplast genomes in the public databases. This review aims to summarize the progress in chloroplast genome research since its inception and tries to encompass all related aspects. Starting with a brief historical account, it gives a detailed account of the current status of chloroplast genome sequencing and touches upon RNA editing, ycfs, molecular phylogeny, DNA barcoding as well as gene transfer to the nucleus.
23671732|Dictyonema moorei and D. ligulatum possess a haustorial system quite similar to that of three other Dictyonema species. It is singular among all Asco- and Basidiolichenes and specific for the genus Dictyonema. In herbarized specimens it shrinks and becomes nearly indistinguishable with longer time. In Dictyonema a sterile thallus may develop which consists of a turf of filaments of Scytonema growing over mosses and each surrounded by a fungal sheath.
23673226|The subgenus Xiphium is one of the six infrageneric divisions of the genus Iris. Chromosome numbers of six of the seven Xiphium species are known. Here the aim was to infer genetic and phylogenetic relationships based on chromosome numbers, chromosome markers and plastid sequences. Chromosomal locations of 5S and 45S rDNA loci were determined in 19 populations of the 7 species by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Additionally, the trnLtrnF plastid spacer was sequenced and a phylogenetic analysis performed. Based on chromosome markers, subgenus Xiphium species were classified into four groups that differed in the number and locations of both types of nrDNA: (1) I. tingitana (2n = 28), I. filifolia (2n = 30, 34) and I. xiphium (2n = 34), (2) I. juncea (2n = 32) and I. boissieri (2n = 36), (3) I. serotina (2n = 34) and (4) I. latifolia (2n = 42). Although the trnLtrnF phylogeny was not fully resolved, the sequence analysis showed a well-supported subgroup of I. filifolia, I. tingitana and I. xiphium, as well as I. juncea. FISH physical maps of the Iris subgenus Xiphium taxa are species dependent. I. filifolia, I. tingitana and I. xiphium are very closely related species and share cytogenetic characteristics. Disploidy appears to have been central in the evolution of this subgenus, given a series of chromosome numbers (2n = 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 42) and our phylogenetic results. Clear differences were found among European and African populations of I. filifolia. A different taxonomic treatment of I. filifolia is supported for populations on both sides of the Strait of Gibraltar.
23669426|Pollen morphology of four Matricaria species and 28 Tripleurospermum species was investigated with light microscopies (LM) and scanning electron microscopies (SEM). Pollen slides were prepared using Wode-house technique. Measurements were based on 20 or more pollen grains per specimen. For SEM studies, dried pollen grains were transferred on aluminum stubs and coated with gold for 4 min in a sputter-coater. The pollen grains of Matricaria and Tripleurospermum are radially symmetric and isopolar. The pollen grains of the Matricaria are oblate-spheroidal with the polar axes 16.631.2 m and the equatorial axes 18.723.9 m. Tripleurospermum is oblate-spheroidal, suboblate and prolate-spheroidal with the polar axes 15.632.2 m and the equatorial axes 17.7-38.5 m. The pollen grains of Tripleurospermum are operculate and tricolporate. Matricaria is operculate and usually tricolporate or rarely syncolporate, tricolpate and tetracolporate. The pollen grain of both taxa shows echinate ornamentation. The spines are commonly conical with a broadened base and a tapered apical portion. The spine length varies between 1.84 m in Tripleurospermum and 2.33.3 m in Matricaria. The width of spines varies between 2.84.6 m in Tripleurospermum and 2.43.6 m in Matricaria. Inter-spinal area shows granulateperforate, reticulateperforate, rugulateperforate ornamentations and the tectum surrounding the spine base is micro perforate. Overall exine thickness ranges from 2.8 to 4.8 m in Tripleurospermum, 3.6 to 5.2 m in Matricaria. Intine is thicker under pores in Tripleurospermum (0.30.62 m) than in Matricaria (0.60.8 m). Inter-spinal ornamentations, pollen shape and the numbers of perforations at the spin base have been observed as important morphological characters.
43558623|The botanical survey of Wadi Wateer, located in the southeastern Sinai, revealed the presence of a plant that provides an important new record to the Flora of Egypt: Cocculus hirsutus (L.) Theob. This plant has not been recorded previously as existing in its wild form in the Flora of Egypt. The plant cover in Wadi Wateer is dominated by plant taxa belonging to the Saharo-Sindian phytogeographical element. However, many plants in the wadi have been attributed to the Sudanian chorotype, such as Acacia tortilis (Forssk.) Hayne subsp. raddiana (Savi) Brenan, Chrozophora brocchiana Vis., Lycium shawii Roem & Schult., Morcandia sinaica (Boiss.) Boiss., Cocculus hirsutus (L.) Theob. and Cocculus pendulus (J.R. & G. Forst.) Diels. The presence of Sudanian chorotype plant taxa [including the newly recorded Cocculus hirsutus (L.) Theob.] provides evidence that Wadi Wateer and Aqaba Gulf functioned as migratory tracks for these African plants, assisting their penetration into the Saharo-Sindian, Mediterranean and Irano-Turanian phytogeographical regions in the Sinai and Asia. This study suggests that Wadi Wateer should be declared a protected area for its habitat and climatic diversity as well as for its phytogeographical significance.
23674900|The karyotypes of Elymus dentatus from Kashmir and E. glaucescens from Tierra del Fuego, both carrying genomes S and H, were investigated by C- and N-banding. Both taxa had 2n = 4x = 28. The karyotype of E. dentatus was symmetrical with large chromosomes. It had 18 metacentric, four submetacentric and six satellited chromosomes. The karyotype of E. glaucescens resembled that of E. dentatus, but a satellited chromosome pair was replaced by a morphologically similar, non-satellited pair. The C-banding patterns of both species had from one to five conspicuous and a few inconspicuous bands per chromosome. N-banding differentiated the chromosomes of the constituent genomes by producing bands in the H genome only. The S genomes of both species were similar with five metacentric and two satellited chromosomes having most conspicuous C-bands at telomeric and distal positions. They resembled the S genome of the genus Pseudoroegneria. The H genomes had four similar metacentric and two submetacentric chromosomes. The seventh H genome chromosome of E. dentatus was satellited, that of E. glaucescens non-satellited, but otherwise morphologically similar. The C-bands were distributed at no preferential positions. The H genome of E. dentatus resembles the H genomes of some diploid Hordeum taxa.
43558042|Three related and taxonomically close species of the genus Lilium (L. pyrenaicum Gouan, L. pomponium L. and L. carniolicum Bernh.), all of them with 2n = 24 chromosomes, have been studied for chromosomal differentiation, using fluorochrome banding and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and for genome size and GC percentage using flow cytometry. The total DNA content of L. pomponium (2C = 70.26 pg) was about 5% higher than that of L. pyrenaicum (2C = 67.74) and L. carniolicum (2C = 6731 pg), while GC percentage was higher in this last species (36.60%) than in L. pomponium (35.56%) and lower than in L. pyrenaicum (37.92%). Silver staining, fluorochrome banding with chromomycin A (CMA) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) clearly pointed out the number of nucleoli, the number and position of GC-rich bands and the number and location of rDNA sites thus permitting distinction of the three species at chromosomal level. Two families of ribosomal genes, 18S-5.8S-26S (18S) and 5S rRNA genes, were separated onto different pairs in chromosome complements of examined species. Chromosome regions containing both kinds of rRNA genes were also GC-rich regions. The results revealed a clear interspecific differentiation at the chromosomal level and permitted the discussion about relationships among the species.
23674745|Catapyrenium pyrenaicum is described as new from northern Spain and adjacent France, and the new combination Catapyrenium velebiticum is made. The new species differs from C. velebiticum mainly in its laminal pycnidia. Remarks on taxonomy, ecology, and distribution of the species are given.
23674117|The sperm cells in the tricellular pollen grains of Circuta virosa, Bupleurum subovatum, and Apium nodiflorum differ significantly from sperm cells known so far. They are extremely destitute of plasma. Besides the sperm nucleus, no cytoplasmic organelles are observed. The wall of the sperm cell forms long, slender projections on both poles of the spindle-shaped cell.
23674420|Development, structure and the axial distribution of transfer cells and their lignification were investigated in Valerianella locusta, Valeriana officinalis, and V. tuberosa (Valerianaceae). Fundamental new results are: (1) Transfer cells often contain numerous lipid droplets. Within the stem the distribution of cells containing lipid droplets correlates to that of transfer cells. (2) In Valeriana officinalis persisting protuberances are frequently found on pit membranes of xylem transfer cells. Lignified transfer cells can undergo a second modification: a layer covering the secondary wall forms wall ingrowths similar to those of transfer cells. (3) Peripheral pith cells, abuting transfer cells, are able to modify into transfer cells. Cambial derivatives are only temporarily developed as transfer cells. (4) Phloem transfer cells are found in vascular bundles of the whole axis. (5) In roots, xylem transfer cells are poorly developed or absent. (6) Oil cells with oil bodies are present in the rape of Valeriana tuberosa. They are absent however in the stem of the species investigated. (7) Tannins occur in elements of the primary cortex, phloem and secondary xylem of Valeriana officinalis.
43558337|Hedyotis caerulea possesses two distinct floral morphs that are generally found in equal numbers in naturally occurring populations. Flowers either possess a relatively long style and short anthers, called a "pin," or a short style and long anthers, called a "thrum." This placement of reproductive organs is considered herkogamous and distylous, as it encourages outcrossing by restricting pollination to individuals of the alternate morph. Numerous species have been described as distylous without quantitative data establishing stigma-anther reciprocity. Here we assess those assumptions in H. caerulea by measuring stigma height, anther height and a suite of additional floral traits across multiple localities. All populations surveyed were isoplethic, although variation among them was present in all floral traits measured as well as for pollen diameter, pollen count, flower dry weight, and seed set. Pins produced smaller pollen than thrums, but made more of them. Thus, the total volume of pollen was similar for pins and thrums, and seed set was similar, suggesting that each morph has equal male and female fitness with no movement towards dioecy. Given a significant degree of variation found in the morphometric analysis, and that two of the three measures used to assess reciprocity were not consistent with predictions of precise symmetry, extensive change is possible where selection is acting on these traits. Even so, the distylous mating system in H. caerulea appears to be stable.
23674617|Interspecific hybridizations were carried out between the two tetraploids Elymus caucasicus and E. longearistatus, and 23 tetraploids and hexaploids of Elymus containing "SH", "SY", "SYH", and "SYW" genomes and representing various geographical regions. Meiotic pairing was studied in the two target species and their hybrids. It is concluded from this study that (i) interspecific hybridization is fairly easy to perform although strong reproductive barriers exist between the species; (ii) Elymus caucasicus and E. longearistatus are allotetraploids, and share the diverged "SY" genomes; (iii) the divergence of "SY" genomes is correlated with the geographic distance between the Elymus spp. studied.
23671749|Senecio vulgaris L. (2 n = 40) is suggested to be of autotetraploid origin from S. vernalis Waldst. & Kit. (2n = 20). This conclusion is based on results obtained from experimental hybridisations and cytological observations, and the consideration of morphological affinities, patterns of geographical distribution and hybrid formation under natural conditions. The morphological differences between the two species are related to a difference in the breeding system. Whilst S. vernalis is self-incompatible, S. vulgaris is self-compatible and strongly self-pollinating. Equally, other self-pollinating taxa traditionally associated with S. vulgaris are shown to have evolved independently from outbreeding relatives. Within a narrow frame of relationship, annual weeds have evolved in different cytotaxonomic circumstances.
23669050|Type of reproduction has an important effect on the maintenance of particular populations and species persistence in time and space. This trait significantly influences the ecological and genetic structure of populations, and in consequence the evolution of species. The primary objectives of this study were: to estimate genetic diversity within and among populations of clonal species Goodyera repens from different populations in northeastern Poland, and to amount factors shaping the genetic structure of this orchid. Based on 451 rosettes of G. repens from 11 localities in northeastern Poland, we conducted a genetic population analysis using allozymes. We included information on population size, flowering, fruit set and seed dispersal to elucidate their influences on genetic diversity of this species. Populations differed according to demographic properties. The majority of seeds (86.494.8 %) were found at a distance of 0.2 m. We observed a high level of genetic (P PL = 50 %, A = 1.68, H O = 0.210, H E = 0.204) and genotypic diversity (G = 163, G/N S = 0.66, G U = 30.2 %), and low but statistically significant genetic differentiation among populations (F ST = 0.060; P < 0.001). We suggest that the genetic diversity of G. repens is mainly an effect of the abundance of pine and spruce forest communities suitable for this species in NE Poland and the high level of sexual reproduction.
23645345|The hypothesised hybrid origin of the High Arctic grass  Pucciphippsia vacillans from the putative parents Puccinellia vahliana, Phippsia algida or Phippsia concinna was investigated by analyses of morphological, cytological, and enzymatic data. Chromosome counts showed that  P. vacillans from Svalbard is triploid (2n = 21) and sterile, supporting the hypothesis of a hybrid origin. Enzymatic investigations showed that  P. vacillans is identical to Phippsia in most enzyme markers and furthermore that all four taxa are closely related. Additive banding pattern in one enzyme system (6-PGD) as well as some morphological traits indicated that  P. vacillans is a Puccinellia  Phippsia hybrid.  Pucciphippsia vacillans is morphologically intermediate between Phippsia algida and Puccinellia vahliana in several individual characters as well as in a multivariate analysis, indicating that Phippsia algida is the more probable Phippsia parent. Mature seeds have never been observed in  P. vacillans and the taxon has no known mode of vegetative reproduction. This investigation suggests that it might be a sterile first-generation hybrid wherever it occurs in Svalbard. The close genetic relationship between  Pucciphippsia, Phippsia, and Puccinellia vahliana has implications for their generic delimitation and might suggest that only one genus is involved.
43558666|The occurrence and distribution of santalbic acid in the plant kingdom are reported and discussed. This conjugated acetylenic fatty acid, octadeca-11-trans-en-9-ynoic acid (in "Delta Notation" 18:29a, 11t), occurs in members of the santalalean plant families, mostly in tropical and subtropical areas. The range is from only traces up to 95.0 % of total fatty acids in the seed oil. However, some caution is required during the analysis, so the presence of this acid may have been overlooked sometimes. This fatty acid may be toxic to humans, but may be of interest for technical purposes because of a reactive functional group.
23645159|All members of Aristolochiaceae have anatropous, bitegmic, crassinucellate ovules, which are endostomic except in Saruma and Asarum arifolium where ovules are amphistomic. The outer integument is two cell-layered and the inner integument is three cell-layered. The chalazal megaspore is the functional one. All these conditions appear to be plesiomorphic for the order Piperales, which consists of five families, Aristolochiaceae, Hydnoraceae, Lactoridaceae, Piperaceae and Saururaceae. The embryo sac in Aristolochiaceae is eight-nucleate and corresponds to the Polygonum type; a hypostase is frequently present in this family. The seed coat of Aristolochia s.l., Asarum, Saruma and some Thottea species consists primarily of a two cell-layered testa, and a three cell-layered tegmen. In some species the cells of the outer epidermis become radially elongated, forming reticulate wall thickenings. Cells of the inner layer of the testa have crystals and thickened inner walls. The three layers of the tegmen are tangentially elongated, and become cross fibres at maturity, as fibres of the outer and inner layers are parallel to the seed axis, whereas those of the middle layer are perpendicular to it. This type of seed coat anatomy is synapomorphic for Aristolochiaceae. In addition, the gross morphology of the seed and elaiosome histology are remarkably similar in Asarum and Saruma, thus supporting a sister-group relationship between them. Embryological and seed characters do not supply any synapomorphy that support a close relationship between Aristolochiaceae, Hydnoraceae and Lactoridaceae. Instead, some seed features such as the absence of seed appendages and the collapsed cells of endotesta may indicate a close relationship of Lactoris with Piperaceae plus Saururaceae, although this is the subject of further analysis.
23643983|Two opposing opinions concerning the generic differentiation of Amaryllidaceae subtribe Strumariinae two taxonomic opinions were published in the last decade. According to Mller-Doblies and Mller-Doblies (1985, 1994) the Strumariinae includes eight genera, among them Hessea, Namaquanula, and Dewinterella. Snijman (1991) described the new genus Kamiesbergia and accepted Namaquanula (1992). Of the entire complex she recognized only Hessea (Snijman 1994). The section Myophila was simultaneously described as the genus Dewinterella by Mller-Doblies and Mller-Doblies. The possible phylogenetic relationships of eight species belonging to these taxa are estimated from the sequences of the ITS regions of the 18S25S rDNA. Two species of Nerine are used as the outgroup. The sequences of these taxa are analyzed with maximum parsimony, distance, and maximum likelihood methods. In all phylogenetic reconstructions Namaquanula is confirmed to be an independant clade aside from all other six species of the Strumariinae. In this group Hessea and Dewinterella turn out to be sister groups. Hessea stenosiphon (subgenus Kamiesbergia) is the sister taxon of H. breviflora.
23643376|Floral ontogeny of Cleome spinosa, Cleome violacea and Polanisia dodecandra subsp. trachysperma was studied in the context of the question whether the fascicled androecium of Reseda and Capparis (with fused fascicles) or the 2 + 4-pattern of the Brassicaceae is primitive in the Capparales. In Polanisia dodecandra, the 918 stamens show unidirectional initiation from the adaxial side toward the abaxial side of the flower. In Cleome violacea, the six stamens also are formed in an unidirectional order, but development starts abaxially and a zigzag-like pattern is superimposed. In Cleome spinosa, two stamen primordia in transversal (lateral) position are followed by four stamens which arise on a somewhat higher level in two pairs in front of the median sepals. It is assumed that the evolutionary steps in the androecial development proceed from Reseda via Capparis and Polanisia/Cleome to Brassicaceae. This interpretation is supported by rbcL-studies (Chase & al. 1993, Rodman & al. 1993).
23643009|The evolution of important woody plant groups, ancestral to the modern Mediterranean dendroflora, is surveyed. Altogether, the history and phytogeography of 86 fossil species or species-groups is considered. The major part of the Paleomediterranean woody plants appears in Miocene mixed mesophyllous and mesoxerophyllous, evergreen and deciduous forests. The initial formation of basic Mediterranean sclerophyllous woody vegetation types is referred to periods from the Late Sarmatian to the Late Pontian, in geographic areas between 37 and 45 N latitude.
23664947|Ten species of Alismatales, five of Alismataceae, four of Limnocharitaceae and one of Hydrocharitaceae were studied with regard to chromosome number, chromosome morphology, and pattern of Giemsa C-bands. The genus Echinodorus had a diploid chromosome number of 22 for all species that were analyzed and a karyotypic formula of 2m + 20a. For the family Limnocharitaceae, Hydrocleys nymphoides had a diploid chromosome number of 16, Hydrocleys martii (4m + 2sm + 10a) had a diploid chromosome number of 16, Limnocharis flava had a diploid chromosome number of 20 and L. laforestii (4m + 16a) had a diploid chromosome number of 20. The only species of Hydrocharitaceae that was studied exhibited a karyotype that consisted of a diploid chromosome number of 28 and a karyotypic formula of 4m + 6sm + 4a. The distribution pattern of the C-banded karyotype in Echinodorus showed four blocks of constitutive heterochromatin in two smaller acrocentric pairs that corresponded to the heterochromatic NORs. In E. lanceolatus, 14 bands in the termini of the arms beyond the heterochromatic NORs of seven acrocentric pairs were also observed. Idiograms are presented and the karyotypic evolution patterns for the studied groups are discussed.
23643084|Iva s.str. (comprising ten species) was examined by cpDNA restriction site variation to determine phyletic relationships within the group. The results were compared with relationships proposed from other data. A total of 86 restriction site mutations was detected, 47 of which proved phylogenetically informative. A single most parsimonious tree was obtained using both Wagner and Dollo parsimony. The tree revealed three main lineages that are congruent with the three chromosome lineages (base numbers of x = 16, 17, 18). The monophyly of the x = 16 and 18 groups was supported strongly by molecular data, while the monophyly of x = 17 lineage was only supported moderately. Relationships among the three lineages indicate that the sect. Iva is paraphyletic because sect. Linearbractea is nested within it. Both morphological data and the secondary chemical data are in agreement with the proposed cpDNA phylogeny. Because of this agreement, sect. Iva is revised such that, I. axillaris was excluded and positioned within the newly proposed sect. Rhizoma. Patterns and rates of cpDNA evolution were also examined. The results indicated an uneven evolution in the chloroplast genome with different rates of cpDNA evolution in at least a few species of Iva. However, the evolutionary clock hypothesis can not be rejected within most of the lineages in Iva.
23643974|In tobacco and spinach, the plastid atpB/E operon, encoding subunits of the chloroplast ATP synthase, is known to have multiple transcription initiation sites. Three different transcripts are initiated from three prokaryotic consensus promoters binding the plastid encoded RNA-polymerase (PEP). These promoter regions are conserved in a large phylogenetic range, suggesting a functional significance for all of them. One major Rubiaceae lineage in the Rubioideae subfamily, is found to have deleted or altered PEP promoters. An RNA protection essay confirms that this lineage has only one transcript, instead of three, corresponding to the most distal promoter which overlaps with the rbcL promoter. The significance of an evolutionary reduction of the complexity of the transcription of atpB/E is discussed in relation with ecological peculiarities of this Rubiaceae lineage.
43558165|The objective of the present work is to study the chemical variation in Calophyllum inophyllum growing along the Western Ghats of India. Contents of dipyranocoumarins (inophyllums) in C. inophyllum were determined to assess whether they could be used as a taxonomic marker for C. inophyllum. This study also aims to establish inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers that can be used to study genetic variation within the species and explore correlation between ISSR and chemical markers. The contents of dipyranocoumarins were estimated in seeds collected from 20 locations. Leaves from plants at the same 20 locations were assayed for ISSR variation. A dendrogram based on Nei's genetic distance as well as principal component analysis based on dipyranocoumarins and ISSR variation clustered plants from these 20 locations into three groups that indicated close relationship among ISSR, dipyranocoumarins contents, and geographical position (variation) of locations. Based on this study, two locations of elite plants were identified.
23643518|Three repeated DNA sequences (rDNA 5S, 18S-5.8S-26S and telomeric repeats) were localised in the genomes of Lobelia brasiliensis and L. imperialis var. kanitzii (subg. Tupa), both with 2n = 28, by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). The results were used to analyse the genomic relationship between the species. With probe pTa71, the karyotypes of these species showed only one NOR site. Probe pTa794, which contains 5S rDNA, demonstrated differences between the species. Telomeric sequences, studied with probe pLT11, were not detected in ectopic sites, but different telomeres showed signals of varying intensity. Based on the results obtained, considerations are made on karyotype evolution in Lobelia.
23672622|The mature embryo of seven species belonging to five genera of Indian bamboos is described. In all these the basic pattern of embryo organisation is same: the scutellar and coleoptilar bundles are not separated by an internode, the epiblast is absent, the lower portion of the scutellum and the coleorhiza are separated by a cleft and the margins of embryonic leaves overlap. The features unique to fleshy fruited bamboos are: presence of a massive scutellum, the juxtaposition of plumule and radicle and the occurrence of a bud in the axil of the coleoptile. The fleshy fruit bearing bamboos should be classified into one group, the tribe Melocanneae. Evidence is provided to recognise additional groups in the subfamily Bambusoideae.
23669422|Lappula Moench includes ca. 70 species and exhibits a wide range of nutlet variation. Currently, the evolutionary relationships among species of Lappula have not been examined; therefore, to elucidate phylogenetic relationships and morphological evolution within Lappula and related genera, we conducted phylogenetic analyses with matrices that include 48 species as well as four DNA regions (ITS, trnL-trnF, rpS16 and psbA-trnH) and 18 morphological characters. These matrices were analyzed using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference methods. Analyses of the combined molecular and morphological data result in a phylogeny that is better resolved than that based solely on molecular sequence data. Phylogenetic results suggest that the current infrageneric classification of Lappula, at least at the sub-sectional and series level, is artificial. The evolutionary patterns of 18 morphological characters are investigated in a phylogenetic context. In Lappula, nutlet homomorphism and small corollas are resolved as ancestral, while nutlet heteromorphism and larger corollas are derived.
23642839|Interspecific hybridization among Hawaiian species of Cyrtandra (Gesneriaceae) was investigated using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Thirty-three different primers were used to investigate interspecific hybridization for 17 different putative hybrids based on morphological intermediacy and sympatry with putative parental species. RAPD data provided evidence for the hybrid origin of all putative hybrid taxa examined in this analysis. However, the patterns in the hybrid taxa were not found to be completely additive of the patterns found in the parental species. Markers missing in the hybrid taxa can be attributed to polymorphism in the populations of the parental species and the dominant nature of inheritance for RAPD markers. Unique markers found within hybrid taxa require further explanation but do not necessarily indicate that the taxa are not of hybrid origin. The implications suggest that these interspecific hybridization events had, and continue to have, an effect on the adaptive radiation and conservation biology of Cyrtandra.
23657050|The development of the ovule and of the fruit of Hypolytrum bullatum and H. schraderianum (Mapanioideae) and of Rhynchospora consanguinea and R. rugosa (Cyperoideae) are described. All species share anatropous, bitegmic and crassinucellate ovules, funicular obturator, megagametophyte of the Polygonum type, presence of starch grains in the mature megagametophyte, free-nuclear endosperm, Onagrad-type embryogeny, testal-tegmic seed, and a simple fruit of the achene type. Rhynchospora species have characters typical of the family: micropyle formed by the inner integument alone; 34-layered parietal tissue; and hard achene. Hypolytrum species differ in those characters by presenting a slightly zigzag micropyle formed by both integuments connected with the funicular obturator, 58-layered parietal tissue, and fibrous-spongy achene. The peculiar formation of the micropyle in Hypolytrum is a feature reported here for the first time in the family. The ontogeny provides evidence for a better understanding of the dispersal unit in Hypolytrum supporting the classification as a true achene, like that of Rhynchospora, which is characteristic of the family.
23643797|Previous molecular phylogenetic analyses have demonstrated that Saxifragaceae sensu lato are polyphyletic, with component lineages scattered throughout the eudicots. As part of our effort to elucidate the relationships of members of Engler and Prantl's Saxifragaceae s. l., we undertook a molecular systematic study of subfamily Brexioideae, which comprises three genera: Brexia, Ixerba, and Roussea. Not all taxonomic treatments have concurred, however, in placing these genera together. To elucidate relationships among these three genera as well as their relationships to other angiosperms we constructed large data sets of rbcL, 18S rDNA, and rbcL +18S rDNA sequences. Our phylogenetic analyses indicate clearly that Brexioideae are polyphyletic. Brexia is part of a celastroid clade that also includes Parnassia, Lepuropetalon, and Celastraceae. Ixerba appears as sister to a large eurosid I clade; Roussea appears as part of Asterales. Molecular data, therefore, indicate that Brexioideae are a polyphyletic assemblage and component genera should ultimately be incorporated into other groups. Our studies continue to demonstrate the polyphyly not only Saxifragaceae s. l., but also of its constituent subfamilies.
23672636|Chromosome numbers are reported for 23 species of the genus Bunium, distributed mainly in Middle Asia and Transcaucausia. The great diversity of basic chromosome numbers is unusual for a genus of Umbelliferae: x = 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, and 6. This series obviously has to be interpreted as descending dysploidy. Infraspecific aneuploidy was found in three species, but there are no B-chromosomes or polyploidy. The karyotypes of 18 species are described, using two morphometric chromosome parameters, centromere position and relative length (Table 2), and illustrated (Figs. 24). Species vary greatly in their karyotype asymmetry (20.4  45.9%). Chromosome numbers and structures appear to be useful in the karyotaxonomical and biogeographical analysis of the genus.
23669749|Four collections of three species of Trimenia and one collection of Piptocalyx were studied; early-formed and later-formed wood was analyzed for one Trimenia. Liquid-preserved material permitted analysis of mucilage and starch storage in wood of T. neocaledonica and P. moorei. Because Piptocalyx is scandent whereas Trimenia is arborescent, wood differences relative to evolution of a climbing habit could be examined. Piptocalyx contrasts with Trimenia in having wider vessels, more numerous per mm2, resulting in a conductive area five times greater per unit area than that of the Trimenia woods averaged. Piptocalyx has appreciably fewer bars per perforation plate and thus much greater conductive area per perforation plate than have the species of Trimenia. Rays in Piptocalyx are much taller and wider than those of Trimenia. Wood of Trimeniaceae is highly primitive in its scalariform perforation plates, scalariform lateral wall pitting on vessels, relatively long vessels elements, and heterocellular rays. Imperforate tracheary elements are septate nucleate fiber-tracheids (or even libriform fibers) rather than tracheids, but loss of borders on pits (and thus lowered conductive function of the imperforate tracheary elements) can be explained by the development of these elements into starch-storing cells. Some fiber-tracheids in T. neocaledonica are enlarged mucilage-containing cells. Details of vessel structure in Trimeniaceae are similar to those of Monimiaceae (s. s.), but similarity to some other lauralean (annonalean) families may be found: in mucilage presence, Trimeniaceae resemble Lauraceae rather than Monimiaceae. Wood of Trimeniaceae may be regarded as highly mesomorphic, corresponding to the moist habitats in which all of the species occur.
23643968|To determine the taxonomic status and to clarify the biosystematic relationships of wild rice species, i.e., Oryza granulata and O. meyeriana in the O. meyeriana complex (Poaceae), a series of intraspecific and interspecific hybridization experiments, genomic analyses through meiotic pairing, and morphological studies were conducted. Hybridization results demonstrate comparatively high crossability with about 3439% of seed set, and very limited reproductive isolation between O. granulata and O. meyeriana. Chromosome pairing in the parental species and their F1 hybrids indicate very high genomic affinity between the two taxa. Morphological analyses of the parental accessions and their intra- and interspecific hybrids show a large variation among the samples included, but no appreciable grouping was observed. The traditionally used character, i.e., spikelet length, does not contribute significantly to the grouping of the samples included. Based on the facts that the two taxa have negligible reproductive barriers and share almost identical genomes, the authors believe that O. granulata and O. meyeriana do not warrant separate taxonomic status, and recommend that they be combined as Oryza granulata.
23674409|Four representatives of a family of dispersed repetitive sequences which were prominent and dispersed in the E genome of Thinopyrum elongatum but poorly represented in wheat, were studied in detail. The 1.4 kb sequences were present both as part of tandem and more complex arrays and appeared to have resulted from repeated amplification of the sequence and their dispersion throughout the genome. Subcloning of sections of the 1.4 kb sequences resulted in probes which improved the resolution of the E genome from the genomes in wheat and enabled identification of single E genome chromosomes introduced into wheat. The generality of these types of sequences in the tribe Triticeae was confirmed by isolating analogous sequences from the R (rye, Secale cereale), V (Dasypyrum villosum), and N (Psathyrostachys juncea) genomes.  The cloned repetitive sequences from the R, V, and N genomes each showed characteristic fluctuations in amount within the grasses examined in addition to being virtually absent from wheat. It is thus possible that these sequences may provide useful taxonomic indicators for establishing relationships within the Triticeae, as well as valuable probes for tracing alien chromatin introduced into wheat.
23642963|The variation in the maternal effects on a number of the early Iris pumila seedling traits expressed under high and low light levels in a growthroom was studied. A reciprocal crossing design was used for the establishment of 20 full-sib families. Each family consisted of two maternal groups differing only in genotype used as a seed parent. Maternal variation was estimated from the variance between maternal groups within sibships. Two parameters for maternal variation were computed: the maternal effects coefficient m2 and the coefficient of maternal variation CVM. Maternal effects significantly accounted for the phenotypic variation in seed mass and most of the early seedling traits. Light conditions prevailing during the seedling development markedly influenced overall structure of maternal correlations. Implications of maternal correlations on the integration of juvenile phenotype have also been discussed.
23674867|The mature flower of Harungana madagascariensis (Choisy) Poir. has an androecium of five antipetalous fascicles, consisting of four stamens each. The stamen fascicles alternate with five indented nectary scales. A SEM-study of the floral development, as well as a study of the floral anatomy was carried out to understand whether the nectariferous scales represent staminodia or are receptacular in nature and consequently whether or not the androecium of Harungana, and the Clusiaceae in general, is originally diplostemonous. The five petals originate by the splitting of petal-stamen complexes. Next the upper part of each complex differentiates basipetally in four stamens. The stamens remain fascicled and are lifted on a long stalk at maturity. Five carpel primordia are initiated united in a low ringwall. The five nectary scales appear after carpel inception and develop an external morphology reminiscent of anthers. The floral anatomy reveals an independent origin of sepal median traces and common sepal lateral traces, free petal traces, stamen fascicle traces and alternating vascular tissue which supplies the nectaries. The petal-stamen complexes are the result of a retardation in petal inception, linked with the absorption of petal tissue into the stamen primordia. The development of the stamen fascicles is discussed; it is suggested that they are of a secondary nature and do not appear as a reduction from a multistaminate androecium. The external morphology and vascular anatomy of the scales speaks in favour of a staminodial nature. The comparison with some other species of the Clusiaceae gives evidence of a diplostemonous ancestry of the androecium.
23643377|Phylogenetic analyses based on morphology place Anaxagorea and other taxa with granular monosulcate pollen, as in other Magnoliales, at the base of Annonaceae. Taxa with columellar tetrads, granular tetrads, and inaperturate monads form a derived clade. To test the systematic importance of palynology, we analyzed the data set with pollen characters removed. The result was lower resolution and a different rooting of the family, between Uvariopsis and other groups with columellar tetrads. Anaxagorea and other monosulcates are higher in the tree, implying that granular monosulcate pollen, laminar stamens, and irregular endosperm ruminations are reversals. This rooting is highly unparsimonious when pollen characters are included, and only weakly supported over the Anaxagorea rooting when pollen is excluded. Together with preliminary molecular analyses, these experiments confirm the special value of palynology in systematics of Annonaceae.
23642199|Twenty three species in 11 genera were examined in the field to determine hosts. Only Striga asiatica and Seymeria cassioides have a narrow host range being restricted to grasses and pines, respectively. These are the only species which cause pronounced and sometimes serious host damage. The other species attach to a great diversity of hosts.
23642737|Detailed studies of the chromosomes of the three Austrian species of the genus Cephalanthera showed them all to have basically similar karyotypes. Both C. damasonium (2n = 36) and C. longifolia (2n = 32) have three large and several classes of smaller chromosome pairs. The karyotype of C. rubra (2n = 44) is composed of four large and several groups of smaller pairs. The heterochromatin in these species amounts to about 10% of total karyotype length. All the chromosomes have Giemsa-positive centromeres, but only a few have intercalary or terminal bands. Using differential fluorescent staining with DAPI/actinomycin D, quinacrine/actinomycin D (both A-T specific), and chromomycin A3/distamycin A (G-C specific) three different types of major heterochromatic bands can be characterized in respect of their satellite DNA composition: highly A-T rich, slightly A-T rich, and very G-C rich. The chromosomes of C. longifolia contain more A-T rich C-bands than those of C. damasonium, while the latter's have more G-C rich heterochromatin. In both species several C-bands appear as secondary constrictions or gaps in the Feulgen-stained chromosomes, but most likely, in each species there is only one pair of chromosomes where the secondary constrictions function as nucleolus organizing regions. No major intraspecific variation could be observed except on one small chromosome pair of C. longifolia which had a heteromorphic C-band in most individuals. Possible pathways of karyotype evolution involving polyploidy and Robertsonian events are discussed.
23642456|The DNA from mustard (Sinapis alba L.) seedlings was examined by neutral CsCl and Ag+/Cs2SO4 density gradient centrifugation. Different satellite fractions were revealed by these two methods. The satellite fractions obtained from the Ag+/Cs2SO4 density gradient could not be generally correlated with satellite DNA fractions observed in CsCl. In CsCl density gradient centrifugation, a main band at density 1,695 g/cm3 and a heavy shoulder at density 1,703 g/cm3 are found. By preparative CsCl gradient centrifugation the heavy shoulder can be enriched but not completely separated from the main band DNA.Gradient centrifugation by complexing the DNA with Ag+ rf. 0.25 to DNA phosphate reveals three distinct fractions which are further characterized: The heavy satelite DNA fraction revealed by Ag+/Cs2SO4 gradient centrifugation has the same density in a CsCl gradient and the same Tm value as the main band, but differs from main band DNA in the details of its melting profile and in its renaturation kinetics. The light Ag+/Cs2SO4 satellite DNA fraction had a higher melting temperature corresponding to a GC-rich base composition. Differences between these 3 fractions are observed in thermal denaturation and renaturation profiles, hybridization in situ with ribosomal RNA, and their response to restriction endonuclease digestion. The light satellite fraction from the Ag+/Cs2SO4 gradient, rich in ribosomal cistrons corresponds to the heavy shoulder DNA of neutral CsCl gradients which also is rich in ribosomal cistrons. The heavy satellite fraction from Ag+/Cs2SO4 gradient which contains highly repetitive short nucleotide sequences could not be revealed by the classical CsCl gradient centrifugation technique.
23642803|In Europe the chemotypes in different lichen groups tend to be distributed not randomly but along a north-south gradient. In the south more numerous and more complex chemotypes occur. In the north there are fewer chemotypes, often with fewer substances involved, or strains lacking certain compounds (0-strains). This gradient is established through chemical differentiation according to colourless substances of the medulla (group I), pigments of the cortex (group II), a combination of both in the same thallus (group III), and pigments in the medulla (group IV). The north-south gradient is found in lichens of very diverse families and genera, at least among species that are saxicolous, crustose or lobate but not sorediate. This gradient should not be interpreted as a consequence of relatively recent evolution but rather of increasing impoverishment in northern regions due to glaciation periods and the climatic conditions prevailing up to the present time.
23644077|The inclusion of Tenaris and Macropetalum in Brachystelma as proposed by Peckover in 1996 and contested by Victor and Nicholas in 1998 is supported by molecular studies. Parsimony analysis of sequence data from two non-coding molecular markers (ITS region of nrDNA and trnT-L and trnL-F spacers as well as the trnL intron of cpDNA) suggests a well-supported Brachystelma s.l. clade (including Tenaris and Macropetalum) with little internal resolution. The Brachystelma s.l. clade occupies a sistergroup position to the Ceropegia/stapeliad clade, and both clades together are sister to an Anisotoma/Sisyranthus/Neoschumannia clade.
23642170|Within Epilobium sect. Epilobium, a cytological analysis of 121 experimental hybrids, involving 40 species, indicates the presence of a widespread BB chromosome arrangement in Eurasia, Africa, and Australasia, as well as in North and South America less commonly. The AA chromosome arrangement, which differs from BB by one reciprocal translocation, occurs in North America, South America, and in at least three European species. The CC arrangement, which differs from AA by two reciprocal translocations, characterizes the Alpinae, a circumboreal group. Distinctive or only partly worked out chromosome arrangements occur in the European E. duriaei and E. nutans and in the North American E. luteum, E. obcordatum, E. oregonense, and E. rigidum. With earlier results, the chromosome arrangements of some 65 of the estimated 185 species of the section have been established fully or partly.
23642741|Pollen morphology and ultrastructure in Lactuceae pollen is considered in relation to the accomodation of volume changes, pollination biology and exine-held substances. Echinate pollen grains, such as those of Catananche, are shown to accomodate volume changes by folding along the colpi and possibly by volume changes in the cavea. The different patterns of echinolophate pollen respond in different ways. Folding along the colpi is important in Scorzonera and Tragopogon and to a limited extent in Cichorium and Epilasia whilst in Scolymus the colpi are almost immobilized. Movements of the lacunar floors take over the harmomegathic function to compensate for lack of colpus mobility. Bulging of the intine at the apertures and changes in the size of the cavea may account for part of the volume change accomodated in any pollen type. Echinolophate pollen is interpreted as being a superior means of regulating volume changes with the most economical and mechanically efficient use of wall material which has evolved independently in several tribes of Compositae.
23642726|A taxonomic treatment of the tropical genus Neurolaena (tribe Heliantheae, subtribe Galinsoginae) is rendered. Ten species are recognized : the widespread, annual, weedy, N. lobata and nine relatively rare, relictual, shrubby or small tree species, mostly restricted to southern Mexico and Central America. Distributional maps, key to species, and complete synonymy are presented. A chromosomal and chemical review is also provided.
23643146|Until now seeds of Annonaceae were characterized as mesotestal only. The seed of Artabotrys hexapetalus, however, is meso- and endotestal. An outer mechanical layer which surrounds the seed as a lignified fibrous tissue is derived from the mesotesta. A complex inner mechanical layer develops from a partially multi-layered endotesta built up by crystal-containing stone cells. The multi-layered endotesta forms a prominent seed plug in the micropylar region which is prolonged along both sides of the perichalaza as "inner walls". The endotesta is one-layered on the sides of the seed and participates in rumination. In addition the endotesta may serve for deposition of end-products of metabolism. The complex growing process of the perichalaza and its surrounding tissues is described in detail. The perichalazal pad of tanniferous cells forms an U-shaped septum, in conjunction with the endotesta, dividing the seed into two chambers. During seed development it functions as transmitter of nutrients from the outer chamber filled with starch grains to the nucellus, endosperm and embryo contained in the inner one. During germination this pad probably serves for the uptake of water.  At the initial phases of germination the seed dehisces into two valves along the raphal and antiraphal side. Later on an additional parenchymatous operculum covering the seed apex disintegrates and the endotestal plug fixed by its two prolongations splits along a preformed fracture line into two parts to release the seedling. Rudiments of an aril are recognizable in young seeds only.  The data obtained from Artabotrys hexapetalus are discussed and compared with published information on seeds in other annonaceous taxa. For systematic considerations the necessity to define the origin of the annonaceous seed plug from one or the other integument is emphasized as it may prove to be an important differential character within Annonaceae.
23673259|Dipsacaceae and Morinaceae have for a long time been regarded as separate but related families, whereas according to APG III they are included within the larger family Caprifoliaceae. Although genome size studies seldom provide conclusive characters for higher level systematics, they can yield useful information at a lower taxonomy level. In this study, we used DNA flow cytometry (supplemented by Feulgen densitometry) for measurement of genome size variation in the Dipsacaceae genera Cephalaria, Dipsacus, Knautia, Lomelosia, Pterocephalus, Scabiosa, Sixalix, Succisa, and Succisella, and Morina of the Morinaceae. At the monoploid level the Dipsacaceae genera (x = 710) vary 5.94-fold between 0.902 and 5.362 pg DNA (1Cx-value), whereas Morina longifolia (x = 17) has only 0.670 pg DNA. At the holoploid level 11.58-fold variation occurs between 0.902 and 10.446 pg DNA (1C-value). In Knautia sect. Trichera ploidy levels 2x, 4x, 6x are accompanied by corresponding increments of C-values, but genome downsizing is observed. In Knautia sect. Tricheroides the only investigated species K. integrifolia (2n = 20) has only 0.60-fold the mean genome size of sect. Trichera. Scabiosa canescens (2n = 2x = 16) has approximately double the C-value of all other Austrian Scabiosa species at the diploid level (pseudopolyploidy). These values raise concern against DNA-ploidy estimations at the interspecific level when chromosome numbers are unknown. The species sorted into two major clades of an existing phylogenetic tree of Dipsacaceae differ characteristically in their range of Cx-values. The KnautiaCephalariaDipsacusSuccisella clade has the great majority of its Cx-values larger than those of the ScabiosaPterocephalusLomelosia clade.
23642338|In Europe Athyrium filix-femina has a constant chromosome number (2 n = 80) and is sexual. The normal type of reproduction is intergametophytic crossing. In the gametophyte phase there is a hormone system which induces dark germination of spores and antheridium formation. Sporophytes originating from single prothalli show that a genetic load is present in all population examined. It appears not to be a simple allelic load but a complicated balanced system. Morphological variability can be interpreted as the expression of the genetic heterogeneity of populations. There are no crossing barriers, not even between insular populations hundreds of kilometers apart.
23643047|The karyotypes of three taxa from the Phleum alpinum group of sect. Phleum (P. alpinum subsp. rhaeticum, 2n = 14, P. commutatum, 2n = 28, and informally named P. "commutatum", 2n = 14) were investigated by Giemsa C-banding. The overall similarity of diploid genomes suggests that P. alpinum subsp. rhaeticum and P. "commutatum" are closely related  their karyotypes vary only with respect to their average amounts of telomeric heterochromatin. The P. "commutatum" genome contains less telomeric heterochromatin than the genome of P. alpinum subsp. rhaeticum, but in the P. alpinum group as a whole almost fluent transition between low (1.5%) and high (25.5%) amounts of telomeric heterochromatin was observed among populations. In the karyotype of tetraploid P. commutatum, seven distinguishable chromosome types were observed. Each of them is represented at somatic metaphase by four chromosomes. C-band structure of karyotype and average amount of telomeric heterochromatin suggest that this taxon has originated from hybridization between two related diploid forms of the P. "commutatum"  P. alpinum complex.
23672596|The exines of pollen grains of Hibbertia stricta (DC.) R. Br. ex F. Muell. (Sect. Pleurandra) wear an oily, yellow pollen coat that stains positively for lipids. The pollen is collected by asocial bees, exclusively. The most common floral foragers are members of the genus Lasioglossum (subgenus Chilalictus; Halictidae) and they harvest pollen via thoracic vibration. As these bees cling to the inflated anthers their pollen smeared bodies come in contact with either of the two wet, nonpapillate stigmas. The stigmas respond positively to cytochemical tests for the presence of esterase immediately following expansion of the corolla, indicating the effective pollination period. The foraging patterns of the bees are narrowly to broadly polylectic. As H. stricta flowers are nectarless, it is not surprising that bees bearing mixed pollen loads always carry the pollen of at least one nectariferous, coblooming plant. The pollination biology of H. stricta is compared with other Hibbertia spp. and with "pollen flowers" in general.
23674414|The 5 S DNA units from 15 grasses in the Triticeae were analysed at the DNA sequence level. Four units carried duplications near the 3-end of the 5 S RNA gene with 3 of the duplications centred on the same base pairs as a duplication previously reported by Gerlach & Dyer. The fourth duplication was located 3 downstream from the gene, in the spacer region. Apparent deletions were very frequent when units of the different grasses were compared and it was clear that these deletions did not extend into a 75 bp spacer region upstream from the 5 S RNA gene. This 75 bp region also tended to be more conserved between the grasses as compared to the high level of sequence change in the rest of the spacer region.  Phenetic relationships were established between the grasses using the sequence data. The relationships were generally consistent with the data from other parameters and, in addition, showed that two Australian grasses were closely related to the other Northern hemisphere genera examined. The data concerning the Australian grasses is discussed in relation to the isolated nature of Australia.
23671740|The relationships of three wheatAegilops longissima chromosome addition lines A, C, and D with homoeologous wheat chromosomes were studied in PMC meiosis. Substitutions of alien chromosome A for wheat chromosome 6 B, chromosome C for 1 B and chromosome D for 4 B were obtained. The production of 4 BS/C and 7 BS/D chromosome translocations indicated cytogenetic relationships of C partially to homoeologous wheat chromosomes of group 1 and 4, and D partially to homoeologous wheat chromosomes of group 4 and 7.
23642636|The genetic variability of natural populations of Capsella bursapastoris in North- and Middle-Europe has been estimated by means of enzyme assays. Zymograms of 81 populations have been developed. 17 loci could be identified, and 8 of them can be heterozygous. Genetic variability is greater between populations than within. No correlation between actual population sizes and genetic heterogeneity could be detected. Some electromorphs shift their frequencies proportionally to increasing adversity of climatic conditions, some appear to be constant over the whole area, and others are characterized by an apparently irregular variation pattern. Marginal populations comprise a significantly higher proportion of heterozygous plants than central ones. Apart from this clinal variation pattern, a mosaic pattern, strongly related to habitat conditions, was observed: genetic heterogeneity is greater in more intensively disturbed sites. The pattern of genetic variation in natural populations of Capsella bursa-pastoris is rather highly influenced by the breeding system.
23674482|Ten cultivars or experimental lines of Pisum sativum were analyzed cytophotometrically for nuclear DNA content of early prophases after ethanol-acetic acid fixation. Wide variability was found (from 3.93 to 5.07 pg per haploid nucleus). This result was confirmed by the cytophotometric analysis of interphase nuclei isolated from leaf tissues fixed in formalin. Analysis of interphase nuclei at different thresholds of optical density showed that certain chromatin fractions are involved in the variations.
23642222|New combinations for three species of Polypleurum have been proposed. The Apinagia type of embryo sac is recorded for the first time in a species of Polypleurum, P. filifolium. The Dicraea type of embryo sac found in P. dichotomum and P. munnarensis has been reinterpreted and renamed as the Polypleurum type. The embryo sac types met with in the family are discussed. The nucellar plasmodium organizes before the embryo sac attains maturity in all the three investigated species.
23645354|A phylogenetic analysis of the 'core' Laureae (Litsea complex) was conducted using the chloroplast gene matK and nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS sequences to investigate generic relationships and boundaries within the complex. Despite low genetic divergence for matK, rooting of the tree with Sassafras resulted in Iteadaphne as the basal member of the complex and five resolved clades: a Neolitsea clade and then Laurus, Parasassafras, Litsea and Lindera clades in a large polytomy with unresolved Lindera sections plus Umbellularia. A combined analysis of the data (identical to the ITS results) provided a more resolved phylogeny of the Laureae, with four major lineages: the Laurus, Litsea, Lindera and Actinodaphne II clades. These clades also appear to reflect the importance of inflorescence structure and ontogeny within the Laureae, as well as data from cuticular micromorphology, but there was no support for traditional generic characters such as 2- versus 4- celled anthers. As a result, genera such as Actinodaphne, Litsea, Neolitsea and Lindera were polyphyletic in all analyses. Parasassafras was related to Sinosassafras by the matK data, but distant from it in the ITS and combined analyses.
23654163|Floral development in three species each of Leptospermum and Kunzea, and one species of Agonis, is described and compared. Differences in the number of stamens and their arrangement in the flower at anthesis are determined by the growth dynamics of the bud. In Leptospermum, early expansion of the bud is predominantly in the axial direction and causes the stamen primordia to be initiated in antepetalous chevrons. In Kunzea, early expansion occurs predominantly in the lateral direction and successive iterations of stamen primordia are inserted alternately at more or less the same level. In both genera, further expansion in the lateral plane spreads the stamens into a ring around the hypanthium. Agonis flexuosa is similar to Leptospermum. Other variable factors include the timing at which stamen initiation commences (earlier in Leptospermum than Kunzea), the duration of stamen initiation (hence the total number of stamens produced  varies within genera), and very late differential expansion that forces stamens into secondary antesepalous groups in A. flexuosa and L. myrsinoides.
23664154|The composition of the floral nectar sugars and amino acids of four species of Passiflora (P. foetida, P. caerulea, P. suberosa, and P. misera) included in different infrageneric taxa and with distinct pollination mechanisms has been studied. The effect of weather and floral age on nectar volume, existence, and total and relative amounts of the various compounds was explored. The proportion of sugars was rather constant within a given species whereas the composition, number, and total quantity of amino acids showed great intraspecific and intraplant variability; these nectar properties were independent of floral stage or meteorological conditions. Species belonging to the same subgenus displayed equivalent sugar ratios and similar total amount of amino acids, so these characteristics might be conservative in the genus. For all species, the amino acid concentration surpassed known values for their respective pollination syndromes, viz. bee and wasp-pollinated flowers. No relationship emerged between pollinators with different glossa length and nectars with distinct sugar ratios. Rather, nectar chemical composition seems to reflect taxonomic relationships.
23642482|Ajuga piskoi Degen & Baldacci, hitherto known only from the type locality in Albania, has been found in Southern Yugoslavia. Two figures are presented. It is a rare and "threatened" plant species.
23673954|A native population of Aegilops cylindrica was encountered for the first time in Greece in 1980 (near Kastoria, NW. Greece), completely isolated and at a great distance from its main distribution area. There are morphological and chromosomal, but no protein and esterase pattern differences from other Ae. cylindrica populations. This justifies the recognition of a new variety: var. kastorianum. Our comparative and karyotypic observations support the view that Ae. caudata var. polyathera and not var. caudata (typica) is the possible donor of genome C of the new variety.
23643180|Sequences of rbcL and ndhF were analysed independently and in combination to resolve phylogenetic relationships in Labiatae s. l. Monophyly of Labiatae s. l was supported by all three analyses. Congea tomentosa (Symphoremataceae) is nested within Labiatae s. l. in the rbcL analysis, but emerges as the sister group of Labiatae s. l. in the ndhF and combined analyses. Four noteworthy clades of Labiate s. l. also are supported by all analyses corresponding to subfamilies Nepetoideae, Lamioideae, Pogostemonoideae and Scutellarioideae. Monophyly of subfamilies Chloanthoideae and Viticoideae is not supported. A clade comprising Teucrioideae plus Ajuga is supported by ndhF and the combined analysis.
23643658|Phylogenetic analyses of the genus Actaea were performed using morphological, ecological and biogeographical characters. Using solely morphological characters, the relationships of the three identified species-groups remain uncertain. Close biogeographical examination and comparison of the areas with ecological peculiarities as well as climate data gave important insight into the phylogeny of Actaea and the whole tribe. Consequently, the obtained biogeographical data were used for phylogenetic reconstructions. Both, from the point of view of morphological and biogeographical data, A. pachypoda and A. asiatica are the most ancestral species. They grow on the east sides of the continents, mainly in broad-leaved forests. In West Eurasia the apomorphic A. spicata and A. acuminata occur under similar climatic and ecological conditions, but these species are adapted to another climate rhythm. The most advanced species (A. erythrocarpa, A. rubra) are to be found in the boreal forests where they are widely distributed. This biogeographical approach revealed that the evolution of the species led to a gradual widening and shifting of their ecological constitutions.
23673237|With the objective of contributing to understanding the patterns of variation within the Turnera sidoides complex, a detailed evaluation of morphological variation along the range of T. sidoides subsp. pinnatifida was performed. A multivariate analysis based on leaf traits and flower colour data enabled differentiation of five morphotypes. Common-garden experiments demonstrated that the morphological variants have a strong genetic basis. It was also found that the morphotypes are geographically structured along the subspecies range, display different habitat preferences, and occur in regions with different climatic regimes. Although these results are suggestive of adaptive differentiation of T. sidoides subsp. pinnatifida, comparisons between morphological and bioclimatic ordinations showed that the patterns observed cannot be fully explained by current climatic conditions. It is proposed that MiocenePleistocene events may explain the origin of the five morphotypes and that current climatic and ecological factors may be contributing to the maintenance of the extent and patterns of morphological differentiation in T. sidoides subsp. pinnatifida.
23656058|Non-photosynthetic mycorrhizal plants (i.e. mycoheterotrophs) have long attracted interest due to their bizarre morphological features. Nonetheless, few studies have reported on the reproductive biology of these mycoheterotrophs. In the present study, the pollination mechanism of the mycoheterotrophic orchid Cyrtosia septentrionalis (Rchb.f.) Garay in central Japan was investigated. In spite of their showy appearance, flowers of C. septentrionalis failed to attract pollinators and possessed an effective self-pollination system, in which the rostellum was poorly developed and lost the ability to physically separate the stigma and pollinia, thus allowing contact between them. Comparable fruit set ratio was also obtained in bagged plants and following induced autogamous and xenogamous pollinations. These results indicate that the species is capable of outbreeding, but self-compatible and not pollinator-limited for fruit set under natural condition. These pollination mechanisms may be adaptations to survive the shaded and sparse herbaceous understory, where insect-pollinators are limited.
43496725|A valuable approach to understanding the evolution of gender dimorphism involves studies of single species that exhibit intraspecific variation in sexual systems. Here we survey sex ratios in 35 populations of Wurmbea biglandulosa, previously described as hermaphroditic. We found pronounced intraspecific variation in sexual systems; populations in the northeastern part of the species' range were hermaphroditic, whereas other populations were gynodioecious and contained 2-44% females. Populations with lower annual rainfall were more likely to be gynodioecious, supporting the view that gender dimorphism evolves more frequently in harsher environments. In gynodioecious populations, however, female frequency was not related to either annual rainfall or habitat, indicating that other factors are important in determining sex ratio variation. Females had smaller flowers and shorter stems than did hermaphrodites, potentially providing a basis for resource compensation. A female fecundity advantage may contribute to the maintenance of females in populations because females produced more ovuliferous flowers and had more ovules per flower than did hermaphrodites.
23673937|Cyclamen somalense Thulin & Warfa, spec. nova, the first member of the genus known from tropical Africa, is described from the Al Miskat Mts in NE. Somalia. The new species is closely related to the E. Mediterranean C. persicum Mill. The disjunct Mediterranean element in the mountain flora of northern Somalia, to which C. somalense belongs, is believed to be largely a relict of Tertiary origin.
23644161|Calcium oxalate crystal types and distribution within leaves of Prunus sensu lato (Rosaceae; Prunoideae) were surveyed from mostly herbarium specimens (196 specimens of 131 species of all five subgenera usually recognized). Rehydrated samples were bleached, mounted unstained, and viewed microscopically between crossed polarizers. Six patterns were recognized based on crystal type and relative distribution around veins and in mesophyll. Druses predominate in four subgenera, but prismatics are most common in subgenus Padus. Prunophora and Amygdalus, considered to be the most advanced subgenera, have virtually only druses, which are almost always associated with veins. Cerasus and Laurocerasus, intermediate subgenera, have the greatest diversity of patterns, but few species with prismatics. A trend is evident from mostly mesophyll prismatics in Padus to fewer prismatics and more druses of mixed distribution in Laurocerasus and Cerasus, to mostly druses restricted to veins in Amygdalus and Prunophora.
23664365|Aristolochia is the largest genus of the family Aristolochiaceae and the only one with large chromosome number variation. A combination of fluorochrome banding and in situ hybridization of 5S and 45S rDNA probes was used to evaluate the structural karyotype variability of representatives of two subgenera: Siphisia, which seems to have a single chromosome number (2n = 32), probably derived from an old polyploidization event, and Aristolochia, including the Old World section Diplolobus and the New World Gymnolobus. Based on chromosome morphology and on the degree of diploidization of rDNA sites, A. serpentaria (Siphisia) was identified as an old hexaploid, whereas A. paucinervis (Diplolobus) seemed to be a recent hexaploid (2n = 34). The karyotypes of the five analyzed species of section Gymnolobus were structurally more stable than those from Diplolobus, which varied considerably in the type of heterochromatin, chromosome number, and morphology. These data indicate that fluorochrome banding and rDNA localization may substantially improve the cytotaxonomical analysis of this genus.
23674645|The relationships within the Asteraceae-Asteroideae are scrutinized by means of cladistic analyses of morphological and chemical data. New data are presented, and novel interpretations of features previously used in cladistic analyses are made. Examples are insertion of anther filaments in the corolla, and morphology of disc floret styles, respectively. The results include a polyphyletic or paraphyletic Inuleae s. l., and a paraphyletic Heliantheae s. l. in which the Eupatorieae constantly form a subclade. Comparisons are made with previous cladistic analyses of morphological data, and those acquired from molecular data. Speculations about the evolution of certain organs are presented.
23645033|The mode of reproduction, pollen production, chromosome numbers, genetic variation (RAPD, allozymes) and overall similarity were studied in 6 species of Hieracium sect. Alpina in the Tatry Mts. (the Western Carpathians, Slovakia). All species were confirmed to be agamospermous and, except of H. krivanense and H. slovacum, lacking pollen grains. For the first time, a chromosome number is reported for H. krivanense (2n = 4x = 36). Considerable genetic variation was revealed in H. alpinum and a correlation between geographic and genetic distances was found in this species. Between-population variation in RAPD and allozyme phenotypes was found in H. pinetophilum and H. crassipedipilum. In all other species, allozyme and RAPD variation was low or absent. With few exceptions, the species differ in their allozyme as well as RAPD patterns. The relatedness of one population of endemic H. slovacum and H. halleri was confirmed. It is shown, that Carpathian species of the H. fritzei group are derived from at least two ancestors.
43558250|Pollen from staminate flowers and pistillate flowers with "staminodes" of Phyllanthus acidus Skeels were analyzed under scanning electron microscopy, and tests of pollen viability and in vitro germination were carried out to verify possible similarities between the three types of flowers. The results show that pistillate flowers with "staminodes" are bisexual, indicating the occurrence of trimonoecy in this species.
23656071|Leaf epidermal features are considered to be taxonomically important in Fagaceae. In this study, we examined and compared leaf epidermal features of 112 specimens, representing 105 species and one variety of Lithocarpus from China and adjacent areas and Notholithocarpus densiflorus. As a result of the different interpretations of terms in previous studies, trichome terminology in Lithocarpus and its relatives was re-assessed aiming to reveal the trichome evolutionary patterns in Fagaceae. Twelve types of trichomes and five types of trichome bases were detected in Lithocarpus, among which the broad-based trichome (BBT) is newly reported. Stomata in Lithocarpus are restricted to the cyclocytic type and their size range is 28.6  8.2 m  26.5  9.3 m. The distribution of epidermal features in Lithocarpus revealed three distinct morphological groups: glabrous, BBT, and appressed parallel tufts (APT). The importance of epidermal features across Fagaceae for taxon delimitation is evaluated. Species of Lithocarpus can be accurately identified by the presence of APT or flat epidermal cells combined with non-dark stained subsidiary cells and noncutinized trichome bases only, or in addition, fasciculate trichome bases. The phylogenetic distribution of epidermal features and their evolutionary trends in Fagaceae is also discussed.
23655902|Phylogenetic relationships within the genus Pieris (Ericaceae) were investigated based on the rbcL and matK genes along with five spacer sequences of chloroplast DNA to address questions regarding the phylogeography of the genus in association with insular plants on the Ryukyu Islands. The most parsimonious trees indicated that P. floribunda from eastern North America is a sister taxon to the remaining taxa examined, and suggested that the East Asian taxa examined are monophyletic. A morphologically cohesive group, section Pieris, was revealed to be paraphyletic. Within the East Asian clade, insular endemics from the Ryukyu Islands, Taiwan, and mainland Japan formed a sister group to P. formosa from the Himalayas and southern China. Our data suggest that the insular endemics of the Ryukyu Islands and Taiwan arose via allopatric divergence as a result of a paleogeographical land configuration of a landbridge during the earlymiddle Pleistocene in the Quaternary Period.
23673779|Hydrophylax, a genus of maritime strand or dune plants, was previously thought to comprise three species, one from India, Sri Lanka and Thailand (H. maritima), and two from Africa and Madagascar ("H." carnosa and "H." madagascariensis respectively). Evidence is presented that the African and Madagascan species are better placed into a separate genus (Phylohydrax). Differential characters between H. maritima and P. carnosa  P. madagascariensis, the relationships between the three species, and the affinities of Phylohydrax and Hydrophylax to other Spermacoceae are discussed in detail.
23664810|The wild banana Musa ornata is an inhabitant of the tropical regions of Mexico characterized by patches of tropical rainforest. The overexploitation of its habitat has caused the extinction of several populations affecting diversity and population genetic structure of remaining ones. We used microsatellite markers to determine the genetic diversity and the population's genetic structure of all extant populations. The thirty-two microsatellite loci previously characterized for M. acuminata and M. balbisiana were tested in M. ornata. Only twelve amplified. From these seven were polymorphic and were used for genetic analyses. The Nei's diversity estimator shows low levels of genetic diversity (H e = 0.263) with a mean of 4.40 alleles per locus. Excess homozygosity was evident in all populations indicating high levels of inbreeding. FST pairwise analyses and AMOVA indicated low genetic differentiation. However, 28 % of private alleles were registered, suggesting limited gene flow. Genetic distances, Jaccard's coefficient and principal component analysis showed a good correspondence to geographical locations. The Mantel test performed was not significant. The results support the hypothesis of recent fragmentation events; therefore, not enough time has passed to detect differences between populations. However, it is also likely that results are caused by factors such as bottleneck, decline in pollinator populations, self-pollination and/or a tendency towards clonal reproduction. It is proposed that the preservation strategy focuses on maintaining all the remaining populations and ensuring their connectivity, so as to maintain gene flow and increase the genetic diversity of this species.
23643077|Floral scents emitted from different flower parts of Ranunculus acris were investigated by trapping headspace volatiles onto Porapak Q followed by solvent desorption and GC-MS analysis. Isoprenoids, strongly dominated by trans--ocimene, constituted the principal class of volatiles in all flower parts except pollen; sesquiterpenes were especially diverse. Odors collected separately from petals, stamens, and sepals + gynoecium comprised the same volatiles, but these were present in disparate proportions among the flower parts, thereby creating subtle contrasts within the flower. The main sources of volatiles were the petals and stamens, which made equal contributions to the wholeflower fragrance. Emissions from the petals differed quantitatively between the apical and basal petal regions, thereby paralleling optical nectar-guide patterns. Pollen odor was markedly unlike that of other flower parts, with only few volatiles, a high representation of 5-methylene-2(5H)-furanone (protoanemonin), and no detectable trans--ocimene. The distinctiveness of the pollen's volatile profile suggests that it may serve a signalling role to pollen-feeding insects.
43558171|Sporogenesis, gametogenesis, fertilization and embryogenesis of Iris mandshurica Maxim. were observed using the normal paraffin method. The results are as follows: the development of the anther wall following the dicotyledonous type consisting of four layers, the epidermis, the endothecium, one middle layer and the secretory tapetum. Fibrous thickenings develop in the endothecium when the anther is shed. Simultaneous cytokinesis during microsporogenesis results in a tetrahedral tetrad of microspores. Mature pollen grains are two-celled. The ovary is inferior and trilocular with axial placenta. The ovule is anatropous, bitegminous and crassinucellate. The archesporial cell below the nucellar epidermis undergoes periclinal division producing the primary parietal cell and the primary sporogenous cell. The primary parietal cell participates in the nucellar formation; the primary sporogenous cell differentiates directly as the megasporocyte. Successive cytokinesis in the megasporocyte usually produces the linear tetrad, and the chalazal megaspore of the tetrad develops into a Polygonum-type embryo sac. The fertilization mode is porogamy. The pollen tube enters into the embryo sac and discharges two sperm 16-20 h after pollination. The fertilization is the postmitotic type of syngamy. The first division of the zygote is transversal. Endosperm formation is of the nuclear type. The systematic significance of the embryological characters of I. mandshurica is discussed.
23674171|In Platycerium bifurcatum the leaf primordia emerge alternately right and left below the shoot apical cell on the dorsal surface of the rhizome. They arise from groups of small cells, a single large cell becoming the initial of the leaf apical cell. The longitudinal axis of the leaf apical cell is at a right angle to the rhizome axis and the leaf primordia are arranged longitudinally in two rows. The leaf apical cell gives rise to marginal initials which are responsible for leaf growth in one plain. Early marginal cells are crescent-shaped while the later ones are wedge-shaped. Hairy marginal cells appear in the very early stages of development. The interpretation of these cells as a promeristem and as initials are discussed.
23674657|Restriction site and length variations of nrDNA were examined for 51 populations of seven species of Krigia. The nrDNA repeat ranged in size from 8.7 to 9.6 kilobase (kb). The transcribed region, including the two ITSs, was 5.35 kb long in all examined Krigia populations. In contrast, the size of the nontranscribed IGS varied from 3.35 to 4.25 kb. Eight different types of length-variations were identified among the 51 populations, including distinct nrDNA lengths in the tetraploid and diploid populations of both K. biflora and K. virginica. However, a few variations were detected among populations of the same species or within a cytotype. All populations of Krigia sect. Cymbia share a 600 bp insertion in IGS near the 18 S gene, and this feature suggests monophyly of the section. All Krigia spp. had a conjugated type of subrepeat composed of approximately 75 basepairs (bp) and 125 bp. Base modifications in the gene coding regions were highly conserved among species. Forty-five restriction sites from 15 enzymes were mapped, 24 of which were variable among populations. Only four of the variable sites occurred in the rRNA coding region while 20 variable sites were detected in the noncoding regions. Collectively, 25 enzymes generated about 66 restriction sites in each nrDNA; this amounts to about 4.3% of the nrDNA repeat. A total of 50 restriction sites was variable, 28 of which were phylogenetically informative. Phylogenetic analyses of site mutations indicated that two sections of Krigia, sect. Cymbia and sect. Krigia, are monophyletic. In addition, relationships among several species were congruent with other sources of data, such as cpDNA restriction site variation and morphology. Both length and restriction site variation supported an allopolyploid origin of the hexaploid K. montana. The average sequence divergence value in Krigia nrDNA was 40 times greater than that of the chloroplast DNA. The rapid evolution of nrDNA sequences was primarily due to changes of the IGS sequences.
23669049|European annual species of the genus Rhinanthus often exhibit seasonal ecotypic variation, a phenomenon also known from related genera of hemiparasitic Orobanchaceae. Populations with different flowering times exist, correlated with differences in a number of morphological characters. The present study evaluates the correlation of morphological characters and genetic differentiation of populations of Rhinanthus alectorolophus. Thirty-nine populations of three different subspecies from southwestern Germany were sampled. A total of 798 individuals were used for morphological analyses and 187 of these for AFLP analyses. Principal component analysis showed that morphological variation is mostly continuous. In a discriminant analysis based on morphological characters, only 89.7 % of all individuals were correctly assigned to their previously determined subspecies, indicating that subspecies identification is ambiguous for some populations. Using AFLP data and Bayesian assignment analysis, the sampled individuals could be grouped in three genetic clusters which do not correspond to the three subspecies. Instead, the clustering shows a clear geographic pattern and a Mantel test likewise revealed a significant correlation between genetic and geographic distances. Correlations of genetic distances with differences in morphological characters were weak and mostly insignificant. The results indicate that the subspecies of R. alectorolophus do not form discrete entities and that the character combinations distinguishing them are homoplastic.
23643064|Fifteen cultivars, landraces, and wild accessions of Pisum sativum subspecies, and one accession of P. abyssinicum were analysed with flow cytometry (DAPI staining) using P. sativum 'Kleine Rheinlnderin' as internal standard. Applying the method of jointly isolating, staining, and measuring nuclei of individual seedlings of test and standard material, it was found that in all P. sativum comparisons G1 and G2 peaks were invariable unimodal and symmetric at coefficients of variation mostly less than 2%. This is strong evidence for absence of significant genome size variation in the P. sativum strains analysed. These data are markedly at variance to results of other authors reporting considerable genome size variation within P. sativum. However, in P. abyssinicum flow cytograms and Feulgen densitometric measurements indicate 48% more DNA, at same chromosome number (2n = 14), than in P. sativum. This result demonstrates that genome size variation is indeed existent in the genus and requires further examination.
23674762|Allozyme variation at seven putative polymorphic gene loci (Fle, Idh, Mdh-2, Mdh-3, 6 Pgd-2, Pgi-2, Pgm) was quantified in an isolated Quercus macrocarpa population in northwestern Ontario, Canada. The bur oaks studied were slightly less genetically variable (He = 0.196, A = 3.43) than the Quercus subg. Lepidobalanus average. To assess the genetic differentiation within the topodeme, Moran's spatial autocorrelation coefficients were used for the nearest-neighbor map and correlograms. Results indicate that most alleles were randomly distributed in space. However, significant genetic patches were detected for two Fle-alleles. Patch width was inferred to be less than 10 m. This spatial substructure may be due to limited gene flow and/or demographic factors. Spatially varying selection can be probably excluded as a spatial evolutionary force, since site conditions were very homogeneous.
23674412|The Nor-loci of polyploid wheats and their putative diploid progenitor species were assayed by probing isolated nuclear DNA with ribosomal DNA spacer sequences (spacer rDNA sequences, isolated by cloning), from the Nor-loci of genomes B (Triticum aestivum), G (T. timopheevi), B (syn. S, T. speltoides), A (T. monococcum) and V (Dasypyrum villosum). DNA samples for analysis were digested with the restriction endonuclease Taq 1 and assayed by DNA-DNA hybridization under standard (37C) and high stringency (64C) conditions. The assay procedure emphasized differences between the divergent spacer sequences of the polyploid species and allowed relative homologies to the respective sequences in diploid species to be established.  The studies indicated that T. timopheevi and T. speltoides contain different sets of spacer rDNA sequences which were readily distinguishable and, in the case of T. timopheevi, assigned to Nor-loci on different chromosomes. This contrast with the spacer rDNA sequences of the major Nor-loci on chromosomes 1 B and 6 B in T. aestivum, which were difficult to distinguish and were deduced to contain very similar sequences. Among the diploid progenitor species only the spacer rDNA from T. speltoides shared close homology with polyploid wheat species. One Nor-locus in T. timopheevi (on chromosome 6 G) did not show close homology with any of the rDNA spacer probes available.  The data suggests T. speltoides was the origin of some Nor-loci for both the T. timopheevi and T. turgidum lines of tetraploid wheats. The possibility that the 6 G Nor-locus in T. timopheevi may have derived from an unknown diploid species by introgressive hybridization is discussed. The spacer rDNA sequence probe from T. monococcum shared good homology with some accessions of D. villosum and a line of T. dicoccoides; the implications of this finding for evolution of present-day wheats are discussed.
43558249|New data on the placenta and water-conducting cells of Oedipodium griffithianum challenge current ideas on moss phylogeny. The placental region in O. griffithianum consists of cells with highly convolute wall labyrinths on both the sporophytic and gametophytic side. This type of placenta distinguishes an assemblage of mosses including Tetraphis, Buxbaumia and all arthrodontous mosses but is not found in basal lineages including polytrichopsid mosses. Other features that distinguish Oedipodium from polytrichopsid mosses are the foot entirely ensheathed by the parenchymatous tissue of the gametophyte vaginula, the lack of a necrotic foot tip, the lack of intercellular spaces in the foot parenchyma and the presence of typical bryopsid hydroids with uniformly thin cell walls in the leafy shoot. These results do not support molecular phylogenies resolving Oedipodium as the sister group to polytrichopsid mosses or to all peristomate mosses, but are compatible with a sister relationship to a clade encompassing Tetraphis, Buxbaumia and arthrodontous mosses.
23655729|Recent studies have shown independent control of apomixis elements (restitution/diplospory, parthenogenesis and autonomous endosperm) in Taraxacum sect. Ruderalia. We studied inheritance of apomixis elements in the section Palustria using the crosses between various sections used as mother plants and apomictic T. paludosum (sect. Palustria) as pollen donor. Non-apomictic plants prevailed in F1 progeny, and a high incidence of sterility was observed. Triploid non-apomictic F1 hybrids were backcrossed with diploids (sects. Ruderalia, Palustria) and tetraploids (sects. Palustria, Piesis), and produced various types of progeny. These F1 hybrids were classified into three types depending on the occurrence of parthenogenesis along with restitution, and the occurrence of various progeny in particular crosses (i.e. within the same mother plant) was observed. The results indicate the independent genetic control of all apomixis elements in T. paludosum, and recombinations during a restitutional megasporogenesis in hybrids.
23655571|The genus Lippia (Verbenaceae) comprises about 200 taxa mainly distributed in Brazil, Mexico, Central America, Africa, Argentina and Paraguay. Some problems involving the number and delimitation of species have been reported. In order to contribute to the solving of these problems, the chromosome numbers of 14 Lippia species are documented. The following species were collected at Espinhao Range, Southeast Brazil: Section Zapania (L. corymbosa, L. diamantinensis, L. hermannioides, L. lacunosa, L. rotundifolia, L. rubella), section Rhodolippia (L. florida, L. lupulina, L. pseudothea, L. rosella), section Goniostlachyum (L. glandulosa, L. pohliana, L. sidoides) and section Dioicolippia (L. filifolia). Immature inflorescences were collected and the ideal size for chromosome observation was determined. The majority of species have a haploid chromosome number from 10 to 14. Few species have a higher chromosome number, which suggests the occurrence of polyploidy. The relationships between chromosome numbers and the taxonomic sections are also discussed.
23642471|The epidermal structure of mucilage producing seeds and fruits before and after contact with water is studied. Main emphasis is laid on the elucidation of structural peculiarities of the dessicated mucilaginous substances. Die exomorphe Struktur der Epidermis myxospermer Diasporen wird geschildert, unter Bercksichtigung der durch Kontakt mit Wasser erfolgenden Vernderungen. Eingehender werden die nach Verschleimen der Samen und Frchte sich ausbildenden Schleimhfe untersucht. Dabei lassen sich in den expandierten eingetrockneten Schleimsubstanzen strukturelle Besonderheiten erkennen.
23655992|The genetic variation within and between 13 populations (385 individuals) of Pinus uncinata was analyzed with ten chloroplast microsatellite markers. Both the infinite allele mutation and stepwise mutation model (SMM) have been applied to the analysis of the genetic structure and the geographical distribution of haplotypic variation. High level of genetic diversity and low but significant differentiation among compared population were found. Three marginal populations, Sierra de Cebollera, Margaride Mountains and Sierra de Gdar are strongly differentiated from the rest. Mutations following SMM-like process contributed significantly to the regional differentiation. The pattern of genetic structure observed in mountain pine is common in conifers with a wide distribution range. Lack of significant genetic structuring may be a result of a recent fragmentation of a historically larger population and/or interspecific hybridization and introgression. The southernmost populations from the Sierra Cebollera and the Sierra de Gdar are the most genetically distinct. This suggests a long period of spatial isolation and/or origin from different ancestral populations.
23671744|Individual amino acids and sugars from flower nectar of 32 plant species with different pollination systems were quantified and compared. Data show that there is no correlation between sugar and amino acid concentration. Furthermore there is no correlation between composition and concentration of amino acids and evolutionary advancement, nor any direct relation with pollination systems. However, higher sugar concentrations are often linked with more advanced morphological characters. Nectars from pierced or damaged flowers or nectars contaminated with pollen exhibit modifications and increases in amino acid composition. The presence of proline probably indicates such pollen contamination. Most pollinating animals depend on flower nectar in their energetic requirements, yet innumerable alternative amino acid and protein sources exist. Future research has to consider the relationship between nutritional requirements of pollinating animals and dependence on flower nectars.
23643378|Recent discussions of animal development, particularly at the level of molecular genetics, have emphasized modularity, dissociation and co-option as basic principles of evolutionary developmental biology. These concepts are discussed in relation to two specific structural innovations in land plant evolution: the leaves (microphylls) of lycopsids, and the interseminal scales of Bennettitales. Both structures appear to have been derived evolutionarily by the diverted development of reproductive organs. In the case of lycopsids, recent analyses of phylogenetic relationships suggest that leaves are sterilized sporangia modified for photosynthetic assimilation. In the case of Bennettitales, structural data suggest that the interseminal scales are sterilized "cupules" modified for protection of the ovules. In both cases, multiplication of reproductive organs seems to have accentuated functional redundancy, and together with the developmental autonomy (dissociation) already inherent in the modular construction of plants, appears to have facilitated sterilization and co-option of some of these structures for new purposes. Numerous other examples in plants illustrate the same principles.
23655750|The phylogeny of Alisma (Alismataceae), a genus of approximately nine species of aquatic plants mainly distributed in the Northern Hemisphere, was reconstructed with parsimony analysis on RAPD data and sequences of the nuclear ITS and chloroplast trnL regions, and with MDS on RAPD data. Separate analyses were performed on each data set. Butomus umbellatus was used as outgroup in the analysis of sequence data, and Luronium and Baldellia in the analyses of RAPD data. Among diploid Alisma, two major groups were found: (i) the gramineum group consisting of A. gramineum and A. wahlenbergii, and (ii) the plantago-aquatica group with A. plantago-aquatica, A. orientale, A. subcordatum, A. juzepczukii and A. "bottnicum". Taxa within the groups were poorly separated. The Baltic endemics A. wahlenbergii, A. juzepczukii and A. "bottnicum" have probably originated relatively recently from local populations of A. gramineum (i.e. A. wahlenbergii) and A. plantago-aquatica (i.e. A. juzepczukii and A. "bottnicum"). The exact origin of the polyploid taxa, i.e. A. lanceolatum, A. triviale, A. canaliculatum and A. rariflorum, is still unclear.
23643704|Structure and function of floral bracts, anthesis and breeding systems were investigated in greenhouse plants of Sarcandra chloranthoides, Sarcandra glabra, and Chloranthus spicatus (Chloranthaceae). In early developmental stages the floral bract replaces the lacking perianth as a protective structure by enclosing the floral organs completely in a pocket-like structure, which is formed by the u-shaped attachment zone of the floral bract to the spike axis. The floral bract has a tip with an epithem tissue, from which traces of secretion seem to be released by the stomata. All species investigated have protogynous and longlasting flowers. The female phase begins five to seven days earlier than the male phase. It continues during the male phase and for some time thereafter. The male phase lasts between one day (Chloranthus spicatus) and seven days (Sarcandra chloranthoides). This is the first study on breeding systems of Chloranthaceae. They are of special interest in such a basal family of the angiosperms. Although the investigated Sarcandra and Chloranthus species have similar flowers with entomophilous features, surprisingly their breeding systems are diverse: Sarcandra glabra is self-compatible, S. chloranthoides is agamospermous and Chloranthus spicatus is self-incompatible.
23673962|Nucleolar activity was analyzed in two samples of plants of the wild onion species Allium cernuum, one from Canada (2n = 14) and one from the United States of America (2n=14 + 3B), using phase contrast analysis and C- and Ag-NOR-banding. Three chromosome pairs of the standard A-chromosome complement show small telomeric satellites, which corresponds to the maximum number of Ag-NOR-bands at metaphase and to the telomeric C-heterochromatin. However, the maximum number of nucleoli observed at interphase was eight, indicating that another chromosome pair possesses nucleolar activity. Corresponding results were obtained for the A-chromosome complement of plants from the United States of America, however, these plants further possess three small metacentric supernumerary chromosomes, which show telomeric satellites on both arms, corresponding to two telomeric Ag-NOR-bands observed after silver staining. The presented data clearly indicate that the B-chromosomes of Allium cernuum possess rDNA gene clusters which show strong nucleolar activity.
23674793|Based on optical reassociation studies of total nuclear DNAs at 55 C, 62 C, 69 C, and 75 C, it is concluded that repeat families in great millet, little millet, barn yard millet and finger millet are heterogeneous while those of fox tail millet are homogeneous. In great millet, almost one third of the sequences that behave as single copy at standard conditions are actually fossil repeats. Such "fossil" repeats are not a prominent feature of the genomes of the other four millets. The ratios of sequence complexities of repeats isolated at 75 C to those isolated at 55 C are 2.2, 3.5, 81, and 0.3 in case of little millet, finger millet, fox tail millet, and great millet respectively. On the basis of the above three observations, it is suggested that among these millets, the rate of turnover of the genome of fox tail millet is the slowest while that of great millet is the fastest. Such comparative estimates of differences in the turnover rates of genomes of related species are expected to generate useful data about the evolution of genomes.
23642748|The new species H. lucens Bogner differs from H. truncatum (M. Hotta) Bogner et Nicolson: The leaf blades are narrower, the spadix is adnate to the spathe for two third of its length, i.e. with all of its female and half of its male part. The latter has (fertile) stamens only on its front and staminodes on its back side. Further staminodes occur between the male and female flowers.
23655744|European white oak species (Quercus subg. Lepidobalanus) are known to share a substantial part of the nuclear and cytoplasmic genome. In spite of this fact, they have preserved their integrity. We analyzed genetic variation at thirteen isozyme loci in nine Quercus robur, ten Q. petraea, two Q. pubescens and two mixed (two-species) populations in Slovakia to assess the extent of allele sharing. Moreover, a detailed morphometric study based on thirteen leaf traits was done in the mixed stands. A Bayesian analysis of population structure in the set of pure populations revealed the existence of three clusters, which coincided with the supposed taxonomical identity of populations. However, the distribution of posterior probabilities of data was bimodal with a second peak at six groups, what indicates a possible substructure in the gene pools of the investigated oak species. Moreover, gene admixture was close to 50% in all investigated populations. Morphometric analysis of the two mixed stands revealed a clear morphological separation of the studied oak species, sharply contrasting with a high degree of gene admixture. Differentiation is not uniformly distributed over the genome. High levels of differentiation (FST > 0.10) were observed at only three out of thirteen loci. The hypotheses explaining extensive allele sharing (shared ancestral polymorphisms vs. high levels of interspecific gene flow) are briefly discussed.
43498299|Cuscuta (dodder, Convolvulaceae) is a genus of about 200 species of obligate stem parasites with subcosmopolitan distribution. The diversity of pollen and ovule production was surveyed in 128 species and ten varieties. Taxa were assigned to Cruden's mating system categories based on their pollen-ovule ratios. Variation and correlations among floral characters were analyzed using regression and ANOVA, while the mating system categories were subjected to a linear discriminant and canonical variates analysis to assess their cohesiveness. Our data strongly suggest that most Cuscuta species possess a wide range of mixed-mating systems. Whereas four ovules develop in each flower, pollen production varies over three orders of magnitude. Several Cuscuta taxa are highly outcrossing, but no species could be identified that are exclusively selfing. The transition from the one-style flowers of subg. Monogynella to the two-style flowers of subgenera Cuscuta and Grammica, and from simultaneous to sequential maturation of the two stigmas in the latter subgenus, has decreased the role of herkogamy as a facilitator of outcrossing. These evolutionary changes are associated with an increase of species richness in subgenus Cuscuta, and especially in subgenus Grammica. Morphological features were not individually found to have a strong correlation to the mating system, but in general, larger corollas and stigmas were associated with greater pollen-ovule ratios. Cuscuta presents some puzzling results when considered in light of the sex allocation theory, as only some infrageneric lineages demonstrate the predicted pollen size-number tradeoff, while Cuscuta gracillima complex (in subgenus Grammica) displays an unexpected negative relationship between pollen size and style length. The relationship between host range and mating system is discussed, prompting further research into the co-evolution of pollination systems and life history traits between parasites and their host species.
43496789|The evolution of dioecy from heterostyly has been well documented, but detailed studies on this transitional process are rare. Here we report the occurrence of cryptic dioecy in a perennial liana species with stigmaheight dimorphism, Morinda parvifolia Bartl. ex DC. (Rubiaceae). Floral morphology, ancillary characters and cross compatibility of long-styled (L-morph) and short-styled (S-morph) were examined. L-morph and S-morph display obvious pistil dimorphisms, with the stigma of S-morph lacking papillae cells. Both floral morphs show similar pollen morphology, although pollen viability is higher in S-morph than in L-morph. S-morph flowers produce viable pollen grains but much reduced stigma and set no fruits, functioning as males; L-morphs, although with viable pollen grains and receptive stigmas, exhibit strong self- and intramorph incompatibility, with self- and intramorph pollen tubes arrested in the stigma lobes and the upper part of style, respectively, resulting in L-morphs functioning only as females. The species thus has physiological androdioecy but functional dioecy. This might be the first case showing the possibility that androdioecy could be a mid-stage in the pathway of dioecy evolving from stigma-height dimorphism.
23655235|The composition and quantity of the essential oil of Micromeria allowed us to clearly distinguish between sections Pseudomelissa and Eumicromeria. According to our results the species of section Pseudomelissa (M. thymifolia, M. albanica, M. dalmatica and M. pulegium) contained a large quantity of oil (> 0.5%) dominated by oxygenated monoterpenes of the menthane type, while the species of section Eumicromeria (M. croatica, M. juliana, M. cristata and M. parviflora) had a small quantity of essential oil (<0.5 %) dominated by various terpene compounds. 0.5% of essential oil is defined like boundary value on the basis of the lowest quantity of essential oil measured in populations of species of section Pseudomelissa.
43496758|Patterns seen in other Australian flora have led to hypotheses that early Miocene shifts in climate drove rapid radiation of major taxonomic groups such as Eucalyptus. Little is known about absolute dates and rates for Australian monocots, particularly grasses. I tested this early Miocene radiation hypothesis for Australian grasses using a calibrated phylogeny of the endemic stipoid genus Austrostipa and an analysis of diversification rates. The phylogeny was developed from a Bayesian likelihood analysis of the nuclear internal transcribed spacers region, and three calibration points were set based on fossil evidence. The results indicate that the genus arose in the early Miocene and underwent a species radiation, but the rate of diversification was not rapid compared to the current rate or to those of other taxa. Following an 8 million year period of fast molecular evolution but no taxonomic radiation, diversification rates have been constant for the past 15 million years. Comparable measures such as the gamma statistic can be used across taxa to make general conclusions about evolutionary rate constancy.
43558173|Seed protein analysis and morphological characterization were carried out in one cultivated and one wild species of Sesamum, Sesamum indicum L. and S. occidentale Regel and Heer. Data on 13 quantitative and 33 qualitative characters of the cultivated species and seven accessions of the wild taxa were analyzed. The genetic diversity of the taxa was assessed using UPGMA dendrogram and one-way ANOVA (p < 0.05). Principal component analysis (PCA) was executed to identify the significant characters to delimit the taxa. Seed protein analysis showed diverse bands, ranging from 16 to 88 kDa. A dendrogram based on UPGMA analysis of seed protein suggested intraspecific relationships of the wild taxa as evidenced from the morphological characterization.
23643672|Experimental self-, cross- and interspecific pollinations were carried out in Bulbophyllum weddellii, B. involutum and B. ipanemense (Orchidaceae). The last two species are closely related, but B. weddellii is somewhat more distant. The three species are self-compatible, with pollination by a vector necessary for fruit formation. In all crossing types, high rates of fruit abortion and formation of seeds without embryos were observed, particularly in interspecific crosses that involved B. weddellii. Crosses between the more closely related B. involutum and B. ipanemense produced fruit formation rates and seed viability similar to those obtained in intraspecific crosses. These results agree with current hypotheses that suggest that interspecific crossing rates reflect phylogenetic proximity. Examination of pollen tube growth and aborted fruits suggests that a series of factors may be involved in the high abortion rate for fruits and large proportion of seeds without embryos. The low interspecific fertility noted for B. weddellii and B. involutum is important in the maintenance of isolation between these species that are sympatric, flower in the same period and share the same pollinators.
23673827|The author discusses the history of an unusual form of Pistacia lentiscus L. (referred to as var. chia (Desf. ex Poiret) DC. on the basis of literature data and personal field observations on Chios island. As a result of incisions made on the trunk and stems the tree exudes a specific resinous gum called mastic. The production of mastic currently amounts to 160170 tons per annum and plays an important role in the economy of the island constituting the main source of income for approx. 20 villages in the south of Chios. The history of mastic dates back 2 500 years to the time of Herodotus. The author points out that on the plantation only male individuals are cultivated; these have been selected over a long period based on mastic yield. As they represent a group of cultivated clones it would be preferable to consider them as a collective cultivar 'Chia'.
23675281|A new species of Mallomonas, M. alphaphora (Chrysophyceae), was found in freshwater ponds in the Perth region, Western Australia. It is distinguished from other species of Mallomonas by its very distinctive scale and bristle morphology and is placed in a new section, Alphaphorae, of the genus Mallomonas.
23655980|Nuclear sequences of ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 region of rDNA may be an important source of phylogenetically informative data provided that nrDNA is cloned and the character of sequence variation of clones is properly analyzed. nrDNA of selected Taraxacum sections was studied to show sequence variation differences among diploid sexual, tetraploid sexual and polyploid agamospermous species. We examined nucleotide characteristics, substitution pattern, secondary structure, and the phylogenetic utility of ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 from 301 clones of 32 species representing 11 sections. The most divergent sequences of ITS1&2 differed by 17.1% and in 5.8S only by 3.7%. The ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 characteristics, integrity and also stability of secondary structures confirmed that pseudogenes are not responsible for the above variation. The within-individual polymorphism of clones implies that the concerted evolution of ITS cistron of agamospermous polyploid Taraxacum is remarkably suppressed. Sequences of ITS clones proved to be a useful tool for mapping pathways of complex reticulation (polyploid hybridity) in agamospermous Taraxacum.
23673684|Geographic variation in protein content of wild barley, Hordeum spontaneum, and the associations of protein content with ecological and allozyme markers were tested in an attempt to derive predictive guidelines for conservation and utilization in breeding programs. The study involved 195 genotypes of wild barley from 25 populations, 15 central and 10 marginal. These populations had been tested earlier for allozymic variation (Nevo & al. 1979 a, b). The results indicate that protein content varies both within, but particularly between populations. Notably, the 10 marginal populations exhibit high protein content but low kernel weight, as compared with the 15 central populations which displayed lower protein content but high kernel weight. Three variable combinations of climatic factors explain 40% of the variability in protein content among populations. Likewise, 3 variable combinations of allozyme allele frequencies explain a significant degree of spatial variance in protein content (R square = 0.63).  We conclude that natural populations of wild barley in Israel contain large amounts of yet untapped genes for protein content. These could be effectively screened and utilized for producing high protein cultivars of barley by following ecological and allozymic markers as predictive guidelines in screening natural populations of wild barley.
23643176|Twelve species of Annonaceae, namely Ancana sp., A. stenopetala, Annona cherimola, A. montana, A. muricata, A. squamosa, Bocagea sp., Bocageopsis canescens, two species of Unonopsis, Xylopia aromatica, and X. emarginata, were investigated with respect to the morphology and anatomy of the seed. They show the basic structural pattern characteristic of annonaceous seeds: perichalaza, fibrous mesotesta, and rumination developed by both integuments. However, several differential characters, some of them never previously described, were found: All taxa exhibit an additional endotestal mechanical layer which forms the micropylar plug except in Ancana. In Ancana the plug is built by the inner integument. Aril, sarcotesta and pits on the seed surface are present in some taxa and show different origin and structure. Special anatomical adaptations possibly functioning during germination are described. The results obtained from the investigated taxa are discussed and compared with published data on seed structure in Annonaceae.
23668875|Kielmeyera coriacea is one of the most characteristic entities of the Cerrado, a savanna vegetation of Central Brazil and it is a morphologically highly variable polyploid species. In the revision of the genus, an earlier variety was elevated to a related species. However, this proposal has not been accepted by the scientific community and the problematic taxonomic circumscription of the group raises doubts about various scientific studies on plants identified as K. coriacea. In the present study, we investigated the subject by a population genetics approach using eight microsatellite markers in an attempt to understand better the relationships between the proposed species. Like morphological and anatomical observations, molecular studies of highly polymorphic markers showed a great similarity between K. coriacea and K. grandiflora. However, this tool could effectively screen the boundaries of the species complex and, in addition, detect an introgressive hybridization process.
23673177|Two or more exemplars of the same taxon forming a nonmonophyletic group on a molecular tree may be viewed as representing surviving populations of a deep shared ancestral taxon, and if different species of the same genus, then theoretically phenotypically static remnants of punctuated equilibrium. That taxon may be mapped on a molecular cladogram and evolutionarily resolved at the taxon level inclusive of all exemplars. The technique for mapping taxa on a molecular tree, termed here caulistics, is much like mapping traits but recovers macroevolutionary information at the taxon level. All lineages arising from the mapped taxon are its direct descendants. Mapped taxa superimposed or overlapping may reveal packaged adaptive traits. When a mapped taxon is well split by another mapped taxon on a molecular tree, atavistic saltation based on triggering an epigenetically retained trait complex is a theoretical explanation. Caulistics combines traditional taxonomy and molecular phylogenetics to reveal previously unknown aspects of the macroevolutionary past.
23644270|The morphological variation of the Bersama abyssinica complex in East Africa is analysed. A wide range of characters was examined both on specimens collected for this study and on a selection of type material. The character distribution of each character was examined individually. The ratios of some of the characters were calculated, and selected characters were plotted in pairwise combinations. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and principal component analysis were employed in the multivariate analyses. On the basis of the patterns observed in the numerical analyses as well as those in the field, a new combination, Bersama abyssinica Fresen. ssp. rosea (Hoyle) Mikkelsen is proposed. The presence of the two flower types described by White: (a) male flowers, with long stamens and short gynoecium and (b) female flowers, with short, abortive stamens and long gynoecium is confirmed, but found to be taxonomically insignificant.
23643772|In eight natural European populations of four closely related taxa of pines (Pinus sylvestris, P. mugo, P. uncinata, and P. uliginosa) starch-gel electrophoreses revealed altogether 58 alleles at 15 loci from nine enzyme systems. With Nei's genetic distance (D) the largest mean genetic distance (D = 0.171) was found between P. sylvestris and P. mugo, a distance corresponding to that between other closely related pine species. Mean genetic distances between the other taxa were less than half that value and characteristic for subspecies or varieties rather than for species. On the basis of our results we suggest that both, P. uliginosa and P. uncinata, could be the result of the ancient hybridization between P. sylvestris and P. mugo.
43496769|Naufraga balearica is an endemic umbelliferous plant of Mallorca (Balearic Islands, Spain), considered Critically Endangered according IUCN categories. We present a study of its reproductive biology to look for the causes of its threatened status. It was carried out in natural populations at Cap de Catalunya and Coves Blanques and in ex-situ cultivated plants on the campus of the Universitat de les Illes Balears. We examined (1) the flowering and fruiting phenology, reproductive potential and reproductive success; (2) the pollen/ovule (P/O) ratio and mating system; (3) the identities and numbers of pollinators; (4) the germination potential and the effect of temperature on the germination process; and (5) the seedling performance of this species. The results indicated that under natural conditions, an average individual produced approximately 100 seeds and cross-pollination was the most effective mating system. Pollination was myrmecophilous, and the germination potential was high (76-97%), but seedling survival after the first summer was low (7-54%). We conclude that the major threats to this species are fundamentally extrinsic in character and are related to changing climatic conditions, soil erosion and alteration, and umbel predation. Given that cross-pollination yields greater reproductive success and that pollination is myrmecophilous, lower population densities would lead to lower reproductive success for the species. Therefore, conservation efforts should focus primarily on habitat conservation and on ex-situ conservation through the establishment of an ex-situ population and the maintenance of a seed bank.
23674822|The presence of bottle-like hairs has been described in four hitherto uninvestigated taxa of Plantago sect. Coronopus sensu Dietrich. This hair type is a feature characteristic of sect. Coronopus.
23643231|The phylogenetic and phenetic analysis of 109 RAPD polymorphisms in S. nebrodensis, a perennial and self-incompatible endemic of four mountain ranges in Spain, and S. viscosus, a self-compatible annual widespread in Europe, as well as S. lividus, S. sylvaticus and S. vulgaris revealed a sister group relationship between the first two species. This result contrasts sharply with the earlier hypothesis based on isozyme variation that S. viscosus originated from within a paraphyletic S. nebrodensis and that the two species represent a progenitor-derivative pair. After considering possible reasons for the sister group relationship found, including the possibility of rooting artefacts, it is concluded that neither the RAPD data nor the isozyme data allow to draw safe conclusions about the mode of speciation and therefore the relative age of the two species. As a consequence, the limited genetic variation of S. viscosus in comparison to S. nebrodensis as revealed by both the RAPD and the isozyme data may reflect its population history, geographical distribution, reproductive ecology, or mode of dispersal just as well as its recent origin from a paraphyletic S. nebrodensis. The result of this study calls for a critical reexamination of other taxon pairs postulated to have a progenitor-derivative relationship on the basis of isozyme evidence.
23643029|Evidence from isozyme analyses indicates that Potamogeton  suecicus is the hybrid between P. pectinatus and P. filiformis. The hybrid appears to have arisen on several occasions. The isozyme profiles of this hybrid from the Rivers Wharfe and Ure in Yorkshire, south of the present limit of distribution of P. filiformis, suggest that each population is a single clone; these clones may be relics from the Weichselian glacial period. Populations of the putative hybrid from the Rivers Tweed and Till are not P.  suecicus but probably have P. vaginatus and P. pectinatus as parents. If so, this is a remarkable example of a pondweed hybrid persisting vegetatively in an area outside the distributional range of one of its parents.
23673200|Species belonging to the Alismataceae (Echinodorus) and Limnocharitaceae (Hydrocleys and Limnocharis) families were analysed by banding with CMA/DAPI fluorochromes, C/CMA/DAPI banding, and in situ hybridization (FISH) with probes that recognise 45S rDNA. All species of Echinodorus presented 2n = 22, but only in E. lanceolatus were DAPI+ telomeric bands in seven chromosome pairs observed. A bimodal karyotype and GC-rich heterochromatin preferably located in two smaller acrocentric pairs that generally corresponded to the number of sites of 45S rDNA. A similar pattern of bands was observed in both Limnocharis species (2n = 20), but the two differed with respect to 45S rDNA, with L. laforestii showing only two sites. Hydrocleys nymphoides and H. martii had a chromosome number of 2n = 16, but the position of the GC-rich heterochromatin associated with the satellite differed among chromosomal types. In this work, the cytotaxonomic implications of these patterns are discussed and correlated with previous data from the literature.
23660156|An investigation into the potential taxonomic value of leaf surface characteristics using large sample size and multivariate analysis was undertaken in Carex section Phacocystis. A case study examined micromorphological characters of the leaf surface for six members of the section in Britain. The six split into three groups based on distribution of stomata: Carex recta amphistomous, C. aquatilis/C. nigra epistomous, and C. bigelowii/C. elata/C. acuta hypostomous. There was considerable variation within samples in stomatal density and cell dimensions. Discriminant Analysis of nine quantitative characters clearly separated four species and a cluster of two species, C. elata and C. acuta. Multivariate analysis indicated that the intercostal cell lengths from both leaf surfaces, abaxial costal cell lengths, and widths of the adaxial costal and abaxial intercostal cells were taxonomically useful in this group and potentially of use within the genus.
23645366|An RFLP analysis of chloroplast and nuclear DNA was followed in this taxonomic appraisal of section Ciconium. The section appears to be a monophyletic one, which divides into two groups, or sub-sections. The Zonal 'Geranium', P.  hortorum is derived from section Ciconium, and the species most likely to be its ancestors are shown to be P. inquinans and P. zonale. Maternal inheritance of chloroplasts was demonstrated by comparing chloroplast DNA from interspecific hybrids with their parents. These data also suggest that P. inquinans was probably the maternal parent of P.  hortorum in the original crosses. The 'Ivy-leaved' cultivars appear to be derived from P. peltatum, with some contribution from P. zonale and/or P.  hortorum.
23642753|Nearly terminal sites of Feulgen achromasia coincide with nearly terminal sites of silver banding in the short arms of the subtelocentric pair of chromosomes of A. cepa. Autoradiographic silver grains after in situ rRNA/DNA hybridization cover a more extended area at this site, thereby giving the molecular basis for the staining results. From these staining results we conclude that the transcriptionally active rRNA genes of the standard nucleolar chromosomes are located in the secondary constriction.
23669403|Centaurea amaena Boiss. & Balansa included in the Phalolepis section of the Compositae (Asteraceae) family is an endemic species that is under critical risk of extinction. The morphological, anatomical, palynological, karyological and autecological features have been studied in this study. In accordance with the new observations, additional information was added to the previous description of the species, and the description was edited. Moreover, threat category of C. amaena has been updated according to International Union for Conservation of Nature criterions as CR B2ab(i,iii) (previously EN). Pollen grains are symmetric and isopolar, tricolporate. The somatic chromosome number is determined as 2n = 18 in C. amaena. The karyotype formula of this species consists of three median chromosome pairs and six submedian chromosome pairs. The physical and chemical properties of the soil in which the plant grows are, sandy-loam, weak acid, high organic matter.
23642755|This paper deals with a filamentous Cyanophycea from a Sphagnum bog whose position in the current system is dubious. A characteristic feature, among others, is a certain rhythm of cell division and bipartition of the filaments. As a consequence, only 8-, 16- and 32-celled fdaments are present in the population. An occasional disturbance of the rhythm is transitory. In the longitudinal direction the filaments exhibit mirror symmetry in regard to their middle.
43558133|The anatomy of the bizarre style of Canna indica is analyzed functionally and comparatively within Zingiberales, particularly in relation to the presence of two stigma-like areas, one apical and the other lateral and subapical. We asked whether these areas have separate receptive or adhesive functions and whether they are derived from a single stigma that previously had both functions. We expected that the mechanism of pollen transference would be highly effective at the flower level, i.e., that pollen limitation would affect fruit set rather than seed set. Both areas produce a sticky carbohydrate- and mucilage-positive exudate but only the apical one leads to pollen tube growth into the stylar canal. The subapical and lateral area is regarded here as being homologous to the viscidium of Lowiaceae and Marantaceae. High pollen limitation through fruit set is attributable to the low visitation rate of the single long-billed hummingbird pollinator (Heliomaster furcifer) and to pollen loss caused by nectar robbers, while low limitation through seed set suggests that the efficiency of a few visits of pollen-carrying hummingbirds is high. Recordings of the pollination process indicate that the viscidium is touched before the pollen presenter, when hummingbirds are flying out of the flowers.
23672594|Investigations on interspecific crossability in 8 Cucumis species (2n = 24) and chromosome pairing and pollen fertility of their hybrids from 15 combinations have been utilized for tracing the phylogenetic relationships among these taxa and factors responsible for their differentiation. A collective evaluation of data suggests that there are three broad groups of species, one of the spiny fruited interfertile species, whose hybrids show varying degree of chromosome associations and low to high pollen fertility; the second of species with non-spiny fruits, which are completely incompatible with the former but weakly compatible with the cultivated species, C. melo L. to produce partly developed seeds, and the third group of C. metuliferus E. Mey. ex Schrad. and C. melo and its different botanical varieties. The species with spiny fruits can be further divided based on karyomorphological similarities and/or on relative genomic affinity, indicated by chromosome pairing and hybrid pollen fertility.
23644041|Based on results from a cladistic analysis of molecular characters using parsimony and Bayesian inference, the tribe Selagineae (Scrophulariaceae, sometimes Selaginaceae or Globulariaceae), is found to have arisen within Manuleeae (Scrophulariaceae). The inclusion of Selagineae into Manuleeae is therefore proposed. The result is corroborated by morphological characters, and indicates that the typical Selagineae condition with one ovule per ovary locule has arisen several times within the Manuleeae. Two former Manuleeae taxa are excluded from Manuleeae; Antherothamnus and Camptoloma. The former shows affinity with Scrophularia and Verbascum, and the latter groups with Buddleja and related genera. The controversy between parsimony and likelihood based methods are briefly discussed as is the possibility of historical bias in prior studies.
23674552|A cladistic analysis was carried out to resolve phylogenetic pattern among bryophytes and other land plants. The analysis used 22 taxa of land plants and 90 characters relating to male gametogenesis. Coleochaete or Chara/Nitella were the outgroups in various analyses using HENNIG 86, PAUP, and MacClade, and the land plant phylogeny was unchanged regardless of outgroup utilized. The most parsimonious cladograms from HENNIG 86 (7 trees) have treelengths of 243 (C.I. = 0.58, R.I. = 0.82). Bryophytes are monophyletic as are hornworts, liverworts, and mosses, with hornworts identified as the sister group of a liverwort/moss assemblage. In vascular plants, lycophytes are polyphyletic and Selaginella is close to the bryophytes. Lycopodium is the sister group of the remaining vascular plants (minus Selaginella). Longer treelengths (over 250) are required to produce tree topologies in which either lycophytes are monophyletic or to reconstruct the paraphyletic bryophyte phylogeny of recent authors. This analysis challenges existing concepts of bryophyte phylogeny based on more classical data and interpretations, and provides new insight into land plant evolution.
23673141|This paper presents the first molecular phylogeny of the genus Hemsleya using nuclear ITS and plastid trnH-psbA, rpl16, and trnL DNA sequences to examine the relationships among Hemsleya species. Phylogenetic relationships were elucidated using a combined analysis of all four datasets, however, the number of parsimony-informative characters was still insufficient to resolve all relationships. Parsimony and Bayesian trees were highly congruent. Twenty-three species of Hemsleya split into two major clades corresponding to two subgenera, i.e., subg. Graciliflorae and subg. Hemsleya. These results are partly in agreement with Li's sectional classification. However, the molecular data are inconsistent with Li's classification at the subsectional level. The molecular phylogeny revealed a striking overall correlation between the phylogenetic relationships of the species and their geographical distribution. The Kangdian ancient landmass could be the center of origin of the genus.
23643729|Lomatium, the largest genus of Apiaceae in western North America, includes many narrow endemics whose relationships are uncertain. Although no infrageneric classification exists for Lomatium, several informal groups have been recognized. The Euryptera group comprises seven narrowly endemic species distributed primarily in California. We conducted parsimony and maximum likelihood (ML) analyses using sequences of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA from species of the Euryptera group and several other species of Lomatium. When considered with distribution, morphological, and cpDNA data, the ITS analyses are consistent with the monophyly of the Euryptera group and suggests that speciation in this group has occurred through geographical divergence. Inferences from ITS data also identify putative progenitors of the polyploid Euryptera species.
23674597|Isozyme analysis was used to determine genetic variation within and between populations of seven Lolium species. All populations from the inbreeding species (L. temulentum, L. remotum, L. loliaceum, and L. persicum) were completely fixed for all enzymes scored. They also contained, for four of the five enzyme systems studied, exactly the same allelic variant. The three cross-breeding species showed large within-population variation and much less between-population variation. The great similarity of the allozymic variants found in all species, made the division of the genus Lolium into species on basis of allozymic data difficult. It was not possible to separate the different inbreeding species from each other. Within the cross-breeding group L. multiflorum and L. rigidum could be distinguished from L. perenne. L. multiflorum, and L. rigidum could, with more difficulty, also be separated from each other. Allelic variation could have more relation with the provenance of the populations than with taxonomic classification.
23673199|The reproductive biology of wind-pollinated species in terms of pollen and ovule production is rarely studied compared with zoophilous species, despite available hypotheses on the effect of growth form and life-history traits on reproductive investment. Here, we use published data and new data for species of Juncus and Luzula (Juncaceae) to test the hypotheses that, in wind-pollinated species, woody perennials should exhibit larger pollenovule (P/O) ratios than herbaceous species and that species with separate sexes have larger P/O ratios than homoecious species. In total, we report pollen and ovule production for 291 wind-pollinated species, including 19 Juncus and 5 Luzula species. Compared with other wind-pollinated species, Juncus exhibits unusually low P/O ratios (log P/O = 2.06  0.46) because of high ovule production. We argue that the high ovule and seed production in Juncus, associated with frequent self-fertilization, may be beneficial in habitats preferred by the genus. In general, we found higher P/O ratios in woody perennials (log P/O = 4.37  1.18) or in species with separate sexes (log P/O = 4.28  1.12) than in herbaceous (log P/O = 3.51  0.77) or homoecious (log P/O = 3.52  0.80) species, respectively. However, when we analyzed woody perennials separately, we found no significant difference in P/O ratios between homoecious and nonhomoecious species. We argue that woody perennials, independent of dicliny, may be preferentially outcrossed and therefore exhibit decreased variation in mating systems compared with herbs. Because the degree of outcrossing correlates with P/O ratios, differences between homoecious and nonhomoecious woody perennials could be less pronounced.
23673667|P-type sieve-element plastids were found in the Gunneraceae, while S-type plastids are present in the Haloragaceae and Hippuridaceae. The specific characters of the sieve-element plastids (e.g., their size and the morphology of their contents) are discussed in relation to other taxa of the Rosidae containing P-type plastids and to the systematic position of the Gunneraceae.
23673870|The ontogeny of the flower and the fruit of the Macaronesian endemic Ceballosia were investigated morphologically and anatomically by SEM and LM. The fruit does not break into four mericarps, but splits into two two-seeded carpids. Exo- and mesocarp wither after fruit-ripening and the endocarp constitutes the remaining outer wall. Within the stony endocarp tubular parenchymatic isles develop which are linked with the mesocarp. Subsequent disintegration pretends additional locules in the mature fruit. Similar pericarp formations are also found in some Heliotropium species but result from a different ontogeny. Therefore, although a close relationship of Ceballosia to Heliotropium is obvious, the taxon should be treated as a separate genus.
23644351|AFLP markers were used to analyse the intra- and interspecific relationships among 22 natural populations of 13 Patagonian species of Berberis and the relationships among the taxa belonging to homoploid and polyploid complexes. Seven primer combinations gave rise to 231 AFLP bands, of which 199 were polymorphic. Correspondence between AFLP data, morphological traits and seed protein bands was also assessed. The dendrogram inferred from AFLP fingerprints showed that, in general, populations of the same species formed closely related groups with high coefficients of similarity. Principal co-ordinates analysis showed two separate subgroups: (i) B. bidentata and their putative ancestors  B. darwinii and B. linearifolia  which form a homogamic group, and (ii) B. buxifolia, B. heterophylla and B. parodii  which could form a polyploid hybrid complex.
23673223|The polyploid Leymus species have the Ns nuclear genomes evolved from Psathyrostachys and the Xm nuclear genomes from unknown origins. Currently, little is known about the cytoplasmic genomes of Leymus, and the species of Psathyrostachys that transferred the Ns genome to Leymus remain elusive. To determine the origins of the plastid and nuclear genome for Leymus species, sequences of two chloroplast genes, rpoA and rbcL, and partial sequences of the nuclear gene DMC1 of 15 Leymus species were phylogenetically analyzed with those of 71 accessions belonging to 19 monogenomic genera in Triticeae. Both rpoA and rbcL sequences revealed that Psathyrostachys juncea, P. lanuginosa, and P. stoloniformis had close phylogenetic relationships with the Eurasian and one North American Leymus accessions, L. cinereus. Three American Leymus species, L. erianthus, L. triticoides, and L. innovatus had different maternal origins from Eurasian Leymus species. DMC1 sequences of Leymus were grouped into several phylogenetically distant clades indicating that either Ns or Xm originated from different lineages. These results suggest multiple contributions to the chloroplast as well as nuclear genomes in Leymus species. The comprehensive data indicate reticulate evolution in polyploid Leymus.
23674395|All genera of Annonaceae endemic in Australia (Ancana, Fitzalania, Haplostichanthus) show almost exactly the same type of disulcate (disulculate) pollen with intact exine extending over the sulci. Tetrad stages in Haplostichanthus and Ancana reveal a latudinal subequatiorial orientation of the two sulci at the proximal hemisphere. Sometimes they fuse into a  zonosulcate aperture. Fissistigma pollen grains are  globose and have a flattened pole with a central elevation and a concentric groove, covered by a somewhat reduced exine. This palynological characters give further support for separating the genera Ancana and Fissistigma. Germination was observed in Haplostichanthus where the pollen tube emerges at one of the two sulci and in Fissistigma where the flattened part breaks up during germination. The aperture types described here are obviously transitional stages between aperturate and inaperturate pollen grains and are discussed in regard to pollen evolution.
23655904|Reduced dispersability of species living on islands relative to mainland has been documented in both plants and animals. One evolutionary scenario explains this trend by strong selection against dispersal, once the species has reached the island, to reduce dispersal out to sea. In this study, we compare the dispersal ability of three wind dispersed plant species (Cirsium arvense, Epilobium angustifolium, and E. hirsutum) from populations on mainland and three islands. Dispersal ability was estimated directly as drop time of diaspores, and indirectly using a morphological measure relating the weight of the diaspore to the size of the pappus (Cirsium) or seed hairs (Epilobium). Positive correlation between the morphological measure of dispersal ability and drop time of diaspores were found for all study species. Dispersal ability varied significantly among mainland and islands, and among species. C. arvense showed a significant reduction in dispersal ability on islands compared to mainland, whereas the reverse was found for the two Epilobium species. Overall Epilobium diaspores had a 24 times higher dispersability than C. arvense, indicating that degree of isolation of islands vary among study species. Significant differences in dispersability among plants within populations were detected in all species suggesting that this trait may have a genetic component.
23642235|The serological reactions of Fraction I proteins from interspecific hybrids in the genus Nicotiana have been examined by immunodiffusion in agar gels using antisera to crystalline Fraction I proteins from N. glutinosa, N. gossei, and N. tabacum. The serological reactions of the proteins from the hybrids resembled the reactions of the proteins from the maternal parent species but not from the paternal species. Changes in ploidy level did not affect the serological reactions of Fraction I proteins from hybrids. It is suggested that serological examination of Fraction I proteins from polyploid species and their known progenitors can indicate the direction of the cross giving rise to the polyploid species.
23654273|Maximum likelihood and parsimony analyses of nrITS1-5.8S-ITS2 sequences place Austrian Herbertus sendtneri in a well bootstrap supported clade with Herbertus azoricus and Neotropical accessions which were alternatively assigned to Herbertus subdentatus or Herbertus dicranus. Asian and African Herbertus dicranus form a separate lineage which is placed sister to several European Herbertus taxa. Herbertus borealis from the British Isles is placed sister to H. stramineus in a robust siter relationship, indicating that the species does not belong in the synonymy of H. dicranus. As a result of the molecular investigation, the range of Herbertus sendtneri is extended to the Neotropics and H. azoricus is places into the synonymy of H. sendtneri. Without much doubt, Herbertus dicranus does not occur in tropical America. Morphologically, H. sendtneri and H. dicranus can at most be separated by weak tendencies. Herbertus sendtneri is characterized by the frequent occurrence of coarse appendages at the leaf margins and often completely papillose leaves. H. dicranus often has small appendages and a nearly smooth basal leaf half. Herbertus borealis, which is nonmonophyletic with H. dicranus in the molecular trees, cannot be separated morphologically from forms of H. dicranus with small appendages. Herbertus subdentatus is not identical with H. sendtneri. Morphological homoplasy and cryptic speciation are obviously common in Herbertus.
23673830|Strict sterility barriers where found between the Scutellaria populations on Sicily and the Greek populations. The material from Samos is separated by a strict sterility barrier from the other Greek populations. In contrast, the populations on mainland Greece and adjacent islands are all  interfertile. Three species are recognized, S. rubicunda Hornem., endemic to Sicily, and S. brevibracteata subsp. icarica, endemic to Samos and Ikaria. All other populations are referred to S. rupestris with eight subspecies, most of which are endemic to one island or to one mountain. Three new subspecies are described, viz. subsp. rechingeri and subsp. olympica, endemic to mt Vourinos and mt Olympus in North Greece, respectively, and subsp. caroli-henrici, native to the Malea peninsula of Peloponnisos. The phytogeographical connections and genetic differentiation within and between populations are discussed.
23643935|Isozyme analysis was used to assess the origin of the Danish Epipactis renzii, a local endemic of open coastal dunes. It seems to have evolved recently in several local populations of the more or less allogamous E. helleborine subsp. neerlandica. The obligately autogamous E. renzii is restricted to the easternmost part of the Danish range of E. helleborine subsp. neerlandica, indicating that transition to obligate autogamy has been a selective advantage in that area. This may be explained by water stress, caused by a higher evapotranspiration (cf. the mean temperature of July which increases towards the east)  obligate autogamy shortens the time span from anthesis to fruit set due to a rapid pollination process. We propose that E. renzii should only be recognized as a variety of E. helleborine subsp. neerlandica.
23643520|A study was made of the genetic variability of 101 barley populations belonging to the four, wild, Spanish species of the genus Hordeum (the autogamous H. marinum subspp. marinum and gussoneanum, and H. murinum subspp. murinum and leporinum, plus the allogamous species H. bulbosum and H. secalinum). Electrophoresis of endosperm proteins was performed using a large number of individuals from each population sampled, in order to determine intra- and interpopulational variation. The distribution of variability observed by population and taxonomic unit, is closely related to the breeding system. Hordeum bulbosum showed the greatest intrapopulational variability and H. marinum subsp. gussoneanum the least. In contrast to the autogamous species, the allogamous species showed low levels of interpopulational variation.
23643088|Pollination of the alpine herb Dianthus glacialis was studied in a population in the Swiss Alps in 1991 and 1992. Only one insect species, Zygaena exulans (Lepidoptera), was observed to visit the flowers of D. glacialis. Pollen loads on Z. exulans indicate that it is an effective pollinator of D. glacialis. In 1991, Z. exulans frequently visited flowers of D. glacialis. However, in 1992 almost no visits could be observed. Despite the occurrence of pollinators and the conspicuous flowers of D. glacialis, there are strong indications that this plant is mainly selfing: (1) anthesis of individual flowers is short (c. one and a half days), (2) protandry, although pronounced in other Dianthus spp., is absent, (3) nectar production is low, (4) odour production is weak, (5) seed production by spontaneous selfing is high, (6) seed set in emasculated flowers is extremely low and (7) the seed/ovule ratio is distinctly higher in D. glacialis than in outcrossing plants.  Selfing in D. glacialis could have evolved under a shortage of pollinators during the glaciation periods. Present levels of cross-pollination by Z. exulans have apparently not been sufficient to reverse the pollination mechanism of D. glacialis from selfing to outcrossing.
23674877|A collection of 44 cloned 5S DNA units from Triticum aestivum cv. 'Chinese Spring' were grouped into 12 sequence-types based on sequence similarity and the respective consensus sequences were then produced. The relationship between these 12 consensus sequences (T. aestivum S 1S 8 and T. aestivum L 1L 4), together with two clones sequenced by Gerlach and Dyer, and the 5S DNA consensus sequences from diploid Triticum spp. were then determined by numerical methods. Both phenetic and cladistic analyses were carried out. The following wheat 5S DNA sequences were found to group with respective sequences from diploid Triticum spp.: T. aestivum S 4, S 6 with T. tauschii S; T. aestivum S 3 with T. monococcum S and T. monococcum S-Rus 7; T. aestivum L 1 and T. aestivum L-G&D with T. speltoides L; T. aestivum L 2, L 3 with T. tauschii L; T. aestivum L 4 with T. monococcum L and T. monococcum L-Rus 12. The analyses suggested that 5 out of the 6 5S Dna loci present in wheat were identified at the sequence level. The locus that could not be identified in this analysis was the 5S Dna-B 1 locus. A group of T. aestivum sequences (T. aestivum S 1, S 7, S 8, S-G&D) were found to be distinct from the other 5S DNA sequences in the data base. The existence of the distinct group of 5S DNA sequences suggests that there is a gap in our current understanding of wheat evolution with respect to the 5S Dna loci.
23643036|Silver fir presently occurs in many mountainous regions of eastern, western, southern and Central Europe. In order to elucidate the biogeographic history of fir populations in different European areas, the distribution of area-specific alleles at eight enzyme loci and the allele frequency distributions at seven polymorphic enzyme loci were investigated in seed or bud samples from 48 provenances comprising 98 single stands. Due to great genetic divergence among different populations located near the ancient glacial retreats, it was concluded that silver fir survived in five refugia during the last glaciation but migrated from only three refugia to its present natural range. The occurrence of unique alleles in particular fir areas indicated its migratory routes to the north and the existence of a few introgression zones where silver fir from different refugia has met during its expansion.
23671727|The relationship between gross morphological dispersal structures, growth habit, and weediness is reported for a worldwide sample of 5893 Compositae species from 18 regional floras. A significantly smaller percentage of annual species than perennial species has dispersal structures. Among species with dispersal structures, plumed types are more frequent in perennials while adhesive types are more frequent in annuals. Differences in the occurrence and nature of dispersal structures between perennial herbs, shrubs and trees were minor. Weeds are less likely to have well developed morphological dispersal structures than non-weeds. The data support the idea that dispersal in space may be more important for perennial or non-weedy plants than for annual and weedy plants.
23644405|Heterogeneity of the internal transcribed spacer ITS1 of the rDNA within individuals of Tulipa gesneriana L., T. kaufmanniana Regel, and their interspecific hybrids was analyzed by PCR-RFLP, using the polymorphic restriction enzymes RsaI and HinfI, and by nucleotide sequence analysis. In most cases, the sum of the sizes of the restriction fragments was higher than the entire length of the undigested ITS fragment, indicating heterogeneity at the restriction sites within an individual. Differences in band intensities within the restriction patterns indicate the occurrence of variation in copy number of these different ITS1 variants within individuals. Automated sequencing without a visual inspection often failed to detect existing heterogeneity within sequences, resulting in a discrepancy between the sequencing and restriction analysis results. By visual interpretation of the sequences, the restriction patterns could mostly be predicted well. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) experiments in four Tulipa species revealed the occurrence of several rDNA spots. The number of rDNA loci varied from seven in T. gesneriana 'Christmas Marvel' to ten in T. australis Link. This might explain the occurrence of heterogeneity in ITS sequences in Tulipa, as homogenization of variants has to take palce over different loci.
23674097|Recent evidence indicates that the most common photobiont of lichens, Trebouxia, has evolved from the soil alga Pleurastrum terrestre. The few Trebouxia cells that have been seen in unlichenized condition probably were released from asexual propagules or thallus fragments. Trebouxia appears to be a lichenized form of Pleurastrum and does not exist free-living.
23673256|Mariner-like elements (MLEs) are class II transposable elements found in almost all eukaryotic genomes including those of plants, from which hundreds of complete and partial sequences have been elucidated. We have characterized 82 amplification fragments representing MLEs derived from diverse members of the Bambusoideae subfamily. Phylogenetic analysis of MLE transposase sequences shows that MLEs are widespread, diverse and abundant in the Bambusoideae. In addition, a molecular phylogeny of the Bambusoideae subfamily was established by using the internal transcribed spacer sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) information. The phylogenetic tree constructed using MLE fragment sequences was incongruent with a second tree based on ITS information. These results suggest horizontal transfer between distantly related species or the existence of an ancestral MLE polymorphism followed by divergent evolution and stochastic loss.
23674418|Thelymitra epipactoides has a highly variable visual display achieved through polychromatic flowers and variable inflorescence size, bearing between 7 and 31 flowers, which attract foraging polylectic bees. Only bees of the genus Nomia were observed carrying pollinia and successfully pollinating the orchid. The genus Nomia contains polylectic, pollen gathering species that store pollen in both the crop and scopa on the hind legs. The absence of a reward for the bees indicates the orchid is relying on deception to attract visitors. The relationship of deception to mimicry is discussed. Once on the flower, tactile, visual and possibly olfactory stimuli direct bees to the false anther formed by the voluminous column wings, where morphological adaptations of the flower ensure that the pollinarium is deposited on the gaster of the bee to effect pollination.  The lack of seed set observed on the Victorian coast appears to be due to the absence of pollinators from the heath and grassland communities in which the orchid grows. This may well be a consequence of the reduced number of plants flowering in the community (a result of the elimination of fire at these sites), thus not maintaining a floral community attractive to potential pollinators.
23642702|By means of thin layer chromatography in conjunction with mass spectrometry the pyrrolizidine alkaloid patterns derived from Symphytum asperum, several cytotypes of S. officinale agg. and the artificial hybrids of the former taxa, were compared. The obtained patterns were not essentially affected by variation in cytotype, harvesting times and -location of plants. Lycopsamine, acetyl-lycopsamine and symphytine or their isomers were generally found in the S. officinale cytotypes, echimidine and symphytine in S. asperum. The interspecific hybrids contained all alkaloids mentioned. The definite lack of echimidine in the 2n = 40 cytotype proves that it is conspecific with S. officinale and does not belong to a hybrid-swarm S. asperum  S. officinale with 2n = 48.
23642701|Graphiola phoenicis was restudied by light microscopy and investigated in detail with the scanning and the transmission electron microscopes. Hyphae of the fruitbody are mainly dikaryotic. Karyogamy occurs in cells which are interpreted as meiosporangia (basidia), and which develop in chains. Shortly after karyogamy, meiosis takes place in these basidia. Primary, sessile meiospores are then formed which later divide and produce thick-walled diaspores. The latter germinate either by hyphae or by yeast-like budding. The nutritional requirements of pure cultures of the yeast stage were also investigated. Life cycle, karyological criteria, ultrastructural details, and chemical tests clearly show that Graphiola belongs in the Basidiomycetes. The taxonomic position within the Heterobasidiomycetes is discussed and the order Graphiolales is validated.
23655625|Two endemic zinc violets of the section Melanium Ging. occur on heavy metal soils of Central Europe. The form with yellow flowers is restricted to the area between Aachen, Germany, and Lige, Belgium, whereas the blue zinc violet exclusively thrives on a very small location at Blankenrode, Germany. Both violets are currently treated as separate species. Sequences of altogether 674 bp of the ITS1-5.8S rDNA-ITS2 regions of 61 different specimens of six taxa indicated that both violets are closely related to each other and also to Viola lutea Huds. Therefore these two zinc violets are, at best, subspecies or even only varieties of V. lutea. Thus they are termed V. lutea ssp. westfalica and V. lutea ssp. calaminaria in the present manuscript. Microsporogenesis, pollen morphology and viability of the zinc violets, particularly of the blue violet of Blankenrode, are often defective due to disturbed meiosis. The population of the blue violet might not yet be stabilized genetically but can cope with the adverse effects of the heavy metal elements.
23674034|Thelymitra antennifera is found to be a general mimic of the search image of other co-blooming yellow or cream-flowered species including members of the following genera: Hibbertia, Goodenia and, to a lesser extent, Helichrysum, Pimelia and Stackhousia. The most common pollinators are Lasioglossum (Chilalictus) spec. and the introduced Syrphus damaster (hover fly) as well as a solitary wasp, Eurys spec.  T. antennifera acts by deceit, involving opticals (yellow colour and pollen imitation) as well as olfactory (sweet odour) signals. Capsule production is low and density dependent, a situation demonstrated in other species which have evolved pollination syndromes involving deceitful mimicry.
23645002|Representatives of nearly all genera of the taxon-rich stem-succulent stapeliads and most of the few related, leafy genera were analyzed. Sequence data from two non-coding molecular markers (ITS region of nrDNA and trnT-L and trnL-F spacers as well as the trnL intron of cpDNA) support the traditional tribal affiliation of the genera, which form a monophyletic group. This monophylum breaks into a basal Neoschumannia/Anisotoma/Riocreuxia/Sisyranthus clade, from which the core Ceropegieae are derived. The four Ceropegia species included are not monophyletic, and their relationship to Brachystelma changes depending on the marker studied. The stem succulent taxa fall in a number of well supported, but unresolved clades, the most prominent being the predominantly southern African clade comprising Orbea, Stapelia and some other genera. The most derived taxa of NE Africa, Duvaliandra and White-sloanea, are basal to this southern African clade. The other clades comprise the more basal genera of stem-succulent stapeliads, including the members of the Caralluma complex. Of the 17 genera accepted by Plowes for the Caralluma complex, seven are recognized: Caralluma, Apteranthes, Australluma, Boucerosia, Caudanthera, Desmidorchis and Monolluma. New combinations are proposed in 15 cases; Caralluma adscendens var. geniculata is raised to specific rank. Anomalluma is reinstated, and Pseudolithos mccoyi is transfered to it. A broadened concept for Orbea (incl. Angolluma and Orbeopsis) is recognized, but Orbeanthus is kept separate. The monotypic Ballyanthus, recently separated from Orbea, is nested within Duvalia. Piaranthus (incl. Huerniopsis) is monophyletic. The bitypic Notechidnopsis is reduced to the type species, N. tessellata, while N. columnaris is transferred to a new genus, Richtersveldia.
23674722|Recognition of two different species in the liverwort genus Monoclea Hook. (monotypic order Monocleales), viz. M. forsteri Hook. in New Zealand and M. gottschei Lindb. in the New World, is supported by characteristics of the sporophyte, antheridial receptacle and secondary metabolites. M. gottschei produces the greatest variety of flavonoids and the largest amount of bisbibenzyls ever encountered in a liverwort. In contrast, M. forsteri is poor in secondary metabolites. Two allopatric subspecies are recognized in M. gottschei, based on characteristics of the antheridial receptacle: subsp. gottschei in Chile (Valdivian region, Juan Fernandez Is.) and subsp. elongata Gradst. & Mues, subsp. nova, in tropical America. The exclusive occurrence in Monoclea of glucuronide and galacturonide flavone glycosides and the fact that capsule dehiscence may take place before full elongation of the seta are new arguments in support of the placement of Monocleales in the Marchantiidae.
23673821|Hypericum dogonbadanicum Assadi, a local species from the Quercus brandtii forests of the Zagros Mountains in south-western Iran, belongs to sect. Campylosporus (Spach) R. Keller and is most closely related to a Socotran endemic, H. socotranum Good subsp. smithii N. Robson. Despite the inclusion of these forests in the Irano-Turanian Element of the Iran flora by Zohary (1963), H. dogonbadanicum appears to belong rather to the Mediterranean dwarf-shrub maquis type of community and therefore to be a member of Zohary's (1963) Mediterranean/Irano-Turanian group of Iranian species.  The key position of the Socotran endemics to the understanding of the inter-sectional relationships is discussed.
23674933|Morphometric analyses of populations of Crepis tectorum raised under uniform conditions support the earlier finding based on herbarium studies that extensive divergence has taken place in western Europe with a centre of diversity in the Baltic lowland area. A crossing experiment showed that subsp. pumila on the island of land has acquired a wide range of derived characters without the establishment of strong reproductive barriers, the only exception being a weak tendency for crosses with other populations on land to yield more fertile F1 offspring than crosses with weedy and non-weedy populations in adjacent regions. Canadian weed populations showed a more uniform response in crosses with subsp. pumila than did morphologically similar weed populations scattered throughout Central Europe. While F2 data suggest a monogenic basis of differences in the extent of leaf dissection, other distinctive traits appear to be governed by multiple genetic factors with individually slight effects.
23671527|Flavonoids generally occur in higher plants as water-soluble glycosides. However, lipophilic flavonoid aglycones can be excreted by glandular trichomes or extruded through the cuticle. They are accumulated on the plant surface as constituents of leaf resins or thin epicuticular layers. External flavonoid aglycones are found in various families throughout the higher plants, but appear to be most abundant in the Asteraceae. They occur relatively frequently in plants of (semi-)arid habitats. It is advantageous for chemotaxonomic studies that the structural diversity of exudate flavonoids is normally greater than that of the tissue glycosides in these plants.
23673844|Chromosome C-band patterns have been studied in 34 populations of the Australian annual Bulbine group, which comprises 4x (2n = 26, 28), 8x (2n = 52, 54) and 12 x (2n = 78) populations. The 2n = 26 B. semibarbata populations have a simple, low heterochromatin pattern with very minor polytypic variation. The 2 n = 28 populations, corresponding morphologically to a group given separate status as B. alata, are similar in pattern but exhibit pronounced enhancement of telomeric and, more particularly, centromeric dot bands. NOR heterochromatin and satellites are difficult to identify in B. alata but appear to occur in different positions from the 26-chromosome karyotype. Eastern Australian 8 x patterns are consistent with a proposed hybrid ancestry, B. semibarbata  B. alata. Annual and perennial C-band profiles in the Australian Bulbine are discussed briefly in relation to the "additive" and "transformation" models of heterochromatin evolution and to the possible adaptive significance of variation in heterochromatin content.
23672597|5 new taxa are described and illustrated; their position within the subgenus is discussed: T. hirta W. Till & L. Hromadnik, T. cotagaitensis L. Hromadnik, T. caliginosa W. Till, and T. gilliesii Baker subsp. polysticha W. Till & L. Hromadnik are members of a group including T. myosura Grisebach ex Baker, T. mandonii E. Morren ex Mez in DC., T. retorta Grisebach ex Baker em. Grisebach and T. andicola Gillies ex Baker. T. brealitoensis L. Hromadnik is related to T. angulosa Mez in DC. but distinct and possibly of hybrid origin.
23674384|Chromosome pairing, pollen and pod fertility in hybrids between cultivated tetraploid Arachis hypogaea and 15 synthetic amphidiploids from 8 diploid species (7 of the A genome and 1 of the B genome) of sect. Arachis have been utilized for the identification of putative genome donors in the evolution of cultivated A. hypogaea. These results, in conjunction with evidence from morphological similarities, phytogeographical distribution and some phytochemical features, confirm the segmental amphidiploid origin of A. hypogaea. A. batizocoi and A. duranensis are suggested as the donors of the B genome and the A genome respectively.
23644386|Lens includes L. culinaris subsp. culinaris (the cultivated lentil) and several wild species distributed from the Mediterranean region to western Asia. We compared sequence variation in the ITS region among species of Lens in an effort to end persisting uncertainty regarding the phylogeny of the genus. The parsimony analysis revealed a single minimum-length tree with a topology congruent with patterns derived by previous studies of nuclear and chloroplast DNA RFLPs. The basal and highly divergent status of the L. nigricans clade is depicted, and the progenitor-derivative relationship between L. culinaris subsp. orientalis and L. culinaris subsp. culinaris is reaffirmed. Resolution in the tree was improved by combining the ITS data set with a pre-existing set of chloroplast DNA restriction site data obtained from the same group of samples.
23642608|An investigation of pseudocopulation behaviour in species of Ophrys from southern Spain confirms the close relationship between Campsoscolia ciliata (Scoliidae) and Ophrys speculum, and between Eucera nigrilabris (Apoidea) and Ophrys tenthredinifera. It could be demonstrated that Eucera barbiventris is the pollinator of Ophrys scolopax subsp. scolopax, whereas other species of Eucera and Tetralonia which are active at the same time show no interest at all for the flowers of this species. Special attention was paid to the forms of the taxonomically confused Ophrys fusca group: O. fusca s. str., O. iricolor, O. omegaifera and O. atlantica. While O. fusca s. str. is widespread, small-flowered and has late anthesis, O. iricolor has very large flowers and early anthesis. Each of the four members of O. fusca agg. in S. Spain is pollinated by a different bee, and selective experiments show that each of these four species of bees is specifically attracted only to one of the Ophrys species: Andrena flavipes is the pollinator of O. fusca s. str., Colletes cunicularius infuscatus of O. iricolor, Anthophora atroalba of O. omegaifera, and Chalicodoma parietina of O. atlantica. These four pollinators belong to 4 different bee families (Andrenidae, Colletidae, Anthophoridae, Megachilidae). As this type of pollination represents a very effective pregamic isolation mechanism, these four taxa of Ophrys fusca agg., at least in southern Spain, behave and should be regarded as genuine species.
23664942|This morphometric study of the geographic variation in the Abies religiosahickeliiguatemalensis complex is based on samples from 15 Guatemalan and 12 Mexican populations, two populations of A. religiosa s.str. and A. hickelii s.str., and herbarium specimens of A. hickelii, A. vejarii and varieties of A. guatemalensis. The multivariate methods employed were principal components analysis, and UPGMA clustering. The multivariate and univariate analyses based on 231 operational taxonomic units imply that although morphological differences exist distinct morphospecies cannot be recognized within the A. religiosahickeliiguatemalensis complex. A Mantel's test reports that taxonomic dissimilarities are significantly related to geographic distance. We suggest, therefore, that A. religiosa, A. hickelii and A. guatemalensis are merged so that A. hickelii is referred to as A. religiosa subsp. hickelii (Flous & Gaussen) U. Strandby, K.I. Chr. & M. Srensen, comb. et stat. nov. and A. guatemalensis as A. religiosa subsp. mexicana (Martnez) U. Strandby, K.I. Chr. & M. Srensen, comb. nov. According to our analyses A. vejarii cannot retain its status as a separate taxon as the material studied is nested within A. religiosa subsp. mexicana.
23642466|Cephalotus follicularis is uniformly n = 10 in all populations surveyed.
23656132|Spores from 19 species of the subgenus Aloma Kindb. of the moss genus Fissidens were analyzed by light and scanning electron microscopy. Aloma is the largest subgenus of Fissidentaceae and is characterized by the presence of a peristome of scariosus type. The spores of the subgenus Aloma are present in monads, size small to very small, heteropolar, plano-convex, with a proximal aperture region, and the sporoderm is formed by a perine, exine, and intine. The intine is not stratified, the exine is psilate, and the perine granulated. The ornamentation elements may occur singly or grouped on the surface of the spore. The aperture region shows irregular contours, ranging from circular to elongated, due to the weakness of the sporoderm proximal pole. The observed variations among species are related to different patterns of distribution of the sporoderm granules and nanogranules. Quantitative analysis combined with qualitative results did not allow all species of the subgenus Aloma to be distinguished. The results of this study demonstrate that the spore is a useful tool for taxonomic studies, and suggest that its characters be included in phylogenetic analyses, to assist in the reconstruction of the evolutionary history of mosses.
23669428|Generic delimitation and relationships within the taxonomically controversial group of geophilic Umbelliferae from Middle Asia are problematic. Geophilic plants in arid regions have a short period of development during spring and early summer and survive unfavorable seasons due to the presence of tuber-like underground storage organs. To investigate the circumscription of recently recognized Middle Asian geophilic genera and their relationships, we conducted phylogenetic analyses using DNA sequence data from rapidly evolving nuclear (nrITS) and chloroplast (psbA-trnH intergenic spacer) regions as well as multivariate analyses of the morphological and ITS data. Our results show that Galagania and Mogoltavia are monophyletic, whereas Bunium, Hyalolaena and Oedibasis are polyphyletic. Elaeosticta, one of the larger genera of geophilic Middle Asian umbellifers, is rendered paraphyletic by the inclusion of the enigmatic Hyalolaena melanorrhiza. The genus Scaligeria, in which most species of Elaeosticta were initially described, is not grouped with these genera and has other affinities. Our analyses also show that the morphological characters used for the delimitation of genera within this group of Umbelliferae (such as life form, cotyledon number, presence/absence of petiolules of basal leaflets, shape of mericarp ribs, width of mericarp commissure, number of secretory ducts in mericarp furrows) are rather homoplastic. The psbA-trnH sequences were not informative enough to reveal relationships among the genera studied, although some interesting features in the spacer evolution were revealed (maximum reduction in length among Umbelliferae, homoplasious directed substitutions to restore secondary structure).
23672606|Gene frequencies at 13 isozyme loci were determined in three South American taxa of cultivated potatoes [the diploid group (gp.) Stenotomum, the diploid subgroups (subgp.) Goniocalyx, and the tetraploid gp. Andigena of S. tuberosum], in the diploid weed species S. sparsipilum, and in most of the main cultivars now raised in the Northern Hemisphere (the tetraploid gp. Tuberosum of S. tuberosum). High levels of genetic variability (mean number of alleles per locus, percentage of polymorphic loci, and mean heterozygosity) were detected, being higher in tetraploid potatoes. An equilibrium among the evolutionary factors which increase genetic variability and artificial selection for maximum yield would explain the high uniformity of heterozygosity values we observed in both Andigena (0.36  0.02) and Tuberosum (0.38  0.01) cultivars.  The low value of genetic distance (D = 0.044) between Stenotomum and Goniocalyx does not support the status of species for S. goniocalyx.  In most isozyme loci, the electromorphs of gp. Andigena were a combination of those found in both gp. Stenotomum and S. sparsipilum, suggesting an amphidiploid origin of gp. Andigena from that two diploid taxa. The presence in Andigena of unique electromorphs, which were lacking in both gp. Stenotomum and S. sparsipilum, suggests that other diploid species could be also implied in the origin of tetraploid Andean potatoes. Furthermore, since Andigena were more related to Stenotomum (D = 0.052) than to S. sparsipilum (D = 0.241), the autopolyploidization of Stenotomum individuals and the subsequent hybridization with gp. Andigena may also have occurred. Thus, our study suggests a multiple origin (amphidiploidy, autoploidy, and hybridization at tetraploid level) of gp. Andigena.  Most of the electromorphs of gp. Tuberosum were also found in gp. Andigena; both the direct derivation of that group from the Andean tetraploid potatoes and the repeated introgression provided by breeding programmes could explain this result. However, the allele c of Pgm-B, present in 30 out of 76 Tuberosum cultivars from Northern Hemisphere as well as in 3 Chilean Tuberosum cultivars, lacks in the 258 Andigena genotypes sampled, suggesting that Chilean germplasm could have taken part in the origin of at least the 39% of the potato cultivars from Europe and North America analyzed here.  The distance Wagner procedure provides an estimate of a 30% of heterogeneity in the evolutionary divergence shown by different groups of cultivated potatoes. Diploid groups show a higher (22.5%) evolutionary rate than tetraploids, which can be attributed to both tetrasomic inheritance and facultative autofecundation that exists in Andigena and Tuberosum groups. Thus, artificial selection acting since 10 000 years has not resulted in a higher rate of molecular evolution at the isozyme level in the tetraploids.
23673851|The algal partner of the lichen Pseudocyphellaria carpoloma is a new Chlorella species, Chl. sphaerica. It has a saucer- or band-shaped parietal to subparietal chloroplast with a spherical pyrenoid surrounded by a shell of starch. In some of the fully grown cells two dictyosomes lying parallel to each other and changing their position can be observed in the living state. Reproduction occurs by up to 16 autospores. 8 other Pseudocyphellaria species are also lichenized with Chlorella phycobionts, apparently belonging to Chl. sphaerica. The phycobiont of Woessia fusarioides belongs to Chlorella saccharophila var. ellipsoidea, and to a strain which is morphologically almost identical to one formerly isolated from the lichen Trapelia coarctata. Its ability to gather granules of india ink on the surface of young cells is one of the remarkable characters differentiating it from the latter. In the lichen thallus its cells are regularly penetrated by fungal haustoria.
23655184|As a basis for comparative studies of mating systems, we estimated genetic diversities and inbreeding coefficients for six perennial species of Ainsliaea and two shrubby species of Pertya (Asteraceae). These related species are known to vary from frequent cleistogamy to xenogamy by bumblebee pollination, and we examined allozyme variation in these species to describe mating system variation in further detail. Significant heterozygote deficit was found in five species, while no heterozygote deficit was found in three species. A cleistogamous species showed no genetic polymorphism. Multilocus average of inbreeding coefficients among seven species ranged from 0.12 to 0.78. These findings indicated that related species can vary from predominant selfers to predominant outcrossers under perennial life cycles.
23673829|Onobrychis aliacmonia was discovered in 1956 and described in 1973, the year when it was last collected. Its single known locality was flooded soon afterward by an artificial lake now extending over the middle portion of the Aliakmon Valley (western Greek Makedhonia), and the species was believed extinct. It has now been rediscovered in the southern Peloponnisos, in an area far south of the locus classicus and in a widely different ecological context.
23642192|A new unicellular species of the genus Chrysosphaerella (Chrysophyceae) was found in fresh-water ponds in Switzerland, Japan, and the U.S.A. It is described as C. solitaria. The genus is divided into two subgenera: Chrysosphaerella, comprising the colonial species, and Pseudochrysosphaerella, the unicellular ones.
23660121|Forty-two leaf epidermal features in 20 Nigerian species of Ficus, representing three of the four subgenera and four of the seven sections of the genus found in Africa have been examined. Discontinuities in these characters clearly separated the three subgenera studied, namely, Ficus, Sycomorus and Urostigma, and supported the earlier sectional classification of the subgenus Urostigma (i.e. sections Sycidium, Galoglychia and Urostigma). The subsectional boundaries among the members of the section Galoglychia studied, however, had little backing from their leaf epidermal characteristics due to extensive overlap of the features. The results of the present studies support the genetic basis of the qualitative and quantitative variations in the leaf epidermal cells, stomata and trichomes in the Nigerian Ficus and the present and potential applications of these features in diagnostic and taxonomic investigations in the genus are discussed.
23643822|In contrast to the generally favoured hypothesis that the marginal position of sporangia and sori is the primitive condition, Hagemann (e.g. 1984a) holds the view that the superficial position of reproductive organs is primitive. Marginal reproductive organs correlate with a distinct succession of a vegetative and a reproductive developmental phase in the sporophyll ("phase differentiation in leaf development"). Since phase differentiation means an increase in complexity, marginal reproductive organs are considered advanced. In order to examine the relations between submarginal and marginal sori in the light of Hagemann's hypothesis, various soral forms of ferns were analysed using the methodological framework of construction morphology sensu Weber (1958). The sorus is regarded as a reproductive region of the leaf surface that comprises not only the sporangia but also the receptacle as an essential component. The growth pattern of the receptacle, the developmental succession of the sporangia, and the formation of the indusia lead to the recognition of several sorus types. In the present paper the "basipetal marginal sorus" is presented and defined as the combination of (a) a ridge-, cushion-, or rod-shaped receptacle, (b) a basipetal sequence of sporangia initiation, and (c) the presence of a lower and an upper indusium or of a cup-shaped indusium. As the first examples of this type, the sori of selected Hypolepidaceae and Dennstaedtiaceae are treated in detail. Regarding the phylogenetic relationships of the present families, the following conclusions can be drawn: (1) Owing to the meristem fusion of the indusia the sorus of Dennstaedtia possesses a new quality as compared to that of the Hypolepidaceae. Therefore, the Hypolepidaceae and the Dennstaedtiaceae should not be combined in a single family, as suggested by some authors. (2) The marginal position of the sori, and, in addition, the highly complex soral construction of the Dennstaedtiaceae, are not in support of the primitiveness of the two families, as sometimes assumed. (3) A sorus construction as found in Dennstaedtia glauca can be gradually derived from a less elaborate one, such as that found, e.g., in Pteridium. The continuous increase in the perfection of the soral construction (Pteridium  Dennstaedtia) suggests a placement of the Dennstaedtiaceae after the Hypolepidaceae.
23673148|Crocus sativus L. (Iridaceae) is a sterile triploid geophyte widely cultivated for the production of the spice saffron and only reproduced by means of corms. Extensive research has identified Crocus cartwrightianus Herb. as being a probable progenitor of C. sativus. However, other diploid Crocus species of the same C. sativus group, such as C. thomasii Ten. and C. hadriaticus Herb., have been considered as possible progenitors of saffron. Of the characteristics for distinguishing critical genera, species and intraspecific taxa of angiosperms, the most widely adopted have been seed organisation and patterns of spermoderma microstructure detected at SEM. The aim of this study is to use SEM to analyse the seeds of C. sativus , a cross obtained by C. sativus with pollen of C. cartwrightianus Herb. and the seeds of allopollinated C. cartwrightianus, C. thomasii Ten., and C. hadriaticus Herb. Results indicate that the seed surface microstructure of C. sativus  is very similar to that of C. cartwrightianus while being different from those of C. thomasii and C. hadriaticus.
23643686|Coreopsis nuecensoides and C. nuecensis are narrowly distributed endemics of southeastern Texas. While they overlap in range, they differ in chromosome number, and F1 hybrids exhibit strong sterility barriers. Previous morphological, cytogenetic, and allozyme studies suggested that C. nuecensoides and C. nuecensis are very closely related members of a progenitor-derivative species pair. The two species differ substantially in terms of their leaf flavonoid chemistry, but the flavonoid data do not address the exact nature of the relationship between them. We have further examined the relationship between the species by analyzing genetic diversity within both species using chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site data. Sixteen restriction site changes were used to define thirteen distinct cpDNA haplotypes. The pattern of relationships among haplotypes provides some support for the presumed ancestor-descendent relationship, but other interpretations are possible. Only one cpDNA haplotype was shared by the two species; of the remaining twelve, seven were unique to one species and five to the other. This result is consistent with results of flavonoid studies, in which each species exhibited flavonoid compounds not seen in the other, but differs from the allozyme results, in which the vast majority of alleles were shared by both species and only the presumed progenitor exhibited unique alleles. Taken together, the data support a very close relationship between the species, but are equivocal with regard to a progenitor-derivative relationship.
23644336|This study assesses to what extent bat pollination has acted as a selective force on pollen morphology. Earlier pollen studies have suggested convergent evolution of verrucate exine ornamentation. Furthermore pollen of bat pollinated plants has been reported to be bigger than that of plants pollinated by other means. The generality of these ideas is tested using a sample of 130 species of both bat pollinated plants and relatives with another mode of pollination. An analysis of pollen size, shape, aperture number and type, and ornamentation type of 35 plant groups in which a transition towards bat pollination occurred was performed and showed a significant effect for pollen size only. Bat pollinated plants have bigger pollen than their relatives. Pollen size was shown to correlate with style length. Pollen shape, aperture system and exine ornamentation are in general not very different in bat pollinated plants in comparison with their relatives. There is no consistent trend for rougher exines to be associated with bat pollination.
23674906|The chloroplast gene encoding ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate-carboxylase (rbcL) was sequenced for phylogenetic analysis of 13 species (10 genera) in the tribe Polygonatae s.l. of the Liliaceae-Asparagoideae. The data were analysed using maximum parsimony and neighbour-joining methods. There were 233 phylogenetically informative sites out of 1368 base pairs compared. The results suggest that there are three monophyletic groups within Polygonatae s.l. with high bootstrap confidence values. Group A represents Polygonatae s.str., with genera Maianthemum, Smilacina, Convallaria, Disporopsis, and Polygonatum. Group B contains Uvularia and Disporum and group C includes Streptopus, Tricyrtis, Clintonia, and Prosartes. The study suggests that Polygonatae s.l. are not a monophyletic group, including at least three groups of different phylogenetic origin. Monophyly of the taxa within groups A, B, and C is supported by the high bootstrap confidence values (85 100%) of the bootstrap replications for both parsimony and neighbour-joining methods. The differences between each group (calculated as 100x base substitutions per site) were 6.999.03 for group A and B, 4.927.35 for A and C, and 6.667.57 for B and C.
23672599|Catinaria grossa is lichenized with Dictyochloropsis splendida var. gelatinosa, var. nova. When cultured isolated from the fungus the cells of this variety are covered individually by thick gelatinous envelopes. The phycobionts of Megalospora gompholoma subsp. gompholoma and M. atrorubicans subsp. australis belong to a new variety of D. symbiontica, i.e. var. pauciautosporica, which preferentially reproduces by zoo- and aplanospores. The phycobiont of Pseudocyphellaria aurata does not belong to Myrmecia reticulata as formerly thought, but to Dictyochloropsis symbiontica. Specimens from one locality in Tenerife and from New Zealand are lichenized with a strain of D. symbiontica var. symbiontica, those from another locality in Tenerife with a strain of D. symbiontica var. pauciautosporica. These strains differ in certain characters from other lichenized strains of these varieties.
43558224|Interspecific hybridization played an important role in speciation and evolution of angiosperms. Although the widespread occurrence of natural hybrids in the genus Potamogeton has been studied intensively, few successful experimental hybridization studies have been reported in this genus. In the present study, critical experimental hybridization was conducted using Potamogeton  intortusifolius, a natural hybrid widely distributed in China, and its parents (P. perfoliatus and P. wrightii). The absence of prezygotic barriers between P. wrightii and P. perfoliatus was observed, which contributes to the frequent hybridization of these species in nature. The pollen tube growth rates of P. perfoliatus were much faster than those of P. wrightii in the style of that species. However, the conspecific pollen tubes were competitively advantageous in P. perfoliatus styles. The interspecific hybridization could be applied bidirectionally, and 28 F1 hybrid individuals were successfully obtained from P. wrightii  P.perfoliatus, despite the low germination possibility of the hybrid seeds. Both the artificial and natural hybrids exhibited intermediate morphological characters but presented much lower fertility. The sterility of P. intortusifolius is mainly due to its low female fitness. However, the offspring from P. wrightii  P.  intortusifolius indicated the potential for backcrossing in nature.This is the most successful attempt at artificial hybridization in this genus so far. The possible route for restoration of fertility and the fitness of the hybrids are also discussed in this paper.
23673963|Two stigma forms occur in Chamaecrista and Senna, but only one in Cassia. In the common chambered form, a stigma pore is positioned on the reflexed style tip and is the entrance to a tapering chamber. The pore rim is fringed by hairs which vary in number, size, distribution and shape. In the alternative form the stigma is situated at the apex of the curved style and is crateriform. The crater rim is fringed by hairs of variable number and shape. The stigmatic hairs are predominantly unicellular and cutinized. Stigma and hair differences aid in the taxonomy of the genera. Their functions in pollination biology are discussed.
23674719|In the seagrass Phyllospadix scouleri (Zosteraceae) floral aggregates (spadices) occur on short lateral axes produced by subordinate vegetative shoots. The filamentous pollen is both dispersed on the surface of the sea as well as below the surface. In surface pollination, snowflake-like search vehicles (pollen rafts) float and collide with any rigid female inflorescences that emerge from the water surface. In submarine pollination, collinear bundles of pollen grains are dispersed. Analysis of seed set indicates ovule position within the inflorescence to affect likelihood of fertilization in submarine, but not surface-pollinated inflorescences. Agamospermy appears to be unlikely, but the strongly female-biased shoot sex ratio remains to be explained.
23642080|None of the 27 studied Rhinanthoideae is host-specific. Some host plants are preferred (e.g. Rosaceae, Fabaceae, Lamiaceae, Asteraceae, Cyperaceae, and Poaceae), others are strictly avoided (e.g. Orchidaceae). Self-parasitism and parasitism on rhizomes are wide-spread. This and the number of haustoria developed are closely related to number of host plants available. Most of the Rhinanthoideae studied have haustoria also at the main root. No serious injury of host plants by Rhinanthoideae under natural conditions can be demonstrated. 1. Keine der 27 untersuchten Rhinanthoideae ist wirtsspezifisch; manche Wirtspflanzen werden jedoch bevorzugt (z. B. Rosaceae, Fabaceae, Laminaceae, Asteraceae, Cyperaceae, Poaceae), andere dagegen streng gemieden (z. B. Orchidaceae). 2. Selbstparasitismus ist weit verbreitet; nicht nur zwischen Individuen derselben Art, sondern auch zwischen Wurzeln ein und derselben Pflanze. Dabei wird jedoch stets nur ein Haustorium gebildet. Auch gegenseitiger Parasitismus von Individuen verschiedener Rhinanthoideae wurde beobachtet. 3. Sproparasitismus an Rhizomen und auch an aufrechten Sprossen im Boden kann hufig beobachtet werden. 4. Haustorien finden sich auch an den Hauptwurzeln. Das Wurzelsystem und die Anordnung der Haustorien unterscheiden sich bei ausdauernden und einjhrigen Rhinanthoideae. Die Anzahl der gebildeten Haustorien ist besonders von Menge und Entfernung der Wirtspflanzen abhngig. 5. Eine sichtbare Schdigung durch Rhinanthoideae-Haustorien ist an den Wirtspflanzen am natrlichen Standort nicht festzustellen.
23655158|For a long time it was considered that Cardamine raphanifolia is widely distributed with several infraspecific taxa in the Mediterranean region. Recent studies showed that C. raphanifolia is restricted to the northern Iberian Peninsula. Cardamine gallaecica from NW Spain was regarded to be closely related, but was originally regarded as C. amara, and later described as C. raphanifolia subsp. gallaecica. In this study, we validate the treatment of C. raphanifolia and C. gallaecica as distinct species, and show their clear differentiation based on morphometric and molecular AFLP analyses. Moreover, both species are clearly distinct from C. amara subsp. pyrenaea, which has an overlapping distributional range with C. raphanifolia. Hexaploid (2n = 48) and octoploid cytotypes (2n = 64) of C. raphanifolia, and tetraploid (2n = 32) and hexaploid (2n = 48) cytotypes of C. gallaecica were found. Due to their weak morphological and genetic differentiation, these polyploid races are not classified as separate taxa.
23642914|A new taxonomic treatment is proposed for the Pottia starckeana species complex. The peristome development is not considered to be a useful feature to separate the taxa. On the basis of spore morphology only two species are accepted: P. starckeana, with spores wavy in outline, and P. davalliana, with variously-shaped and developed processes on the spores. Pottia starckeana var. brachyoda is reduced to synonymy with P. starckeana; P. conica and P. commutata are treated as synonyms of P. davalliana. The species P. mutica, P. affinis, P. salina, P. microphylla, P. texana, and P. arizonica (included var. mucronulata) are considered taxa of doubtful affinity, as they have spore features intermediate between the two spore types established for the group. The identity of P. appertii and P. recurvifolia has not been elucidated because the type material has been destroyed.
23642553|From field observations on Drimys brasiliensis, principally in the Botucatu region of So Paulo State, Brazil, new data on the reproductive biology, the rhythm of growth, and the development of lateral cymose inflorescences, flowers and fruits are presented. Pollination accelerates the rate of flower-development for about 4-6 days. Pollination experiments show that D. brasiliensis is not self-sterile; because of mechanical devices the sticky pollen grains do not normally come into contact with the stigmata unless an animal pollen vector is involved. The pollinators are diurnal Coleoptera, Diptera and Thysanoptera which eat from the pollen, lick from the stigmatic exudates and (in case of the flies) probably also from the staminal glands. Fruit- and seed-eaters are birds which seem to be the main dispersal agents. Establishment of new individuals normally is through seedlings, but also by vegetative propagation through plagiotropous branches which may root and separate from the mother plant. The morphological, developmental and reproductive aspects in D. brasiliensis are discussed in a wider context, compared with data from other Magnoliidae, and related to aspects of early Angiosperm evolution.
43558066|The family Podostemaceae is exceptional among angiosperms because of its uncommon biology and morphology, the absence of double fertilisation and endosperm, and the obscure distinction between root, stem, and leaf. The highly modified morphology produced by reductions and specialisations is reflected in the multiple positions that the Podostemaceae has occupied in different classification systems. In the family, structural studies are mainly related to the vegetative body. In the genus Podostemum, structural data are related to the development and embryology of Podostemum ceratophyllum Michx., which, with P. weddellianum, has pre-anthesis cleistogamy. P. weddellianum is analysed for the first time with regard to floral structure and palynology. The presence of silica in the spathella, the apical septum in the ovary, dyads and pseudomonads, unimodal embryo sac and chasmogamous flowers with the possibility of self-pollination contribute to the characterisation of the Podostemoideae and the search for relationships among Podostemaceae and the clusioids.
23642802|A report is given on about 1000 specimens of 28 species of Phorinae and their occurrence on 12 species of Umbelliferae. Collections were made in a variety of habitats ranging from the German North Sea coast up to altitudes of 2500 m in the Western Alps. The morphology of the mouth-parts of the flies and their behaviour on the umbels are discussed briefly. No specific adaptations exist between Phorid flies and the visited umbels; their relationship is mutualistic. Climate and altitude have a greater influence on frequency and diversity of these visitors than the host-plants themselves. Visitors frequency and diversity increases with altitude. Es wird ber die Aufsammlung von ca. 1000 Exemplaren von Phorinae aus 28 Arten auf 12 Arten Umbelliferae aus dem Gebiet von der deutschen Nordseekste bis zu den Westalpen berichtet. Die Beziehungen zwischen den Fliegen und den Wirtspflanzen sind mutualistisch. Artenspektrum und Besuchsfrequenz sind von geographischen und klimatischen Bedingungen weit strker als von der Wirtspflanzenart abhngig.
23642981|Dianthus nangarharicus sp. n. (sect. Leiopetali) from E. Afghanistan; D. harrissii sp. n. (sect. Dentati) from N. Pakistan to W. Tibet, D. hyrcanicus sp. n. (sect. Dentati) from N. Iran. Five further new species from Iran belong to sect. Fimbriati: D. binaludensis (close to D. paghmanicus), D. jacobsii (close to D. crinitus and D. orientalis), D. longivaginatus (similar to D. fragrans), D. mazanderanicus and D. agrostolepis (both close to D. orientalis subsp. gorganicus).
23671773|Populations of different taxa within Beta sect. Beta were compared using a number of floral and reproductive characters. Plants which were known to be self-incompatible (through S-allele incompatibility) were found to be morphologically distinct from those which were self-compatible, with the floral characteristics of the latter promoting their autogamy.
23674321|Potamogeton distinctus has an E. Asian distribution and is closely related to P. nodosus. P. tepperi seems to be a synonym of P. tricarinatus, even though the name has frequently been applied to other species like P. distinctus. P. indicus is a synonym of P. nodosus notwithstanding the fact that not all Indian broad-leaved pondweeds belong to that taxon.
23644178|Genetic variation and structure of ten wild, three domesticated and one wild-cultivated populations of pepper (Capsicum annuum) from northwestern Mexico were studied in order to find out if the domestication process has reduced the genetic variation of the modern cultivars of this species. The analysis was based on 12 polymorphic loci from nine isozymes. Wild populations were sampled in different habitats along a latitudinal gradient of ca. 500 km. All populations had high genetic variation (i.e. wild: A = 2.72, P = 90.8%, He = 0.445; wild-cultivated: A = 2.50, P = 92.3%, He = 0.461; domesticated: A = 2.60, P = 84.6%, He = 0.408), indicating little genetic erosion in modern cultivars of pepper. Genetic diversity estimated by Nei's method showed that most genetic variation is found within, rather than among populations. However, genetic differentiation is greater among cultivated (GST = 0.167) than among wild (GST = 0.056) populations. Wild populations had an average genetic identity (I) of 0.952, indicating little differentiation and high gene flow (NM = 4.21) among these populations. Average genetic identity between wild and domesticated populations was of I = 0.818, revealing that the domestication process has modified the genetic composition of commercial varieties of pepper. Changes in genetic composition among commercial varieties seem to have occurred in different directions, as indicated by the average value of I = 0.817 among these populations. The high level of diversity found in wild populations of C. annuum suggests that the wild relatives of cultivated peppers are a valuable genetic resource which must be conserved.
43558328|Two tetraploid species of Hibiscus section Furcaria, H. acetosella and H. radiatus, have an AABB genomic constitution. The diploid species, H. cannabinus (AA) and H. surattensis (BB), were hybridized to develop interspecific alloploid (AB) hybrids. The synthetic interspecific hybrid exhibited intermediate morphological characters, with expression of domestication-related traits, but exhibited higher genomic association with the B genome donor. Evolution of allopolyploids in section Furcaria was found to be associated with mutations in repetitive sequences, leading to higher variation in the tetraploid genome. Allopolyploidization was observed to be associated with both loss of repetitive sequences and appearance of new aleles. Genetic diversity analysis using ISSR and cross-species SSR markers revealed a closer association of diploid genomes and high variability of tetraploid genomes. The evolution of AABB tetraploids in this section possibly took place by hybridization of the A and B genome in geographically isolated regions.
23674514|The genus Scrophularia in the Iberian Peninsula and Balearic Islands comprises two sections, Scrophularia and Canina G. Don. Analyses were carried out on flower production, flower duration and their sexual phases, pollen and nectar production together with observations on their pollinators. Nectar production is correlated with corolla size and pollen production with anther size. The taxa of sect. Scrophularia show greater nectar and pollen production than those of sect. Canina. Also, those of the first section produce more ovules per ovary than those of the second group, production being correlated with the ovary size.
23644330|The present article reviews the various definitions and terminology of pollen viability and longevity as well as the various tests of its assessment. We compare the advantages and the disadvantages of each method and suggest some practical implications as revealed by the extensive data. We recognize eight main hypotheses concerning the ecology and the evolution of pollen longevity and critically evaluated them according to the literature. The hypotheses are grouped as follows: (1) Desiccation risk-carbohydrate content; (2) Pollen packaging; (3) Pollen competitive ability; (4) Pollinator activity-stigma receptivity duration; (5) Self-pollination chance; (6) Pollen exposure schedule; (7) Pollen travel distance, and (8) Pollen removal chance.
43558335|Previous morphological analysis has indicated that subgenus Meconostigma was the basal group of the genus and sister group of a clade formed by subgenera Philodendron and Pteromischum. However, recent molecular analysis suggests Pteromischum is the sister group of the clade Philodendron and Meconostigma. The objective of this work was to anatomically describe the stem of Philodendron, searching for possible synapomorphies for the three currently accepted subgenera, and thus give support to one of the two phylogenetic hypotheses, and to contribute new and updated information about characters relevant to the taxonomy of the group. Anatomical data were obtained from 14 species of Philodendron. The main conclusions of our study were recognition of a sclerified hypodermis and storied cork in Philodendron and verification of the absence of amphivasal bundles, the presence of which was previously suggested for the genus by French and Tomlinson. The presence of a branched root vascular plexus in Meconostigma and Philodendron gives support to the phylogenetic hypothesis in which those two subgenera form a monophyletic clade. The unistratified and sclerified hypodermis, only simple vascular bundles within the periphery of the central cylinder, and a connection through a fibrous sheath between them were considered apomorphic characters of Pteromischum.
23643399|The genetic relationships of Aechmea mexicana, A. lueddemanniana, A. macvaughii and A. tuitensis were investigated using starch gel electrophoresis. Eight enzyme systems encoded by ten putative gene loci were resolved in seventeen populations. Nei's (1978) genetic distances were obtained from allelic frequencies and used with UPGMA algorithm. Results indicate that some populations belonging to different species display genetic similarities closer to each other than to some conspecific populations. Our results do not support the proposed genus Ursulaea (Read & Baensch 1994), since A. tuitensis was closer to A. lueddemanniana and A. mexicana than to A. macvaughii.
23643343|Levels and distribution of genetic variation were investigated in ten populations of the perennial Arabis serrata distributed along a latitudinal gradient throughout Japan. Populations of this endemic species occupy predominantly three types of habitats: limestone and derived soils, volcanic and disturbed sites. Previous studies showed that plants of A. serrata are differentiated in morphological and ecological traits under both natural conditions and common garden experiments suggesting genetic differentiation among populations. To assess the degree of genetic differentiation under different habitats of A. serrata populations, we analyzed the isozyme genetic structure. Ten populations, located in mountains of central and northern Honshu and Hokkaido, were analyzed by starch gel enzyme electrophoresis. Fourteen loci of eight enzymes were resolved and six loci were monomorphic for all the populations. Populations sampled maintain low levels of genetic variation (P=0.16; H=0.05; A=1.16) compared to that maintained by other outcrossing seed plants. In some cases, few or no heterozygous individuals were detected, and consequently, mean observed heterozygosity was zero or near zero. Six (29%) of the fixation indices, F, estimated deviated significantly from Hardy Weinberg genotypic expectations indicating a deficiency of heterozygotes in most of the cases. The mean genetic identity (Nei's I) between population pairs was 0.852 and indicates a moderate level of genetic differentiation among populations. Arabis serrata has most of its genetic variation distributed among rather than within populations. The among-population component of the total genetic diversity (GST mean value) was 0.416, indicating genetic differentiation between populations. There groups of populations were recognized in an unrooted tree generated by the Neighbor-Joining method. These results suggest groups of populations differentiated regionally. Estimates of interpopulational gene flow (Nm) were very variable (range 0.0493.718) with a mean Nm=1.203 for all populations.
23642670|Both of the two main generic features of Oryctina (Loranthaceae), i.e., its dioeciousness and its absence of floral bracteoles, are based on misinterpretations. Instead, both species appear to be monoecious, and both are bracteolate. Nevertheless, Oryctina should be maintained as a distinct genus, probably most closely related to Maracanthus.
23655621|While in most Salvia species pollen is transferred by the 'staminal lever mechanism', in some species the 'levers' are inactive. This is also found in the bird pollinated S. haenkei from Bolivia. To understand pollen transfer in a species lacking the lever mechanism we carried out field investigations and confirmed our observations by means of morphometric measurements of both the flowers and museum skins of the observed hummingbird species. The tubular corolla forces the birds (Sappho sparganura, Colibri coruscans, Patagona gigas, Oreotrochilus adela) into a specific position thereby causing pollen transfer from the exserted pollen-sacs to the bird's feathers and bills. The staminal levers are well developed but cannot be moved because the sterile arms are closely attached to the upper face of the corolla leaving no space for any movement. We assume that the reduction of the lever mechanism reflects an adaptation to bird pollination.
23643690|An investigation was made of the phylogenetic relationships among wild accessions of Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus) and wild allies of Mesoamerican and Andean origins, using electrophoresis of seed storage proteins and isozymes. Mesoamerican wild species are phylogenetically more distant from P. lunatus than Andean species, and apparently belong to the tertiary gene pool of Lima bean. The Andean wild species, which are investigated for the first time, reveal a high similarity to the Lima bean, and particularly with its Mesoamerican gene pool. These Andean species probably constitute a secondary gene pool of Lima bean, and are thus of considerable interest in the context of genetic improvement of the crop. Based on these observations, an Andean origin is suggested for the Andean wild species and for P. lunatus. These results point out the importance of collecting and conserving Andean Phaseolus germplasm.
23669039|Dianthus polylepis complex consists of two already known endemic species, Dianthus polylepis and D. binaludensis, in Khorassan-Kopetdagh floristic province. The taxonomic position of these species has long been debated. The aim of the present study is to shed light on the evolutionary relationships of the members of the complex using morphological and molecular data. In morphological study, firstly, 56 vegetative and floral characters were measured on 33 specimens of the both species. Multivariate analyses were performed on 25 (out of 56) significantly discriminating morphological traits. In molecular study, we sequenced alleles obtained from a region between 2nd and 6th exons of the gene coding for the enzyme dihydroflavonol 4-reductase copy1 (DFR1). Morphological results show that most of a priori identified accessions were not grouped in a posteriori classification. It is difficult to discriminate D. polylepis from D. binaludensis in morphological continuum among the accessions. Results obtained from the molecular data indicated no monophyly for the members of the D. polylepis complex. Consistency between the morphological and molecular results shows that D. polylepis and D. binaludensis were not morphologically and molecularly well differentiated. Therefore, we propose a new combination as D. polylepis subsp. binaludensis.
23642711|Angiosperms investigated by DNA/DNA reassociation studies were classified and tested for a taxonomic class- and subclass-specifity in a biometrical fashion. Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons differ significantly from each other with respect to a genomic parameter (U/R-ratio; U single copy DNA fraction; R = 1-U fraction of repetitive DNA). This difference is discussed from an evolutionary and molecular point of view.Intercorrelations between the fraction of fast repeats, slow repeats, and single copy DNA can be detected. The amount of DNA organized in a short period pattern of interspersion is found to depend on the fraction of repetitive and single copy DNA. The number of DNA segments tandemly arranged in a short period pattern is linearly correlated with R/U-values. This correlation allows for a formula suitable for the estimation of the number of active genes in angiosperms. The analytical complexities of repetitive and single copy DNA are linearly correlated with the genome size of higher plants. The ratio U/R depends on the genome size of angiosperms in a hyperbolic fashion.
23673738|Three co-existing pollination mechanisms are found in Urginea maritima: insect-, wind-, and self-pollination. The flowers exhibit a typical insectpollination syndrome; they offer abundant exposed nectar as well as pollen. Out of the many different visitors only a few could be regarded as pollinators: Apis mellifera, Polistes gallicus, and Vespa orientalis. Wind pollination also occurs and generally is responsible for self-pollination. It is argued that the development of extra wind-pollination accompanied by partial self-incompatibility is an adaptation to increase pollination in an unfavourable season (AugustSeptember), when insects are scarce.
23644996|From the predominantly aposporous Ranunculus cassubicus group, a subgroup of the R. auricomus complex, two species with both diploid and tetraploid cytodemes (R. cassubicifolius W. Koch and R. carpaticola So) were known. Nine population samples of both species have been analyzed for variation of ploidy levels and isozymes. DNA image analysis showed that three populations of R. cassubicifolius from Bavaria and Salzburg are diploid, two from Lower Austria tetraploid. In R. carpaticola, two populations from Central Slovakia and one from Romania are diploid, one from northern Slovakia is hexaploid. The polyploid populations had somewhat smaller C-values than expected from diploids. Ploidy levels are consistent within populations, contradicting previous hypotheses that cycles of diploid-tetraploid-dihaploid apomictic individuals occur in natural populations of goldilocks. Isozyme-allozyme analysis of nine polymorphic loci showed that individual variation and genetic measures of diploid and tetraploid populations are equivalent to those of sexual taxa. Multiple allelism and unbalanced gene dosages in tetraploid R. cassubicifolius give evidence for autopolyploidy that is most probably of multiple origin. The observed excess of homozygotes and the high diversity between populations in the diploid populations of R. cassubicifolius are most probably due to geographical isolation of population groups, that might have happened during the Wrm glaciation and might have promoted the separation of autotetraploids in the easternmost part of the distribution range. Genetic distance values analyzed by UPGMA of all sexual populations separated the two taxa and the cytodemes within R. cassubicifolius. Multidimensional scaling of individuals (including the apomicts) based on a presence/absence matrix of alleles confirmed this differentiation with an overlapping zone between R. cassubicifolius and R. carpaticola. The hexaploid R. carpaticola population showed reduced genotypic diversity, an increased number of heterozygotes and fixed heterozygosity as typical for apomictic mode of reproduction. This population shared alleles of both species without any specific ones, multidimensional scaling placed genotypes among R. cassubicifolius. Thus, the hexaploid apomicts might have originated from hybrids of R. cassubicifolius and R. carpaticola. In general, evolution of agamic lineages in the R. cassubicus complex might have been facilitated by autopolyploids, because they can provide a bridge between the reproductive systems that are otherwise isolated by ploidy levels, and also a starting point for spontaneous origin of apomixis.
23645047|According to chloroplast rps4 sequence data the genus Syntrichia forms a monophyletic clade clearly separated from Tortula, while Pottia is shown to be polyphyletic and the Rhynchostegiae species (with rostrate lid) are very similar to Tortula. Crossidium is probably polyphyletic. The close affinity of Desmatodon, Stegonia, Pterygoneurum and some of the species of Phascum with Tortula is confirmed by the molecular data.
23664376|In several studies we used the 5-trnL(UAA)trnF(GAA) region of the chloroplast DNA for phylogeographic reconstructions, gene diversity calculations and phylogenetic analyses among the genera Arabidopsis and Boechera. Despite the fact that extensive gene duplications are rare within the chloroplast genome of higher plants, within several genera of the Brassicaceae the anticodon domain of the trnF(GAA) gene exhibit extensive gene duplications with 112 tandemly repeated copies in close 5-proximity of the functional gene. A recent re-examination and additional analysis of trnL(UAA)trnF(GAA) regions from numerous cruciferous taxa not only reveal extensive trnF gene duplications, but also favour the hypothesis that in cruciferous taxa at least four independent phylogenetic lineages are characterized by these pseudogenes. Among these lineages there is one major clade of taxa carrying pseudogenes indicating an ancient split in crucifer evolution. In two case studies, Boechera and Arabidopsis, intra- and inter-molecular recombinations have been shown to be the reason for the reciprocal exchange of several similar motifs. However, functional constraints might favour two to three or five to six copies as shown for Arabidopsis and Boechera. Herein, we compare the occurrence and distribution of pseudogene copy number in the framework of a comprehensive survey of cpDNA haplotype variation in Boechera, the former genus Cardaminopsis and Arabidopsis thaliana and comment on the value of such kind of mutations in phylogenetic and evolutionary reconstructions.
23656119|Pedicularis rex, a self-compatible alpine herb, depends exclusively on pollinators for reproduction. Previous study has revealed that 74.7 % of genetic variability occurs among populations in Yunnan, indicating a mixed mating system for the species. The large floral display also indicates high potential geitonogamy. Therefore, plant density and display size may be important factors influencing the realized mating system of P. rex. In the study reported here we explored the effects of plant density and floral display size on pollinator movements and thus outcrossing rate in two patches of in P. rex at low and high plant densities. We examined foraging behavior of bumblebees, measured reproductive outputs under hand and natural pollination, and estimated the outcrossing rates using RAPD markers. Floral display size was significantly larger and bumblebees visited significantly more flowers in sequence on individual plants in the sparse patch than in the dense patch. We found a significant positive correlation between floral display size and successive visits in the sparse patch, but not in the dense patch. Regression analysis revealed a significant inverse correlation between fruit production and flower production per plant with a theoretical maximum of 63 fruits per plant, but no relationship between seed production and flower production per plant. Contrary to previous studies on genetic structure, however, we found an unexpectedly high outcrossing rate in both the sparse and the dense patch (tm = 1.151 and 0.924, respectively). Resource limitation may intensify seed competition and result in selected seed abortion, which may largely explain the unexpectedly high outcrossing rate.
23642178|The five Aretiastrum species investigated are differentiated by morphological, histological and palynological characteristics from one another and from woody Valeriana species. It seems justified to regard Aretiastrum at least as a distinct section of Valeriana but better as a separate genus.
23645020|We investigated the cellular and organelle transformations during the formation of the pollenkitt in the secretory tapetum of Ilex paraguariensis. After the dissolution of the callose surrounding the young microspores, the elaioplasts of the tapetum produce many globules of saturated and unsaturated lipids (plastoglobules). Further on, oleosomes with unsaturated lipids, synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum, accumulate in the tapetal cytoplasm. In contrast to other species, the plastoglobule production seems to precede the oleosome synthesis. The tapetum shows signs of cellular maturation in the late vacuolated microspore stage, when the plastoglobules and oleosomes coalesce and form the pollenkitt mass. In mature stages of the tapetum the pollenkitt is released into the loculus. Finally, it is mainly deposited on the exine, according to the entomophilous character of this species. The mode of pollenkitt formation in Ilex paraguariensis and its transfer to the pollen surface is slightly dissimilar to other Angiosperms.
23645338|Phylogenetic analyses of the monocotyledonous genera Leucojum and Galanthus (Amaryllidaceae, Asparagales), using plastid (trnL-F and matK) and largely non-coding nuclear ribosomal (ITS) DNA sequences show the two to be closely related to Lapiedra, Narcissus, Vagaria, Pancratium and Sternbergia. We compare the results obtained with a combined parsimony analysis of these nucleotide sequences with that of a matrix of morphological characters. The sampling included all species of Leucojum and most species of Galanthus (representing all series and subseries of the genus) and used as outgroup the above mentioned genera of Amaryllidaceae shown to be close relatives. The plastid, nuclear and morphological data were analysed independently and in combination, showing that the boundaries between the two genera are not appropriate. Galanthus is monophyletic but embedded in Leucojum. On the basis of chromosome numbers and floral characters Leucojum has been previously divided into four subgenera, which have been accepted as genera by some authors. In our phylogenetic analyses (separate as well as combined), Leucojum species are separated in two primary clades corresponding to L. subgenera Ruminia + Acis and L. Leucojum + Aerosperma. The taxonomic implications of this pattern are discussed, and an alternative classification is proposed. Finally, biogeographic relationships of species of both Leucojum and Galanthus are discussed, emphasising the possible origin of the narrowly distributed taxa of Leucojum relative to the widespread species.
23643826|Phylogeographic and taxonomic relationships among 54 North Atlantic populations of the snowbed grass genus Phippsia were investigated based on isozymes and genetically based morphological variation. The results support recognition of two distinct species, P. algida and P. concinna, the latter with at least two subspecies. Both of these self-fertilizing arctic pioneer species were genetic allotetraploids almost without intrapopulational variation. The two species showed strikingly different phylogeographies in the North Atlantic region in spite of their similarity in morphology, habitat ecology, mating system, and dispersal ecology, and in spite of their present cooccurrence in many geographic areas, sometimes even in the same snowbeds. The same electrophoretic multilocus phenotype was observed in all populations of P. algida, and although this species showed considerable morphological variation, the variation was unstructured geographically. Thus, P. algida showed a pattern similar to other arctic species investigated in the North Atlantic region; it has probably dispersed postglacially across the sea barriers among Greenland, Svalbard, Iceland, and Scandinavia. In contrast, P. concinna was virtually fixed for different multilocus phenotypes in the three main geographic areas analyzed (S Norway, Svalbard, Greenland), corresponding to fairly distinct divergence in morphology. This pattern suggests absence of postglacial among-area dispersal of P. concinna in spite of all of its similarities with its congener; it may have immigrated to the North Atlantic from different source areas and/or survived the last glaciation in situ.
23673739|Data available for the nucleolus organizing region in the family Apiaceae are reviewed. An attempt has been made to establish the exact number of this region in various subfamilies and tribes through studies on the karyotype and nucleolus. Most of the taxa have a single nucleolar chromosome per haploid complement. The location of the nucleolar organizing region (NOR) on the chromosome varies. Members of Hydrocotyloideae differ drastically from those of subfam. Saniculoideae and Apioideae, with respect to the location of NOR. Despite wide geographical distribution, varied ecological preferences and differences in morphology, anatomy and cytology, Umbellifers have attained stability in the number and location of NORs. Characters of NOR offer scope for utilization in understanding phylogenetic relationships at higher levels of taxonomic hierarchy.
23674390|Relative pollen and ovule production in the genera of the legume tribe Trifolieae is explored particularly as to how Medicago with its explosive pollination mechanism compares with its allies. Medicago produces much larger, although much fewer pollen per ovule than the other five genera in the tribe; this is interpreted as a consequence of its highly specialized, irreversible pollination mechanism, which allows only one effective exchange of pollen with pollinators. Melilotus and Trifolium produce a comparatively large quantity of pollen; this can be related to their floral characteristics requiring abundant pollen to achieve fertilization. In Medicago and Trigonella, annuals convert a higher proportion of pollen grains and ovules into seeds than perennials.
23656063|The genus Mortoniodendron is distributed from southeastern Mexico to Colombia and contains about 18 species of trees and shrubs. The main goal of this study is to describe and compare the leaf architecture and the anatomy of 11 species of Mortoniodendron using cleared leaves and paradermal and transverse leaf sections. All of the species of Mortoniodendron share a simple lamina with an entire margin. The differences among the species include the venation pattern, the relative thickness and course of the secondary veins, the presence or absence of the intersecondary veins, the tertiary vein pattern, the number of branches in veinlets, and the marginal ultimate venation. The leaf anatomy is similar to other species of the Malvaceae s.l.: for example, mucilage cells are common in Mortoniodendron. There are unique attributes of the leaf architecture and anatomy, such as the eucamptodromous venation pattern of M. guatemalense, which facilitates the identification of the species. The species M. palaciosii, M. pentagonum, M. ruizii, M. uxpanapense, and M. sp. nov. share features that suggest that they are closely related.
23643975|Intermediates between two South American species of Grindelia were found in Chubut Province, Argentina. Twenty eight individual plants with phenotypes of G. brachystephana, G. chiloensis, or intermediates were collected and studied together with three reference specimens of each of the putative parental species. Discriminant analysis procedure and the computer program HYWIN were applied and results of the two methods are compared. Results demonstrate that most of the specimens collected are of hybrid origin, and that most of the specimens suggested as hybrids are most likely introgressants. Hybridization and introgression are likely the major causes of the high variability previously attributed to G. chiloensis by taxonomists.
23642237|The little known epiphytic alga Hydrianum viride was studied and pictured. The morphology and the variability of the vegetative cells are described in detail and compared with the observations of other authors. For the first time typical biflagellate zoospores of the chlorophycean-type have been recognized and the course of the asexual reproduction is studied. The residual protoplasm, that is the proximal half of the zoosporangium protoplast, growth up to the original size, typical for the genus Hydrianum. The life cycle, especially the settling down of the zoospores, is described. Hydrianum viride belongs to the characteristic inhabitants of peaty waters; it belongs together with the host alga, Microspora loefgrenii, to the dominants of algal association of peat-springs. At last the taxonomic position and the synonyma of this organism are discussed. Die wenig bekannte, immerhin in Moorgewssern ziemlich hufig auftretende, epiphytische Chlorococcale Hydrianum viride wird eingehend untersucht und abgebildet. Es wird ausfhrlich die Morphologie der vegetativen Zellen und ihre Variabilitt beschrieben und mit den Angaben anderer Autoren verglichen. Zum ersten Mal werden bei der asexuellen Fortpflanzung typische zweigeielige Chlorophyceen-Zoosporen erkannt. Die Angaben ber die Fortpflanzung werden ergnzt, teilweise auch richtiggestellt. Die Durchwachsung des Restplasmas, charakteristisch fr die Gattung Hydrianum, erfolgt in den meisten Fllen nachdem sich die distale Hlfte des Protoplasten in Zoosporen umgewandelt hat. Der ganze Lebenszyklus von den Keimlingen bis zu den reifen Sporangien, besonders das Festsetzen der Zoosporen, wird geschildert. Hydrianum viride gehrt zu den typischen Bewohnern von Moorgewssern oder von Gewssern, die teilweise mit Sphagnum bewachsen sind. In moorigen Quellen bildet Hydrianum viride mit seiner Wirtsalge Microspora loefgrenii die Dominanten der dortigen Algengesellschaften. Zuletzt wird die taxonomische Zugehrigkeit diskutiert, ebenso wie die Abgrenzung der Gattung Hydrianum. Es wird eine ausfhrliche Synonymik dieses Organismus gegeben.
23674111|Greece is considered as a secondary centre of evolution for the genus Allium since it possesses about 50% of the species known from the whole Flora Europaea area. In the present investigation 44 Greek Allium spp. have been studied and new chromosome counts are reported from 40 populations and 17 species. The distribution of the different cytotypes (x = 7, x = 8, x = 11 and 2n = 2 x, 3 x, 4 x, 5 x, 6 x, 7 x) in Greece is discussed. From the four phytogeographical subdivisions recognized, South continental Greece shows the greatest species and karyotype diversity. This phenomenon is probably due to the geographical position and to the geological history of this area which has received species and populations from different directions. Subsequently, hybridization apparently has been of evolutionary importance.
23671557|28 grass species from one hectare of cerrado vegetation in Botucatu, State of So Paulo, were studied with regard to the morphology and dispersal of their fruits. 13 species have dispersal units with smooth surfaces which are predominantly dispersed by big herbivorous mammals or birds which swallow them together with their food, e.g., during grazing (accidental endozoochory). On the other hand, smaller animals, including birds, also feed directly on the grains; some of them may escape trituration and digestion or may be even stored (synzoochory). 11 species are principally epizoochorous: 8 of these are  exclusively adapted to epizoochory, adhering to the animals by scabrid awns or sharply pointed calli, while the rest behave as epizoochores and anemochores. 4 other species are predominantly anemochorous with their dispersal units bearing soft hairs, sometimes together with very small scabrid awns; in a wet state they also can adhere to animals (occasional epizoochory). Beside this, most grass fruits can behave as passive ballists, as passing animals, wind and rain may cause their dispersal units to fall to the ground (passive autochory).  Among the 28 species, 12 have dispersal units which are awned. In 7 of them the awns are spirally twisted; the base of the dispersal unit runs out into a sharply pointed callus and has harpoone-like hairs. These awns show hygroscopical movements which may lead to a drilling of the basal part of the dispersal unit into the sandy cerrado soil. This trypanocarpy is important for establishment but without function for dispersal.
23642512|Some closely related members of the monocotyledonous families Alismataceae, Liliaceae, Juncaceae, Cyperaceae, Poaceae and Araceae with variable modes of pollination (insect- and wind-pollination) were studied in relation to the ultrastructure of pollenkitt and exine (amount, consistency and distribution of pollenkitt on the surface of pollen grains). The character syndromes of pollen cementing in entomophilous, anemophilous and intermediate ("ambophilous" or "amphiphilous") monocotyledons are the same in principal as in dicotyledons. Comparing present with former results one can summarize: 1) The pollenkitt is always produced in the same manner by the anther tapetum in all angiosperm sub-classes. 2) The variable stickiness of entomophilous and anemophilous pollen always depends on the particular distribution and consistency of the pollenkitt, but not its amount on the pollen surface. 3) The mostly "dry" and powdery pollen of anemophilous plants always contains a variable amount of "inactive" pollenkitt in its exine cavities. 4) A step-by step change of the pollen cementing syndrome can be observed from entomophily towards anemophily. 5) From the omnipresence of pollenkitt in all wind-pollinated angiosperms studied one can conclude that the ancestors of anemophilous angiosperms probably have been zoophilous (i.e. entomophilous) throughout. Die Merkmale der Pollenverkittung (Menge, Konsistenz und Verteilung des Pollenkitts auf der Oberflche der Pollenkrner) wurden bei nahe miteinander verwandten, aber unterschiedlich bestubten Monocotyledonen miteinander verglichen: Alisma plantago-aquatica und Sagittaria sagittifolia (Alismataceae); Lilium candidum, Asparagus acutifolius und Ruscus hypoglossum (Liliaceae); Luzula silvestris und L. nivea (Juncaceae); Carex baldensis, C. vulpina und C. acutiformis (Cyperaceae); Sesleria sphaerocephala und Alopecurus pratensis (Poaceae); Arum maculatum und Lysichitum americanum (Araceae). Die Resultate des vorliegenden Beitrags stimmen mit denen vorangegangener Publikationen zum selben Thema prinzipiell berein. Nun lt sich an Hand der Ergebnisse  nachdem alle Unterklassen der Angiospermen zumindest stichprobenartig untersucht worden sind  ein Resum ziehen: 1) Sowohl bei Insekten- als auch bei Windbltlern ist das Prinzip der Pollenverkittung stets gleich: Das Antherentapetum produziert lipide Stoffe von unterschiedlicher Menge und Qualitt, aber von gleicher Herkunft und gleicher Funktion. 2) Das Ausma der Pollenklebrigkeit hngt zum Zeitpunkt der Pollensackffnung vor allem von der Anordnung des Pollenkitts auf der Exine, aber auch von dessen Konsistenz ab, whrend die Quantitt des vom Tapetum produzierten bzw. auf dem Pollenkorn abgesetzten Pollenkitts nur von geringerer Bedeutung ist. 3) Die Omniprsenz des Pollenkitts und seine Herkunfts- bzw. Funktionsgleichheit spricht sehr fr die These, da alle windbltigen Angiospermen auf zoophile (offenkundige entomophile) Vorfahren zurckgehen. 4) Die Merkmale und Eigenschaften der Pollenverkittung erleichtern eine Zuordnung zur Entomo- bzw. Anemophilie bei ambophilen Sippen im bergangsfeld von der Insekten- zur Windbestubung (in der vorliegenden Publikation Alisma plantago-aquatica, Ruscus hypoglossum, Luzula nivea und Carex baldensis). Bei der Beurteilung der Bestubungsart sollten alle bltenkologischen Merkmale bercksichtigt werden. Die augenflligen, fr Bltenbesucher  attraktiven Blten bzw. Bltenstnde von Luzula nivea, Carex baldensis und Sesleria sphaerocephala gengen als Hinweis auf Entomophilie nicht. Die drei Arten unterscheiden sich in der Pollenverkittung und in der Folge in der Pollenklebrigkeit wesentlich: Whrend L. nivea und C. baldensis merklich klebrigen Pollen besitzen, ist er bei S. sphaerocephala weitgehend trocken; dementsprechend wird diese Art wesentlich seltener von Insekten besucht. Die  augenflligen Bltenstnde von S. sphaerocephala deuten daher nicht auf Insektenbltigkeit. Der trocken-pulvrige Pollen von Arum maculatum ist kein Hinweis auf Windbltigkeit: Die hochspezialisierte Tierbltigkeit dieser Kesselfallenblume erfordert, analog zu Insektenbltlern mit Streukegeleinrichtungen, eine ausschlielich trockene Pollenkonsistenz.
23671775|Lichenothrix riddlei is reported from two widely separate localities in New Zealand. It was previously known only from the South Eastern states of U.S.A. Light and electron microscopy show its sterile fungal partner to belong to the ascomycetes. Apparently as a consequence of lichenization, the variation in breadth of the trichomes of the Scytonema phycobiont is greater than normal. A thin, probably gelatinous layer, covering the fungal cells and the algal sheath in the interstices between them, can be demonstrated by electron microscopy. In the contact region with the algal cells, the otherwise two layered wall of the haustoria is reduced to one layer only. In the fungal protoplast conspicuous stacks of ER-like membranes can be found.
23672592|Microseris strain C 34 is a hybrid between the Chilean species M. pygmaea (10 pappus parts) and the Californian M. bigelovii (5 pappus parts). The plants are propagated by selfing from the original hybrid specimen. Each plant has from 5 to 10 pappus parts per achene with an average value that is additively determined by four unlinked quantitatively acting genes. Single-gene heterozygote sublines have been obtained for two of these, pp-1 (shown to be linked to a modifier of acid phosphatase-1) and pp-4. Sublines homozygous for all four additive genes show residual genetic variation influencing pappus part number. At least one additional gene can be demonstrated by its linkage with leucine aminopeptidase-1. Lines for the further characterization of these hypostatic genes are selected.
23674879|The 5S RNA genes in Pinus radiata occur in two size classes of about 850 and 525 bp in length. Representatives from both the long and short size classes were cloned and sequenced. The primary difference in the two size classes was shown to be a 330 bp insertion in the spacer region of the long units. Within an individual breeding clone of P. radiata there was some sequence heterogeneity between representatives of the short class. The 5S RNA genes in thirty pine species were characterised using either a clone of the short size class or a subclone of the 330 bp insertion characterizing the long size class. Eleven species of subg. Strobus were examined and all lacked the long type of unit of radiata pine. The New World species of subg. Pinus all had both short and long units whereas the Old World species had long units. The implications of these results for the evolution of the 5S DNA sequences and the phylogenetic relationships within Pinus are discussed.
23673651|The occurrence of gynodioecy in two populations in northern England of the normally hermaphrodite Saxifraga granulata is reported. Female plants have aborted stamens, and smaller petals than hermaphrodites. At Staindrop, County Durham, an estimated 23% of the flowering stems were female; at Macclesfield, Cheshire, 4% were female. The inheritance of male sterility is not simple, and probably involves at least one cytoplasmic and two nuclear genes. The secondary sexual characteristics, hermaphrodite-predominant sex ratios, and complex inheritance of male sterility, are typical of gynodioecious populations.
23655481|It has been controversial how extensively ants contribute to pollination, and we evaluated the contribution of the Japanese carpenter ant, Camponotus japonicus, to the pollination of an orchid, Epipactis thunbergii. Two-year field studies revealed that (1) the ant workers foraged even in cool/cloudy conditions and accordingly visited orchid flowers more frequently (about 40% of all the visitors) than hover flies, the principle pollinators (1020%), and that (2) the flower-visiting ants occasionally removed pollinia from the anther and then delivered pollen onto the stigmatic surface of other flowers, although self-pollination might frequently occur in the consecutive visits of flowers within an inflorescence. An artificial pollination experiment with pollinia which had been transferred to the ant integument showed that (3) the treated flowers produced as many fruits and seeds as control flowers. We concluded that C. japonicus workers could actually pollinate E. thunbergii flowers and their relative importance as pollinators appeared to be largely dependent on the abundance of flower-visiting workers or weather conditions during the flowering period, which mainly determined the availability of hover flies.
23642096|Morphometrical, cytological, chemical and ecological data are presented concerning the origin of infraspecific disjunction in Sophora gypsophila, its 2 varieties, var. gypsophila and var. guadalupensis, being known from only 2 very local sites which are separated by approximately 300 km. It is concluded that the populations are remnants of a much more widespread, highly variable sib of Wisconsin time.
23642460|Basic chromosome number in Galaxia is believed to be x = 9, and this number, or multiples, occurs in all species of subgenus Galaxia. In subgenus Eurystigma, G. barnardii has n = 8, G. versicolor n = 8 and 7, G. citrina n = 8, 7 and 17 while G. variabilis has n = 7 exclusively. Karyotypes in forms of G. versicolor with n = 7 and in G. variabilis are quite different and clearly originated independently. Karyotypic features provide evidence for the hypothesis that changes in chromosome number were accomplished through chromosome fusion either by classical Robertsonian translocation, or unequal reciprocal translocation.
23674069|Fossil onagraceous pollen grains from two Upper Miocene localities in E. Austria were investigated by LM and EM. Exine structure and sculpture as well as viscin threads suggest affinities with the extant genus Circea.
23643969|Phylogenies of Old World Trifolium species were constructed using nucleotide sequence data of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA and chloroplast DNA restriction site data from PCR-amplified genes and genic regions (rbcL, trnK, and rpoC1C2). Biogeography, morphological evolution, and the existing classification for Trifolium were examined. The genus Trifolium is strongly supported as monophyletic, however, only one small section (Chronosemium) is monophyletic, although the data are in conflict regarding its placement. The two largest sections of the genus, Sects. Lotoidea and Trifolium, are not supported as monophyletic, as currently circumscribed. Many members of Sect. Lotoidea are basal within the genus, supporting previously-proposed hypotheses concerning plesiomorphic morphological characters and a Mediterranean-Mideast biogeographic origin of the genus.
23642671|The five species of Posidonia occuring in Western Australia all have a diploid chromosome number of 20.
23674750|This work examines the cytogeographical distribution, the morphological characters, and the karyotypes of three Crepis species endemic to Greece (C. sibthorpiana, C. incana, and C. heldreichiana). C. sibthorpiana is diploid (2n = 2x = 8), C. incana is diploid (2n = 2x = 8) and tetraploid (2n = 4x = 16, 17), and C. heldreichiana is always dekaploid (2n = 10x = 40). The Giemsa positive bands, usually pairs of dots, are mainly centromeric in C. incana, while they are terminal in C. sibthorpiana (on the short arm of all chromosomes) and in C. heldreichiana (on both arms of all chromosomes). Intercalary C-bands are scarce and usually variable within karyotypes, individuals, and species. The most variable karyotype both in Feulgen and Giemsa preparations is that of C. incana, in which also supernumerary chromosomes were observed, which are polysomic to standard set members. On the basis of morphological and karyological data the evolutionary relationships among the three Crepis taxa are discussed.
23642758|Structure and behaviour of the underground organs of Iris vartani were investigated in connection with the vegetative reproduction of this species. Under favourable conditions, well developed mature plants give rise to two replacement bulbs and to several propagation bulblets each year. In spite of this considerable vegetative propagation, no crowding occurs at the natural habitat. Controlled experiments show that as soon as a small group is formed, each bulb produces only one replacement bulb and not two as before. Moreover, the bulblets do not sprout while they are attached to the respective mother bulbs, but rather die and disintegrate, remaining as empty peels. In contrast, detached bulblets, sown individually in separate pots, germinate readily. Consequently, the aggregates of I. vartani do not increase to any great extent and thus ensure their survival "in situ" for many years.
23673863|The somatic chromosomes and karyotypes of three Nicotianeae have been studied for the first time. All of them have 2 n = 2 x = 22 and symmetrical karyotypes. Benthamiella pycnophylloides has 9 m pairs + 1 sm pair + 1 st pair; pairs 2, 4, 5, and 11 bear microsatellites. Combera paradoxa and Pantacantha ameghinoi have 9 m pairs + 2 sm pairs; pair 11 of C. paradoxa is satellited, while pair 9 of P. ameghinoi bears microsatellites and shows a pericentric inversion in heterozygous state in 20% of the seedlings. Results are compared with previous chromosome reports for the tribe. The cytological data support their present position in the family system. Besides, Benthamiella, Combera and Pantacantha appear to be primitive genera of Nicotianeae, a comparatively advanced tribe within the family.
23674499|Kengyilia habahenensis, spec. nova, from the Altai mountains, China, is described morphologically and cytologically. It has 2 n = 42 chromosomes, and the genome formula PYS.
23674469|The leaf-anatomy, palynology, seed-morphology, vegetative morphology and especially the highly complicated floral morphology of the Coryciinae s. str. (Diseae: Orchidoideae: Orchidaceae) are described and illustrated in detail. On the basis of these characters the presumed phylogeny, based on a rigorous cladistic analysis, is presented. The cladistic biogeographical analysis of the Coryciinae s. str. shows that it is a member of the Afrotemperate Track, with a pattern of vicariance events typical of the members of this track. An analysis of the patterns of speciation shows that allopatric speciation appears to be rare, and that parapatric speciation across edaphic boundaries may be the most important factor. Proceeding from the information presented, a new classification of the group is proposed in which we recognize the four genera Ceratandra, Evotella, Pterygodium and Corycium. The new monotypic genus Evotella comprises a species originally described as Pterygodium rubiginosum. The three species of the genus Anochilus are transferred to Corycium and Pterygodium. P. magnum, which was originally described as Pterygodium but was transferred to Corycium lately, is placed in a monotypic section of Pterygodium.
23664058|Swassertang, a popular aquatic plant that is sold worldwide in aquarium markets, has been long considered a liverwort because of its ribbon-like thallus. However, its antheridia are remarkably fern-like in morphology. To corroborate the hypothesis that Swassertang is a fern gametophyte and to determine its closest relative, we have sequenced five chloroplast regions (rbcL, accD, rps4trnS, trnL intron, and trnL-F intergenic spacer), applying a DNA-based identification approach. The BLAST results on all regions revealed that Swassertang is a polypod fern (order: Polypodiales) with strong affinities to the Lomariopsidaceae. Our phylogenetic analyses further showed that Swassertang is nested within the hemi-epiphytic fern genus Lomariopsis (Lomariopsidaceae) and aligned very close to L. lineata. Our study brings new insights on the unexpected biology of Lomariopsis gametophytesthe capacity of retaining a prolonged gametophytic stage under water. It is of great interest to discover that a fern usually known to grow on trees also has gametophytes that thrive in water.
23642171|Structure and ontogeny of stomata and trichomes have been studied in 23 species and 3 varieties of the Urticales. Stomata are anomocytic, more rarely paracytic; anisocytic and sometimes helicocytic and transitorial types are found in Urticaceae and Dorstenia, rarely in Artocarpus. The ontogeny of anomocytic and actinocytic stomata is perigenous, of paracytic either mesogenous or perigenous, of anisocytic either mesogenous or mesoperigenous, and of helicocytic and transitional types mesogenous. Among trichomes eglandular unicellular (wide spread), bicellular or uniseriate filiform (Cannabis); glandular capitate with uni- or bicellular (Moraceae, Ulmaceae, Cannabaceae), uniseriate filiform (Ulmaceae) or multiseriate stalk (Cannabis); sunken glands (Artocarpus); uniseriate glandular with uniseriate stalk (Celtis), and stinging emergences (Urticaceae) have been observed. It is concluded that the Urticales represent a natural order with four families: Ulmaceae, Moraceae, Urticaceae and Cannabaceae which are distinct but interrelated with each other.
23644158|Although separated by 7000-km, Gilia millefoliata, a rare annual plant from California and Oregon coastal dunes and G. valdiviensis, a rare Chilean coastal endemic are morphologically and ecologically quite similar. Their disjunct distribution was proposed to result from recent, bird-mediated, intercontinental long-distance dispersal. Both species are morphologically similar to the abundant and ecologically diverse South American taxon G. laciniata. The relationship among these three taxa was investigated using DNA sequence from the nuclear ribosomal (ITS) and chloroplast trnL regions, as well as isozyme and morphological variation to determine the roles of long-distance dispersal and ecological adaptation in the evolution of the group. These data suggest that a G. millefoliata-like ancestor underwent long-distance dispersal to South America, and there gave rise to the narrow endemic G. valdiviensis and the widespread G. laciniata.
23674108|Mitotic chromosome counts were made from field collected and subsequently cultivated plants of 61 Pelargonium species from 14 sections. The 33 new results are presented. 47 of the species have a basic number of x = 11, nine spp. of x = 9 and five spp. of x = 8. 17 spp. are polyploid. In two sections species with different basic numbers occur, which is of interest for the subgeneric classification. The size of the chromosomes varies between the investigated species. Most but not all species with x = 11 have short, those with x = 8, 9 large, and only exceptionally short chromosomes. Within sections chromosome size is not always uniform. The relationship between the different basic chromosome numbers is discussed.
23655662|The pollination biology of Omphalogramma souliei Franch., a species endemic to southwestern China, was investigated. Floral phenology, flower visitors, pollen/ovule ratio, attractants and rewards to the visitors were observed, measured, and recorded. Bagging experiments to exclude pollinators were carried out in the wild for two years. Our results revealed five important aspects of the reproductive biology of Omphalogramma souliei. 1) The pollen-ovule ratio was 1748  233. The breeding system was self-compatible, with facultative xenogamy. 2) The pollination syndrome is entomophily, and this species could not be pollinated by wind if the pollinators were unavailable. 3) Six insect species were observed visiting the flowers of Omphalogramma souliei in the wild, of them, three species of hymenoptera, Lasioglossum sp., Heriades parvula Cockerell and Micrapis florae Fabricius, are the principal floral visitors and effective pollinators. 4) The visual attractants to the visitors are floral color and shape, the large yellow anthers, and the rewards for visitors are pollen and nectar. 5) Cleistogamy may also occur, since the anthers of some flowers dehisced before opening of the corolla. The results of floral biology and pollination characters suggest that xenogamy predominated and autogamy played an assistant role in the evolution of reproduction and breeding system of O. souliei.
23643678|Intrageneric relationships in the genus Brachycome were investigated by the comparison of nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast gene matK. Evolutionary trends of some morphological and cytological characters were estimated based on the matK tree. The results indicate that Brachycome is divided into four major clades, and circumscription of superspecies based primarily on fruit morphology is not fully supported. Fruit morphology has evolved in parallel from simple to complex structures in several lineages. The ancestral basic chromosome number is x = 9, and lower chromosome numbers are the products of several dysploid reductions from n = 9 in two of four major clades of Brachycome.
23642597|Plant material of 55 strains from 32 species of Solanum sect. Solanum ( = sect. Morella) has been investigated for the content of steroidal alkaloids and sapogenins. The leaf-extracts of all species contain diosgenin resp. tigogenin or both together in considerable amount. On the contrary the characteristic steroidal alkaloid solasodine was absent in these samples. For 29 species the presence of steroidal sapogenins has been proved for the first time. In unripe fruits, however, solasodine could be detected in most of the species examined. New occurences of solasodine are reported for seven further species. These chemical results may contribute to a better comprehension of the difficult genus Solanum.Ontogenetic studies on different organs of S. atriplicifolium show the relationship between accumulation of steroidal compounds and plant maturity.
23674102|The lichen Endocarpon pusillum Hedw. was cultivated under laboratory conditions on agar, silica gel and soil substrate. Selected developmental stages of the life cycle (germination, contact between the symbionts, cortex, squamule and perithecia development) were studied by light and scanning electron microscope.  It could be shown that the spores had no rigid spore walls with germination colpies and the spore cells which are in contact with the substrate were formed directly into germination tubes.  Further studies showed that the initial contact between the components was thigmotropic and both the form and the gelatinous matrix around the algal cells play an important role in this process.  The development of the cortex occurs under reduced moisture conditions resulting in a reduced algal reproduction. The thickness of the cortex was dependent on light intensity during cultivation. The cortex originated from hyphae, which developed beyond the algal layer and were combined to a tight network.  Fruiting bodies with spores and hymenial algae were only formed in cultures on soil substrate.
23670126|The structure of the grasses megagemetophyte is considered to be characteristic enough as to deserve a particular place in the megagametophyte typology. Furthermore, it is compared with those of other Monocotyledonous families to point out embryological affinities.
23642967|Nonrandom mating takes place when seed paternity differs from that produced by random success of available pollen. To test if some form of this phenomenon operates in the self-incompatible perennial Discaria americana, we performed one-donor hand pollinations involving seven individuals, and measured pollen-tube performance and seed viability and germination. A significant level of heterogeneity in reproductive traits was present in our sample. Mating was nonrandom as a consequence of complete self-incompatibility (intrafloral and geitonogamous pollinations were unsuccessful) linked with partial cross-compatibility (some inter-individual pollinations consistently failed to produce offspring while other parental combinations were fecund). Pollen tubes of successful pollen parents exhibited higher growth rate than those of infecund ones. Stylar-ovarian inhibition of incompatible pollen tubes and a wet stigma type suggests that a gametophytic incompatibility system operates in the species.
23669394|Mature seeds of 109 species of Pedicularis representing 13 groups according to Tsoong's infra-generic classification were investigated using light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The largest seeds occurred in P. superba (4.82  0.32 mm  2.18  0.18 mm) and the smallest in P. crenata (0.95  0.16 mm  0.72  0.08 mm). The individual seed weight ranged from 0.20 to 9.52 mg. There were two types of primary ornamentation, i.e. reticulate and undulate. Reticulate seeds were found in all examined species except for P. pantlingii and P. confluens. The reticulate seeds were divided into three subtypes, i.e. cristatereticulate, regular-reticulate and membranous-reticulate. Among them, the cristate-reticulate and the undulate primary ornamentation are firstly reported. The inner tangential wall ornamentation was categorized into granulate, ruminate or striate. Seed characters seem to support the transfer of Pedicularis to Orobanchaceae from traditional Scrophulariaceae. Seed length, individual seed weight, primary ornamentation and inner tangential wall ornamentation were considered as potentially useful characters for infra-generic classification. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) analyses indicated a clustering of some species in group 1 (Sceptrum) and all species in group 6 (Cyathophora), respectively. However, seed data were not highly congruent with Tsoong's classification for delimitation of existing groups. Some characters, such as seed shape, primary ornamentation, inner tangential wall ornamentation and epidermal cell shape could be applied to identification of some species in this genus.
23642102|Western and eastern Carpathian populations of Crocus heuffelianus s. lat. (incl. C. scepusiensis) have 2 n = 18 but differ in karyotype. While western populations are chromosomally monomorphic, eastern populations exhibit geographical karyotypic differentiation.
23642764|Three of the loci controlling isovitexin glycosylation in Silene pratensis are polymorphic and show geographic trends which are compared with geographic trends in seed morphology (and other phenotypic characters) as demonstrated by multivariate analysis. Various lines of evidence support the hypothesis that S. pratensis spread into Europe from at least two genetically differentiated sources. S. dioica, by contrast, shows little interpretable geographic variation in morphology or flavonoid content.
23642754|Tillandsia mollis sp. n. is related to T. usneoides (L.) L. but differs mainly in the densely lepidote sepals and the soft and thick round leaves.
23664939|Specialized pollination by prey-hunting wasps is poorly documented in rewarding plants. Furthermore, the mechanisms of achieving specialization are not clear since flowers typically produce exposed nectar and have no morphological adaptations (such as long spurs) to exclude non-pollinating visitors. We investigated the pollination of Xysmalobium orbiculare and explored the functional roles of floral scent and nectar in attracting pollinators and deterring nectar robbers. Floral visitor observations showed that this milkweed is visited almost exclusively by pompilid wasps in the genus Hemipepsis. These wasps were the only insects to carry pollinia, and a cage experiment confirmed their effectiveness in removing and inserting pollinia on flowers. Hand-pollinations showed that plants are genetically self-incompatible and thus reliant on pollinators for seed set. Palatability experiments with honeybees showed that nectar is distasteful to non-pollinating insects and is therefore likely to play a functional role in deterring nectar thieves. Choice experiments in the field showed that the wasp pollinators are attracted primarily by floral scent rather than visual cues. Analysis of spectral reflectance of flowers revealed that flowers are dull colored and are unlikely to stand out from the background vegetation. We conclude that X. orbiculare is specialized for pollination by spider-hunting wasps in the genus Hemipepsis and utilizes floral scent to selectively attract its pollinators and unpalatable nectar to deter non-pollinating visitors.
23655709|Phylogenetic studies were conducted for Carpinus and the subfamily Coryloideae (Betulaceae) using sequences of the chloroplast matK gene, the trnL-trnF region (trnL intron, and trnL [UAA] 3' exon-trnF [GAA] intergenic spacer) and the psbA-trnH intergenic spacer, and the nuclear ribosomal ITS regions. The combined analyses of the three chloroplast regions suggest that Coryloideae is monophyletic; Ostryopsis is sister to the Carpinus Ostrya clade; Corylus is monophyletic and sister to the Ostrya - Carpinus - Ostryopsis clade; Ostrya is paraphyletic; and within Carpinus, species of sect. Carpinus from eastern Asia form a monophyletic group, whereas the positions of C. betulus from Europe and C. caroliniana from eastern North America are unresolved within the Carpinus clade. The cpDNA tree generated in this study is largely congruent with the previously published ITS results, but the ITS tree places Carpinus sect. Distegocarpus as sister to the Ostrya - Carpinus sect. Carpinus clade. Future work is needed to examine the relationships within the Ostrya - Carpinus clade, evaluate the generic status of Ostrya, and test the phylogenetic position of Ostryopsis.
23644413|Sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and the cpDNA trnL/trnF intergenic spacer (IGS) region were analysed for 41 Mediterranean and Eurasian representatives of the Anthemideae (Compositae) to ascertain the systematic position of the unispecific genus Castrilanthemum Vogt & Oberprieler and to study the phylogeny of the Anthemideae in the Mediterranean region. Both markers consistently point to the close relationship of Castrilanthemum with the W Mediterranean genera Leucanthemopsis (Giroux) Heywood and Prolongoa Boiss., forming a strongly supported monophyletic group (the Leucanthemopsis-group which also comprises the unispecific genus Hymenostemma (Kunze) Willk.). Results also demonstrate that subtribes Achilleinae, Leucantheminae, and Matricariinae sensu Bremer & Humphries are non-monophyletic. Besides results from sequence variation, a marked 5bp-deletion in trnL/trnF IGS divides all these subtribes into more basal subgroups which are related to each other and to the large Eurasian genera Tanacetum L. and Anthemis L., and a monophyletic group of closely related and more advanced subgroups which also contain the monophyletic Chrysantheminae sensu Bremer & Humphries. For this second group a W Mediterranean centre of diversification is suggested, however, its sister-group relationships within the basal grade of generic groups remain unclear.
23642781|73 adventive wild species occur in the flora of Israel: 39 are of tropical origin, 20 are North American. The geographical distribution pattern suggests that about two thirds of the species reached Israel through neighbouring countries, while only one third arrived directly from their countries of origin.  Three patterns of population dynamics can be recognized: accidental species (7), colonizing species (30), and species penetrating into natural habitats (3). There is insufficient information about the remaining species.  About 20 species are widespread noxious weeds which now have economic significance in Israel, 20 others are known to have similar ecological tendencies in other countries. These species soon may become aggressive weeds in Israel.
23642933|RFLPs were studied in 13 Juglans species to determine phylogenetic relationships in Juglans. Allele frequency data were used to generate genetic distance matrices and fragment data were used to generate genetic distances based upon shared-fragments and to perform parsimony analysis. Although similar cluster analyses result from analysing allelic and shared-fragment distance, the two types of distance values displayed variable correspondence with each other. Parsimony analysis produced a tree similar to distance data trees, but with additional phylogenetic resolution agreeing with previous systematic studies. All analyses indicate an ancient origin of J. regia, previously considered a recently derived species.
23642826|An immunochemical investigation of some Old-World Apiaceae belonging to the tribe Peucedaneae has shown close affinity between the genera Peucedanum and Angelica, rather distant position of Ferula and its relatives, and confirmed the separation of Tordylieae as an independent tribe. Some genera, being included in current classifications into Peucedaneae (Oedibasis, Anethum, Komarovia), are the alien elements in the tribe in the light of serotaxonomical analysis. The independent status of the genus Ladyginia has been confirmed.
23643695|The genus Plectranthus (Lamiaceae) shows remarkable radiation on the sandstones of southern Natal and northern Transkei in South Africa, where six endemic species occur. Two of these endemic species, P. hilliardiae and P. oribiensis, are included in this study, as well as P. reflexus, for which only limited data are available. The other species that were studied are P. ambiguus, P. ciliatus, P. ecklonii, P. madagascariensis and P. zuluensis. Four of these taxa, P. ambiguus, P. hilliardiae, P. reflexus and P. saccatus var. longitubus, have uniquely long corolla-tubes (2030 mm) and this is related to pollination by nemestrinid flies of the genus Stenobasipteron that have proboscides of similar length. Other nemestrinid species of the genus Prosoeca have shorter proboscides and pollinate two species of Plectranthus with shorter corolla-tube lengths (615 mm). Acrocerid flies, tabanid flies and anthophorid bees are also important visitors to these species. This study on the pollination of seven species of varying corolla-tube lengths shows a correlation between floral tube length and proboscis length of insect visitors, many of which are recorded for the first time as pollinators of Plectranthus.
43558189|Although reticulation has indisputably played an important role in the evolutionary history of the genus Hieracium s. str. (Asteraceae), convincingly documented cases of recent interspecific hybridization are very rare. Here we report combined evidence on recent hybridization between two diploid species, Hieracium alpinum and H. transsilvanicum. The hybrid origin of the plants from the Romanian Eastern Carpathians was supported by additive patterns of nuclear ribosomal DNA polymorphism (ITS), an intermediate position of hybrid plants in principal coordinate analysis based on amplified fragment length polymorphism phenotypes (AFLP), and additivity at one allozyme locus. Flow cytometric analyses and chromosome counting showed that two hybrids were diploid (2n ~ 2x ~ 18) while one was surprisingly tetraploid (2n = 4x = 36). To our knowledge, this is the first record of spontaneous polyploidization following interspecific crossing in the genus. Allozyme data, especially the presence of unbalanced heterozygosity at one locus, suggest the origin of this tetraploid via a triploid bridge with subsequent backcrossing to H alpinum. According to PCR-RFLP analyses of the trnT-trriL intergenic spacer, all H. xkrasani hybrids examined had the H. alpinum haplotype while H transsilvanicum served as a pollen donor. The hybrids occurred at the locality with abundant H alpinum plants where paternal H transsilvanicum was missing. Previously reported instances of interspecific hybridization between the same parental taxa showed an opposite direction of crossing and relative abundance of parental taxa. This suggests that the direction of hybridization might be influenced by the frequency of parental taxa at the locality.
23659845|Phylogenetic relationships and genetic variation were examined in the genus Solanum based on the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique. Genetic distances were estimated for 42 accessions from five subgenera [Archaesolanum, Minon (Syn. Brevantherum), Leptostemonum, Potatoe, and Solanum]. This investigation provided new information and reinforced some suggestions from previous phylogenetic studies. Analysis with random markers from the total genome clearly separated Solanum sect. Dulcamara, from the other members of Solanum subg. Potatoe, and indicated that among the analysed Solanum subgenera subg. Solanum is most closely related to it. The results suggest that Solanum sect. Dulcamara should be excluded from Solanum subg. Potatoe. The subclusters formed by S. rostratum and S. citrullifolium appear to be distinct from the subcluster formed by the two accessions of S. sisymbriifolium. This topology indicates that Solanum sect. Androceras and Solanum sect. Cryptocarpum are fairly closely related, although the data suggest that the two sections should not be maintained.
23674509|Heterostyly is clearly confirmed in Aconogonon campanulatum. This distylous species is dimorphic for tepals, styles, stigma surface, stamens, pollen grain size, and pollen sexine ornamentation. The floral shape is campanulate and thrum flowers are slightly larger than pin flowers. Small solitary bees were observed as flower visitors and probably effected pollination. The possible evolution of dioecy via heterostyly within the genus Aconogonon is discussed.
23655181|Idiospermum australiense (Diels) S.T. Blake, a rainforest canopy tree restricted to a few small populations in northeast Australia, is the only southern hemisphere representative of the Calycanthaceae. Pollination processes in Idiospermum were investigated. Flowers are protogynous, with some populations of the species being andromonoecious, whilst others are hermaphrodite. Over their 1016 day floral lifespan, movements of floral organs enforced spatial and temporal separation of male and female floral function. Changes in colour and intensity of fragrance may also influence their attractiveness to potential pollinators. Pollen is present in large quantities, and appears to act as a reward for floral visitors. Insect trapping was carried out both within flowers, and immediately adjacent to inflorescences. A wide variety of arthropods was trapped, with thrips being the most abundant. Other arthropods were trapped, including fourteen species of beetle. For arthropods other than thrips, the mean numbers of adults trapped on flowers remained more or less constant throughout the floral lifetime. However, there was a significant interaction between floral age and the number of pre-adult arthropods present  as the flower aged, the mean number of larvae and eggs per flower increased. The flowers appear to act as sheltered mating and brooding sites for small insects.
23674651|Plant material of Calamintha menthifolia was collected from two populations grown in the Vikos-Aoos area (NW. Greece). The structure and ontogeny of the glandular trichomes and the chemical composition of the secreted essential oil were studied. The leaves of C. menthifolia have numerous glandular trichomes of three morphological distinct types: 1) glandular scales with a unicellular foot and stalk, and a 12-celled head, 2) glandular hairs with a unicellular foot and stalk, and a unicellular pear-shaped head and 3) glandular hairs with a unicellular foot, a bicellular stalk and a unicellular elongated head. Qualitative and quantitative GC-MS analyses of the essential oils revealed piperitone oxide as the main constituent in both populations. In the light of these results the relationships beween C. menthifolia and other members of the Satureja group as well as its taxonomy are discussed.
23655554|Section Vireya (Blume) Copel.f. is one of the most morphologically diverse groups of the genus Rhododendron. Vireyas have a unique distribution for the genus, being predominantly found throughout the Malesian Archipelago. The alpha taxonomy of section Vireya is relatively well understood and taxa are easily distinguished from other rhododendrons by their general appearance. Defining characteristics of the section the possession of seeds with tailed appendages at both ends, the twisting of capsule valves after opening, placentas that separate as thread-like structures from the central axis as the capsule opens are all subject to exceptions. Phylogenetic analyses of two cpDNA regions, psbA-trnH and trnT-trnL intergenic spacers are reported. The results of each analysis were generally congruent, with clades relating strongly to geographic areas. Section Vireya is monophyletic with the inclusion of at least one species of section Rhododendron. Only two of the seven subsections currently circumscribed are monophyletic: Malayovireya Sleumer and Siphonovireya Sleumer. "Euvireya", all subsections excluding the paraphyletic subsection Pseudovireya, is monophyletic and includes two major clades, one restricted to eastern Malesia and the other to the western and middle Malesia.
23645208|The putative ancestors of the allopolyploid hybrid Nicotiana tabacum have distinct flower features, apparently suited either for hawkmoth or bat pollination. This suggests that progenitors were reproductively isolated by mechanical and ethological barriers. However, the present data show that in natural populations pollen vectors could be shared by two of the possible progenitors. Pollen vectors of one of the possible male progenitors (N. otophora) were short- and long-tongued hawkmoths and a nectar-feeding bat, while those of the female ancestor (N. sylvestris) were only longtongued hawkmoths. The latter are then the most likely vectors responsible for the presumed spontaneous hybridization. These data also suggest that interspecific pollen transfer occurred more likely in one direction.
23662396|Eighteen species belonging to family Convolvulaceae occurring in northeastern Brazil were analyzed to identify the karyotypic variability among rupicolous and non-rupicolous species. The count of 2n = 56 for Evolvulus sp., is the first report of polyploidy for the genus. The similarities among the karyotypes of species of Ipomoea, Merremia, and Operculina suggest that x = 15 is the basic secondary number for these genera, while x = 13 has been observed in Evolvulus. The genus Jacquemontia, with 2n = 18 is karyologically distinct from the other genera of the family. Intraspecific numerical chromosomal variations were not detected, nor were any karyological variations related to the rocky habitat characteristic of inselbergs. The occurrence of other plant groups with polyploid forms linked to this type of habitat suggests that the family Convolvulaceae is karyologically stable. We discuss variations in chromosome numbers, base numbers, and their implications in the evolution of the principal groups within the Convolvulaceae.
23655922|The potential application of phyllometric and fractal parameters for the objective quantitative description of leaf morphology, combined with the use of Back Propagation Neural Network (BPNN) for data modelling, was evaluated to characterize and identify 25 Camellia japonica L. accessions from an Italian historical collection. Results show that the construction of a BPNN based on phyllometric and fractal analysis could be effectively and successfully used to discriminate Camellia japonica genotypes using simple dedicated instruments, such as a personal computer and an easily available optical scanner.
23655680|Eight natural populations of Pinus uncinata Ramond from the Spanish Pyrenees, five of P. mugo Turra from the Carpathians, the Sudethians and Abruzzian Apennines, three of P. sylvestris L. from the Central-European Lowland and the Iberian Peninsula and one of P. uliginosa Neumann from SW Poland have been compared biometrically in 16 cone characters. P. uncinata appears the most distant from all other taxa, differing by having the largest and most asymmetric cones and the thickest apophyses with the most prominent umbo. In cone characters, P. mugo is more similar to P. sylvestris than to P. uncinata. Nevertheless, P. mugo and P. sylvestris remain distant from each other in a number of morphological characters examined. P. uliginosa has cones intermediate between the other three taxa and is moreover very variable. The locality of P. uliginosa in the Silesian Lowland may be of a relict character and conserve genes from P. uncinata.
23673655|A study of morphometric karyotype characters was carried out in 14 species of Peucedanum s. lat. (Umbelliferae  Apioideae) and in one species of the related genus Lomatium. The differences of the species in their karyotype characters are correlated only to a limited degree with their similarities of dissimilarities in morphological (i. a. carpological) characters, and thus with their taxonomic position. The evolution of these two sets of characters seems to have proceeded not synchronously or even in different directions in the group of platycarpous Umbelliferae united in the genus Peucedanum. Therefore, it is unlikely that morphometric chromosome characters revealed by monochrome staining can be used appropriately in the taxonomic revision of the polymorphous genus Peucedanum.
23674541|Most mainland New Zealand species of Gentiana are protandrous as are many Gentianaceae elsewhere in the world. Selfing has evolved in some species confined to areas where pollinator availability is limited by weather, for example, in G. lineata. In G. chathamica, endemic to the Chatham Islands, dichogamy has been lost without the evolution of selfing; instead the flowers are approach herkogamous. It is suggested that as herkogamous blossoms can both receive and dispatch pollen during a single insect visit, whereas dichogamous systems usually require two visits, such a system may have evolved in G. chathamica to maintain outcrossing in an area where prospects for insect pollination are poor.
23673722|Amorphophallus nicolsonianus species nova, with cylindrical or napiform corms, is the only representative of the sect. Rapyogkos in India. All the other hitherto known species of this region have globose or depressed globose corms. The new species is related to some Indochinese species and to A. hildebrandtii (Engl.) Engl. & Gehrm. from Madagascar.
23655628|Nuclear DNA content (2C) is used as a new criterion to investigate nearly all species of the genus Nerine Herb. The species have the same chromosome number (2n = 2x = 22), with the exception of three triploid plants found. The nuclear DNA content of the diploids, as measured by flow cytometry with propidium iodide, is demonstrated to range from 18.035.3 pg. This implies that the largest genome contains roughly 2  1010 more base pairs than the smallest. The species, arranged according to increasing genome size, fell apart in three groups if growth cycle and leaf width were also considered. A narrow-leafed, evergreen group with a DNA content between 18.0 and 24.6 pg contains thirteen species, a broad-leaved winter growing group with four species has a DNA content from 25.326.2 pg and a broad-leafed summer growing group has a DNA content of 26.835.3 pg and contains six species. If the presence of filament appendages and hairiness of the pedicels were also considered, the thirteen evergreen species could be further divided into a group without filament appendages or hairy pedicels with a DNA content of 18.018.7 pg. A second group without filament appendages but with hairy pedicels had a DNA content of 19.722.3 pg. And a third group with both filament appendages and hairy pedicels had a DNA content of 22.024.6 pg. The exception is N. marincowitzii that, despite a low DNA content and narrow leaves is summer growing. The broad-leafed group is further characterised by the absence of filament appendages and the absence of strongly hairy pedicels. The exception here is N. pusilla that, despite a high DNA content, has narrow leaves and minutely hairy pedicels. Nuclear DNA content as measured by flow cytometry is shown to be relevant to throw new light on the relationships between Nerine species.
23674411|Evidence is presented that in the R and P genomes (Secale cereale and Agropyron cristatum, respectively) of the Triticeae there exist closely related 350-family DNA sequences in the terminal heterochromatin. This observation is compared to the relationships between these two genomes derived from a comparison of the Nor and 5 S DNA loci as well as the available data on morphological characters, chromosome pairing, and isozyme studies. It is concluded that the R and P genomes are not closely related and that the common presence of very similar 350-family DNA sequences reflects the parallel amplification of this family of DNA sequences.
23655134|The genus Reynoutria is represented by four taxa in the Czech Republic  R. japonica var. japonica and compacta, R. sachalinensis and R.  bohemica. Using isoenzyme analysis, we determined the degree of genotype variability in all taxa and compared clones of R. japonica var. japonica from the Czech Republic with those from Great Britain. While the rarely occurring tetraploid variety R. japonica var. compacta possesses low variability, the octoploid female clone of R. japonica var. japonica is genetically uniform in the 93 clones sampled and belongs to the same genotype that is present in the whole Europe. R. japonica var. japonica can be fertilized by the pollen of tetraploid R. sachalinensis and a hexaploid hybrid R.  bohemica is produced. In R. sachalinensis, 16 genotypes were found in the 50 clones sampled. R.  bohemica is genetically the most diverse taxon in the study area, with 33 genotypes recorded among 88 clones sampled.
43558673|Three molecular markers, including start codon targeted (SCoT) polymorphism, directed amplification of minisatellite-region DNA polymerase chain reaction (DAMD-PCR), and inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers, were compared in terms of their informativeness and efficiency for analysis of genetic relationships among 38 accessions of eight annual Cicer species. The results were as follows: (1) the highest level of detected polymorphism was observed for all three marker types; (2) the rate of diversity for the three marker techniques was approximately equal, and the correlation coefficients of similarity were statistically significant for all three marker systems; (3) the three molecular markers showed relatively similar phylogenetic grouping for examined species. Diversity analysis showed that Cicer reticulatum is the closest wild species to the cultivated chickpea, and this finding supports the hypothesis that C. reticulatum is the most probable progenitor of the cultivated species. C. bijugum, C. Judaicum, and C. pinnatifidum were clustered together, and in other clusters C. yamashitae and C. cuneatum were grouped close together. To our knowledge, this is the first detailed comparison of performance among two targeted DNA region molecular markers (SCoT and DAMD-PCR) and the ISSR technique on a set of samples of Cicer. The results provide guidance for future efficient use of these molecular methods in genetic analysis of Cicer.
23669756|An immunosystematical research was conducted on the seed proteins of 32 species of Fabaceae. By comparing all immunelectrophoretic patterns with the self reaction of a reference system (Phaseolus coccineus) all proteins detected have been identified and their distribution within the family has been analyzed. Half of the proteins identified in P. coccineus gave positive cross reactions with proteins present in all other species. Among this group are "protein I" and "phaseolin". This result supports the homologization between phaseolin and vicilin. Among the other proteins, three are irregularly distributed throughout the family, and only three are restricted to a few taxa. This last group includes phytohaemagglutinin, which does not present any cross reaction outside the tribe Phaseoleae.
43558225|The geographical dichotomy hypothesis suggests that columnar cacti in the tropics depend primarily on bats for pollination. This dependence may to be less in the outer tropics where many columnar cactus species (or their populations) show a relatively generalized pollination system with both nocturnal (moths and bats) and diurnal pollinators (bees and hummingbirds) (geographical dichotomy hypothesis). This hypothesis has been mostly tested in the northern tropics; nonetheless, our knowledge of columnar cactus species inhabiting the southern tropics is still scarce. The aim of this project was to evaluate the pollination biology of Oreocereus celsianus, a columnar cactus with restricted distribution in the subtropical Andes, to determine if the pollination system of this cactus tends to be more generalized than specialized because of the geographical position where it occurs. Observations of frequency of visit showed that Patagona gigas (Giant Hummingbird) is the main pollinator of the flowers, visiting them when they are opening (afternoon of the first day). Bees, wasps and moths were occasional visitors of the flowers. None of them seem to act as pollinator. Autogamy, geitonogamy and xenogamy treatments produced high fruit set, showing that O. celsianus has an unusual mixed mating system. The results suggest that this Andean columnar cactus is partially specialized on hummingbirds, with most pollination service performed by a single species, and it has the capacity of selfing ('fail-safe' pollination system). This mixed mating system (both outcrossing and selfing) may be a response to the unpredictable environment of the Prepuna in the subtropical Andes.
23643371|This revision describes, illustrates and documents morphological variation in Doniophyton (Compositae, Barnadesioideae), restricted to Argentina and Chile. Two species are recognized, D. anomalum and D. weddellii (sp. nova), possessing distinct morphological and chromosomal features, elevational tolerances, and nearly allopatric distributions. Doniophyton weddellii occurs primarily in central to northern Andean Chile and Argentina from 19004000 m a. s. 1.; D. anomalum is found principally in central-western Argentina and south into Patagonia at 01800 m a. s. 1. Close relationship exists with Chuquiraga of subfam. Barnadesioideae. It is hypothesized that Doniophyton evolved out of Chuquiraga in the high central Andes between Chile and Argentina. It is suggested that D. weddellii differentiated first, correlating with an aneuploid chromosomal decrease from n = 27 (in Chuquiraga) to n = 25. Further evolution and chromosomal decrease to n = 24 resulted in D. anomalum, with accompanying migration into southern Andes and Patagonia. Nomenclatural changes result from examination of protologues and type specimens: Doniophyton anomalum replaces the commonly used name D. patagonicum, and a new species, D. weddellii, is described for the taxon masquerading under the routinely used superfluous name D. andicola.
23656022|In Southern Italy, an endemic monotypic genus belonging to family Apiaceae occurs: Petagnaea (P. gussonei), relict of Tertiary flora, belonging to subfamily Saniculoideae. At present, P. gussonei is an endangered species and is included in various lists of species deserving special protection. The genus belongs to scapose hemicryptophytes and shares a sciaphilous habitat (hygrophilous woodland). This study is aimed at doing a complete contribution about the evolutionary history of Petagnaea, using molecular markers as plastidial DNA (cpDNA), nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and data present in literature. We used nucleotide sequences from four regions of the chloroplast genome (rps16 intron, trnL(UAA) intron, atpB-rbcL intergenic spacer, and partial matK gene) to investigate possible haplotypes in Petagnaea populations. To have an idea of the molecular relationships of all populations of P. gussonei, the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences, already employed in recent studies, were obtained for 18 populations. These sequences in combination with other Saniculoideae ITS sequences available from GenBank have been used for a further phylogenetic analysis. The results agree with the current classification of Saniculoideae in placing P. gussonei in tribe Saniculeae, since P. gussonei is in basal position to Sanicula. According to intraspecific chloroplast DNA diversity, no different haplotypes were detected. In addition to molecular data, morphology, cytology, phytochemistry and conservation status have been considered in the discussion.
23674270|The surface of Balanophora tubers consists of a nonepidermal layer made up of two distinctive types of cells, armature cells and stellate wart cells. Both cell types are provided with a heavy wall, and are dead at maturity. Stellate warts in the three species investigated, B. elongata, B. fungosa, and B. hansenii, seem to be uniform in appearance, but armature cells are extremely distinctive for each species. They are present in large, agglomerate masses in the first, singly or in very small clusters in the second, and as completely free, individual, acicular cells in the third species. Such differences are believed to be significant systematically, and the separation of B. hansenii is thus probably justified. Notwithstanding superficial similarities, stellate warts do not seem to be comparable to the lenticels of other plants.
23674240|Flowering phenology of some annonaceous trees and reproductive biology of Polyalthia littoralis (Annonaceae) were studied. The trees showed various types of flowering phenology within the family. Among them, P. littoralis had hermaphroditic and protogynous flowers, and exhibited continuous flowering throughout the year. Bagged flowers set fruits and seeds comparable to the control. The observations of meiotic stages and the results of castrated tests indicated no possibility of apomictic reproduction. The abscised anthers attached to torus by the extended spiral thickenings, and accomplished self-pollination. Outbreeding possibly occurs, but the following self-pollination guarantees seed set.
23643121|Chromosome number and other cytological features are reported from 35 species of Velloziaceae, including several African and Brazilian populations. All analyzed species show areticulate interphase nuclei and prophase/prometaphase chromosomes with proximal early condensation. Most heteropycnotic blocks do not seem to correspond to heterochromatin since, at least in Vellozia patens, they do not stain differentially after C-banding procedures. Regarding the chromosome number, three main groups could be identified. The first comprised diploid species of the genera Nanuza, Vellozia and the Brazilian species of Xerophyta with 2n = 14 or 16; the second comprised tetraploid species with 2n = 34, and included all Brazilian species of subfam. Barbacenioideae; the third group, of hexaploid species, comprised the African representatives of the genus Xerophyta. A single population of Vellozia, possibly of hybrid origin, had 2n  32. A basic number of x = 8 is proposed for the family. The karyological information supports the hypothesis that the Velloziaceae originated on the South American, rather than on the African continent.
23644327|The problems involved in applying histochemical and cytochemical methods to mature angiosperm pollen for bright light and fluorescence microscopy are discussed. These methods can be used for general examination or to reveal particular structures or groups of substances. The main methods of testing pollen viability and germinability based on stains and semiquantitative methods are also reviewed. The main methods of staining and their applications are summarised.
23642115|The structural types, biogenesis and distribution of betalains and anthocyanins in centrospermous families are reviewed. The implications of the pigment and DNA-RNA hybridization data, along with other evidence, are discussed with respect to the view that the evolutionary line of centrospermous families contains eleven basic or core families of which nine produce betalains and two, the Caryophyllaceae and Molluginaceae, produce anthocyanins; it is suggested that the betalain and anthocyanin families developed from a common ancestor at a time prior to the widespread occurrence of floral pigments in angiosperms.
23642842|The pollination biology of Symphonia globulifera was studied in Central Amazonia, Brazil. As suggested by the bird syndrome of the flowers, these are mainly pollinated by hummingbirds. Occasional visits by other birds, butterflies and more rarely bees, as well as tamarin monkeys were also observed. Trigona bees partly destroy the flower tube to rob nectar. The possibility that S. globulifera may not be primarily adapted to hummingbird pollination is discussed. The pollen is intermixed in an oily fluid secreted by the anthers (antheroil). Each of the five stigmas consists of a pore-like opening at the apex and a small chamber behind it. The antheroil mixed with pollen is absorbed by capillarity into the chamber when deposited on the pore. The pollen germinates inside the stigma. The presence of antheroil and pore-like stigmas in the flowers of the closely related Platonia insignis indicate a similar mode of pollination. The results of this study are compared with observations in some other Clusiaceae (Caraipa, Clusia, Garcinia, Mahurea), where floral oils or floral resin occur. The role of these substances in the pollination process and their relation to the evolution of flower biology in Clusiaceae are briefly discussed.
23642599|Fraction 1 protein (F-1-protein) (ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase) contained in Lemnaceae has been evolving for at least 50 million years because fossils of these plants have been identified in strata belonging to the Upper Cretaceous. Electrofocusing F-1-protein resolves the large subunit polypeptides coded by extranuclear DNA and the small subunit polypeptides coded by nuclear DNA. Four differences affecting isoelectric points of the large subunit polypeptides and eight affecting the small subunit polypeptides are now present among eleven species representing the four genera comprising the Lemnaceae. In comparison, four differences in the large and 13 in the small subunit polypeptides exist among 63 species of Nicotiana; four differences in the large and eight differences in the small subunit polypeptides exist among 19 species of Gossypium. The number of differences in F-1-protein composition being of the same order of magnitude for the genera Nicotiana, Gossypium, and the family Lemnaceae, we infer that these Angiosperms are of similar antiquity. Nicotiana species indigenous to Australia and Africa contain F-1-proteins whose large subunit polypeptides are different but some of whose small subunit polypeptides are like those found in species from the Western Hemisphere. The same situation is found for the F-1-protein in Gossypium. These results are in harmony with the view that species of Nicotiana and Gossypium have arrived in Australia via former land connections between S. America, Antarctica, and Australia.
23675283|The ultrastructure of the diatom Synedra cf. ulna was examined paying special attention to the "Plattenband" (platelet band). This structure was first described by Geitler in 1948 on the basis of LM observations and denotes a linear array of dictyosomes along the apical axis of the cell. The present investigation confirms Geitler's observations in all essential details and demonstrates that the dictyosomes are arranged along polarized nuclear extensions running towards the cell poles. Laterally the extensions are accompanied by a number of microtubules. In large cells the total length of the nucleus thus may reach 400 m and more. Since only the central part of the nucleus is DNA-positive with DAPI and acridine orange, the nuclear nature of the "backbone" of the Plattenband cannot be recognized by LM techniques. TEM investigation of serial apical and transapical sections, however, prove unambiguously the identity with extended parts of the nucleus.
23674704|The taxonomy of the genus Quercus is still unclear. In order to elucidate the taxonomy of Mediterranean oaks we have analyzed ribosomal RNA genes of Quercus cerris, Q. coccifera, Q. trojana, Q. ilex, Q. suber, and Q. macrolepis by means of Southern blot hybridization. Oak nuclear DNA was extracted from root tips of 300 acorns and from catkins of single plants. EcoRI and BamHI restriction endonucleases were used. DNA electrophoresis and rRNA/DNA hybridization were performed using Vicia faba rRNA 18 S and 25 S as probes. The rRNA genes of all the species studied have an identical restriction mapping in the 18 S and 25 S regions, while differences in length are present in the intergenic regions. Q. cerris possesses at least four types of genes of 12.1, 11.5, 8.5, and 8.3 kb; Q. coccifera at least three types of 12.4, 10.4, and 10.1 kb; Q. trojana possesses the same rRNA genes as Q. cerris plus another gene type 12.0 kb long, with EcoRI and BamHI restriction sites in the intergenic spacer; Q. ilex at least three types of 12.4, 10.85, and 9.5 kb; Q. suber at least five types of 11.5, 11.0, 8.6, 8.5, and 8.3 kb; Q. macrolepis, finally, at least seven types of 11.5, 11.0, 10.2, 8.6, 8.5, 8.3, and 8.15 kb. Q. coccifera and Q. ilex rDNA appears quite different respect to other species examined, while high similarity seems to exist between Q. cerris, Q. trojana, Q. suber, and Q. macrolepis. These results are in agreement with the taxonomic model proposed by Schwarz for the genus Quercus.
23654225|The combined analyses, based on ITS, trnL-F and matR DNA sequence data respectively from the nuclear, plastid and mitochondrial genomes, reveal that Gordonia is not a monophyletic group, and on the contrary, distributed in two major lineages in Theaceae. The only North American species, G. lasianthus, is located in Gordonieae together with Schima and Franklinia, whereas the Chinese Gordonia species are positioned in Theeae together with Camellia, Pyrenaria s.l. and Apterosperma. This result, to great extent, supports the viewpoints of separating the North American and Asiatic Gordonia species into two different genera, Gordonia s.str. and Polyspora, respectively.
23642153|Seed coat surfaces of 127 species, representing 23 sections of the genus Euphorbia L. (Euphorbiaceae) have been examined with the scanning electron microscope (SEM). Verious surface patterns and cell wall structures are described. In some groups the seed coat is rather uniform (e.g. in sect. Euphorbium), in other sections even closely related species can be separated by seed coat morphology (e.g. Tithymalus). The taxonomic application of testa micromorphology and the possible systematic position of certain taxa are briefly discussed. The seed coat cells of all species in sect. Tithymalus show remarkable intercellulares filled with small particles, which are described in detail for the first time.
23656130|Stelis, one of the largest genera within Pleurothallidinae, was recently recircumscribed to include a few hundred more species, most of which had previously been assigned to Pleurothallis. Here, a new phylogenetic analysis of Stelis and closely related genera based on DNA sequences from nuclear ITS and chloroplast matK, based on a much larger sample, is presented; it includes more than 100 species assigned to Stelis and covers all proposed groupings within the genus, many of which have not previously been represented. Clades are proposed to enable easier discussion of groups of closely related species; each clade is characterized morphologically, ecologically, and geographically to explain the evidence found in the molecular analysis. Discussion of the evolutionary trends of character states found in the genus in its broad sense is given. The current taxonomy of the group is given and the possible taxonomical implications of the findings presented here are discussed.
23673786|A karyological study of 15 taxa of Scorzonera L. from the Iberian Peninsula has been made. The chromosome numbers found in S. hispanica var. pinnatifida, S. baetica, S. reverchonii, S. angustifolia, S. laciniata var. calcitrapifolia and var. subulata (2n = 14) are new. Diploid cytotypes with 2n = 14 and 2n = 12 prevail, and S. hispanica var. crispatula is the only taxon which exhibits autopolyploidy (2n = 14, 28). x = 7 is considered to be the base chromosome number within the genus, with x = 6 being derived from it by translocation. This and detailed karyotype analyses allow to group the Iberian Peninsula species of Scorzonera into three groups.
23643362|Cross-compatibility within and among populations of the perennial Eriastrum densifolium was investigated to determine if sterility barriers have evolved within this polytypic species, and to correlate any such barriers to previously known patterns of genetic and morphological variation. Furthermore, the reproductive affinities of the endangered E. densifolium subsp. sanctorum are investigated. Results indicate that no single population or group of populations is reproductively isolated from all other populations, and that F1 hybrids are fully fertile. Interspecific crosses (with E. eremicum and E. sapphirinum) were largely unsuccessful. The endangered E. densifolium subsp. sanctorum demonstrates high interfertility with all other populations.
23644992|The Mediterranean group Acrocentron of the genus Centaurea is defined mainly on the basis of pollen type, but also by achene characters and involucral bracts morphology. We have revised the delineation of the group by cladistically comparing the sequences of the ITS spacers of the nuclear ribosomal DNA. Our results confirm that the Acrocentron group is a natural one, with a different delimitation from the commonly accepted. The ITS phylogeny supports that Centaurea sect. Chamaecyanus and sect. Stephanochilus belong to the Acrocentron group and suggests that sect. Chamaecyanus should be merged in sect. Acrocentron as a subsection. Contrary, sect. Aegialophila and sect. Crocodylium form a natural group that cannot be placed in the Acrocentron group and should be considered a different genus. The inclusion of Centaurea crocodylium in Aegialophila makes that the prioritary name for the generic level is Crocodylium; thus, two new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Crocodylium creticum and Crocodylium pumilum. The groups suggested by the ITS sequences are correlated to the main geographical centers of speciation of Acrocentron. However, support for internal nodes of the tree is extremely poor. The low support within the tree and the absence of correlation between karyology and molecular phylogeny suggest that hybridization has played an important role in the diversification of Acrocentron.
23655716|Floral isolation has been considered to be an important reproductive mechanism governing the species diversification in many genera. In a classic example Aquilegia, sympatric species from North America with diverse floral traits are generally associated with specialized pollinators that prohibit interspecific hybridization. It remains unclear whether species diversification in the genus from Eurasia is also maintained by floral isolation. We investigated floral phenology, floral characteristics and pollinators in three sympatric Aquilegia species (A. ecalcarata, A. incurvata and A. yabeana) in the Qinling Mountains, Shanxi Province, China from 2001 to 2005. The spurless A. ecalcarata flowers earlier than the other two species with nectar spurs but their floral phenology overlaps. Major pollinators of A. ecalcarata are syrphid flies while bumblebees are major for A. incurvata and A. yabeana. Therefore our observations confirm that mechanical isolation through differential pollinators could contribute reproductive isolation between spurless and spurred species, as demonstrated by studies from North America. Whether floral isolation plays a major role in the reproductive isolation between two spurred species (A. incurvata and A. yabeana), however, remains to be seen. Further studies are required to quantify the potential role of geographical isolation because they occupy different habitats.
23674746|The floral biology of Tetrastylis ovalis and its pollination by bats was studied in southeastern Brazil. The flowers of T. ovalis seem more fitted to bat-pollination than those of Passiflora mucronata, the other known chiropterophilous passionflower. Two species of bats were observed visiting flowers of T. ovalis: the phyllostomids Glossophaga soricina and Rhinophylla pumilio. Due to the attributes of Tetrastylis, its presumed primitiveness and a better defined bat-pollination syndrome we suggest that chiropterophily evolved independently in the former genus and in Passiflora.
23642341|Statistical analyses and scatter diagrams illustrate for the polymorphic E. and SE. Brazilian Drimys brasiliensis a clear correlation between morphological variation and eco-geographical differentiation. This is backed by data on the (ultra)structure of the lower leaf surface. A new infraspecific taxonomy is proposed, and D. roraimensis and D. angustifolia are recognized as distinct species of the Guyana Highlands and S. Brazil, respectively. The affinities between these and other taxa of the paleopolyploid genus, its evolution and its position within the family are discussed.
23655978|The distribution of scalariform and simple perforation plates along vessels in Arthrophyllum otopyrenum, Meryta tenuifolia, and Polyscias multijuga (Araliaceae) is examined. In all three species, most vessels bear simple perforation plates only, but the combination of simple and scalariform perforation plates in variable ratios also occurs. Aggregated arrangement of scalariform perforation plates along the vessels was statistically confirmed in some vessel portions. The scalariform perforation plates occur mostly in narrow vessels that are grouped in multiples. Within the clade represented by Polyscias and Arthrophyllum, the evolutionary transition from scalariform to simple perforation plates is realized as the gradual elimination of vessels or vessel portions with scalariform perforation plates, but is not accompanied by a gradual decrease of the number of bars per perforation plate. The narrow vessels that are grouped in vessel multiples are likely to retain the ability to develop scalariform plates, which could promote the evolution from simple to scalariform perforation plates as is the case within Meryta.
23644053|Floral structure and development of representatives of Asteliaceae, Blandfordiaceae, Boryaceae, Doryanthaceae, and Hypoxidaceae, all members of the 'lower' Asparagales, were studied comparatively. The results are discussed in the light of new molecular systematic studies, but also with regard to established morphological characters in related groups. Stamen shape varies considerably within and between taxa: the shape of anthers is from X-shaped, sagittate to non-sagittate, they are either latrorse or introrse, basifixed, centrifixed or dorsifixed. Gynoecia are syncarpous up to the stigmatic region in all taxa. Ovaries of Doryanthaceae and Hypoxidaceae are inferior, but they are superior in Asteliaceae, Blandfordiaceae and Boryaceae. All ovaries have at least a short synascidiate zone. With the exception of Astelia alpina (Asteliaceae), the ovaries are trilocular. Ovaries of Asteliaceae contain mucilage, which is secreted from trichomes on the funicle and on the placenta. Although flowers are polysymmetric at anthesis, they are monosymmetric in earliest stages with a developmental gradient from adaxial to abaxial. Perianth organs arise individually from either a concave (taxa with inferior ovary) or convex (taxa with superior ovary) apex. Hypoxidaceae have pollen flowers with free stamens. One species, Curculigo capitulata, has Solanum-type flowers with postgenitally united stamens. It is most probably pollinated by buzzing bees. All other taxa have nectariferous flowers with internal or external septal nectaries.
23669758|The zoospores and isogametes of Ulvaria obscura var. blyttii, the isogametes of Monostroma bullosum, and the anisogametes of M. grevillei have a flagellar apparatus with counterclockwise absolute orientation and terminal caps, and therefore belong to the Ulvophyceae. On the basis of the absence or presence of body scales and the morphologies of certain flagellar apparatus components, Ulvaria obscura var. blyttii is retained in the Ulvales, while M. bullosum, M. grevillei and M. oxyspermum are referred to the Ulotrichales. Differences in scale morphology, certain flagellar apparatus components, and early thallus ontogeny support the transfer of M. oxyspermum to the genus Gayralia. Mating structures and their positional relationships within the cell are described from the gametes examined. A plasmalemma-associated plaque that may be a degenerate mating structure occurs in some G. oxysperma motile cells.
23671565|The occurrence of vascular tracheids in Betula, Alnus, Carpinus and Corylus is reported. It is established that the cells are a consistent feature in early and late wood where they are associated with vessel elements in radial multiples. The possible function and taxonomic importance of these cells are briefly considered.
23642719|The following species are described as new: Anthemis mazandaranica in N. and NW. Iran is allied to A. coelopoda; A. moghanica in NW. Iran is close to A. candidissima and A. sintenisii; A. atropatana also in NW. Iran is similar to A. hyalina; A. gracilis in W. Iran is close to A. plebeia; A. bushehrica in SW. Iran is similar to A. susiana; and A. rhodocentra in S. and E. Iran and in Pakistan is akin to A. austro-iranica, A. gayana, and A. kandaharica.
23673819|Three new species of Galium from the NW. Himalaya in Pakistan are described and illustrated.
23655777|The genus Rosa (Rosaceae) is a remarkable genus with respect to systematic biology. Multiple reproductive strategies ranging from apomixis to outcrossing including hybridisation, as well as different modes of character inheritance like matroclinal, paternal or sex unrelated ones. This complexity makes the genus a model in which simple concepts of radiation, speciation and taxonomy come to their limits. Analyses of the evolutionary patterns and processes in Rosa give clear evidence for the stochastic character of this specific evolutionary scenario.
23669399|This study aims to determine whether morphoanatomical characters of the leaves of the species of Chamaecrista sect. Absus subsection Baseophyllum could be used to support an up-ranking of C. cytisoides varieties to the species level as previously defined by molecular studies. The significance of anatomical adaptive strategies to arid environments is also discussed. Standard light microscopy techniques and histochemical tests were used for both morphoanatomical and histochemical characterization of the leaves. All the species studied share a singlelayered epidermis, actinodromouscamptodromousbrochidodromous type of venation, vascular bundles surrounded by layers of fibers bounded externally by a sheath of cells containing solitary crystals, enlarged tracheids at the vein endings, vascular petiole/rachis tissue with a parenchymatous pith, accessory vascular bundles, mucilage idioblasts and hypodermis in the mesophyll, colleters, and non-secretory trichomes. The position and type of stomata, type of mesophyll, number of palisade and spongy parenchyma layers, position of mucilage idioblasts in the mesophyll, and the number of accessory vascular bundles of petiole/rachis provided useful characters for discriminating the eight species of the subsect. Baseophyllum. Histochemical tests reveal the presence of total polysaccharides, pectins, mucilage and phenolic compounds in the idioblasts. Other xeromorphic characters such as thickened outer periclinal cell walls, compact mesophyll, mucilage idioblasts and hypodermis in the mesophyll may help enable the studied species to survive in exposed sunny areas.
23644974|Flowers of Prunus persica (L.) Batch. cv. Forastero have an orange toral nectary. The nectariferous tissue was formed by densely packed parenchyma cells (secretory cells) and an epidermis with hairs and modified stomata. The epidermal cells were highly vacuolated with a striated cuticle. The ultrastructure of these cells contained a cytoplasm with endoplasmic reticulum, plastids, mitochondria and dictyosomes. Sub-epidermal cells were barely vacuolated and their ultrastructure was similar to that of the epidermal cells. Differences were observed only in the endoplasmic reticulum, which is organized in a parallel configuration. Plasmodesmata were found between adjacent secretory cells and between secretory and epidermal cells. An electron dense secretion occurred in the intercellular spaces and between the external tangential wall and the cuticle of the epidermal cells. According to the ultrastructural observations, the sugar solution could be passed through the symplast or the apoplast. The nectar could be exuded from the stomata and the microchannels of the cuticle covering the epidermal cells.
23642992|A parsimony analysis of DNA sequences of the chloroplast-encoded gene rbcL from twelve members of the Acanthaceae s.l., including members of the sometimes segregate Thunbergioideae and Nelsonioideae, and other families in the Bignoniales sensu Thorne (1992) is presented. The results largely agree with the classification of the Acanthaceae presented by Bremekamp (1965) and Thorne (1992) and support Nelsonioideae as a sister group to the rest of the Acanthaceae. Thunbergioideae are placed as a sister to Acanthaceae s.str. Acanthus and Aphelandra, both representatives of Acanthoideae, form a sister group to Ruellioideae. An analysis of branch support found that many branches throughout the Bignoniales are weakly upheld. This points to the need for further studies in the group using more sequences of rbcL as well as other data. None of the families of Bignoniales as presently circumscribed (including Acanthaceae s.l.) were strongly supported, although the larger clade containing the families of the Bignoniales was robust.
23643321|We conducted this study to determine whether the analysis of the population frequency of individual RAPD fragments amplified from DNA of single seedlings could be used to discriminate cultivars of lucerne and compare the relatedness of cultivars of differing geographic and genetic origin. Canonical discriminant analysis of RAPD banding data obtained from amplification of DNA from 40 seedlings of each of ten cultivars (six Iranian ecotypic cultivars, two cultivars from New Zealand and two from the USA) with one selected primer enabled discrimination of most cultivars (78% of pairwise comparisons at P < 0.01 among the ten cultivars examined in this study). Comparison of the Mahalanobis generalized distances among the cultivars produced results for genetic relatedness which were generally consistent with geographical origin and breeding relationships. Cultivar uniformity was assessed by determining the percentage of seedlings correctly classified into the named cultivar; this was variable among cultivars and the Iranian ecotypic cultivars had a particularly wide range of variability. Analysis of population genetics in lucerne using RAPD banding data may be useful for plant improvement, in descriptions of new cultivars and also when assessing cultivar purity in seed certification programmes.
23643161|The familiar limits of Verbenaceae are controversial, ranging from a sensu lato arrangement of seven subfamilies until a sharply defined sensu stricto group consisting of only some genera from subfam. Verbenoideae. Iridoid contents of genera belonging to Verbenaceae s. l. were examined through a cladistic analysis, using outgroup analysis to evaluate character polarity within the ingroup. The cladogram obtained shows the distribution of the species according to their iridoid content.
23644293|Little is known about the breeding systems of tropical perennial ginger species. In this paper, we provide information about the breeding system of Alpinia kwangsiensis in Yunnan, Southwest China, specifically self-compatibility, mechanisms promoting outcrossing, and the visitation characteristics of pollinators. Populations of A. kwangsiensis have two specific phenotypes that differ in flowering behaviour: 1) "cataflexistyle" individuals in which the stigma is held erect above the dehiscent anther when anthesis begins in the morning and becomes decurved under the anther at noon and 2) "anaflexistyle" individuals in which the receptive stigma is decurved under the indehiscent anther first and moves into a reflexed superior position above the anther as it begins to shed pollen at mid-day. The stigmatic movements in the two floral phenotypes, which occur in a ratio of 1:1 in natural populations, are synchronous and correlate with the foraging behaviour of floral visitors; pollination is effected only between floral forms. Field experiments indicate that A. kwangsiensis is self-compatible and dependent upon insects for fertilization. This newly reported floral mechanism, which we have named "flexistyly," adds to the repertoire of devices that have evolved in flowering plants to insure outcrossing.
23660151|Phylogenetic relationships among 40 of the 43 recognized species of Fraxinus L. (Oleaceae) were estimated on the basis of 106 nuclear ribosomal ITS sequences. ITS trees resulting from maximum likelihood (ML), maximum parsimony (MP) and Bayesian inference (BI) are congruent and identify six distinct lineages. These clades allow establishing sections with high molecular and morphological support. The basal resolution generally has low ML bootstrap and MP jackknife support, but the Bayesian posterior probabilities are high for certain relationships. An independent data set of combined sequences from the chloroplast rps16 and trnL-F regions contains few informative sites but corroborate most of the relationships in the ITS tree. The molecular phylogeny is discussed in the light of morphological and other data and a revised infrageneric classification with six sections are presented. The subgenera and subsections are abandoned and the section Pauciflorae is a new combination. Fraxinus quadrangulata and Fraxinus anomala are united with Fraxinus dipetala in the section Dipetalae and Fraxinus platypoda is transferred to the section Fraxinus. Fraxinus chiisanensis, Fraxinus spaethiana and Fraxinus cuspidata are treated as incertae sedis. A sectional key is given, together with a systematic list of the 43 recognized species, with common synonyms and distribution. Breeding system and other traits mapped on the phylogeny show that dioecy has three separate origins, and in each case followed after the transition from insect to wind pollination. In one instance dioecy evolved from hermaphroditism via androdioecy and twice via polygamy.
23673120|In this study, we examined whether a satisfactory infrageneric grouping in Eremopyrum (Ledeb.) Jaub. & Spach can be achieved with the help of cluster analysis based on external vegetative and floral morphological characters of specimens either gathered from the field or borrowed from various herbaria. Twenty morphological characters were chosen and scored for 36 populations representing the genus. The data were subjected to numerical taxonomic analyses, and a phenogram was obtained by applying Gower general similarity index. The results of this study suggest that there are basically five species in Turkey, namely E. triticeum (Gaertner) Nevski, E. orientale (L.) Jaub. & Spach, E. distans (K. Koch) Nevski, E. bonaepartis (Sprengel) Nevski, and E. confusum Melderis. For the first time a new variety, E. bonaepartis (Sprengel) Nevski. var. aristatum Cabi & Doan, is proposed along with two new combinations: E. bonaepartis (Sprengel) Nevski. var. sinaicum (Steudel) Cabi & Doan and E. confusum Melderis var. sublanuginosum (Drob.) Cabi & Dogan. An account of Eremopyrum in Turkey is given, including a key to the species and varieties, and a general indication of their distribution.
43558218|Pollen analysis and parsimony-based phylogenetic analyses of the genera Cistus and Halimium, two Mediterranean shrubs typical of Mediterranean vegetation, were undertaken, on the basis of cpDNA sequence data from the trnL-trnF, and trnS-trnG regions, to evaluate limits between the genera. Neither of the two genera examined formed a monophyletic group. Several monophyletic clades were recognized for the ingroup. (1) The "white and whitish pink Cistus", where most of the Cistus sections were present, with very diverse pollen ornamentations ranging from striato-reticulate to largely reticulate, sometimes with supratectal elements; (2) The "purple pink Cistus" clade grouping all the species with purple pink flowers belonging to the Macrostylia and Cistus sections, with rugulate or microreticulate pollen. Within this clade, the pink-flowered endemic Canarian species formed a monophyletic group, but with weak support. (3) Three Halimium clades were recovered, each with 100% bootstrap support; all Halimium species had striato-reticulate pollen. Two Halimium clades were characterized by yellow flowers, and the other by white flowers.
43558190|To elucidate natural hybridization of Korean Phragmites, we collected Phragmites plants from 29 regions in South Korea. Haplotypes of the samples, which were determined using two known chloroplast intergenic sequences in this study, were combined with previously known haplotypes. Phylogenetic analysis identified that 30 Korean Phragmites were grouped with two different haplotypes, 'P' or 'W', respectively, indicating that introduced Phragmites samples from other continents were not present in Korea. The vast majority (26) of the 27 test samples were grouped with the P haplotype, while the E4 sample and the three control Phragmites japonicus samples were grouped with haplotype W. Interestingly, parsimony network analysis revealed that Phragmites australis in Korea might have originated from various regions including Busan (S1), Icheon (M2), and Ansan (W2). Genotype analysis using the PhaHKT1 nuclear gene identified the M3 sample as Phragmites japonicus. For the first time, we found two hybrids (E4 and M3) in the wild by haplotype and genotype analyses, implying that the phenotype of Phragmites australis might be dominant in the hybrids. In summary, we suggest that hybrid speciation might be an important factor in the genetic diversity of Korean Phragmites.
23643344|Barbeya is a monotypic genus in the Horn of Africa and adjacent parts of Arabia. It is usually treated as the family Barbeyaceae and regarded as an aberrant member of Urticales. Dirachma, with one species on Socotra and one in Somalia, is usually treated as the family Dirachmaceae, in Geraniales, but a position in Malvales has also been suggested. Analyses of molecular data, from both rbcL and trnL-F, indicate that Barbeya and Dirachma are closely related inter se as well as to Rhamnaceae and Elaeagnaceae. In an analysis based on morphology Barbeya groups with Elaeagnaceae, and Dirachma with Rhamnaceae and Ulmaceae. In a combined molecular and morphological analysis Barbeya is the sister group of Elaeagnaceae and Dirachma is the sister group of the whole Barbeya-Elaeagnaceae-Rhamnaceae clade. However, the support for these arrangements is weak and, rather than merging Barbeyaceae with Dirachmaceae as suggested by the molecular analysis or with Elaeagnaceae as suggested by the morphological and combined analyses, it seems best to retain both Barbeyaceae and Dirachmaceae in their present circumscriptions, but in both cases in completely new positions in the angiosperm system. The results are compatible with a new circumscription of Rhamnales comprising Rhamnaceae, Elaeagnaceae, Dirachmaceae and Barbeyaceae.
23643156|Two new aero-aquatic species of the genus Helicodendron are described and illustrated: H. coniferarum and H. longitubulosum spp. nov. Both belong to the ecological group of the aero-aquatic fungi which inhabit submerged litter in stagnant pools and ditches. The new species are compared with similar species (H. coniferarum with H. fuscum, H. cumbriense, H. multiseptatum and H. pinicola; H. longitubulosum with H. tubulosum and H. longisporum). In addition, ecology and substrates are recorded: Whereas H. coniferarum was isolated from pine litter submerged in oligotrophic peat bog ditches, H. longitubulosum grew on an oak leaf submerged in a eutrophic woodland pond. The presence of microconidia in H. longitubulosum is discussed.
23674495|Variability and genetic divergence of 11 field populations of seven species of the Campanula elatines and C. fragilis rock-plants group from the Mediterranean and pre-Alpine areas have been studied by starch-gel electrophoretic techniques. Campanula isophylla, C. elatines, C. elatinoides, C. fragilis subsp. fragilis and subs. cavolinii, C. garganica were collected in Italy, whilst C. fenestrellata subsp. istriaca and C. portenschlagiana came from W. Jugoslavia. Twelve enzymatic loci for each population were genetically analysed: PGI-1 and 2, PGM-2, IDH-1 and -2, SKDH, ME, ADH, GOT-2, MPI-1 and -2, SOD-1. The genetic distances among the above mentioned entities have been calculated by Nei's index and depicted in a dendrogram.
23642893|Polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic study of 8 isoenzyme systems encoded by 16 putative gene loci in 23 species of American beans of the genus Phaseolus s. str. and in the Asian moth bean Vigna aconitifolia revealed in total 98 allozymes, including 34 taxon-specific and unique, 14 rare-unique and 50 shared allozymes.  P. xanthotrichus var. xanthotrichus and var. zimapanensis differed in allozymes of AAT-A, AAT-D and ADH-C. P. xanthotrichus var. zimapanensis and P. hintonii shared same allozymes of AAT-A and AAT-D, but differed in allozymes of ADH-A and ADH-C. It is proposed to recognize P. xanthotrichus var. zimapanensis in species rank as P. zimapanensis.  P. acutifolius var. acutifolius and var. tenuifolius, except one accession of the latter, differed in allozymes of AAT-D, ADH-C and FDH-A.  Cladistic analysis of the allozymic data as unordered absence-presence characters disclosed in the genus two major monophyletic species clusters: (1) P. polystachyus, P. ritensis, P. maculatus, P. marechalii, P. jaliscanus, P. salicifolius, P. lunatus, P. filiformis, P. angustissimus, P. acutifolius, P. coccineus, P. vulgaris, P. parvulus, P. pauciflorus, and P. pluriflorus; (2) P. grayanus, P. neglectus, P. pedicellatus, P. microcarpus, P. hintonii, and P. zimapanensis. P. xanthotrichus s. str. and P. zimapanensis are discriminated as paraphyletic, supporting their specific delimitation.  Phenetic analysis of the allozyme data with the UPGMA clustering revealed essentially the same pattern of genetic affinities between the species and additionally clarified the extent of allozymic divergence by taking into account species-specific and unique allozymes.
23655941|Androecial development and structure as well as floral vasculature of six selected species of Bombacoideae and of several smaller lineages of the Malvatheca clade (Malvaceae s.l.) were studied. All studied taxa share a similar pattern of androecial development: initially, five antepetalous/antetepalous and five alternipetalous/alternitepalous primary androecial primordia develop on a ring wall. Two elongate secondary androecial primordia form on each antepetalous/antetepalous sector. At anthesis the androecium consists of an androecial tube crowned by five androecial lobes. Each of these lobes is the developmental product of an alternipetalous/alternitepalous primary androecial primordium and its two neighbouring antepetalous/antetepalous secondary androecial primordia. The elongate, sessile androecial units are positioned along the lateral margins of the androecial lobes and in the distal part of the androecial tube. Seen in the light of the most recent studies of floral development and phylogeny of the Malvaceae and the Malvales as a whole, our data indicate that i) elongate, sessile androecial units are ancestral in the Malvatheca clade, that ii) an obdiplostemonous floral ground plan is a synapomorphy for the Malvaceae, and that iii) diplostemony is most likely ancestral in the Malvales.
43496793|The European wild strawberry species Fragaria vesca L., Fragaria viridis Weston, and Fragaria moschata Weston are sympatric and bloom concurrently, introducing the possibilities of cooperation and competition for pollinators. We studied the pollination biology of strawberries that were grown in rectangular plots at a field site near Vilnius city in Lithuania. The number of open flowers, the number of insects visiting flowers, and the plot area covered by strawberry plants were recorded. Wild strawberries were visited by solitary bees (38.5%), flies (31.4%), and other hymenopterans (21%; ants accounted for approximately 98% of this group). Coleopterans, lepidopterans and honey bees together represented less than 10% of the insects recorded on strawberries. Fragaria viridis and F. moschata flowers were more attractive to pollinators than those of F. vesca. The main visitors of F. viridis were small solitary bees; those of F. moschata were ants, while F. vesca flowers were visited by solitary bees, ants and flies in comparable numbers. We discuss competition for pollinators and the possible impact of climate fluctuation on strawberry-pollinator interactions.
43558164|We characterized rpl20-rps12 and atp-rbcL intergenic spacers of chloroplast DNA from 19 mango cultivars to analyze suitability of these regions for assessing intraspecific variation. Analysis of the atp-rbcL region showed no variation, while rpl20-rps12 spacer sequences revealed both intravarietal and inter-subspecific polymorphisms. The intravarietal SNP was at position 360 of rpl20-rps12 spacer [SNP type C(G)]. The first inter-subspecific genotype detected was a C-A variation at position 755 in 16 out of 19 mango cultivars tested. The second intersubspecific genotype was an insertion of C at position 714 of the rpl20-rps12 spacer, which was detected only in the 'Langra' cultivar. Phylogenetic tree construction based on the rpl20-rps12 region grouped 'Shane-e-khuda,' 'Sonara,' 'Padri,' 'Neelum,' 'Gulab Khas,' 'Dusehri,' 'Chonsa,' and 'Cari Saloli' cultivars together in one group; 'Anwar Ratol,' 'Zafran,' 'Tota Pari,' 'Safada,' 'Kalapahar,' and 'Almas' cultivars in a second group; and 'Bangan Palli,' 'Lohatia,' 'Kesar,' and 'Bombay Alphonso' cultivars in a third group. This study supports the applicability of the rpl20-rps12 intergenic region of cpDNA for mango cultivar identification and phylogenetics.
23669054|The genus Dioscorea comprises approximately 600 species worldwide and about 50 in India. Dioscorea is economically very useful because of its food and medicinal value. Polymerase chain reactionrestriction fragment length polymorphism (PCRRFLP) analysis was employed to study interspecific relationship between four cultivated and thirteen wild species belonging to seven taxonomical sections found in India. Restriction digestion analysis was performed for the amplified products of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) loci psbAtrnH and trnL-F regions. Out of 17 restriction endonucleases tested, 5 endonucleases had restriction sites in psbAtrnH region and 6 endonucleases had restriction sites in trnL-F region. Digestion of amplified products with these restriction endonucleases showed 70 fragments of which 62 fragments (88 %) were polymorphic. Dendrogram obtained from UPGMA cluster analysis of two combined loci shows D. bulbifera of section Opsophyton to be closely placed with species of sect. Enantiophyllum. High similarity values obtained in this study between D. pentaphylla (sect. Botrysicyos) and D. esculenta (sect. Combilium) support their common origin. The average of genetic similarities between the ten species of Enantiophyllum section was 82.3 % showing their closeness. The present study suggests that the less studied New World species, D. floribunda (sect. Heterostemon) could have evolved from old world section, Lasiophyton. The principal component analysis (PCA) obtained from data of the two loci shows D. deltoidea of sect. Stenophora to be an outgroup. Interspecific genetic similarities showed D. deltoidea with low similarity values ranging from 27.5 to 37.5 % compared with other species and was, therefore, the most divergent species. D. deltoidea of section Stenophora shows distinctness because of its primitive characters. This study, therefore, establishes species relationships between wild and cultivated yams of India which would help in yam crop improvement programmes.
23643743|In the subgenus Leopoldia of the genus Muscari, M. comosum is an exceptional species because it presents the most asymmetrical karyotype of the group and because its only active NOR is located in the fifth chromosome pair, while in the other species it is located in the first or second chromosome pairs (all the species have 2n = 18 chromosomes). Since M. comosum has a derived karyotype different from those of the other species of the group, the resulting question is whether, in the first and second chromosome pair of this species, ribosomal cistrons persist. Observations after fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using rDNA probes indicate that there are indeed ribosomal loci in the first and second chromosome pairs of this species, although these loci are inactive with respect to nucleolus organization. The location of rDNA regions in another three species of the same genus (M. atlanticum, M. dionysicum and M. matritensis) provides a basis for examining the significance of these findings in relation to the evolution of the ribosomal loci in this genus. Our observations indicate that in the genus Muscari, the largest sites for rRNA genes are not necessarily active, and, therefore, the activation of these regions is not related to the number of copies but to a specific regulation mechanism.
43558214|Crocus antalyensis B. Mathew is a bulbous plant endemic to Turkey. It is morphologically variable within the western part of Anatolia. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) marker system was used to detect genetic variation among the Crocus taxa. Twentytwo primer combinations were used to screen for polymorphism among the samples. Genetic variation ranged from 0.44 to 0.69. We demonstrated the efficiency of the AFLP marker system for discriminating between individual C. antalyensis specimens. A high level of genetic variation was present among C. antalyensis specimens collected from different locations in Turkey. We also observed that C. antalyensis subspp. are genetically distinct from their relative Crocus flavus Haw. subsp. dissectus Baytop & B. Mathew. A new subspecies of C. antalyensis B. Mathew from southern Turkey is described. It is characterized by striped outer perianth segments, waist-shaped flowers, and glabrous throat of the perianth. A composite image of the new subspecies is presented.
23644173|In this study we construct a phylogenetic hypothesis for the relatedness among disjunct subspecies of Cyclamen repandum and its two allopatric congeners, C. creticum and C. balearicum in order to examine the evolutionary divergence of currently isolated populations across the western Mediterranean. The most parsimonious phylogenetic tree obtained from sequencing the cpDNA trnL (UAA) intron suggests a major phylogeographic divide in southern Greece between two clades. The first clade comprises samples of C. repandum subsp. peloponnesiacum (from the Peloponnese) and C. creticum (from Crete). The second comprises samples of C. repandum subsp. repandum (from Croatia, Italy, southern France, Corsica, Sardinia and Sicily), C. repandum subsp. rhodense (from Rhodes and Kos) and C. balearicum (from the Balearic Islands and southern France). These data suggest that C. creticum has evolved in allopatry from C. repandum subsp. peloponnesiacum and that C. balearicum and C. repandum ssp. rhodense have diverged from C. repandum subsp. repandum at its western and eastern distribution limits. At one small site on Corsica, a population of C. repandum may have introgressed with relictual populations of C. balearicum. These divergence patterns illustrate how a phylogenetic perspective can be used to better understand the evolution of endemism in the Mediterranean flora.
23672598|Chromosome arrangement in interphase has been inferred from an analysis of the relative positions of the chromosomes and the chromosome arms in untreated haploid pollen grain metaphases of Uvularia grandiflora. The distances between centromeres forming the smallest possible circle were measured in 43 metaphases. The relative positions of the chromosomes did not differ significantly from randomness. Neither did similar-sized chromosome arms show any tendency to be next to each other. The results thus disagree both with the hypothesis of Comings (1968) that each chromosome occupies a definite position in the interphase nucleus and with the claim of Bennett (1982) that similar-sized chromosome arms lie next to each other.
43558594|Plants of the garden pea Pisum sativum an annual Papilionaceae species which have a mutation in the COCHLEATA (COCH) gene bear compound stipules of leaf morphology and secondary inflorescences in which flowers are borne in axils of bracteoles on an inflorescence stem. In the wild-type P. sativum stipules are simple foliaceous and flowers are non-bracteolated. Mutants of the coch phenotype are not known in any other plant species. The COCH gene of P. sativum is not yet sequenced.Therefore whether or not the COCH gene is present in species other than P. sativum remains unknown. Based on the principle of parallel evolution, it is thought that there may be leguminous species that possess the coch phenotype. In search of coch species, the Leguminosae flora of Delhi was surveyed for species that demonstrate compound stipules and bracteolated inflorescences. Out of 124 reported in the Leguminosae flora of Delhi, only the perennial Caesalpinioideae tree species Delonix regia and the shrubby vine species Caesalpinia bonduc were observed to have features of the coch mutants of P. sativum. Since the traits of simple foliaceous stipules and bracteoleless secondary inflorescences of wild-type P. sativum are common to many species among more than 19,400 species of family Leguminosae, it is hypothesized that the COCH gene may be as common as the ubiquitously present LEAFY gene (orthologue of UNIFOLIATA gene of P. sativum) in angiosperms.
23645107|Anthers of the common annual weed, Senecio vulgaris, show an incomplete development of the two adaxial pollen sacs (microsporangia, MS). One or both adaxial MS can be missing, or they are replaced by sterile lobes. The reduction is stronger in the derived subspecies, S. vulgaris var. vulgaris than in the ancestral subspecies, S. vulgaris ssp. denticulatus. This character in S. vulgaris differs from the usual complete reduction of adaxial MS in other, independent instances of disporangiate anthers in the Asteraceae. It corresponds to the "transition phenotypes" associated with various recombinant genotypes derived from artificial crosses between tetrasporangiate (4 MS) and disporangiate (2 MS) species in the Asteracean genus Microseris. Senecio vulgaris could be a rare natural instance of homozygosity for a major gene permitting reduction of the adaxial MS in which the expression of the reduced phenotype is determined by different numbers of modifiers in the two subspecies.
23660105|Flower and inflorescence anatomy and morphology of Exostyles, Harleyodendron, Holocalyx, Lecointea, and Zollernia (Leguminosae, Lecointea clade) were studied. Features common to all genera but otherwise rare within the Leguminosae include: (1) the presence of phenolic compounds in the epidermal cells of the anthers and subepidermal cells of the bracteoles, sepals, petals, and ovaries (absent in Holocalyx balansae); (2) simple trichomes on the adaxial base of the bracteoles and on the surface of the calyx and ovaries; and (3) tapetum persisting until the androspores are formed. Other notable anatomical features are: (1) colleters on the adaxial bases of the bracts and bracteoles of Holocalyx balansae and Zollernia ilicifolia; (2) trichomes on the anthers of Harleyodendron unifoliolatum, Holocalyx balansae, Lecointea hatschbachii, Zollernia ilicifolia and Z. magnifica; (3) osmophores on the petals of Exostyles godoyensis; (4) asynchronous pollen development in the anthers of Holocalyx balansae and Zollernia magnifica; and (5) vascular bundles surrounded by lignified fibers in Harleyodendron unifoliolatum. These anatomical characters are discussed according to their possible phylogenetic implications.
23642190|Ipomoea pes-tigridis is an autogamous and genetically polymorphic weed. In the vicinity of Jodhpur at least 9 forms can be distinguished which differ by leaf shape, presence or absence of latex canals, starch and anthocyanin in shoots, and particularly by size, weight, colour, indumentum, dormancy, and germination requirements of seeds. The different forms prefer those micro-habitats to which they are best adapted.
23642832|Chromosome numbers are presented for 32 collections of 29 European blackberry species (Rubus subg. Rubus) from Germany. One species is triploid (2n = 21), 27 species are tetraploid, (2n = 28), and one species is pentaploid (2n = 35). Chromosome numbers are reported for the first time of R. adspersus, R. amisiensis, R. calvus, R. conothyrsoides, R. contractipes, R. demissus, R. elegantispinosus, R. ferocior, R. foliosus, R. hypomalacus, R. leucandrus, R. nemorosus, R. platyacanthus, R. praecox, R. rhombifolius, and R. rhytidophyllus. Chromosome numbers for R. dasyphyllus, R. gelertii, R. glandithyrsos, R. lamprocaulos, R. lindebergii, R. macrophyllus, R. montanus, R. muenteri, R. pedemontanus, R. polyanthemus, R. senticosus, R. silvaticus, and R. vigorosus are confirmed.
23670053|Within the holarctic ser. Parviflorae of Euphrasia so far only tetraploid taxa (2 n = 44) have been recorded. Now, from the European alpine E. minima group, two diploid representatives (2 n = 22) have been discovered in the Tyrolean Alps (Upper tztal and Sonnwendgebirge [= Rofan Mts.]). The study of large populations of these two diploids in comparison with the tetraploid E. minima and other partly sympatric taxa of Euphrasia has revealed sufficient morphological (Figs. 13, Tab. 1) and ecological differences, so that their description as two new species: E. inopinata and E. sinuata, appears justified. From their morphology, habitats, and accompanying flora it is possible to interpret these two diploids as pre-Wrm nunatak relics which apparently have participated in the origin of Euphrasia ser. Parviflorae (and subsect. Angustifoliae) tetraploids (Fig. 4).
23674623|Cold-induced mitotic under-condensation of certain chromosome segments is a rare phenomenon in plants. There are about 11 genera of monocotyledons and only 3 of dicotyledons, where species are known to have such cold-sensitive regions (CSRs). The molecular causes of cold-induced undercondensation are not clear, and no consistent cytochemical characteristics of CSRs are known. Recently we have presented a chromosome banding analysis on CSRs and their relation to constitutive heterochromatin in Cestrum parqui (Solanaceae), a species of sect. Cestrum. The present study is concerned with a similar analysis in C. strigillatum of sect. Cestrum, and in C. fasciculatum and C. elegans of sect. Habrothamnus. Chromomycin/DAPI fluorescent double staining, sequential C-banding, and sequential silver impregnation were applied. The species differ in detail but are similar qualitatively. Four classes of heterochromatin can be discriminated. (1) CSRs, with banding properties indicating AT-rich constitutive heterochromatin. After cold-treatment CSR heterochromatin can be silver-impregnated from interphase, as chromocentres, to metaphase, as undercondensed segments. CSRs are subject to frequent heteromorphy. (2) Nucleolar organizers. Two pairs were identified in the karyotypes. Banding properties indicate GC-rich heterochromatin. The nucleolar organizing regions are less evident and their silver-reducing capability reduces during metaphase. (3) Non-nucleolar CMA-positively fluorescing bands. These are minute, polymorphic, positively C-stained, and restricted to one or a few sites in the karyotypes. (4) Indifferently fluorescing, positively C-stained bands. They occur on centromeres, some chromosome ends, and clustered over the chromosome arms. They are mostly very delicate and do not resist harsh banding treatments.  The species investigated here and C. parqui resemble each other qualitatively in heterochromatin classes (1), (2), and (3), but differ much in banding properties of class (4). Therefore, heterochromatin characteristics in the genus are not so uniform as the present results in C. strigillatum, C. fasciculatum, and C. elegans appear to show.
23674388|The taxon commonly named Helleborus viridis in Lombardy (NW. Italy) differs from both, subsp. viridis and subsp. occidentalis, and is shown to fall within the variation range of H. odorus subsp. laxus which has been reported so far for NE. Italy only. True H. viridis within Italy grows only in the Maritime Alps.
23643091|Karyotypes, constitutive heterochromatin and nucleolar numbers of five recognized taxa and two systematically new populations of Guizotia have been studied using Giemsa or aceto-orcein staining, C-banding and silver nitrate staining. All accessions have 2n = 30 chromosomes, but satellite chromosome number and nucleolar number varied from four to eight. Centromere positions varied from predominantly median to submedian and subterminal in different materials. The satellites and an interstitial region in the short arm of one chromosome pair were C-banded in all materials. Telomeric and centromeric C-bands were also observed. The material could be classified into three groups, indicating possible phylogenetic relationships.
23672621|A more precise taxonomic concept of E. hirtella and its infraspecific synonymy is presented. Its diploid nature (2n = 22) is confirmed. Within the European area of E. hirtella five different races may be recognised: "typical", "brandisii", "capitulata", "Rofan" and "Bretagne". Taxonomic rank is not yet attributed to these races. The heterogeneous taxonomic assembly "E. drosocalyx" is disentangled. The type refers to products of hybrid introgression of E. rostkoviana-characters (long glandular hairs) into E. minima.
23657060|Raddia brasiliensis forms a species complex with the recently segregated R. megaphylla, R. lancifolia, R. soderstromii and R. stolonifera, occurring in the Atlantic rainforest, Brazil. Allozymic markers were used in 272 individuals of 14 populations of this group to investigate its genetic variability, correlating this with morphological variability, and testing the proposed taxonomy based on multivariate morphometrics. Genetic variability was low in almost all populations (P = 22.266.7, A = 1.32.0, He=0.040.17). R. brasiliensis showed a very high endogamy (FIS = 0.329). Values for genetic and morphological structuring were very high to high (FST = 0.43, AMRPP = 0.22; FST = 0.19, AMRPP = 0.10 and FST = 0.18, AMRPP = 0.39), respectively, for R. brasiliensis, R. soderstromii and R. megaphylla. The lowest genetic identity between populations was also found in R. brasiliensis, and the highest morphological differentiation was found between populations of R. megaphylla. Allozymic and morphological data were congruent and complementary, and confirm that we are dealing with five distinct species as previously circumscribed.
23644393|Variation of 80 multistate morphological characters and isozymes encoded by 13 loci among 23 vetch species of the type subgenus of the genus Vicia in comparison with V. dumetorum, V. pisiformis and V. sylvatica of the subgenus Cracca is described and analyzed with cladistic parsimony and phenetic neighbour-joining methods by using two different ways of coding. Morphological analyses showed the subgenus Vicia monophyletic and revealed subgroups in a general agreement with traditionally recognized sections, except showing V. faba nested within section Narbonensis and ambiguity in the position of V. lathyroides and V. bithynica. Parsimony analysis of orthozymes as presence/absence characters revealed in the subgenus two basic monophyletic clades: 1) V. faba and three species of the section Peregrinae, V. michauxii, V. aintabensis and V. peregrina, in one subclade linked with species of the Narbonensis and Hyperchusa sections together with V. pisiformis of subgenus Cracca in a second subclade; 2) species belonging to sections Vicia, Sepium, Pseudolathyrus and Lathyroides together with V. sylvatica of the subgenus Cracca. Neighbour-joining analysis of orthozymes revealed the same two basic groups, differing only in the relative position of some species in subclusters. Both isozyme analyses showed paraphyly of the subgenera Vicia and Cracca. Parsimony analysis of orthozymes as character states of isozymes yielded a largely unresolved strict consensus cladogram of 209 most parsimonious trees, and reweighting of characters failed to produce a stable tree. Phylogenetic congruence and discordance among morphological and isozyme analyses, coding ways, homoplasy and weighting of characters are discussed.
23643153|A putative natural hybrid between Orchis laxiflora and O. morio (Orchidaceae) from southern Italy, formerly known as O. alata, was characterized both on morphological and molecular grounds in order to confirm its hybrid status and to trace its maternal lineage. The morphological characters of the putative hybrid showed intermediacy between those of the parent species, and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of a region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA confirmed its hybrid origin. Chloroplast DNA RFLP analysis indicated that O. morio provided the maternal genome.
23644988|In this paper we emphasize the role of pollinator perception and decision-making processes in mediating floral nectar distribution strategies. Since pollinator choice behavior is guided by how the pollinator perceives and evaluates floral rewards, we hypothesize that plants have evolved strategies that maximize their perceived profitability, through pollinator cognition-mediated coevolution. We focus on two classes of cognitive phenomena, contextdependent evaluations and risk-sensitivity. These phenomena are of interest to psychologists and biologists. Our paper is an attempt to show the value of cross-disciplinary exchange of theories and ideas. A review of the ecology literature suggests that pollinators evaluate variability in nectar volume in proportion to the mean, and thus choice behavior is guided by the coefficient of variation (standard deviation/mean) of the distribution. This functional relationship is predicted by Weber's law, which describes a wide range of psychophysical phenomena. Simulations show that this phenomenon also affects how pollinators perceive skewed nectar distributions. Cognition-mediated coevolution theory should be a fruitful approach to understanding the evolution of pollinator-plant interactions.
23643114|The differentiation of foliar epidermis structures, cuticles, stomata, and indumentum of most of the extant Euro-Mediterranean taxa of Quercus have been studied by light and scanning electron microscopy, and compared with other genera and fossil material. Results allow the recognition of the subgg. Sclerophyllodrys, Cerris and Quercus, and of various sections and even individual species. The cyclocytic stomata type, regarded as plesiomorphic, is found in the geologically oldest representatives of the familiy (Dryophyllum, resp. Eotrigonobalanus) and in the relatively old, evergreen to semi-evergreen species of Quercus subgg. Sclerophyllodrys and Cerris. These taxa also have relatively thick and smooth cuticles. Anomocytic stomata, thinner cuticles and the presence of crystalline wax flakes are regarded as apomorphic features and characterize the deciduous taxa of subg. Quercus. These changes are interpreted as ecological adaptations to the changing climates from the Tertiary to the present. An analysis of the various character combinations found in macrofossils and the often poor species separation in Quercus suggest that hybridization has played a major role in the evolution of the Euro-Mediterranean oaks.
23654172|Floral anatomy is described in ten genera of Bromeliaceae, including three members of subfamily Bromelioideae, three Tillandsioideae, and four genera of the polyphyletic subfamily Pitcairnioideae (including Brocchinia, the putatively basal genus of Bromeliaceae). Bromeliaceae are probably unique in the order Poales in possessing septal nectaries and epigynous or semi-epigynous flowers. Evidence presented here from floral ontogeny, vasculature, and the relative positions of nectary and ovules indicates that there could have been one or more reversals to apparent hypogyny in Bromeliaceae, although this hypothesis requires a better-resolved phylogeny. Such evolutionary reversals probably evolved in response to specialist pollinators, and in conjunction with other aspects of floral morphology of Bromeliaceae, such as the petal appendages of some species. The ovary is initiated in an inferior position even in semi-epigynous or hypogynous species. The ovary of all socalled hypogynous Bromeliaceae is actually semiinferior, because the septal nectary is infralocular; in these species the nectaries have a labyrinthine surface and many vascular bundles. Brocchinia differs from most other fully epigynous species in that each carpel is secretory at the apex and reproductive, rather than secretory, at the base.
23674806|The palaeotropic genus Blepharispermum (Asteraceae, Heliantheae) is revised for the first time. Fifteen species from Africa, the Arabian Peninsula, Madagascar, India, and Ceylon are recognized. Two new species are described, viz. B. arcuatum and B. canescens. Aspects of the systematic position and morphology of the genus are discussed. A hypothesis of phylogenetic relationships is presented by way of a cladistic analysis. A key to all species in the genus as well as typification, descriptions, drawings and distribution maps are supplied. Chromosome counts of two species are reported.
23643775|The occurrence of leaflet secretory cavities in 23 Brazilian species of Lonchocarpus was surveyed anatomically and compared with data from external morphology (presence of pellucid dots) to evaluate their taxonomic significance. This study revealed three cases: presence of secretory cavities associated with pellucid dots, pellucid dots corresponding to false secretory cavities, and absence of pellucid dots and secretory cavities. These results indicate that in this genus the "glandular pellucid dots" cited in morphological descriptions do not always correspond to secretory cavities, and that their nature must always be confirmed by histological sections. Secretory cavities have systematic significance at subgeneric taxonomic level for the genus Lonchocarpus.
23642476|An intracellular parasite occurring in Cryptomonas rostratiformis and less numerously also in C. erosa and C. phaseolus. The parasite is described. It grows in the dorsal side of the host near the nucleus from which it is optically indistinguishable in young stages. When mature the parasite fills  to  the volume of the Cryptomonas cell. It is seen as a colourless blister, which pushes back the plastid of the host. Reproduction occurs by separation of the protoplast into a hundred or more Bodo-like swarmers which perhaps represent the infectious phase. Under certain conditions, however, such as during decline of the Cryptomonas population, the parasite transforms into thick-walled spindle-shaped cysts. Like the swarmers these cysts are released by rupture of the cryptomonad cells. The fate of the cysts is not known. The Cryptomonas population is destroyed by the infection in the course of a few days. Literature studies have shown that the parasite has been known for a long time, but considered incorrectly by different authors as part of the Cryptomonas, or as a result of phagotrophic uptake of the Cryptomonas. The parasite is compared with a somewhat similar parasite in Mallomonas, and with certain parasitic dinoflagellates. The similarity with the latter is superficial only as it posesses a eucaryotic nucleus. The parasite shows some similarity with the genus Paradinium (Mycetozoa) as well as with certain Sporozoa. Es wird ein neuer intrazellulrer Parasit in den Zellen von Cryptomonas rostratiformis, C. erosa und C. phaseolus beschrieben. Der Parasit wchst an der dorsalen Seite des Wirtes in der Nhe des Zellkernes und ist vorerst von diesem optisch nicht unterscheidbar. Der erwachsene Parasit erreicht eine Gre, die  bis  des Volumens der Cryptomonas-Zelle einnimmt. Er wird dadurch sichtbar, da er den Plastidenapparat des Wirtes verdrngt und als hyaline Blase in der Zelle zum Vorschein kommt. Die Fortpflanzung des Parasiten erfolgt durch einen Zerfall des Protoplasten in hundert oder noch mehr Bodo-artige Schwrmer, die wahrscheinlich die gesunden Cryptomonaden infizieren. Unter bestimmten, nicht bekannten Umstnden, vor allem beim Abklingen der Cryptomonas-Population, wandelt sich der Parasit in dickwandige spindelfrmige Zysten um. Das Freisetzen der Zysten erfolgt wie beim Entleeren der Schwrmer durch Zerplatzen der befallenen Cryptomonaden. Das weitere Schicksal der Zysten ist nicht bekannt. Durch die parasitre Infektion wurden Cryptomonas-Populationen, die eine intensive vegetative Wasserfrbung verursachten, binnen wenigen Tagen dezimiert. Es wird darauf hingewiesen, da dieser Parasit schon lange bekannt ist, von verschiedenen Autoren jedoch als Zellbestandteil oder als Beute whrend der Phagotrophie von Cryptomonas falsch gedeutet wurde. Der Parasit wird mit einem hnlichen bei Mallomonas verglichen, ebenso wie mit parasitischen Dinoflagellaten. Bei den letzteren ist die hnlichkeit der Zysten rein uerlich, da der Parasit einen eukaryotischen Zellkern besitzt. Der Parasit zeigt gewisse hnlichkeiten mit der Gattung Paradinium (Mycetozoa), gleichwie mit manchen Sporozoen. Da der Lebenszyklus nur unvollstndig bekannt ist, wird von einer Neubeschreibung und von einer systematischen Einordnung Abstand gehalten.
23644273|Nuclear ribosomal (ITS) DNA sequence data from representatives of eleven out of 12 genera previously included in Thlaspi sensu lato were analyzed to elucidate relationships within the former genus Thlaspi sensu lato. Sequences from Thlaspi segregates Noccaea, Masmenia, Callothlaspi, Kotschyella, Microthlaspi, and Noccidium were added to the existing data sets, and only some Thlaspi sensu lato segregates formed a monophyletic group. The recently renamed genus Pseudosempervivum, formerly part of the genus Cochlearia, has been shown to be closely related to this group as well. Microthlaspi consists of three independent lineages of which Microthlaspi umbellatum is closely related to Neurotropis. The Thlaspi s.str. taxa including the type species T. arvense, are closely related to Peltaria and Alliaria and they represent a monophyletic group. Kotschyella and Noccidium, which were also integrated into Thlaspi s.l. are not closely related to any Thlaspi lineage. Therefore, we suggest major taxonomical changes which are not in agreement with concepts based on morphological data. Our ITS based phylogeny demonstrates that subtribe Thlaspidinae comprises some additional genera such as Teesdalia, Peltaria, and Alliaria, the latter two even previously classified in other tribes than tribe Lepidieae.
23673901|The pseudanthia of Heliopsis scabra and Rudbeckia vulgaris (Asteraceae) were examined during the anthesis for differences in their UV patterns. Distinct changes in the reflectance and absorbance properties could be observed. The results suggest a close correlation between different stages of floral development and pollinator attraction.
23654226|Enzyme electrophoreses were used to estimate genetic variation in five populations of Epipactis helleborine from two National Parks (Biebrza and Wigry) in northeast Poland. It has been proved that populations from these two regions differed in genetic structure, with the populations belonging to the Biebrza group having a higher level of genetic variation than those from Wigry. The number of polymorphic loci (P) ranged from 18.2% to 40.9% and the mean number of alleles per polymorphic locus (Ap) from 2.25 to 2.80. Although the observed heterozygosity (Ho) was lower than the expected one (He) in each population, the values of Ho and He were 23 times lower in the populations from Wigry than in those from Biebrza. Excluding the LUK population with the smallest genotypic diversity, the majority of 345 distinct multilocus genotypes occurred only once, sporadically 24 times in each population and their frequency ranged from 0.2% to 3.7%. Moreover, factors shaping genetic structure of E. helleborine and their intensity varied in the populations studied. Reproduction from seeds seems to influence greatly the genetic variation of the populations from the Biebrza National Park, while an assortative mating between related individuals or population size appears to be more important in the case of the populations from the Wigry National Park.
23664362|We investigated genetic variation of 273 individuals from 25 populations of the monotypic species Hagenia abyssinica (Rosaceae) from the highlands of Ethiopia at three chloroplast microsatellite loci. The objectives were to infer the factors that shaped the genetic structure and to reconstruct the recolonization history of the species. Six haplotypes that were phylogenetically grouped into two lineages were identified. Homology of the three loci to the respective regions of the chloroplast genome was confirmed by sequencing. The chloroplast haplotypes found in Hagenia showed a clear pattern of congruence between their geographical distribution and genealogical relationships. A very low haplotype diversity within populations (hs = 0.079, vs = 0.058) and a very high population differentiation (Gst = 0.899, Nst = 0.926) was observed, reflecting very low mixing between recolonizing lineages. Restricted gene flow through seeds, rare long-distance dispersal, contiguous range expansion and mutation shaped the genetic structure of Hagenia. Fossil pollen records suggested that the trend of postglacial recolonization of Hagenia was first in the south and latter went to the north in Ethiopia.
23674732|Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was studied in 31 New World species of Ipomoea, representing a majority of the New World sections and series within the genus. Using 14 endonucleases, a total of 124 phylogenetically informative restriction sites was detected. Dollo parsimony, Wagner parsimony, and bootstrap methods were employed to construct phylogenetic trees and evaluate confidence intervals of monophyletic groups. With a few exceptions, groups circumscribed on the basis of morphological variation are in agreement with groupings based on restriction site variation. Relationships between subgeneric groupings, however, disagree substantially with those proposed in the past. Although conflicting hypotheses for some intersectional relationships are not presently resolvable, cpDNA restriction site analyses propose the following refinements of existing classification schemes. Ipomoea ser. Setosae is divided into distantly related groups, as is sect. Pharbitis. Series Tyrianthinae, a proposed segregate of sect. Pharbitis, is associated with sect. Calonyction and the Tricolor complex (subg. Quamoclit). Ipomoea sect. Batatas is segregated from other herbaceous groups of the heterogeneous subg. Quamoclit sensu lato and aligned as a derivative of I. setosa, subg. Eriospermum. To test for homology of key characters weighted in traditional schemes, morphological features were studied with respect to their distribution on lineages defined by restriction site data. Characters such as setose sepals, foliose-pubescent sepals, and erect growth habit, among others, are interpreted as having multiple origins, while 3-locular ovaries, 4-locular ovaries, and long-haired seeds have evolved only once.
23655713|Chromomycin A3 banding and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) have been performed for six Artemisia species with special emphasis on subgenus Tridentatae. Morphometrical data on karyotype characters were calculated and idiograms with the position of GC-rich regions and 18S-5.8S-26S and 5S sites of ribosomal DNA were constructed. These sites were all colocalized. To our knowledge, this is the first time in the large family Asteraceae, indeed in angiosperms in general, that colocalization of the two rDNA regions studied is found at every single marked locus. In addition, transcriptionally active nucleolar organizer regions were detected after silver nitrate staining. Tridentatae is a cytogenetically homogeneous subgenus, which suggests that evolution of these species has not been coupled with important karyotypic reorganization. However, a few species are taxonomically difficult and show substantial differences. A loss of rDNA loci has been detected in a tetraploid taxon with respect to the diploids studied. These data provide clarifying insight into interspecific relationships between the studied taxa and overall evolutionary and systematic relationships of the Tridentatae.
23643820|The phenetic analysis of non-nodulating Acacia species by Harrier et al. (1997) was repeated to illustrate how different computer programs may generate alternative UPGMA trees for the very same data, even in the absence of data input order effects (ties). For example, all Harrier et al.'s UPGMA dendrograms produced by software from the Scottish Agricultural Statistics Service differed from those obtained by the packages NTSYS and MVSP87. Particularly, the positions of A. albida, A. rovumae, and A. pentagona, as well as the relationships between Diacanthae and Triacanthae were affected by this phenomenon. Hence, whenever clustering techniques are used, care should be taken to consider possible software-dependent caveats and artefacts. Nevertheless, all programs provided clusterings that largely coincided with the subgeneric and sectional groupings proposed by Vassal (1972) although the positions of some species varied depending on whether morphological or molecular data were considered (e.g. A. albida and A. rovumae).
23642784|The only representatives of Rubiaceae-Rubieae in Madagascar are five species of Galium. G. thunbergianum and G. chloroionanthum are essentially afromontane species,  widely distributed in both the African mainland and Madagascar. The new species G. andringitrense and G. ankaratrense are endemic to Madagascar but show close affinities to two afromontaneafroalpine groups from the African mainland, the G. simenseG. ruwenzoriense and G. glaciale complex respectively. G. polyacanthum (new combination) exhibits certain primitive morphological traits and appears to be an old Madagascan endemic without close allies. New chromosome counts for populations from the African mainland demonstrate that G. chloroionanthum and G. simense are 4 ( = 11). Distribution patterns and origins of the Galium species in Madagascar and their relationships with African taxa are discussed. Cinq espces du genre Galium sont les seuls reprsentants des Rubiaceae-Rubieae  Madagascar. G. thunbergianum et G. chloroionanthum sont deux espces essentiellement "afromontanes" d'une distribution  ample en Afrique et dans l'le de Madagascar. G. andringitrense et G. ankaratrense (espces nouvelles) sont endmiques mais ils tmoignent d'une affinit troite avec les complexes "afromontanes""afroalpines" du G. simenseG. ruwenzoriense et du G. glaciale en Afrique. G. polyacanthum (combinaison nouvelle), charactris par certaines marques morphologiques primitives, parait une espce ancienne endmique sans avoir un alli vident soit  Madagascar soit en Afrique. Nouveaux dnombrements de chromosomes de populations africaines dmontrent, que G. chloroionanthum et G. simense sont tetraploides ( = 11). Les types de distribution et l'origine des espces malgaches du genre Galium et les relations entre les espces malgaches et africaines sont discuts.
23656122|The genus Lathyrus includes a number of neglected wild relatives of pea with potential as genetic resources for acquisition of stress resistance traits, but, due to little breeding, genotypes under culture are mainly landraces and seldom true varieties. Development of in vitro approaches for Lathyrus is also limited, and assessments of nuclear DNA content, for taxonomical or breeding purposes, are sparse. Genome size and AT/GC ratio were determined by flow cytometry, allowing for distinction between protein and forage L. sativus, L. cicera, L. ochrus and L. clymenum and the ornamental sweet pea (L. odoratus), and also between landraces within L. sativus L. and L. cicera L. In addition, explants from in vitro seedlings of eight genotypes from the five Lathyrus species above were cultivated in vitro, plant regeneration was achieved for all landraces and species, and the nuclear DNA content of the regenerants was compared with that of their mother plants, whereby the true-to-typeness of such regenerants was confirmed.
23673122|Fossil wood specimens from the late Earlyearly Middle Jurassic of Jameson Land, Eastern Greenland, have several unexpected features: tracheids of irregular size and shape, thinly pitted ray cell walls, heterogeneous rays, partially scalariform radial pitting, both areolate and simple pits, and pitted elements associated with rays. These characters diverge markedly from those typical of Jurassic wood, which usually conform to those of modern conifers. Although this combination of features is not encountered in any extant angiosperm, each has been documented in one or several extant homoxylous angiosperms, particularly Amborella, Trochodendron, and Tetracentron. As these wood specimens are not found in connection with any reproductive part, it is impossible to confidently assign them to the angiosperms. If a Jurassic angiosperm did exist, however, it might well have had a similar wood. This material is an early bench-mark in the evolution that led from homoxylous conifer-like wood to that of the angiosperms. Its particular biogeography (Arctic) could renew the discussion about the area of origin of the angiosperms.
23643332|Kengyilia laxiflora (2n = 42) was cytogenetically studied with testers K. hirsuta (2n = 42, PPStStYY) and Roegneria kamoji (2n = 42, HHStStYY). Our data suggested that K. laxiflora may possess a modified P genome, the P1. Its St and Y genomes may also contain some structural changes and are more closely related to the St and Y genomes of K. hirsuta than to those of R. kamoji. Kengyilia laxiflora is reproductively separated from both K. hirsuta and R. kamoji. These results indicated that K. laxiflora is a good species in the genus Kengyilia.
43496753|Population fragmentation is often correlated with loss of genetic diversity and reduced fitness. Obligate out-crossing (dioecy) is expected to enhance genetic diversity, reduce genetic differentiation, and avoid inbreeding depression through frequent gene flow. However, in highly fragmented populations dioecy has only diminishing effects upon genetic structure as pollination limitations (e.g. flight distance of pollinators) most often restrict inter-population gene flow in insect pollinated species. In fragmented dry grasslands in northeastern Germany, we analysed genetic structure, fitness, and habitat quality of the endangered dioecious Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae). Using AFLP markers, a high level of differentiation among ten populations was found (Fst = 0.36), while the intra-population genetic diversities (HE = 0.165-0.240) were similar as compared to hermaphroditic species. There was neither a correlation between geographic and genetic distance nor between genetic diversity and population size, which indicates reduced gene flow among populations and random genetic drift. Plant size was positively correlated with genetic diversity. Seed set and number of juveniles were positively related to population size. Higher total coverage resulted in reduced plant fitness, and the number of juveniles was negatively correlated to cryptogam cover. Additionally, we found a sex ratio bias towards more male plants in larger populations. Overall, our results indicate that on a regional geographic scale dioecy does not necessarily prevent genetic erosion in the case of habitat fragmentation, especially in the absence of long distance seed and pollen dispersal capacity.
43558199|Stachys (Lamiaceae: Lamioideae) is a speciesrich, widespread, and taxonomically complex genus. A comparative anatomical study of the petioles and leaf lamina of 34 Stachys taxa representing 12 sections of the genus distributed in Iran was carried out to evaluate interspecific relationships and anatomical features that may be useful in species identification and subgeneric classification. The general leaf anatomy of Stachys species presented here corroborates earlier studies in Lamiaceae and on a few studied species in the genus. Leaf anatomy provides valuable characters that are useful in subgeneric classification as well as species discrimination in Stachys. The most important diagnostic characters are as follows: the shape of transverse section, length of ventral and dorsiventral axis, number of median bundles in the petiole, number of cell layers of palisade and spongy parenchyma, type and thickness of collenchyma as well as trichome type. Based on the present study and in accordance with previous works, some large sections such as Ambleia, Aucheriana, and Fragilicaulis appear to be natural and need minor or no changes in delimitation, while circumscription of sect. Olisia should be revised. Isolated positions of some monotypic or oligotypic sections, such as Pontostachys, Thamnostachys, and Trinerves, as well as Zietenia, are supported by unique leaf anatomical features.
23643508|Medicago intertexta and M. ciliaris have been controversially recognized as separate species. The only reliable diagnostic character, gland-tipped trichomes on the fruits in M. ciliaris, is controlled by presence of a single dominant allele, and such one-character taxonomies are debatable. Contributing to the difficulty, M. muricoleptis and M. granadensis, the other two species of Medicago section Spirocarpos subsection Intertextae, are sometimes confusingly similar to M. intertexta or to each other. Allozyme differences provided 95% verification of the suitability of the gland-tipped trichome character for separating M. intertexta and M. ciliaris, thus corroborating their recognition as separate taxa. Several measures of allozyme variation indicated that M. intertexta is more polymorphic than its sister species. Heterozygosity was also highest in M. intertexta, suggestive of a higher outcrossing rate, which is also consistent with larger floral size. Heterozygosity of M. intertexta was concentrated in Sicily and nearby countries. Taxonomic difficulties in identifying Sicilian M. intertexta are well known, and may be the result of interspecific hybridization and introgression. Medicago muricoleptis differed from the above two species in the frequency of several alleles, while M. granadensis possessed numerous unique alleles consistent with its complete absence of genetic exchange with the other three substantially interfertile species.
23642667|Numerous Mediterranean geophytes are hysteranthous, i.e. they flower in a leafless stage during autumn. On the basis of their life cycles and other features two types can be recognized: In the Crocus type flowers with subterranean ovary develop at the start of the new reproductive cycle from an annual storage organ; seed dispersal and germination are delayed to the spring and the next autumn. In the Urginea type, flowers with supraterranean ovary originate from a perennial storage organ at the end of the life cycle; seed dispersal and germination follow flowering immediately. Similar rhythms exist in other seasonal climates. Field observations and some experiments demonstrate flower stimulation by temperature decrease or increase in different geophytes, and relationships between water supply and synanthous versus hysteranthous leaf development. The origin, ecological importance, and horticultural implication of the hysteranthous syndrome is discussed.
23642138|Variation patterns of flower colour in some species of the Anemoneae can be correlated with edaphic variables. These examples are used in the argument that discriminative pollination through colour responsive pollen vectors is not the sole cause for non-randomness in intra-specific flower colour distributions. Some possible reasons for genetic linkage between genes controlling edaphic responses and genes controlling flower pigmentation are discussed.
23644979|Nectar and pollen within flowers are usually the primary attractants to floral visitors. Chemical analysis of almond nectar and pollen in this study revealed that they contain the secondary compound amygdalin. Floral display often reflects pollinator characters, and almond flowers are accordingly designated as "bee flowers". A previous study in Israel showed that when almonds bloom early in the season they attract honeybees, but later in the season the bees shift toward other species that start blooming. In this study, we offered honeybees sugar solutions containing various concentrations of amygdalin. These preference experiments revealed that in mid-summer bees were not selective, whereas early in the summer they were more discriminating, and consumed faster the sugar solutions with the lower amygdalin concentrations. Possible roles of amygdalin in almond nectar and pollen are discussed.
23655574|This investigation presents a look back to ancient times of karyology with modern optical instruments. 'Cryptopolyploidy', i.e. an intrinsically polyploid but numerically non-polyploid structure of chromosome complements, today is an obsolete concept of chromosome architecture and evolution, but was actively discussed up to the mid-seventies of the past century. We focus here at a hypothesis of cryptooctoploidy in Vinca difformis (2n = 46), which was based on a measured four-fold chromosome volume compared with V. minor (2n = 46), the proposed diploid. We used DNA flow cytometry and Feulgen densitometry to see, if the postulate of cryptooctoploidy in V. difformis in the retrospect could be justified. It was found not defendable, because V. difformis differed only about 1.55-fold in C-value from V. minor, which is far from a regular multiple and much less than the 4-fold. C-values are given also for V. major, V. herbacea and V. rosea.
23674676|Field observations on pollination in New World species of the genus Sarcostemma R. Br. sensu Holm are reported. Morphological and anatomical comparisons of pollinated flowers of Sarcostemma subg. Ceramanthus Kuntze (New World) and Sarcostemma subg. Sarcostemma (Old World) are presented.
23642749|The term monophagy is applied to animal species which are linked to a single plant-reprospecies at least during part of their ontogeny. Aspects of subsequent evolution of monophagous animal species and their plant host species are discussed.
23655109|We surveyed four populations of contrasting size (two isolated and two large stands) of a woody outcrossing species, Discaria trinervis (Rhamnaceae), which has a naturally dissected distribution. Our main goal was to investigate the floral biology, breeding system and pollination mechanism of the species, which in turn may help to explain the mechanisms underlying the survival of the isolated populations. Discaria trinervis is both wind- and insect-pollinated, showing interactions with a large fraction of the available flower visitors at both stand sizes. In the larger populations, stigmatic loads were larger, more pollen tubes reached the ovules, and fruit and seed set were higher; however, the reproductive output in the smaller populations (over 2000 seeds per plant per year) seemed adequate for population persistence. Human disturbance (e.g. destruction of trees for wood extraction) may put these smaller populations at risk through loss of incompatibility alleles. The results suggest that plant species with naturally dissected distributions may provide clues about which reproductive mechanisms ensure survival under fragmentation.
23655126|Coffea liberica Hiern includes C. liberica var. liberica (LIB) from western Africa and C. liberica var. dewevrei (DEW) from central Africa. This geographical distribution also includes cultivated C. canephora for which a within-species clustering in two interfertile groups is known. In this study, genetic differentiation between LIB and DEW was evaluated on the basis of morphological traits, molecular markers (AFLP) and male fertility of F1 hybrids. The results were also compared with the within-species differentiation in C. canephora. The morphological traits differed significantly but the distributions overlapped. By contrast, LIB and DEW constituted two distinct groups with high genetic differentiation (Gst = 0.25) when using AFLP markers. In addition, the pollen viability of F1 hybrids between LIB and DEW was weak (44.2%) and similar to interspecific C. canephora x DEW F1 hybrids or C. canephora x LIB F1 hybrids, indicating that there are marked reproductive barriers between LIB and DEW.
23673248|Nuclear genome size, as measured by flow cytometry with propidium iodide, was used to investigate the relationships within the genus Eucomis L'Hr. (Hyacinthaceae). Most species of Eucomis have the same basic chromosome number, x = 15. However, the somatic DNA 2C-value (2C) is shown to range from 21 to 31 pg for the diploids. The largest genome contains roughly 1010 more base pairs than the smallest. Genome sizes are evaluated here in combination with available morphological and geographical data. Therefore, the taxonomy proposed here is not based on genome size alone. The genus Eucomis, as here determined, has 12 species. These can be divided into two groups: mainly dwarf diploid species and large-sized, tetraploid species. A small diploid plant, Eucomis (autumnalis subsp.) amaryllidifolia, is restored to species status, as a diploid subspecies seems incongruent with an allotetraploid Eucomis autumnalis. Moreover, as a diploid it is separated reproductively from the allotetraploid E. autumnalis. A new diploid species that has the lowest C value, E. grimshawii, is described here. On the basis of DNA content and other morphological characters, possible parents are suggested for all tetraploid species. Nuclear DNA content as measured by using flow cytometry may conveniently be used to produce systematic data. It is applicable even in dormant bulbs or sterile plants for the monitoring of the trade in bulbous species.
23672619|Scrophularia himalensis has an ab initio cellular endosperm. A transverse division separates a micropylar chamber from a chalazal chamber. The second division is vertical in both, the third is also vertical but at right angles to the second and restricted to the micropylar chamber just as the fourth transverse division. The four-celled micropylar haustorium is branched, highly aggressive, and persists for a long time during seed development. The bicelled chalazal haustorium is non-aggressive and is relatively short-lived. The endosperm proper is ruminate. Variation in the early ontogeny of the endosperm and the structure of endosperm haustoria in the tribe Scrophularieae are evaluated.
23655545|The sequences of the Internal Transcribed Spacer regions (ITS1 and ITS2) within the genes coding for cytoplasmic ribosomal (r) RNAs on the A chromosome complement of 34 members of the higher plant genus Brachycome (synonym Brachyscome) have been compared. The ITS1 sequence of species within the B. lineariloba complex contains a 56 bp tract that is absent from at least 12 Brachycome species but is present in other species within Brachycome as well as other Asteraceae. Phylogenetic data support the suggestion that the number of chromosomes reduced in several independent Brachycome lineages during speciation. Comparisons with the B chromosome ITS2 of B. dichromosomatica cytodeme A1 suggests an origin of the B chromosome at a time prior to the divergence of the four cytodemes of B. dichromosomatica.
43558209|Trachypteris is a small genus consisting of four species native to America and Madagascar: Trachypteris induta, T. pinnata, T. gilliana, and T. drakeana. The spores of the genus were studied using light microscopy and scanning and transmission electron microscopy. They are trilete, triangular to globose, with equatorial diameter of 29-58 m and polar diameter of 26-53 m. The exospore is 0.5-1.1 m thick, plane, and two-layered. The perispore is 0.3-6.8 m thick and two-layered. Depending on the species, two different ornamentations were observed: cristated with partially fused cristae, and ridged with partially fused ridges, forming an incomplete reticulum. Globules immersed in the perispore were occasionally observed. The systematic value of the Trachypteris spores is discussed, and their morphology and ultrastructure are compared with those of other related cheilanthoid ferns. The palynological characteristics presented here may be useful for phylogenetic studies within the Pteridaceae, and particularly within the cheilanthoid ferns.
23674844|The affinities of Cyclanthaceae are discussed, and it is concluded that the sister-group to this family is most probably Pandanaceae. A hypothesis of generic relationships in Cyclanthaceae, based on cladistic methods, is presented. Bootstrap analysis and Bremer support ("decay" index) have been used to test the strength of individual clades, and the result is compared with previously made phylogenetic analyses. The Sphaeradenia group (Chorigyne, Stelestylis, Sphaeradenia, and Ludovia) is supported as monophyletic and acceptably resolved, while the Asplundia group (remaining genera in Carludovicoideae) may be paraphyletic, with largely uncertain relationships. A formal recognition of these groups is therefore not justified. The probable character evolution in Carludovicoideae is discussed.
23643670|We surveyed exemplars from all 12 infrageneric taxa of Ribes (Grossulariaceae) for restriction site variation in two cpDNA regions, from rbcL to accD and from rpoC1 to rpoC2, in order to develop an explicit phylogenetic hypothesis and to assess the validity of infrageneric classifications. Maximum parsimony analysis resolves sect. Ribes (red currants), sect. Berisia (European alpine currants), sect. Symphocalyx (golden currants), sect. Grossularia plus sect. Grossularioides (true gooseberries and spiny currants), and Hesperia, Lobbia, and probably sect. Robsonia (west North American gooseberries) as well-supported monophyletic groups. The clade of sections Grossularioides and Grossularia is unexpected, and suggests that subgenus Grossularia is not monophyletic. Alternatively, sect. Grossularioides may have acquired its cpDNA via hybridization and introgression. Sections Coreosma (black currants) and Heritiera (dwarf currants) are apparently non monophyletic. Relationships among the well-supported lineages and the other sampled taxa remain unresolved. Maximum likelihood analysis is consistent with the parsimony results.
23674566|Chloroplast DNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms have been used to reconstruct the maternal phylogeny of all the known taxa in the small neotropical legume genus Leucaena. Three major plastome clades were recognized, but these did not conform with relationships between the taxa proposed on other characters from morphology, cytology or hybridization. The maternal parentage of tetraploids within the genus has been proposed. Evidence for introgression was found between "diploid" L. diversifolia and "tetraploid" L. diversifolia. The implications of these results for the origin of the cultivated taxa are discussed.
23673759|The embryology of Scleria foliosa A. Rich. is described and several features have been recorded for the first time in the family. The endosperm having both micropylar and chalazal haustoria and embryo with characteristic cotyledon bearing papillate outgrowths are unique features noted in this taxon. The epicotylary and cotyledonary sectors are adjacently placed and occupy a terminal position on the embryonic axis. Taxonomic implications of the embryological findings with particular reference to the problem of circumscription of Scleria are discussed.
23655124|New cytological information and chromosome counts are presented for 19 taxa of 15 genera of the Bromeliaceae, among them, data for 15 taxa and five genera are reported for the first time. The basic number x = 25 is confirmed and polyploidy seems to be the main evolutionary mechanism in Bromeliaceae. Most of the analyzed species presented 2n = 50. Polyploids have been detected in Deinacanthon urbanianum with 2n = ca.160 and Bromelia laciniosa with 2n = ca.150. In Deuterocohnia lorentziana we observed individuals with two different ploidy levels (2n = 50 and 2n = 100) growing together in the same pot. Ayensua uaipanensis showed the uncommon number 2n = 46. After triple staining with CMA3/Actinomycin/DAPI one or two CMA+/DAPI bands could be observed in the studied species (Aechmea bromeliifolia, Greigia sphacelata and Ochagavia litoralis). The role of these features in the evolution of the family is discussed, revealing new aspects of the evolution of the Bromeliaceae.
23674415|An electrophoretic comparison of variation at 16 presumptive isozyme gene loci was performed for 17 species from the tribe Triticeae. Included in the analysis were annuals and perennials, and self- and cross-pollinating species, representing the H, I, P, N, R, V, S, E, J, J1J2, A, B, and D genomes. Perennial species were found to contain a significantly (marginally, at the 5% level) higher proportion of polymorphic loci and level of heterozygosity, than annual species. There were no significant differences between self- and cross-pollinating species. Across all species, mean heterozygosity levels ranged from 0  0.225 and the % polymorphic loci from 6.3  56.3%. Genetic distance estimates varied from 0.08  0.39 for congeneric species. Relationships were deduced between the 17 species using phenetic and cladistic analyses and compared with relationships inferred from other parameters such as morphology and nucleotide sequence data. In general, the trees derived from the various relationships were concordant; the evolutionary basis for minor discrepancies between trees is also discussed.
23643179|Ovule and especially seed anatomy of eight species of Cochlospermaceae, Bixaceae, Cistaceae, Monotoideae, Pakaraimaeoideae (two subfamilies of Dipterocarpaceae), and Sarcolaenaceae were investigated. All representatives show a bixoid chalazal region in the seed as probable exclusive synapomorphy among angiosperms. The palisade layer of the exotegmen is curved inwards at its proximal end and forms a dome-shaped structure. A plug of hypostase tissue with an annulus/core structure fits into this dome. Moreover, two additional tissue types in the hypostase can be found in some representatives of the group. These and other micromorphological, wood anatomical, and floral morphological characters, indicate that the taxa form a monophyletic group close to Malvales s. str. The form of the starch grains in the endosperm is compared and is described for the first time for Pakaraimaea (Dipterocarpaceae) and Leptolaena (Sarcolaenaceae). The position of Diegodendron close to Bixa and the presumably more distant positions of Muntingia and Neuradaceae are discussed.
23674543|Giemsa C-banding is applied for the first time in Capsicum, allowing preliminary karyotype differentiation of six diploid species. Comparison of interphase nuclei and heterochromatic C-bands reveals striking differences between taxa and contributes to their taxonomic grouping. Therefore, C-banding appears to be a powerful tool for the cytogenetics and karyosystematics of the genus. Banding patterns are characterized by the omnipresence of centromeric bands and a variable number of smaller to larger distal bands, with the addition of intercalary bands in some cases. Satellites are always C-positive. Relationships between species and possible trends of karyotype evolution are discussed, with special reference to the origin of x = 13 from x = 12 and the increase of heterochromatin, regarded as advanced features.
23669402|In this study, the pollen morphology of 11 taxa belonging to Atossa (Alef.) Asch. & Graebner, Hypechusa (Alef.) Asch. & Graebner, Peregrinae Kupicha, Wiggersia (Alef.) Maxted, Vicia L. and Narbonensis (Radzhi) Maxted sections of the genus Vicia L. subgenus Vicia (Fabeae, Fabaceae) naturally growing in Turkey has been studied using Light Microscopy (LM) and Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) to evaluate the taxonomic relevance of pollen characters. Twelve morphometric characters are analysed with one-way analysis of variance and Tukey's honestly significant difference test for multiple comparisons. Of the taxa studied V. narbonensis var. narbonensis (sect. Narbonensis) has the largest pollen grains (P = 51.98 m  E = 30.52 m) and V. lathyroides (sect. Wiggersia) has the smallest pollen grains (P = 27.71 m  E = 20.14 m). The pollen grains are subprolate to perprolate (P/E = 1.162.11), but the prolate shape occurs in the majority of the taxa. The regular pollen grains of all taxa are trizonocolporate, isopolar, and released in monads. Ornamentation of the mesocolpium is psilate-perforate in V. lathyroides (sect. Wiggersia), reticulate-rugulate in V. narbonensis var. narbonensis (sect. Narbonensis), (micro)reticulate in V. sericocarpa var. sericocarpa (sect. Hypechusa), V. sativa subsp. sativa (sect. Vicia) and V. grandiflora var. grandiflora (sect. Vicia), and reticulate-perforate in the remaining taxa. The apocolpium and colpus area are psilate or perforate in all taxa except V. sericocarpa var. sericocarpa (sect. Hypechusa) and V. sativa subsp. sativa (sect. Vicia), which exhibit the obscurely reticulate-perforate pattern. Several palynological features have taxonomic importance in sectional level: polar axis, equatorial diameter, pollen shape (P/E ratio), colpus length, colpus width, size of pori, porus length/width ratio, lumina diameter, muri thickness and ornamentation. The results also indicate that pollen characters can be useful in distinguishing the examined taxa.
23642223|The exine-sculpturing of pollen from Gisekia africana (Gisekiaceae), Limeum argute-carinatum (Molluginaceae) and Hectorella caespitosa (Hectorellaceae) with supratectate spinulae and an anulopunctate tectum is in accordance with the many Centrospermae investigated so far with the SEM. Pollen of Rhabdodendron macrophyllum and three species from Gyrostemonaceae do not exhibit these surface details. While Rhabdodendron with a finely reticulate exine probably fits into Rutaceae, the unique columellaless exine of Gyrostemonaceae has no direct counterpart, neither in Centrospermae nor in Capparales, the two orders to which this family was allied. The genera of Gyrostemonaceae can be distinguished by different arrangements of minute pollen surface details. Die Pollen-Exine von Gisekia africana (Gisekiaceae), Limeum argutecarinatum (Molluginacee) und Hectorella caespitosa (Hectorellaceae) zeigt im REM eine spinulose, anulopunktate Skulptur und festigt damit die Einordnung der drei Taxa in die Centrospermen. Die gleichfalls hufig mit den Centrospermen liierten Rhabdodendraceae und Gyrostemonaceae zeigen keine bereinstimmung in der Exine-Skulptur. Whrend Rhabdodendron mit spinuloser, mikroreticulater Exine bei den Rutaceen verbleiben kann, stehen die Gyrostemonaceae mit einschichtiger Exine (ohne Spinulae und ohne Perforationen) isoliert da: es bietet sich weder ein Anschlu an die Centrospermen noch an die Capparales an. Die Gattungen der Gyrostemonaceae lassen sich durch die unterschiedliche Anordnung von kleinen Granula (Scabrae) auf der Exine voneinander unterscheiden.
23664066|Four molecular markers, including inter-retrotransposon amplified polymorphism (IRAP), retrotransposon-microsatellite amplified polymorphism (REMAP), sequence-specific amplified polymorphism (SSAP), and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), were compared in terms of their informativeness and efficiency for analysis of genetic relationships among 28 genotypes in the genus Diospyros. The results were as follows: (1) the highest level of detected polymorphism were observed for IRAP; (2) AFLP was the most efficient marker system due to the simultaneous detection of abundant polymorphism markers per single reaction; (3) the marker index (MI) value was lower for SSAP than for AFLP, but SSAP had a higher level of detected polymorphism than AFLP; (4) the correlation coefficients of similarity were statistically significant for all four marker systems; (5) the four molecular markers yielded similar phylogenetic trees. To our knowledge, this was the first detailed report of a comparison of performance among three retrotransposon-based molecular markers (IRAP, REMAP, SSAP) and the AFLP technique (DNA-based molecular marker) on a set of samples of Diospyros. The results provide guidance for future efficient use of these molecular methods in the genetic analysis of Diospyros.
23645021|In molecular analyses Didymelaceae together with Buxaceae form a fairly well-supported clade among families near the base of eudicots. Only little is known, however, about the flowers and inflorescences of Didymelaceae. In this study, the structure of the female flowers and inflorescences of Didymeles integrifolia was studied. Flowers are unicarpellate and orientation of the carpel is slightly deflected abaxially as in Proteaceae. Otherwise, Didymelaceae share many features of the gynoecium with Buxaceae and some other basal eudicots: the carpels are ascidiate in the lower half; anthetic carpels are completely closed by postgenital fusion; stigma is double-crested and widely decurrent; stigmatic papillae are unicellular and pear-shaped; the pollen tube transmitting tract is extensive and prominently differentiated; fruits are fleshy drupes with persistent stigma and style. However, the exceedingly elongate base of the integuments of Didymelaceae is an unusual feature among basal eudicots and even angiosperms.
23657063|The applicability of "inter-simple sequence repeats" (ISSR)-PCR as a molecular character complex for differentiation of Equisetum taxa is described with a special focus on the detection of hybrids. All Central European Equisetum species and the four most frequent hybrids are considered: E. arvense, E. fluviatile, E. telmateia, E. palustre, E. sylvaticum, E. pratense, E.  litorale, E. ramosissimum, E. hyemale, E. variegatum, E.  moorei, E.  trachyodon and E.  meridionale. The ISSR banding patterns are highly typical for each species. The positions of the clusters of hybrid taxa prove their hybrid origin and enable identification of the parental species. Genetic similarities of populations suggest that in some species vegetative reproduction predominates (e.g. E. arvense), whereas for others (e.g. E. telmateia) sexual reproduction seems to be more frequent. In addition to the molecular analyses, the characteristics of stem cross sections of the four hybrids and their parental species are shown and discussed.
23643267|SSU rDNA was sequenced from the lichenized fungi Bunodophoron scrobiculatum and Leifidium tenerum (Sphaerophoraceae), and Stereocaulon ramulosum and Pilophorus acicularis (Stereocaulaceae) and analysed by maximum parsimony with 44 homologous ascomycete sequences in a cladistic study. A small insertion (c. 60 nt.) was found in the sequence of Leifidium tenerum. Sphaerophoraceae constitutes a strongly supported monophyletic group which groups together with Lecanora dispersa and the Stereocaulaceae. Together with Porpidia crustulata, this larger group is a sistergroup to the Peltigerineae. This analysis thus supports the Lecanorales as monophyletic, including Sphaerophoraceae and the Peltigerineae, but does not provide strong support for this monophyly. The analysis also suggests that the prototunicate ascus in the Sphaerophoraceae is a reversion to the plesiomorphic state. Based on morphological, anatomical and chemical reasons, Sphaerophoraceae is proposed to belong to one of the groups presently included in the paraphyletic suborder Cladoniineae within the Lecanorales.
23673861|The embryology of Liparis paradoxa and L. rostrata has been studied. The young anther wall consists of an epidermis, endothecium, three middle layers and secretory tapetum with uninucleate cells. In the mature anther, two or three sub-epidermal layers develop fibrous thickenings. The anther wall development corresponds to the massive type. Simultaneous cytokinesis results in decussate, isobilateral, linear, T-shaped and tetrahedral pollen tetrads. The pollinia are compact and at anthesis the pollen grains are 2-celled. Ovules are anatropous, bitegmic and tenuinucellate. Both the integuments are dermal in origin and 2-layered. Development of female gametophyte is of the monosporic, 8-nucleate type. Double fertilization occurs. The primary endosperm nucleus degenerates. The mature embryo is organized from the derivatives of tiers 1, 1, m, and n. Its development conforms to a variation of the Onagrad type. The seed coat is formed entirely by the outer layer of the outer integument. There are three sterile and three fertile valves in the ovary. In the prefertilization stages valves consist of parenchymatous cells. After fertilization, the sterile valves become sclerenchymatous whereas the fertile valves remain parenchymatous. The embryological characters support the disputed systematic position of Liparis within subtribe Liparidinae of Epidendreae.
23674521|The Astereae were surveyed and the genera arranged in 23 informal groups. The generic groups were used to sample representative genera for a cladistic analysis based on morphological characters. The resulting cladogram was used for discussion of evolution and subtribal classification within the tribe. The lower basic chromosome numbers x = 4, 5, 6, and 8 are interpreted as reductions from a primitive x = 9. The subtribe Grangeinae occupies a phylogenetically basal position as sister group to the rest of the tribe. This may be divided into two large groups, largely corresponding to the homochromous Solidagininae and to the heterochromous Asterinae sensu lato, i.e. including the Bellidinae, Hinterhuberinae, Conyzinae, and Baccharidinae. The latter four subtribes are derived within the Asterinae, and hence reduced to synonymy. Several intercontinental relationships indicate that a geographical subdivision of the tribe should be avoided, although in our analysis most of the groups proved to be restricted to one of five major regions.
23657039|Since Darwin, long-spurred angraecoid orchids have been known for their fascinating evolutionary relationship with long-tongued hawkmoths (Sphingidae) on Madagascar. We studied the reproductive biology of the long-spurred endemic Jumellea stenophylla on Reunion. Despite the species exhibits flowers with the typical sphingophilous pollination syndrome (i.e. spur length averaged 137.9 mm, mean nectar volume was 6.1 l, and nectar concentration was 10.7% sugar in sucrose equivalent), it does not require pollinators to achieve fruits. Compared with other hawkmoth-pollinated orchids, flower longevity was very short, lasting less than 5 days, and the species did not emit the characteristic strong and sweet scent at dusk. Fruit set ranged from 66.7 to 83.9% when pollinators were excluded, and 5677.5% under natural conditions. Auto-pollination is a consequence of structural modifications. On Reunion, such breeding system is not rare within long-spurred species, and seems linked to the absence of specific pollinator during island colonization, and species establishment.
43558266|Tribe Stewartieae (Theaceae) consists of ever-green Hartia and deciduous Stewartia. Pollen morphology was investigated using light and scanning electron microscopy in 6 species of Hartia and 11 species of Stewartia. Hartia has a reticulate or microreticulate pollen sculpture pattern, a psilate or foveolate margo and a round or acuminate colpus tip, and no operculum. On the other hand, Stewartia (Old World species) has pollen with a rugulomicroreticulate sculpture pattern, a constrictive rugulomicroreticulate margo, an acuminate colpus tip, and a distinct or obscure operculum. Two New World species of Stewartia, however, exhibit pollen with some Hartia characteristics (e.g., reticulate or microreticulate surface in S. malacodendron, round colpus tip in S. ovata, and no operculum in either species). Thus, two New World species have mixed pollen characteristics between Old World Stewartia and Hartia species. We argue that several significant differences in pollen characteristics between the two genera warrant the recognition of two distinct genera rather than one broadly defined genus. We found that the tribe Stewartieae, based on pollen morphology, can be divided into three groups, Hartia, Old World Stewartia, and New World Stewartia. Additional detailed phylogenetic studies are required for the understanding of the circumscription and biogeographic patterns of this group.
23642348|A The two species of the genus Brimeura (Liliaceae), B. amethystina and B. fastigiata, show a strikingly disjunct geographical distribution. Both species have a bimodal chromosome complement, 2 n = 28, which includes 10 large (L) and 18 small (S) chromosomes. Most of the L-chromosomes possess heterochromatic segments which show enhanced quinacrine fluorescence. The resulting banding patterns are species-specific. Two triploid plants have been found in B. fastigiata.
23643394|Genetic variation in Phaseolus lunatus (Lima bean) was investigated at isozyme and DNA levels. Sixty cultivated accessions, including representatives of the Mesoamerican and Andean gene pools and intermediate types, were analyzed for variability at 17 isozyme loci. Some accessions were also examined for restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) at the rDNA level. These data were used to construct two dendrograms showing clear separation in two distinct groups corresponding to each of the gene pools and an intermediate one probably representing a transitional group.
23655989|Fourteen natural populations of Juniperus phoenicea L. from the quite entire species range have been compared using isoenzyme polymorphism. Among 17 loci, 5 (Got1, 6Pgd3, Pgi2, Pgm2 and Shdh2) appeared to be differentiated sufficiently to provide useful information for discrimination between the subspecies phoenicea and turbinata (Guss.) Nyman. Two distinct groups of populations were detected using the Nei's genetic distance unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) and discrimination analyses, one including the inland populations of the eastern Iberian Peninsula and southern France (subsp. phoenicea), and the second from the Mediterranean and Atlantic shores, and from the Atlas mountains in Africa (subsp. turbinata). The high level of differences confirms a long period of isolation, probably during the whole Pleistocene. The population from the Aegean Sea shore differed from the other Mediterranean shore plus Atlas mountain population. It also suggests spatial isolation between them, at least during the last Glaciation.
23644061|The monospecific genus Hekistocarpa (Rubiaceae) is restricted to the rainforest region of Cameroon and Nigeria. Traditionally, it has been placed in the tribe Hedyotideae, subfamily Rubioideae, from which it differs in the absence of raphides. Cladistic analyses of nucleotide sequences from the rbcL gene and the rps16 intron support a group comprised of Hekistocarpa, Tamridaea, and Virectaria (subfamily Ixoroideae s. l.). This clade is the sister group of Sabicea plus Pseudosabicea. Although Sabicea, Pseudosabicea, Tamridaea and Virectaria have been proposed to belong to a reformed tribe Sabiceeae; it is proposed here that Sabiceeae should be restricted to comprise Sabicea and allies, and that Hekistocarpa, Tamridaea, and Virectaria should be referred to an emended tribe Virectarieae. The tribes Virectarieae and Sabiceeae are more easily characterized morphologically than a more broadly circumscribed tribe Sabiceeae (including Virectaria, Hekistocarpa, and Tamridaea). A detailed description is given for Hekistocarpa, including external morphology, reproductive anatomy, and pollen morphology.
43558621|Species of Ardisia (A. catharinensis, A. guianensis, and A. semicrenata) and Stylogyne (S. amazonica, S. latifolia, S. orinocensis, S. poeppigii, S. schomburgkiana, S. surinamensis, S. laevigata, and S. leptantha), with doubtful circumscriptions because of shared overlapping or continuous characters, were investigated to clarify their taxonomy. The study of these species allowed us to evaluate previous studies in which pollen morphology was applied to distinguish the genus Stylogyne from Ardisia. Acetolyzed pollen grains were measured, described, and illustrated using light microscopy, while nonacetolyzed pollen grains were analyzed using scanning electron microscopy. Both Ardisia and Stylogyne have pollen grains on isopolar monads that may be subprolate, prolate, oblate spheroidal, or prolate spheroidal, with a reticulate and heterobrochate exine, and tricolporate apertures. Differences among species usually consist of the size of the grains, length of the colpi (or size of the apocolpi), and size of the polar area and reticulum. Granules inside the lumina, which were not observed in pollen grains of Ardisia in previous studies, are reported here. Pollen morphology proved to be uninformative to differentiate the genera Ardisia and Stylogyne, but useful to distinguish some related species within each genus.
23674518|A cladistic analysis of the Ericales based on morphological, anatomical, embryological, and phytochemical data has been undertaken. Resulting from the analysis, 56 equally parsimonious cladograms were obtained. The tribe Enkiantheae was found to be the sister-group of the rest of the Ericaceae, in which the Empetraceae, the Epacridaceae, Pyrolaceae, and Monotropaceae are forming derived ingroups. It is thus concluded that the Ericaceae are a paraphyletic assemblage as presently circumscribed, and that Empetraceae and Epacridaceae are better treated as members of the Ericaceae.
23642511|Populations of Agrostis Tenuis and Festuca rubra, tolerant and non-tolerant towards Zn and Pb, were studied in regard to their adaptability by natural selection, towards a third metal (Cu) and the time required for the appearance of such tolerance. It was found that Zn and Pb tolerant and non-tolerant populations are likely to select the character of Cu-tolerance within the course of only one generation. More specifically, Zn and Pb tolerant populations show a better adaptability compared with non-tolerant ones. The amount of tolerance to copper obtained by artificial selection is comparable with that of populations growing naturally on copper mines.
23642228|Within Festuca ovina agg. two hexaploid taxa: F. brevipila and F. carnuntina, and one tetraploid: F. eggleri, are described as new species. F. pseudovina Hack. ex Wiesb. is better treated as F. valesiaca Schleich. ex Gaudin subsp. parviflora (Hack.), comb. nova.
23642175|Within the genus Loxonia Jack, currently regarded as monotypic, three species are recognized: L. hirsuta Jack (Sumatra, Mentawai-Islands, Java, Borneo, Anambas-Islands, Malay Peninsula), L. discolor Jack (Sumatra) and L. burttiana A. Weber, spec. nova (Borneo). [Key with English translation p. 203.] There is evidence that L. discolor is the most primitive species within the genus, the two others being derived from it. In der gegenwrtig als monotypisch geltenden Gattung Loxonia Jack werden drei Arten unterschieden: L. hirsuta Jack (Sumatra, Mentawai-Inseln, Java, Borneo, Anambas-Inseln, Malaiische Halbinsel), L. discolor Jack (Sumatra) und L. burttiana A. Weber, spec. nova (Borneo). Es besteht Grund zur Annahme, da L. discolor die phylogenetisch ursprnglichste ist und sich die beiden anderen von dieser ableiten.
43558174|Bulbophyllum rheophyton, sp. nov. (Orchidaceae) from Indonesian Borneo (Kalimantan) is described. The type was found in a river bed, just above the present water level, but clearly in a position where it would be flooded occasionally. Vegetatively, the plant is very slender when compared to other species within section Pahudia. We therefore assume that the species is adapted to a rheophytic lifestyle. This is novel within the megagenus Bulbophyllum.
23660102|Viola jaubertiana Mars & Vigin. is a narrow endemic violet of the Balearic Islands, restricted to small, fragmented, and scattered populations living in inaccessible rocky places and calcareous overhangs. V. jaubertiana is entirely glabrous and morphologically very uniform. However, several authors have reported hairy individuals collected at the type locality, suggesting that these rupicolous, pubescent plants are putative hybrids with V. alba Bess. subsp. dehnhardtii (Ten.) W. Becker, a woodland violet growing in the area. Ribosomal ITS sequences of the putative hybrids analysed showed additive species-specific sites of V. alba subsp. dehnhardtii and V. jaubertiana, strongly supporting its hybrid origin from these progenitors. CpDNA sequences of all putative hybrids were uniform, and identical to those present in V. jaubertiana accessions. This suggests that the gene flow between V. alba subsp. dehnhardtii and V. jaubertiana is unidirectional and identifies the endemic V. jaubertiana as the unique ovule donor. The additivity of the ITS sequences, together with the pollen and ovule sterility, suggests that the sampled individuals are primary F1 hybrids, whereas no trace of introgressive hybridization or hybrid zone has been evidenced by the nuclear and plastid markers used. Judging from herbarium sheets, hybridization between V. alba subsp. dehnhardtii and V. jaubertiana is recurrent and dates back from the XIXth century. Hybrids between these species are not linked to disturbed environments. In fact, they have been always reported in rupicolous habitats, where the maternal species is restricted.
23644960|The terrestrial orchid Epipactis helleborine is a morphologically variable species with a wide distribution in Europe. It is pollinated by social wasps, and most populations show the morphological characteristics of outcrossing species. However, local predominantly selfing subspecies and varieties have been documented from drier habitats. To document geographic variation in floral morphology, ability to produce seeds through autogamy, and reproductive success in E. helleborine, we sampled 13 populations from three geographic regions along a latitudinal gradient of c. 1000 km from northern to southern Sweden. In the southernmost region, populations in dry and mesic habitats were compared. Supplemental hand-pollination was conducted to determine whether among-population variation in fruit set could be explained by differences in the natural level of pollination, and whether any relationship between floral morphology and fruit production could be explained by interactions with pollinators. Bagging experiments showed no evidence of autogamy in any of the study populations. Number of flowers, pollinia removal and fruit set varied significantly among populations but did not differ among regions. Pollinia removal was positively correlated with population size and both pollinia removal and fruit set were lower in dry than in mesic habitats. At the level of the individual plant, the number of pollinia removed increased more rapidly with flower number than did number of fruits produced. The hand-pollination experiment indicated that the positive relationship between number of flowers and fruit production was due to a higher degree of pollen limitation in plants with few flowers than in plants with many flowers. The experiment also showed that variation in the level of pollen limitation could only partly explain variation in fruit set among populations.
23655495|A critical review of characters used in the systematics of the Brassicaceae is given, and aspects of the origin, classification, and generic delimitation of the family discussed. Molecular phylogenetic studies of the family were reviewed, and major clades identified. Based on molecular studies, especially from the ndhF chloroplast gene, and careful evaluation of morphology and generic circumscriptions, a new tribal alignment of the Brassicaceae is proposed. In all, 25 tribes are recognized, of which seven (Aethionemeae, Boechereae, Descurainieae, Eutremeae, Halimolobeae, Noccaeeae, and Smelowskieae) are described as new. For each tribe, the center(s) of distribution, morphology, and number of taxa are given. Of the 338 genera currently recognized in the Brassicaceae, about 260 genera (or about 77%) were either assigned or tentatively assigned to the 25 tribes. Some problems relating to various genera and tribes are discussed, and future research developments are briefly covered.
23642869|Linum emirnense Bojer subsp. marojejyense Humb. is elevated to a species and the heterostylous condition thought to exist in L. emirnense is determined to be an artifact resulting from a fungal infection of the fruit.
43558682|The pollen morphology of 20 wild taxa belonging to Lathyrus (Syn: Eulathyrus), Orobastrum (Taub.) Boiss. and Cicercula (Medic.) Gren. & Godr. sections of Lathyrus L. grown in Turkey (L. rotundifolius Wild, subsp. miniatus (Bieb. ex Steven) P. H. Davis, L. grandiflorus Sibth. & Sm., L saxatilis (Vent.) Vis., L. vinealis Boiss. & No, L. inconspicuus L. var. inconspicuus, L. inconspicuus var. stenophyllus (Boiss.) Rech, f., L. tauricola P. H. Davis, L. woronowii Bornm., L hierosolymitanus Boiss., L. cassius Boiss., L. gorgoni Parl. var. gorgoni, L pseudo-cicera Pamp., L. sativus L., L. blepharicarpus Boiss., L. stenophyllus Boiss. & Heldr., L. belinensis Maxted & Goyder, L phaselitanus Hub.-Mor. & P. H. Davis, L. chrysanthus Boiss., L chloranthus Boiss., and L. trachycarpus (Boiss.) Boiss were examined by light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in this study. The pollen grains were 3-zonocolporate, spheroidal, subprolate, and prolate (P/E = 0.99-1.48) types, and were medium in size (equatorial view: rectangular or elliptical-obtuse-convex; polar view: circular, triangular and quinquangular-obtuse-convex). The smallest pollen grains belonged to L. tauricola (P = 30.94/E = 31.20) and the largest to L grandiflorus (P = 50.60/E = 36.40). The ornamentation was reticulate and reticulate-granulate in the mesocolpium, and usually psilate in the apocolpium. Some photographs included in this work were taken using both LM and SEM.
23669023|Developmental stages during the tetrad period were examined in detail by transmission electron microscopy with an emphasis on substructure. Our purpose was to find out whether the sequence of sporoderm developmental events provides additional evidence for our recent hypothesis on the underlying cause of exine ontogeny as a sequence of self-assembling micellar mesophases initiated by genomically given physicochemical parameters. Osmiophilic globules encrusting the surface of postmeiotic microspores and tapetal cells are temporary prepattern units which come first. The second prepattern structures are highly ordered bundles of microfilaments and microtubules which determine the position of microspore surface invaginations and clusters of the glycocalyx inside them. The first glycocalyx units are microgranules which during the middle tetrad stage rearrange into radially oriented rodlike units. The latter form lens-like clusters of the glycocalyx-1, located inside the invaginations. These clusters predestine the position of the future luminae in the exine reticulum. The second glycocalyx layer is laid down as a continuous layer over the whole microspore surface and has similar substructure, that is radial rods. Glycocalyx-2 is a framework for procolumellae which appear at the late tetrad stage. Therefore, the sequence of substructural units in the primexine is: globules, microgranules, rod-like units, and layers of radially oriented rods tightly packed in the periplasmic space. This sequence corresponds to the first three mesophases of self-assembling micelles: spherical micelles, cylindrical micelles, and layers of hexagonally packed cylindrical micelles (middle mesophase). We observed the same sequence in other species during primexine development, and the findings of this study provide new evidence for our hypothesis.
43558346|The utility of pollen characteristics for taxonomic and phylogenetic analysis of most genera of Podostemaceae has barely been examined. Herein we report on the diversity of pollen structure in Castelnavia (Podostemaceae), a genus of six species endemic to central and southern Brazil. Pollen grain was shed as three-colpate, planaperturate monads and ranged from 12.5 to 22.5 m for the polar axis and from 12.5 to 20.0 m for the equatorial axis. All species examined had polar and radially symmetrical pollen grains. Grains from Castelnavia fluitans, Castelnavia multipartita, and Castelnavia noveloi had an oblate spheroidal shape (PD/ED), those from Castelnavia monandra and Castelnavia pendulosa were subprolate, and those from Castelnavia princeps were prolate spheroidal. The polar view was subcircular for C. monandra and subtriangular for the other species. A fastigium was observed in fluitans and C. pendulosa whereas a costa was present in multipartita and C. princeps, with the colpus margin not thickened in the former species but prominently thickened in the latter. Castelnavia monandra and C. noveloi did not have a fastigium or costa. For all species spicules occurred on the exine (microechinate sexine) and were most conspicuous on the colpus membrane. There was little correspondence between variation in pollen structure and species relationships supported by phylogenetic analysis.
23642556|The lichen Lecidea verruca, growing parasitically on other crustaceous lichens, is, contrary to most other lichenized ascomycetes, dioecious. The male thalli bearing spermogonia are mostly smaller than the female ones.
23642705|Erysimum canum (Pill. & Mitterp.) Polatschek transferred from Cheiranthus or Syrenia into the genus Erysimum; it has 2n = 14 chromosomes and a very small distribution range (parts of CSSR, Hungary, Yugoslavia). Erysimum hayekii (Jav. & Rech. f.) Polatschek, is risen to specific rank; it has 2n = 14 chromosomes (first count) and eastern Aegean distribution (Cyclades, Sporades). Typifications were made for both species.
23664067|We analyzed genetic differentiation of Rosa rubiginosa by RAPD from populations growing in two Argentinean ecoregions, Chaco Serrano and Patagonian Steppe. Leaf material was collected during the spring and summer of 2006. UPGMA dendrogram and PCoA clearly suggest a geographical differentiation of the provenances of R. rubiginosa populations. AMOVA analyses revealed high genetic variation within populations (71%) and low variation between populations (29%), in agreement with values estimated by the ShannonWeaver index. Genetic differentiation between populations estimated by AMOVA was PT = 0.29 (P < 0.001). Nei's Gst (0.2205) was lower for interpopulation variation. The low interpopulation value obtained suggests genetic homogeneity between the populations. The presence of specific monomorphic bands accounts for the genetic differentiation between populations. The high percentage of within-population genetic diversity suggests the introduction of genetic variation into both ecoregions. From the present results we can conclude that we observed two independently established populations with high similarity between them and a strong intrapopulation differentiation. The empty niche hypothesis for explainging invasion success might explain the invasiveness of R. rubiginosa in Argentinean ecoregions.
23662379|Taxus yunnanensis Cheng et L. K. Fu is a rare species endemic to Southeast Asia. The development of the male reproductive structures with emphasis on microsporogenesis and microgametogenesis are described for the first time. Our results showed that T. yunnanensis exhibits several features that are very different from other species of Taxus, such as pollination occurring in the same year as pollen cone initiation; production of several forms of tetrads including isobilateral, T-shaped or tetrahedron; shorter duration of microsporogenesis; longer duration of microgametogenesis; and production of more microsporophylls per pollen cone suggesting faster growth rate. Reports on the details of male reproductive development in Taxus spp. have focused on the activities of generative nuclei, while the activities of the sterile and tube nuclei are rarely mentioned. This paper provides a few more details about the sterile and tube nuclei, particularly, their relative position during the division of the generative nucleus to form two sperm. Furthermore, as our knowledge of the phenology of Taxus is confined to species that grow on high latitude areas, this paper provides information on the phenology of Taxus in low latitude areas. Overall, this paper provides several new insights about pollen cone development, microsporogenesis, and microgametogenesis in Taxus.
23644058|The genus Swertia L., as currently defined, is polymorphic and mainly distributed in temperate regions of the northern hemisphere. Phylogenetic relationships between Swertia and the other genera of the Swertiinae sensu Struwe et al. (unpubl. data) are discussed based on cladistic analyses of DNA sequence data. The sequences used for this purpose include the trnL (UAA) intron, the intergenic spacers (IGS) between trnL (UAA) and trnF (GAA) exons, and between trnS (UGA) and ycf9 exons of cpDNA, as well as the ITS region of nrDNA. Although moderately resolved, the phylogenies resulting from the separate analyses of nuclear and chloroplast data are congruent, and the incongruence length difference test (Farris et al. 1995) detected no character incongruence. The phylogeny suggested by the analysis of combined data sets defines Swertia as strongly paraphyletic in relation to the other genera. This taxon may have acted as a stem group, giving rise to diverse lineages, some of which are morphologically distinct and have been recognised at the generic level. Latouchea and Obolaria are closely related and occupy the basalmost position in the molecular tree. Swertia species are distributed in 9 different clades, three of which share a basal polytomy with Bartonia, Frasera, Gentianopsis, Halenia, Megacodon, Pterygocalyx and Veratrilla. Two lineages have an intermediate position. The remaining 4 clades occupy a more derived position. Two of the latter clades show a close relation with species of Gentianella s. str., and one is included in a large clade comprising Comastoma, Jaeschkea and Lomatogonium. Selected character states and their proposed polarity, such as number and structure of nectaries, stylar and seedcoat characteristics, pollen morphology, fusion of floral parts and chromosome number are discussed in the context of molecular data. Rugose, spinose, or winged seeds are found mainly in basal lineages, while smooth ones are typical for derived species. Chromosome numbers follow a similar pattern with x = 13 restricted to basal lineages, while in more derived clades, x is always smaller than 13. With respect to the molecular phylogeny, taxonomic circumscriptions in the Swertiinae sensu Struwe et al. (unpubl. data) does not seem to reflect phyletic relationships.
23643710|Evolutionary relationships within Argemone (Papaveraceae) were inferred from nucleotide variation in nuclear ribosomal DNA. A complete representation of the genus was achieved by using herbarium material to a large extent (74%). Four distinct clades can be recognized based on the molecular results. The support for the different clades varies greatly due to a very uneven distribution of characters. Although some clades are largely unresolved, some unexpected relationships, for example the sister group relationship of the relict species A. subintegrifolia to the rest of Argemone, were found. The evolution of morphological and alkaloid characters against the background of the obtained phylogeny is discussed. Whereas the morphological characters provide some support for the phylogeny found, the alkaloid characters turned out not to contain much phylogenetic information. Past difficulties in recognizing phylogenetic relationships within Argemone result from largely continuous morphological variation and from parallelisms correlated with and probably caused by polyploidization.
23642362|The effective gender of a plant is defined as the proportion of the plant's genes that are transmitted through pollen (its maleness) or through ovules (its femaleness). Formulae are derived that enable the average effective gender of the morphs of a heterostylous population and the gender of individual plants to be estimated. Estimates require a knowledge of the morph ratio and the seed set that results in each morph from self-fertilization and from legitimate and illegitimate cross-fertilizations. If no illegitimate fertilizations occur, the average gender of the morphs can be estimated from their seed production alone; in this situation the average femaleness of one morph is exactly equal to the average maleness of the other morph. The average gender of long- and short-styled morphs is calculated for populations of five Cordia species (Boraginaceae) from published data of Opler & al. (1975). In two species, both morphs transmit their genes equally through pollen and ovules. In the other species, the long-styled morph acts predominantly (or in one species exclusively) as an ovule parent and the short-styled morph succeeds predominantly (or exclusively) as a pollen parent. The features of the evolutionary pathway from heterostyly to dioecy and the selective forces that may be responsible are outlined.
23673804|Results obtained from crossing experiments between P. somniferum subsp. somniferum (2 n = 22) and subsp. setigerum (2 n = 44), P. glaucum (2 n = 14) and P. gracile (2 n = 14) and from the observation of meiotic chromosome pairing in the various hybrids obtained do not provide straightforward evidence for the hypothesis that P. somniferum originated as a triploid hybrid between taxa similar to P. glaucum and P. gracile (Kadereit 1986 a, b).  On the one hand, the pattern of crossability found reflects the closer similarity of subsp. somniferum to P. glaucum and of subsp. setigerum to P. gracile, which was interpreted as segregation of parental characters, and the high frequency of 2 n = 28 chromosomes among F2-progeny from the hybrid subsp. somniferum  subsp. setigerum (2 n = 33) might reveal n = 7 as the base number also of P. somniferum. On the other hand, however, the general difficulty of obtaining hybrids, and the low incidence of bivalent formation in their meiosis, probably indicating a lack of chromosome homology between the different species, do not fit the above hypothesis.  These results are in marked contrast to the morphological similarity between the three species involved.
23642215|Populations of C. cartwrightianus, C. hadriaticus and C. thomasii from the Balkans have 2 n = 16 as has the Middle Eastern C. pallasii subsp. haussknechtii. C. dispathaceus and C. pallasii subsp. pallasii have 2 n = 14 while C. pallasii subsp. turcicus has 2 n = 12. C. niveus has 2 n = 28 and C. sativus is an autotriploid with 2 n = 24. Karyotype variation was found between populations of C. pallasii subsp. pallasii in Central Turkey and also in C. pallasii subsp. turcicus.
23644387|Fifty natural Datura populations, belonging to eleven species (D. ceratocaula, D. discolor, D. inoxia, D. kymatocarpa, D. lanosa, D. metel, D. pruinosa, D. quercifolia, D. reburra, D. stramonium, D. wrightii) from Mexico and adjacent USA, were investigated using starch gel electrophoresis. A total of 64 alleles were scored at 17 loci (DIA1, DIA2, GOT1, GOT2, G6PDH, IDH, MDH1, MDH2, MDH3, ME, PGD1, PGD2, PGM1, PGM2, PHI, SAD, SOD). The heterozygosity among the species ranged from 0.166 (D. ceratocaula) to 0.276 (D. wrightii). Most genetic diversity was found within populations (average Hs = 0.242), while values between populations are relatively low (average Dst = 0.066, Gst = 0.171). The analysis of the genetic distance suggested new taxonomic relationships among the species. Rather than supporting the conventional infrageneric classification with three sections, the results revealed that the herbaceous members of the genus Datura form four groups. One group included four of the eight species of the section Dutra and was more similar to the section Ceratocaulis than it was to the other group that contained the remaining taxa of Dutra.
23672640|The description of Cousinia rhabdodes is completed.
23674520|Herkogamy and gynodioecy were studied in the Moroccan species of Romulea. Several types of herkogamy are shown to occur in the different species, with each type corresponding to a characteristic perianth size. The degree of differentiation between female and hermaphrodite morphs varies among the different gynodioecious species. Herkogamy is considered to have evolved prior to the development of the gynodioecious condition. An evolutionary interpretation is proposed based on the degree of herkogamy and of gynodioecy in the different species.
23673146|The pollen morphology of 148 taxa (135 species and 13 varieties) of the parasitic plant genus Cuscuta (dodders, Convolvulaceae) was examined using scanning electron microscopy. Six quantitative characters were coded using the gap-weighting method and optimized onto a consensus tree constructed from three large-scale molecular phylogenies of the genus based on nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and plastid trn-LF sequences. The results indicate that 3-zonocolpate pollen is ancestral, while grains with more colpi (up to eight) have evolved only in two major lineages of Cuscuta (subg. Monogynella and clade O of subg. Grammica). Complex morphological intergradations occur between species when their tectum is described using the traditional qualitative typesimperforate, perforate, and microreticulate. This continuous variation is better expressed quantitatively as "percent perforation," namely the proportion of perforated area (puncta or lumina) from the total tectum surface. Tectum imperforatum is likely the ancestral condition, while pollen grains with increasingly larger perforation areas have evolved multiple times. The reticulated tectum, unknown in other Convolvulaceae, has evolved in Cuscuta only in two lineages (subg. Monogynella, and clade O of subg. Grammica). Overall, the morphology of pollen supports Cuscuta as a sister to either the "bifid-style" Convolvulaceae clade (Dicranostyloideae) or to one of the members of this clade. Pollen characters alone are insufficient to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships; however, palynological information is useful for the species-level taxonomy of Cuscuta.
23642718|Sporogeneses and gametogeneses in Cordia sebestena are described. Anther wall develops according to the Dicotyledonous type. Pollen grains are three-celled at the time of dehiscence. The occurrence of enlarged, precociously developing, densely cytoplasmic cells toward the proximal end of the anther and between adjacent pollen sacs is a unique feature in this species. The possible functions of these cells are discussed. A placental obturator develops simultaneously with the ovules. The dual origin of parietal tissue (from nucellar epidermis and the archesporial initial) is an unusual feature in this species. Megagametophyte development is monosporic or (occasionally) bisporic. Megaspore tetrads are linear or T-shaped. Double dyads and tetrads are frequently observed.Maintainance of subfamily status for Cordioideae is supported.
43558169|Fertilization and embryogeny in Agapanthus praecox ssp. orientalis are described for the first time, and embryogenic characters of Agapanthus are discussed. The main results are: (1) The pollen tube enters the embryo sac and discharges two sperm 44-48 h after pollination. (2) The sperm fuse with the egg cell and polar nuclei, forming zygote and primary endosperm nucleus, approximately 50 h after pollination. The zygote then enters a short period of dormancy. (3) Seven days after pollination, the zygote starts division. The first division of the zygote is transversal. (4) The embryo undergoes globular stage, rodshaped stage, and finally forms a monocotyledonous embryo. (5) The suspensor cells are ephemeral and degenerate at the globular embryo stage. (6) Endosperm cells contain massive starch grains as nutrition for embryo development. (7) Embryogeny conforms to the Onagrad type, and endosperm formation is of the nuclear type; the whole process of embryogeny and endosperm development needs approximately 60 days in A. praecox ssp. orientalis. (8) Dicotyledonous together with monocotyledonous forms of embryo morphogenesis in Agapanthus supports the concept of homology of monocots and dicot cotyledons.
23645284|Observations of insects visiting strongly protandrous flowers of Tolmiea menziesii (Saxifragaceae) show that Gnoriste megarrhina (Mycetophilidae), a large fungus gnat with a body ca. 7 mm long and a proboscis ca. 6.5 mm long, is the primary pollinator. Pollen is transferred to ventral portions of the gnat's thorax while it probes for an unusually dilute nectar (8.3% to 12% sucrose equivalents) produced at the base of the floral tube. Grains are transferred to the two receptive stigmas on each pistil when it forages for nectar on a female phase flower. Pollen load analyses indicate that Tolmiea menziesii may be the only nectar source visited by the gnat while it is in bloom. While hoverflies (Syrphus spp.) and bumblebees (Bombus spp.) also visit T. menziesii flowers, they do not forage for nectar and usually behave as pollen robbers visiting only male phase flowers after earlier visits by G. megarrhina. When the modes of floral presentation of T. menziesii are compared to other species pollinated primarily by micro-dipterans, and mycetophilids in particular, there appears to be a floral convergence in some spring-flowering, perennial herbs of moist, evergreen woodlands and forests. Analyses of open (gnat-pollinated) vs. hand-pollinated pistils show that manual cross-pollinations are slightly more successful than open pollinations. Fluorescence microscopy confirms two sites of self-recognition and rejection within the pistil: following controlled self-pollination experiments almost half of the pollen tubes produced either stop growing once they reach the top of the ovary and/or grow horizontally. The remaining tubes produced by self-pollination penetrate ovules but seed is never set. This double mode of self-recognition and rejection is similar to the one described for Heuchera micrantha var. diversifolia (Saxifragaceae) but may also confirm an earlier report of post-zygotic rejection made for Tolmiea.
23671356|The hybrid origin of Miscanthus purpurascens has previously been proposed, primarily because of its intermediate morphology. In this study, phylogenies based on the DNA sequences from the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA ITS), on the DNA sequences of the trnL intron and trnL-F intergenic spacer of chloroplast DNA, and on amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) fingerprinting confirm that M. purpurascens originated through homoploid hybridization between M. sinensis and M. sacchariflorus. Two different types of ITS sequences were identified from almost all plants of M. purpurascens. One type was found to be closely related to M. sinensis and the other to M. sacchariflorus. Miscanthus purpurascens was found to possess many M. sinensis- and M. sacchariflorus-specific AFLP bands but no band specific to itself. Clustering with the Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean and principal coordinate analysis based on the AFLP data also demonstrated that M. purpurascens is an approximate intermediate of the two species. In addition, M. purpurascens has the plastid genome of M. sinensis or M. sacchariflorus, suggesting that either species could be its maternal parent. All specimens of M. purpurascens and its coexisting parental species are identified as diploids (2n = 2x = 38). Possible mechanisms of natural hybridization, hybrid status, chloroplast DNA recombination, and evolutionary implications of this hybridization are also discussed.
43558220|Aquilegia paui is an extremely narrowly endemic species from the northeastern Iberian Peninsula. It is restricted to a few populations with a reduced number of individuals living in summit rock cliffs. It is studied and compared to the widespread Aquilegia vulgaris to assess differences in their breeding system and pollination ecology, expected by their differences in flower morphology and by their habitat divergence. Pollinator exclusion experiments showed the capacity of A. paui to reach a full seed set in the absence of pollinators, whereas A. vulgaris notably reduced its reproductive success under these conditions At the same time, no insect visits were detected in A. paui, whereas A. vulgaris was frequently visited, mainly by bumblebees and flies. Thus, an evolutionary shift toward autogamy in A. paui is discussed in relation to enhanced reproductive assurance. Additionally, we address reproductive isolation mechanisms that nowadays keep A. paui and A. vulgaris separated in spite of their ability to intercross and the existence of contact areas.
23643638|Information about evolutionary relationships between species of the genus Allium is desirable in order to facilitate breeding programmes. One approach is to study the distribution of repetitive DNA sequences among species thought on taxonomic grounds, to be closely related. We have used fluorescent in-situ hybridisation (FISH) to examine seven species within sect. Cepa of the genus (A. altaicum, A. cepa, A. fistulosum, A. galanthum, A. pskemense, A. oschaninii and A. vavilovii), one species from sect. Rhizirideum (A. roylei), two species from sect. Allium (A. sativum and A. porrum) and one species from sect. Schoenoprasum (A. schoenoprasum). Each species was probed using a 375 bp repeat sequence isolated from A. cepa (Barnes & al. 1985), which was generated and labelled by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). No signals were detected in any Allium species not belonging to sect. Cepa with the exception of A. roylei, whose designation in sect. Rhizirideum is now questioned. Within sect. Cepa the probe was found to hybridize to the 'terminal' regions of the chromosome arms of all the species examined. In addition a number of interstitial bands were detected. Use of FISH reveals a more detailed map of the location of the repeat sequences than has previously been obtained by C-banding and other staining procedures. The distribution of the terminal and interstitial sites when compared, allow us to identify three species groups namely, A. altaicum and A. fistulosum; A. cepa, A. roylei, A. oschaninii and A. vavilovii; and A. galanthum and A. pskemense.
23642154|In Microcarpaea muscosa gametogenesis, embryo sac development (Polygonum type), endosperm development (cellular), embryogeny (Onagrad type), and seed structure are described. The different modes of endosperm development within Gratioleae are compared.
23663572|Solanum comprises about 1,400 species of shrubs, trees and vines. This group is cytogenetically interesting because it possesses karyotypes apparently conserved in chromosome number and shape, but with diversity in the repetitive DNA. The objective of this study is to characterize 16 species of Solanum and two species of closely related genera (Lycianthes australe and Vassobia breviflora) using cytogenetic parameters. All the species presented 2n = 24, confirming previous chromosome counting. Additionally, nonreticulated nuclei, proximal condensation in prophase-metaphase and little variation in the karyotype symmetry were observed. Solanum corymbiflorum exhibited chromosomes approximately three times bigger in relation to the other species. GC-rich heterochromatin was preferentially located at terminal regions and AT-rich blocks always appear in the centromeric regions. The 45S rDNA sites were coincident with C/CMA3+ regions (satellites) and found in just one pair, except in S. corymbiflorum which presented two pairs. FISH with 5S rDNA showed signals in the paracentromeric region of one chromosome pair, except in S. trachytrichium and S. gemellum which showed two hybridization signals. The results point out to different ways of karyotype differentiation in Solanum and closely related genera and bring important issues on the value of the cytogenetical information for taxonomic studies.
23673176|Pluristratose leaf lamina in pleurocarpous aquatic mosses is a mysterious morphological character state because of its recurrence among unrelated lineages. It has been found sporadically around the world in phylogenetically distant taxa, and is thought to be a mutation and/or adaptation to aquatic habitats. During an extensive survey of bryophytes in spring habitats in the Italian Alps (Province of Trento), we found different numbers of leaf lamina cell layers among specimens of Palustriella falcata. We carried out a thorough study, measuring a set of morphological characters that identify variability among specimens within the same spring and among multiple springs. The main goals were to assess the amount of morphological variability, to quantify the concordance among morphological traits, and to test to what extent environmental variables account for morphological variability. Our results showed that, in many cases, morphological characters differed even among shoots within a spring. We found positive and significant partial correlation between pluristratose lamina and width of costa, but negative correlation between pluristratose lamina and length of cells. Constrained multivariate analysis showed that 40.3% of this morphological variation was explained by a set of environmental variables, but most importantly, we observed extensive pluristratose laminae in constantly submerged habitats. We interpreted the different numbers of cell layers in the leaf lamina as a phenotypic continuum from P. falcata, with a single layer of cells, to Palustriella pluristratosa Stech & Frahm, with a multilayered lamina. In addition we offer a point of view concerning the evolutionary significance of this trait, its possible origin, and its evolution in aquatic mosses.
23672601|The diploid chromosome number for the European Linum hologynum and the haploid number for the Australian L. monogynum is 42 and appears to establish a new and distinctive base number for sect. Linum. The possession by these two species and by the Australian L. marginale of multiporate pollen and united styles, a unique combination of features in sect. Linum, may warrant the establishment of a new subsection in that section to accommodate the three species.
43558143|Acacia caven (Mol.) Mol. is native to South America. The species is a leguminous, woody small tree that is considered to have certain potential as a managed silvopastoral crop. Six varieties have been described for the species based on both morphological traits and molecular markers. Little information is available on its mating system.The main objectives of this work were to test the hypothesis that A. caven is an outcrosser and to estimate parameters of its mating system and population structure on the basis of isozyme markers. In the four populations studied, a high homozygote excess was found in the progeny population but not in the mother plant genotypes.The estimate for the multi-locus outcrossing rate (tm) was high ( 0.957) in all populations, indicating that Acacia caven is a predominantly outcrosser species. The results of genetic structure analysis within each population indicated that differences in allelic frequencies among families in all of the populations studied are highly significant. The difference in F estimates between progeny and mother plants suggests some selection favouring htrozygotes between the seedling and adult stages. Therefore, a strategy for ex situ conservation might emphasise sampling more populations with a relative large number of trees per site.
23673107|The first fossil record of the genus Nageia Gaertner from the Tertiary of southern China is reported. Nageia hainanensis sp. nov. is described from the Eocene Changchang Formation of Hainan Island. The extant species of Nageia are widely distributed in southeastern Asia, from northeastern India to southeastern China and southern Japan, and southward through Indochina to the Malay Archipelago and New Guinea. The fossil evidence of Nageia has been discovered from the Lower Cretaceous of the Far East of Russia and Japan. The distribution of both modern and fossil species of Nageia indicates that this genus could have originated in the northeastern part of Asia in the Early Cretaceous and spread to south China at least in the Eocene. Discovery of Nageia fossil record in south China provides important evidence for the geological and phytogeographic history of the genus.
43558347|The genome size of 265 plants and the GC content of 126 plants from 63 populations of the Cyanus triumfetti and Cyanus montanus groups, collected across the Carpathians, Pannonia, Bohemian Massif, and Western and Dinaric Alps were determined by PI and DAPI flow cytometry. Variation of the nuclear DNA content among homoploid species, and intraspecific and interpopulation variation were confirmed in simultaneous analyses. The 2C-value at the diploid level (the C. triumfetti group) varied from 2.53 for Cyanus dominii subsp. sokolensis to 3.06 pg for C. triumfetti s.s. (1.21-fold range). At the tetraploid level (the C. montanus group), the 2C-value varied from 5.19 for Cyanus mollis to 5.84 pg for C. montanus (1.13-fold range). High intraspecific and interpopulation variation in the amount of nuclear DNA in the C. triumfetti group correlates with the extensive morphological variation found in this group. Significant between-species differences in genome size indicate that this attribute may be used as a supportive taxonomic marker for both of the groups studied. The GC content varied by 2.93 %, from 39.46 % for "Cyanus axillaris" to 40.61 % for Cyanus adscendens; this character is of no value for taxonomic purposes. Genome size of the studied populations is significantly higher in southern parts of the distribution area and at higher elevations. Plants with smaller genomes tend to occur in dry areas at low altitudes with high diurnal and annual temperature oscillations. The GC content of the populations studied is significantly correlated with longitude, increasing from east to west; and plants with GC-rich genomes are concentrated in the coldest areas with low minimum temperatures.
23645092|Polymorphism analyses of the hordeins, main storage proteins in barley, were conducted on 35 natural populations of Hordeum murinum s.l. from North Africa; this specific complex includes three subspecies with two ploidy levels: H. murinum subsp. glaucum (2n = 2x = 14), H. murinum subsp. leporinum and subsp. murinum (2n = 4x = 28). Twenty of these populations belong to the diploid subsp. glaucum, 14 other tetraploid populations belong to the subsp. leporinum. In addition, six populations of the tetraploid murinum were sampled in France: two along the Mediterranean coast and four in Brittany. The polymorphism observed in the electrophoretic patterns highlights strong correlations between bioclimatic features and di- and tetraploid taxa distribution. Moreover, the variation was not randomly distributed within the different ploidy levels, and is correlated with environmental factors. The ecological differentiation of the two main taxa, H. murinum subsp. leporinum and subsp. glaucum is clearly highlighted.
23655702|Phylogenetic relationships of members of the tribe Salicornieae, native to the Atlantic coasts of France, were assessed by three molecular markers: the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS), the chloroplast trnL-F and the chloroplast matK sequences. In parallel to the phylogenetic studies, a population genetic study was carried out based on randomly amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPD). Neither the MP/ML analyses of the sequences, nor the AMOVA and NJ analyses of RAPD fingerprints confirmed the morphology-based classification at the specific level within Salicornia. Instead, our investigations are in favour of the species aggregate concept. Two sister groups were revealed in the genus: one is composed of the diploid taxa, while the other clusters the tetraploid taxa. Conflicting nuclear versus plastid phylogenetic positions of some tetraploid samples, referred to as S. fragilis, indicate that they most likely derive from a reticulate evolution.
23674585|The karyotype of Cestrum aurantiacum was analyzed for the presence of coldsensitive regions (CSRs) and other types of constitutive heterochromatin. A range of techniques was employed including the fluorescent DAPI, chromomycin/DAPI double staining and actinomycin D/DAPI counter-staining, and the non-fluorescent C-banding applied as single or sequential staining, sequential N-banding and silver impregnation. Four classes of constitutive heterochromatin were recognized: CSRs, nucleolar organizers, non-nucleolar chromomycin-positive bands, and indifferently fluorescent bands. The banded karyotype of C. aurantiacum is compared with those of other Cestrum species. The sections Habrothamnus and Cestrum are not karyologically distinct.
23672642|A new subgenus of Gymnoalycium is described; its distribution and position within the genus are briefly discussed.
23643118|Difficulties in delimiting well-defined entities in the dogroses (Rosa sect. Caninae) has resulted in very variable taxonomic treatments. The present study was undertaken to provide a background for taxonomy as well as plant breeding. Morphometric diversity was analysed on seedlings obtained from field collections in South Sweden of three species, Rosa dumalis, R. rubiginosa and R. villosa. A canonical variates analysis showed that the three species are relatively distinct whereas two subspecies of R. dumalis were less well discriminated. Analyses of variance demonstrated that intraspecific variation is pronounced in R. dumalis and, to a lesser extent, in R. villosa.
23674222|Ten species in the genus Silene sectt. Siphonomorpha and Auriculatae were crossed artificially involving 612 crosses to test inter- and infraspecific, intervarietal and intersectional crossability. In sect. Siphonomorpha all interspecific crosses (between diploids) failed due to cross- or seed-incompatibility; however, intervarietal crosses between S. gigantea var. gigantea and S. gigantea var. incana produced hybrids. In sect. Auriculatae hybrids were produced between S. vallesia and S. boryi, both tetraploids, but crosses between these and the diploid species were unsuccessful. The delimitation and status of the species in both sections was supported by the crossing results.
23642246|An electron microscopical investigation of the cell walls in young antheridia of Polypodium crassifolium and Platycerium alcicorne confirms the classical developmental model as postulated by Strasburger and by Kny. The structure of the basal cell walls, both of the "funnel cell" and of the operculum, and especially the evidence of plasmodesmata in those walls, disprove the widely accepted interpretation presented 1951 by Davie.
23643740|This study makes use of three sources of data, morphology and two chloroplast DNA sequences, ndhF and rbcL, to resolve relationships in Gesneriaceae. Cladograms from each of the three data sets separately are not topologically congruent. Statistical indices suggest that each data set is congruent with the ndhF data although rbcL and morphology are themselves incongruent. Consensus methods provide no resolution of taxonomic relationships when trees from the different data sets are combined. Combining data sets generally results in cladograms that are more fully resolved than each of the data sets analyzed separately and support for the clades increases based on higher decay index and bootstrap values. These results indicate that there is a phylogenetic signal common to each of the data sets, however, the noise (errors due to homoplasy, mis-scoring, etc.) unique to each data source masks this signal. In combining the data, the evidence for the common evolutionary history in each data set overcomes the noise and is apparent in the resulting trees.
23642220|Eight species of Allium subgen. Allium sect. Allium have been studied at the cytological level by means of karyological analyses and at the biochemical level with regard to the proportions of ribosomal DNA. All the species have a basic genome of x = 8. A. sativum, A. commutatum, A. ampeloprasum, and A. vineale possess approximately 0.050% rDNA and two nucleolus organizer regions per basic chromosome set. A. sphaerocephalon and A. arvense have two nucleolus organizers, and A. amethystinum three nucleolus organizers per haploid (n = x) genome: the three species possess approximately 0.075% rDNA. A. acutiflorum has five nucleolus organizer regions per haploid genome and 0.121% rDNA. An attempt to relate these differences with functional and ecological characteristics indicates that evolutionary variation of rDNA proportions is not casual. Such data also can help to define systematic affinities and circumscribe infrageneric taxa.
23643355|Parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of combined trnL (UAA) 5 exon  trnF (GAA) and rps4 exon cpDNA, and 18S nrDNA sequences of 60 arthrodontous moss taxa indicate strong support for the monophyly of a clade containing the Splachnineae, Orthotrichineae, and diplolepideous alternate sub-orders. A clade including the Splachnineae, Meesiaceae and Leptobryum (Bryaceae) is similarly well supported and forms the sister group to a clade comprising the Orthotrichineae and the other diplolepideous alternate mosses. Within this latter clade a number of well supported lineages are identified, but relationships among these remain poorly resolved. These analyses indicate that the Splachnaceous and Orthotrichaceous peristomes have been independently derived from an ancestral 'perfect' bryoid peristome.
23673216|Arachis pintoi accessions were used to study genetic diversity using RAPD markers. Concurrently, two tissue culture protocols were evaluated for organogenesis and the capacity to generate somaclonal variation. Data were collected on callus growth, callus weight gain, and number of regenerated plants. Robust RAPD profiles were obtained and eight primers amplified 100 different bands with 98% polymorphisms. The proportion of polymorphic RAPD loci was 89%. Average genetic distance was 0.36 and indicated that a large amount of genetic diversity exists within the germplasm evaluated. Genetic distances were used to prepare a dendogram for the A. pintoi accessions that separated them into four groups. A large degree of variability for callus induction and callus weight gain was observed among the accessions. Shoot regeneration was achieved for several accessions on both media with no structures indicative of somatic embryogenesis detected. Root induction was difficult to obtain, and many shoots died during this process. RAPD band profiles of regenerated tissue culture plants were similar to their parent plants, and therefore no somaclonal variation was evident using these methods.
23669033|The section Algarobia of genus Prosopis includes promising species for reforestation and afforestation programmes in arid and semiarid regions, mainly of the Americas. Many interspecific natural hybrid combinations have been described in this group. In this paper we analysed a hybrid zone in Chaco biogeographical province in Argentina, where P. ruscifolia and P. alba overlap and hybridise producing intermediate fertile hybrid forms. Eleven morphological traits and 76 loci RAPD were analysed to determine the effect of hybridization between these species. The comparison of morphological traits among groups yielded significant or highly significant differences for all traits. Estimates of H e in P. alba and P. ruscifolia did not differ from each other, but both showed significantly lower values than the hybrid group. The analysis of correlations between shared phenotypes and pair-wise relationships estimated from RAPD gave also strong support to the hypothesis that most of the phenotypic traits analysed have significant heritability. The analyses of population structure and clustering based on morphological and molecular data by DAPC and STRUCTURE were rather consistent and indicated that the three morphotypes studied here are differentiated with low overlapping. All results indicated that despite the occurrence of natural hybridization and introgression, interspecific gene flow would be limited by hybrid breakdown or natural selection favouring the maintenance of species integrity.
23674550|The genus Pinus includes over 90 species with approximately 24 species native to Asia. We have analyzed the chloroplast (cp) DNA variation of 18 Pinus species, including 15 Asian, two Eurasian, and one European species using seven restriction enzymes and ten non-overlapping probes and inferred their phylogenetic relationships. Results of phenetic and cladistic approaches to phylogeny reconstruction were largely in agreement, suggesting two major lineages within the genus and confirmed the ancient character of haploxylon and diploxylon subgenera. Species from section Parrya appear to have diverged earliest from the hypothesized phylogenetic centre for the haploxylon pines, with P. bungeana and P. gerardiana forming two basal, monotypic lineages. The range of estimated pairwise nucleotide substitutions per site (d) was higher among haploxylon pines than among diploxylon species. CpDNA divergence was found to be low within the section Sylvestres, relative to the divergence among haploxylon species, suggesting that the radiation of this group of taxa from its common ancestor occurred after the diversification of other groups. The low cpDNA divergence in this subsection corroborated earlier evidence for its phylogenetic cohesiveness and existence as a monophyletic group.
23664809|Mitochondrion is a kind of cell organelle known as the engine house of the cells in the performance of the production of energy in the form of ATP, and the regulation of cellular metabolism in programmed cell death. Plant mitochondria are involved in the formation of cytoplasm male sterility and the mechanism of restoration. Its genomes offer useful information in analysis of the evolution dynamics. The mitogenomes (mitochondrial genomes) of 2074A, a cytoplasmic male sterile line of Gossypium harknessii cytoplasm, was sequenced by Solexa strategy and assembled by SOAP de novo. Combined with public data, the sequences of nine mitochondrial functional genes in 20 taxa were used to reconstruct phylogenetic trees and further to demonstrate the variations of mitogenomes in higher plants. The sequence size, genome composition, and the number of genes varied in mitogenomes, while the genes related to oxidative respiratory chain remain conserved. In examined mitogenomes, the number of protein-coding genes of higher plants varied from 24 to 42. And gene conservatism was quite different. Gene gain or loss entirely existed widely; genes insertion and loss of intron (s), and some altered as pseudogenes were checked; loss of tRNAs and insertion of cp-DNA transferring happened frequently; and syntenic gene clusters were found. More than 50 % of intergenic regions were mainly accumulated by repeats and non-coding sequences. The variable mitogenomes existed conservatism, but it demonstrated that the linear relationship was not parallel to that in mitogenomes of different species in evolution. The mitogenome of 2074A harbored 56 functional genes and changed quite a lot in sequences, while there were a few linear gene clusters and conserved flanking sequences of functional genes. Generally, the information was helpful for understanding the results in mitogenome evolution.
43496744|Mediterranean Hedysarea species constitute important phytogenetic resources able to promote forage production and to valorize grasslands currently damaged by severe genetic erosion. The study of genetic diversity in nine Mediterranean Hedysarea species found in North Africa was performed using the AFLP technique. The eight primer combinations generated, on the whole, 325 polymorphic bands exhibiting an important genetic diversity that constitutes an ideal source stock for germplasm selection. The estimation by AFLP analysis of the relative relationships among six Sulla and three Hedysarum species revealed the genetic nearness of the two analyzed genera as shown by the close relatedness of S. carnosa and Hedysarum species. Our investigation suggested a nuclear lineage among the Mediterranean Hedysarea species. Moreover, a common genetic pool among the analyzed species indicated a common ancestor H, membranaceum generating all the analyzed species. The obtained UPGMA dendrogram exhibited species clustering independently from their bioclimatic origin. This result was confirmed by Pearson's correlation coefficient (0.097, p = 0.302). Principal component analysis of the obtained AFLP data has also shown mixed species. In fact, the distribution in plan 1-2 (34.34% of the global inertia) showed typical continuous variability since there is no distinctiveness of species. The close congruence of the only cultivated Sulla species (i.e., S. coronaria) and the spontaneous S. flexuosa, which is affected by severe genetic erosion, could permit including these species in amelioration programs for improvement of forage crops. Moreover, the related proximity of the semi-temperate species S. capitata and H. aculeolatum, respectively, to the arid/semi-arid species S. carnosa and S. spinosissima could be exploited in breeding programs to improve the damaged southern Tunisian grasslands, especially in arid and semi-arid areas.
43558269|Cochlearia pyrenaica is one of the most endangered plant species in Europe, listed in many European and regional conservation policy documents (e.g. Spain, France, Belgium, Switzerland). To study its genetic structure, define its conservation units and propose a management strategy for this species, amplified fragment length polymorphism markers were used to analyse the genetic diversity within and between five representative populations of the species distribution in Western Europe (Cantabrian Range, North of Spain; Pyrenees, France; Wallonia, Belgium). Low levels of genetic diversity were revealed by the population percentage of polymorphic bands (PPB = 36.56%), average within-population diversity (Hs = 0.0990) and genetic diversity within populations (Hpop = 0.1541), although high levels were reported at species level (PPB = 81.16%; total genetic diversity for the species, HT = 0.0990; and genetic diversity within whole species, Hsp = 0.2515). The coefficient of genetic differentiation among populations (GST) was 0.3869. The analysis of Shannon diversity index in population and for the total data set partitioned (38.72%) and AMOVA (53%) detected a high level of interpopulation diversity, in broad agreement with the result of genetic differentiation analysis. NeighborNet network and principal coordinate analyses clustered the populations in three major groups congruent with geographical regions. Bayesian clustering also confirmed these three distinct genetic clusters. The level of gene flow (Nm) was estimated as 0.3961 individuals per generation among populations, with the genetic identity (I) and genetic distance (D) among populations ranging from 0.8679 to 0.9651 and from 0.0355 to 0.1417, respectively. Therefore, the low levels of genetic variation and high divergence of regional gene pools indicate that there is a need to protect each disjunct region of Western Europe.
23642818|A combination tapetum consisting of a cellular, parietal component and a plasmodial component occurs in Schizaea pectinata. A single, tapetal initial layer divides to form an outer parietal layer which maintains its cellular integrity until late in spore wall development. The inner tapetal layer differentiates into a plasmodium which disappears after the outer exospore has developed. In the final stages of spore wall development, granular material occurs in large masses and is dispersed as small granules throughout the sporangial loculus. No tapetal membrane develops. Comparisons are drawn with the combination tapetum found in Psilotum nudum.
23657067|Cyclamen persicum Mill. in Israel consists of two discrete population types that differ in their flowering (fall versus winter) as well as leafing (hysteranthous versus synanthous) phenology. The two populations have similar pollen:ovule ratios, index of self incompatibility, stigma receptivity duration, pollen longevity, flower longevity, floral morphology and seed production rate. These data indicate no apparent selective pressure on floral characteristics or on the breeding system, which may be exerted by the pollinators. The two populations retained their autonomous blooming rhythm even after transplantation, which indicated that this character was genetically determined. There are no genetic barriers and the populations may share some pollinators (Schwartz-Tzachor et al. 2006). Thus the main potential restriction on gene flow is the incomplete phenological barrier. These findings may indirectly support our hypothesis that the phenological shift is due to environmental cues. Thus it was concluded that these two types are 'phenological ecotypes' in the sense of Turesson (1922) due to the unequivocal delineation of both types, as revealed by the timing of leaf appearance (synanthous versus hysteranthous) without any evidence of any intermediates.
23655480|Floral anatomy and ontogeny are described in six species of Magnoliaceae, representing the two subfamilies Liriodendroideae (Liriodendron chinese and L. tulipifera) and Magnolioideae, including species with terminal flowers (Magnolia championi, M. delavayi, M. grandiflora, M. paenetalauma) and axillary flowers (Michelia crassipes). The sequence of initiation of floral organs is from proximal to distal. The three distinct outermost organs are initiated in sequence, but ultimately form a single whorl; thus their ontogeny is consistent with a tepal interpretation. Tepals are initiated in whorls, and the stamens and carpels are spirally arranged, though the androecium shows some intermediacy between a spiral and whorled arrangement. Carpels are entirely free from each other both at primordial stages and maturity. Ventral closure of the style ranges from open in Magnolia species examined to partially closed in Michelia crassipes and completely closed in Liriodendron, resulting in a reduced stigma surface. Thick-walled cells and tannins are present in all species except Michelia crassipes. Oil cells are normally present. Floral structure is relatively homogeneous in this family, although Liriodendron differs from other Magnoliaceae in that the carpels are entirely closed at maturity, resulting in a relatively small stigma, in contrast to the elongate stigma of most species of Magnolia. The flower of Magnolia does not terminate in an organ or organ whorl but achieves determinacy by gradual diminution.
23657053|Herbarium collections are a valuable source of genetic information. Even though the DNA obtained from the specimens is often highly fragmented and present in small quantities, it has been successfully used particularly for DNA sequencing and microsatellite analysis. The present study shows that the quality is often sufficient for use also for AFLPs. With this technique, a considerable number of DNA fragments with unknown sequence from the entire genome of the plant are amplified, often with the purpose of phylogeographic studies or analyses of interrelationships of closely related species. In order to avoid the effects of potential artefacts resulting from DNA degradation, such as "false polymorphisms", it is suggested that fresh samples should always be included for comparison, and that AFLP chromatograms based on herbarium specimens should be included in analyses only when they contain AFLP fragments monomorphic among the fresh samples, and when signal quality is comparable to that of fresh samples.
23642236|Chaenotheca brunneola is lichenized with Dictyochloropsis splendida. Until now this member of the Chlorococcales has been observed only twice and free-living. It reproduces by motionless daughter cells in the lichen thallus, but mainly by zoospores in the free-living state and under favourable conditions. Zoospore development has not been observed before and apparently depends on storage of starch which is repressed in the lichenized state. During zoospore activity this storage material is consumed. Zoospores possess two flagella which are inserted rather far apart from each other, one pulsating vacuole and a cup-shaped, not latticed chloroplast. Chaenotheca phaeocephala var. alpina, Ch. melanophaea and Ch. chrysocephala are lichenized with Trebouxia. The phycobiont of Ch. chrysocephala, Trebouxia simplex, sp. n., differs from other sibs of the genus by the relative small size of the cells, the less marked differentiation of the chloroplast and certain details of cell division. Chaenotheca brunneola enthlt als Algenpartner die Chlorococcale Dictyochloropsis splendida, die bisher nur zweimal, und zwar freilebend beobachtet worden war. Da sie sich so wie andere Chlorococcalen im Flechtenthallus nur durch unbewegliche Tochterzellen, freilebend unter geeigneten Kulturbedingungen dagegen bevorzugt durch Zoosporen vermehrt, geht offenbar auf die Unterdrckung der Strkespeicherung im lichenisierten Zustand zurck. Der Strkevorrat der Zoosporen wird whrend der Schwimmphase abgebaut. Die bisher nicht bekannten Zoosporen sind unter anderem durch die weit getrennte Geielinsertion, eine einzige pulsierende Vakuole nahe der Basis von einer der beiden Geieln und einen einheitlichen, muldenfrmigen, nicht dreidimensional netzfrmigen Chlorplasten gekennzeichnet. Ch. phaeocephala var. alpina, Ch. melanophaea und Ch. chrysocephala sind mit Trebouxia lichenisiert. Der Phycobiont von Ch. chrysocephala, Trebouxia simplex, sp. n., unterscheidet sich von anderen Trebouxia-Sippen unter anderem durch die relativ geringe Zellgre, die geringere und andersartige oft auch fehlende Gliederung des Chloroplasten sowie Besonderheiten im Verlauf der Teilung.
23674092|Pollen morphology of the four traditional genera (Paphiopedilum, Selenipedium, Cypripedium, Phragmipedium) comprising the cypripedioid orchids indicates that the monads are sulcate, more or less smooth-surfaced, and covered by a non-acetolysis resistant layer called elastoviscin. Evidence from ultrathin sections of pollen grains shows that typical exine layers are present only in Selenipedium, modified in Phragmipedium and absent in Paphiopedilum and most species of Cypripedium; that a small, inconspicuous portion of the grain surface is constructed as a sulcus; and that the pollen grain wall acts as a sponge in rapidly absorbing water. Several instances of parallelisms between non-related families and among different groups of orchids are reported and new ideas on the evolution of the Cypripedioideae are presented.
23642340|Populations in the central part of the distribution are mostly self-incompatible and tend to be highly variable for allozymic and morphological characters; those in the north and south limits are entirely self-compatible and tend to be genetically highly uniform. Gradations in variability are observed in the intermediate regions. Flower size tends to diminish in the peripheral areas. The extensive differences in genotype observed between the north and south marginal populations are not compatible with the concept of a single origin of self-compatibility, but suggest, along with other evidence, that the substitution of different alleles resulted from differentiation in the marginal areas from older, self-incompatible stocks of the central region. The conclusions regarding patterns of genetic variation and nature of evolution of mating systems in L. hirsutum conform to a remarkable extent with those reached previously for L. pimpinellifolium, a species that is distinct in morphology and ecological preferences yet has a similar latitudinal distribution.
23664944|Classification, which is the task of assigning objects to one of several predefined categories, is a pervasive problem that encompasses many diverse applications. Decision tree classifier, which is a simple yet widely used classification technique, employs training data to yield decision rules; moreover, it can create thresholds and then split the list of continuous attributes into descrete intervals for handling continuous attributes (Quinlan in Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 4:7790, 1996). Rough set theory (Pawlak in International Journal of Computer and Information Sciences 11:341356, 1982; International Journal of Man-Machine Studies 20:469483, 1984; Rough sets: theoretical aspects of reasoning about data. Kluwer, Dordrecht, 1991) has been applied to a wide variety of decision analysis problems for the extraction of rules from databases. This paper proposes a hybrid approach that takes advantage of combining decision tree and rough sets classifier and applies it to plant classification. The introduced approach starts with decision tree classifier (C4.5) as preprocessing technique to make interval-discretization, subsequently, and uses rough set method for extracting rules. The proposed approach aims at finding out classification rules via analyzing lamina attributes (leaf stalk, leaf width, leaf length, length/width ratio) of Cinnamomum, which are gathered and measured by plant specialists in the field of Taiwan. A comparison with the widely used algorithms (e.g., decision tree, multilayer perceptrons, nave Bayes, and rough sets classifier) is carried out to show numerous advantages of the proposed approach. Finally, employing with test data in which species are unknown, results of classification are approved by consulting the relative plant specialists.
23674494|Seeds of the Hordeum patagonicum complex were collected from the field and grown in the greenhouse. The aim was to take a sample of members of the complex, and on the basis of the phenotypic similarities in some morphological and physiological characters, determine whether distinct groups exist. When cluster analyses, to generate hypotheses, and orthodox statistical procedures, for hypotheses obtained a priori, were applied to the reproductive morphology, germination and flowering patterns, only H. patagonicum subsp. magellanicum, out of the five recognized taxa, could be distinguished consistently. The remaining four taxa, which overlapped considerably, could be re-formed into three groups whose centroids were different but whose ranges of variation were not distinct from each other. We conclude that the highly cross-compatible members of the H. patagonicum complex, first defined as species and later redefined as subspecies are probably no more than biotypes.
23673956|Aristolochia krisagathra, a new species from the Western Ghats of Peninsular India is described, illustrated and included into a key to the four Indian species of the genus. Notes on the host-relationships of these species are also provided, paticularly of A. indica to papilionid butterflies.
23643329|Allozyme variation was examined in Carex sect. Phyllostachys (Cyperaceae) to study the effects of species-specific traits and phylogenetic relatedness on genetic structure. In contrast to the findings of similar studies, genetic variability in the Phyllostachys is poorly correlated with geographic range and putative differences in breeding systems (as inferred from morphology). This suggests that other patterns of evolution, colonization, and gene flow characterize the species found in this section. Fixation indices are negative for all populations suggesting that mechanisms such as disassortative mating and selection are maintaining heterozygous excess within populations. Closely related taxa often exhibit different genetic variability statistics. In some instances, however, clades (e.g. C. jamesii and C. juniperorum) display very similar levels of genetic variability despite marked differences in species-specific traits. Recent speciation coupled with the ability to maintain historical levels of variation within populations may be factors accounting for this phenomenon. Contrary to similar studies, species restricted to known glacial refugia have lower genetic diversity than those species that underwent mass migrations in response to deglaciation. Narrowly endemic species were found to partition their genetic diversity within, as opposed to between populations. The opposite trend was evident in wider ranging congeners.
43558065|Isoetes hypsophila Hand.-Mazz. (Isoetaceae) is an endangered quillwort endemic to the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Genetic variation and population structure of 12 I. hypsophila populations were examined by using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers. Eight primer pairs produced a total of 472 unambiguous bands, of which 229 (48.5%) were polymorphic. Intra-population genetic variation of Isoetes hypsophila was low (PP = 14.9%, HE = 0.039, hs = 0.084 and I= 0.061). The F statistics calculated by different approaches consistently revealed high genetic differentiation among populations, contributing approximately 50% of total gene diversity. Four genetic groups corresponding to four geographic regions were detected, indicating significant geographic structure. Our results suggest that both ongoing evolutionary forces (e.g., inbreeding system, bottlenecks resulting from fluctuation of water level) and historical events (e.g., orogenic movements which reduce gene flow among populations, repeated population retreat, and recolonization during ice ages) may have contributed to the genetic structure of I. hypsophila. In conservation, attention should be paid to preserving every population, and intra-region translocations can currently be recommended.
23645091|In continuation of our investigations of the genus Plantago L. (Plantaginaceae), sixteen species were investigated with respect to water-soluble glycosides. The iridoids auroside, strictoloside and globularicisin, as well as poliumoside, 3-[(4--D-glucopyranosyloxy)phenyl]propionic acid and 2-[4-(-D-glucopyranosyloxy)phenyl]acetic acid were isolated from Plantago for the first time. The latter compound has not previously been isolated as a natural product. Sorbitol was the main carbohydrate in all the species investigated. The distribution of iridoids correlates well with the morphological classification of Rahn and also with a recently published molecular phylogenetic study of nuclear ribosomal and plastid DNA sequences. A new chemotaxonomic finding is an abundance of iridoid glucosides present in one of the two groups within subgenus Coronopus section Coronopus, while the other group lacks iridoids, supporting a subdivision of this section. Moreover, in subgenus Albicans, 10-benzoylcatalpol is a characteristic constituent of section Gnaphaloides, while the corresponding cinnamoyl ester globularin occurs in section Lanceifolia. In biosynthetic experiments, labelled epideoxyloganic acid and deoxygeniposidic acid were incorporated into aucubin and geniposidic acid in Plantago ovata, consistent with earlier findings, but no incorporation into asperuloside was observed. The evolution of biosynthetic pathways in Plantago is discussed.
23643232|The circumscription of the Isertieae has been under debate for a long time and recently a phylogeny based on morphological data has been presented (Andersoon 1996), contradicting the classification of Robbrecht (1988, 1993). Our investigation of molecular data neither supports the phylogeny of Andersson nor the classification of Robbrecht, but instead indicates totally new relationships of Isertieae, Mussaendeae, and Sabiceeae. The Isertieae are a bigeneric tribe of subfam. Cinchonoideae, while Mussaendeae and Sabiceeae are two separate tribes of subfam. Ixoroideae. We have also referred a species from Socotra (Yemen) with disputed position to the tribe Sabiceeae and we place it in a new genus, Tamridaea, with the single species T. capsulifera comb. nov. New rbcL sequences of 20 taxa are presented and analysed, from Gentianaceae: Gentianella; from Loganiaceae: Spigelia; and from Rubiaceae: Amphidasya, Aoranthe, Chomelia, Coussarea, Gonzalagunia, Heinsia, Hippotis, Isertia (three taxa), Mussaenda, Pseudomussaenda, Pseudosabicea, Rondeletia, Sabicea, Schradera, Tamridaea, and Virectaria.
23673803|Hybrids between the Chinese endemic species Psathyrostachys huashanica Keng and the SW. Asian species P. fragilis (Boiss.) Nevski (all 2n = 14) developed normally but were completely sterile. Meiotic analyses revealed a high chiasma frequency indicating that the two species as well as P. juncea (Fisch.) Nevski share the same basic genome (called N). The hybrid nature of the plants was established through karyotype analysis and Giemsa C-banding.
23674755|Four species of Peperomia (Piperaceae) occur in the Juan Fernandez Islands, Chile: P. berteroana, P. margaritifera, P. skottsbergii, and P. fernandeziana. The last species is found also in continental Chile, whereas the other three are endemic to the archipelago. Peperomia margaritifera is found only on the older island of Masatierra, whereas P. skottsbergii is confined to the younger island of Masafuera, and P. berteroana occurs on both islands. Phenetic analyses of mainland taxa suggest that P. fernandeziana belongs to subg. Sphaerocarpidium whereas the endemic taxa form their own subg. Tildenidium connecting to subg. Tildenia. Cladistic analyses indicate that P. margaritifera is the most primitive species in the archipelago and that P. berteroana is the most derived, especially patristically. Chromosomally, the four species are all n = 22, which may be tetraploid on a base of x = 11. Sulfated flavones occur only in P. berteroana and P. skottsbergii, which are otherwise unknown for the family. Dispersal of propagules to the islands from the continent and between islands is believed to have been accomplished by birds.
23655677|The Beaver Island Archipelago (BIA) provides a model system to address the impact of long-term isolation on genetic diversity and gene flow. Low lake levels are assumed to have caused the BIA to be attached to mainland Michigan for at least 4000 years (10000 yr B.P.- 6000 yr B.P.), eventually, rising lake levels would have kept the islands isolated since 6000 yr B.P. If the island populations of a plant species in the BIA were indeed once continuous with the mainland of Michigan, then we would expect similar levels of genetic diversity in populations of such a species on the islands vs. the mainland. We compared levels of allozyme genetic diversity of 20 plots of Pinus strobus in the BIA with two mainland populations in northern Michigan. In addition, if pollen is a primary agent of gene flow across islands, a low degree of allozyme differentiation among the island populations of P. strobus in the BIA would be evident. Furthermore, since seed dispersal is more limited than pollen dispersal in P. strobus, a more pronounced spatial genetic structure (SGS) is expected in allozymes than in cpDNA markers. To gain insights on the pattern of seed and pollen dispersal among the 20 plots, we further analyzed spatial autocorrelation using Moran's I-statistics for both data sets [biparentally inherited, allozymes and paternally inherited, cpDNA microsatellites (cpDNA SSR)]. We found a similar level of allozyme variability in both the BIA (mean He = 0.080) and the two mainland populations (mean He = 0.078). As predicted, we observed a low but significant degree of genetic divergence among populations for allozymes (mean FST = 0.033 across 20 plots). Our allozyme-based SGS analysis revealed significant evidence of SGS (i.e. isolation-by-distance; slope  = -0.194 from regression analysis of observed averaged Moran's I values against the logarithm of the upper bound of six distance classes). In contrast, little evidence of SGS was found in cpDNA SSR data across the BIA ( = 0.013). These results suggest that although gene flow via seed dispersal is somewhat limited, pollen flow has been sufficient to maintain genetic diversity and prevent differentiation across the island landscape over several thousand years of isolation.
23673921|Morphological variation for the NOR chromosome was studied for four half-siblings of a sexual outbreeding Taraxacum, for three siblings of the obligate agamosperm T. pseudohamatum, and for two individuals of the agamosperm T. brachyglossum. No rearrangement was detected for the 113 chromosomes of sexuals, or for 41 chromosomes of two agamospermous individuals. In the other three agamospermous individuals, 3/16, 5/50, and 5/20 chromosomes showed evidence of chromosomal rearrangement. The majority of rearrangement events (10/13) occurred to the satellite rather than to the body of the NOR-chromosome. It is considered that such high levels of somatic chromosomal rearrangement in agamospermous Taraxacum may be the result of activity by transposable genetic elements. This recombination may be of selective advantage to asexual plants which cannot generate genetic variability through the sexual process.
23644089|The fruit and seed anatomy and morphology of the two genera Bersama and Melianthus (Melianthaceae, Sapindales) have been studied in an effort to clarify their systematic position. On the basis of the differences in pericarp and seed anatomy as well as in other exomorphic characters the segregation of Bersama into a distinct family Bersamaceae is supported. Evidence mainly from seed anatomy and morphology emphasizes the anomaly of the traditional inclusion of Bersama and Melianthus in the Sapindales, since they have a distinct seed-coat structure and seed vascularization. The fruit and seed anatomy does not confirm any relationships with alternatively suggested exomesotestal Lardizabalaceae. The exotestal seed coats of Bersama and Melianthus with a differentiated palisade of Malpighian cells in the exotesta, dimerous raphal vascular skeleton, abundant endosperm, and a small differentiated straight embryo show a resemblance with the exotestal albuminous seeds of Rhamnaceae and Elaeagnaceae. Using also additional data on fruit, floral and vegetative morphology it is suggested that Bersamaceae with Melianthaceae and Rhamnaceae/Elaeagnaceae constitute a distinct relict side-branch of exo-mesotestal rosidaceous ancestry, the new order Melianthales in the superorder Rhamnanae (Rosidae). The formerly suggested relationship of this side-branch to exotegmic Malvales is not supported by seed anatomy. The affinity with exotegmic Celastrales, which are considered as a possible connecting link between archaic exo-mesotestal Rosales and exotestal Rhamnales/Elaeagnales, is also found untenable.
23656129|Introduced honeybees have had a large impact on native ecosystems by disrupting native plantpollinator interactions. However, little is known of the effect of honeybees on reproduction of bumblebee-pollinated plants. Seasonal displacement of native bumblebees by introduced honeybees (Apis mellifera and A. cerana) was observed in Pedicularis densispica, endemic to Hengduan Mountains, China, providing an opportunity for honeybee presence/absence comparisons. Five-year field surveys were conducted in one frequently disturbed population at Yila Pasture (YP). We compared pollination effectiveness (combinations of visitation rate, efficiency in pollen transfer, and potential geitonogamy) between native and introduced managed bees. The total visitation rate of native bees and subsequent reproductive output decreased progressively, but honeybee introduction resulted in at least twofold increase in visitation and 70 % increase in seed set. In general, native bumblebees, which have larger bodies and longer proboscises and spent more time probing single flowers, were more efficient than honeybees in terms of pollen removal and pollen deposition during first visits to virgin flowers. Compared with bumblebees, honeybees visited markedly fewer flowers in sequence within individual plants, potentially reducing geitonogamous pollination. Our data highlight that introduced honeybees can provide pollination service in terms of both quantity and quality for P. densispica. We suggest honeybee introduction as an effective way to augment pollination of P. densispica at disturbed and isolated sites.
43558325|The floral development of Phyllanthus chekiangensis has been studied by scanning electron microscopy.The perianth organs are initiated in two whorls, dimerous in male flowers and trimerous in female flowers, with a longer plastochron between whorls than between the organs within a whorl. Male flowers have two stamens. The prominent connective protrusions begin development simultaneously with the floral disk. The disk is two-lobed in male flowers but continuous in female flowers. In female flowers, the developing gynoecium remains open relatively long, so the developing ovules are visible from the outside for some time. The direction of the hemitropous ovules in the carpels is antitropous (epitropous). Two small obturators are formed per carpel, one above each ovule. The prominent nucellar beak extends far beyond the "micropyle". A micropyle in the classical sense formed by integuments closing over the nucellus apex is not present at any stage of development. Thus, it is not correct to say that the nucellar beak "grows through the micropyle". The exposed nucellar beak continues the curvature of the antitropous (epitropous) ovule and becomes contiguous with the obturator. The unusual length of the nucellar beak may be a potential synapomorphy of the enlarged Phyllanthus clade as inferred from molecular phylogenetics.
23642708|The chromosomes of several cultivated Tulipa species of subg. Leiostemones were examined in conventionally stained and C-banded preparations. The heterochromatin content varied from almost none to 45%. Several chromosome types were recognized with respect to chromosome morphology and heterochromatin distribution, and groups of species with common chromosome characteristics could be identified. These karyological relationships are discussed with respect to the groups formed on the basis of floral and bulb charateristics.
43558291|The analysis of morphological variation and RAPD polymorphism distinguished populations of A. herba alba from populations of A. judaica and A. monosperma. Higher morphological diversity is found in A. herba alba compared to the other two species, but molecular data derived from RAPD polymorphism also indicated that A. herba alba is more polymorphic than the other two species. However, RAPD fingerprinting also indicated sharp polymorphism among populations of both A. judaica and A. monosperma. Geographic and local ecological variations related to elevation of the sites of the examined populations may be regarded to have played a role in the genetic diversity of the examined populations of Artemisia species in the study area. The results are important for future plans for sustainable conservation of medicinal plants in Saudi Arabia. However, extensive sampling of the examined Artemisia species populations is required, and more regional data should be obtained from other distribution areas.
23642682|The absence or occurrence of C-glycolsylflavonoids in the Aizoaceae and Molluginaceae, respectively, has been utilized to classify several controversial genera of centrospermous plants that have previously been placed in different families by systematists. The presence of these compounds in several further species of the Molluginaceae is reported. Their anomalous presence in Gliscrothamnus (Aizoaceae) is discussed.
43558185|In this study I have examined the patterns of morphological and genetic differentiation between two species of the Andean genus Schizanthus that differ in their pollination and mating systems. Schizanthus hookeri has a bee pollination syndrome and is strongly dependent on pollinators for seed set. In contrast, S. grahamii has a hummingbird pollination syndrome and exhibits late autonomous selfing. Southern populations of the latter species have red flowers (reddish morph), while northern populations have yellow (yellowish morph) or pink flowers (pinkish morph). I used two noncoding chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) regions to investigate the genetic affinities between S. hookeri and the three morphs of S. grahamii. I also performed intra- and interspecific crosses to assess whether gene flow between species was possible. Phylogenetic analyses supported the existence of two differentiated clades that did not match currently accepted taxonomic classification. Accordingly, genetic distance did not correlate significantly with morphological distance. No fruits were produced from interspecific crosses, and there were no individuals with intermediate morphology that could indicate current and frequent hybridization events between species. I propose that the discordance between cpDNA data and conventional taxonomy could be explained by parallel evolution, or alternatively, by a very sporadic hybridization.
23643266|Roegneria grandis was hybridized with R. ciliaris var. japonensis (2n = 28, SSYY), Elymus caninus (2n = 28, SSHH), and Pseudoroegneria spicata (2n = 28, SSSS). Chromosome pairing was studied in parents and hybrids. It is concluded from this study that: (i) R. grandis is an allotetraploid species and contains the basic genomes S and Y: (ii) a certain degree of homoeology exists between the S and Y genomes of the species studied.
23645276|Applying Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism, we explored genetic differences between widespread Oxytropis campestris subsp. campestris and O. campestris subsp. tiroliensis, a presumed glacial relict restricted to a small area along the main chain of the Eastern Alps. We could not find genetic differences between the two "taxa". Neither do the morphological characters given in the literature discriminate between them. Therefore Oxytropis campestris subsp. tiroliensis is unlikely a glacial relict that survived Pleistocene glaciations on nunataks, but rather a genetically insignificantly differentiated phenotype that arose in the course of postglacial recolonisation. There is no phylogeographical structure in O. campestris s.l. in the Alps most probably due to the fact that the taxon did not survive the cold stages of the Pleistocene in the interior of the Alps but immigrated to that region at a later date.
23674801|A study of 33 species of Pelargonium sect. Ligularia reveals four basic chromosome numbers, x = 8, 9, 10, and 11, and variation in chromosome size. From evidence of karyology and hybridization attempts, proposals are made to divide the section into smaller groups and to transfer some species to other sections.
23642227|A field insect feeding experiment was conducted with two species of Vernonia which produce the sesquiterpene lactone glaucolide-A, one species which does not contain this bitter compound, and two F1 hybrid combinations. Also, natural Vernonia populations were observed over a two year period for their degree of herbivory. Contrary to the pattern observed in laboratory feeding preference tests, Vernonia flaccidifolia, the species lacking sesquiterpene lactones, was consistently fed upon less by insects than were V. gigantea and V. glauca. Even though glaucolide-A appears to adequately protect some Vernonias against herbivores, especially mammals, Vernonia flaccidifolia has lost this compound. Apparently V. flaccidifolia has evolved an alternative defensive mechanism which is more effective against insects but less effective against mammalian herbivores.
23657319|Pink-flowered tubular Penstemon roseus (Plantaginaceae), which has shifted partially to hummingbird pollination, blooms on high-elevation slopes in the mountains in Tlaxcala, Mexico. We studied the interactions between pollinator visitation rates to flowers, pollen removal and deposition, flower size, and nectar removal frequency on seed production in P. roseus. We combine observational and experimental studies in two contrasting natural populations. Our manual pollinations revealed that P. roseus is fully self-compatible. Autonomous self- and manual self-pollinated flowers matured as many seeds as when outcrossed, but outcrossing seems to become better than selfing as the flowering season progressed. Early in the season flowers that were bagged and hand-selfed, hand-outcrossed, or autonomously selfed, or unbagged and naturally pollinated had equal seed set in all four treatments. But later in the season, outcross pollen gave approximately twice as much seed set as the two self-treatments. Low levels of pollen receipt and pollen removal were consistent with the long time elapsed for a given plant to be visited by hummingbirds, which suggests pollen shortage in both sites. Despite differences in pollinator visitation rates to flowers, probability of flower visitation, removal and deposition of pollen, and nectar production rates between populations, we found that total nectar production had no effect on seed production at either site. The daily nectar secretion rate of 0.30.65 mg sugar per flower per 13 days was low relative to other hummingbird-adapted Penstemon species (typical range: 1.55 mg sugar per flower), and it might be intermediate between hummingbird- and bee-adapted Penstemon flowers. Our results support the hypothesis about a shift toward hummingbird pollination, and provide an example of a 'despecialized' Penstemon species, which attracts high-energy pollinators (hummingbirds) and profits from outcrossing, but retains bee-syndrome floral traits and low sugar production rates.
23671525|Over 90% of the cyanogenic precursors of Hevea seeds is stored in the endosperm tissue. During seedling development most of the cyanogenic material is consumed to form noncyanogenic compounds. No gaseous HCN is liberated in the course of this process. The -glucosidase, responsible for the cleavage of cyanogenic glucosides and the key enzyme for cyanogenesis is widely distributed over all tissues. The highest enzyme activity of the HCN-metabolizing -cyanoalaninesynthase is found in young seedling tissues. It is concluded, that the cyanogenic glucosides must be transported and metabolized in the young, growing tissues. Obwohl die Analytik sekundrer Pflanzeninhaltsstoffe schon seit ber 100 Jahren betrieben wird, besteht bis heute kein klares Bild ber eine generelle Bedeutung dieser Substanzen fr die Pflanze. Die sekundren Pflanzenstoffe knnen heute wie vor hundert Jahren als zwischenzeitlich abgelagerte Abfallprodukte des Stoffwechsels, als Reservesubstanzen oder als Schutzsubstanzen vor Schaderregern betrachtet werden. Die Suche nach einer einzigen, allgemeingltigen Funktion sekundrer Pflanzenstoffe ist zwangslufig zum Scheitern verurteilt, da bereits innerhalb einer Pflanze zu unterschiedlichen Entwicklungsstadien dieser Pflanze einem Sekundrstoff unterschiedliche Funktionen zukommen knnen. Die hier vorgelegten Studien zur Metabolisierung der cyanogenen Glucoside von Hevea-Samen weisen klar aus, da in der Keimungsphase die Cyanglycoside abgebaut und in nichtcyanogene Substanzen berfhrt werden. ber 90% der cyanogenen Vorstufen in Hevea-Samen liegen im Endosperm vor. Whrend der Smlingsentwicklung wird nahezu das gesamte cyanogene Glycosid zur Bildung nichtcyanogener Komponenten verbraucht. Gasfrmiges HCN wird whrend der Keimung nicht frei. Das Schlsselenzym fr die enzymatischen HCN-Freisetzung, die -Glucosidase, ist ber alle Hevea-Gewebe verteilt. Die hchste Aktivitt der HCN-metabolisierenden -Cyanoalaninsynthase (-CAS) wird in den jungen Blttern und in den wachsenden Wurzelspitzen gefunden. Aus der Abnahme des cyanogenen Potentials ohne Abgabe von freiem HCN sowie aus der getrennten Lokalisierung der cyanogenen Glycoside in den Samen und der -CAS in den jungen Smlingsgeweben wird abgeleitet, da die cyanogenen Glycoside vor ihrer Metabolisierung aus den Samengeweben in die Smlingsgewebe transportiert werden mssen.
23656083|Corylus avellana L. (hazel) is a long-lived, monoecious and wind-pollinated shrub species, widespread all over Europe. In Germany, hazel is intensively traded and planted, and thus is of central interest from a nature conservancy point of view. To assess the within- and between-population differentiation of hazel, 20 natural populations (18 from Germany, one from Italy and one from Hungary) were investigated genetically. Seven isozyme systems comprising 11 gene loci were analysed in up to 100 samples (average 92.6) per population, amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) were analysed in up to 50 samples (average 47.4) and nine cpDNA-SSR markers were assessed in 20 samples per population. Results for overall isozyme variability with Na 2.46 alleles per locus, allelic diversity (Ne) 1.39, expected heterozygosity He 21 % and 79 % polymorphic loci were in accordance with the findings of previous studies. The respective values for AFLPs were lower, but both marker systems revealed the same level of about 3.5 % differentiation between populations. For cpSSR only the Italian sample showed within-population variation and the two haplotypes were completely differentiated from all other populations expressing a unique genetic structure with one single haplotype. Among the three marker systems AFLPs showed the best ability to differentiate between populations. While only one isozyme locus revealed significant differentiation, 41 AFLP loci showed highly significant differentiation between all populations, but 26 loci when only German populations were considered. Consequently geographic differentiation analyses focused mainly on molecular markers. Mantel tests showed significant correlations between genetic and geographic distance, but in the unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic mean analyses, adjacent populations did not always form clusters. While chloroplast markers were able to clearly distinguish only the Hungarian population, the nuclear markers revealed clear spatial genetic structures. The correlations between geographic and genetic distance was high for AFLPs. The correlograms illustrate this effect for all populations as well as for the German populations.
23674342|Buzz-pollination was observed in three nectariferous Boraginaceae spp.: Onosma gigantea Lam., Trichodesma africana (L.) R. Br. and T. boissieri Post. An evolutionary pathway from usual nectariferous flowers to typical buzz-pollinated flowers is suggested.
23655639|Endoapertures, the inner openings of compound apertures in pollen grains, are common in eudicots, but occur infrequently in early-divergent eudicot lineages, in which they are restricted to three families: Menispermaceae, Sabiaceae and Buxaceae. Pollen of Sabiaceae was examined using light, scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The endoapertures are large and lalongate, and intine onci are associated with their development. Optimisation of endoapertures onto an existing angiosperm phylogeny indicates that endoapertures have evolved at least three times independently: in Menispermaceae, in Sabiaceae plus Buxaceae (or possibly separately in these two families), and in the core eudicot clade. Sabiaceae are unusual among early-divergent eudicots in that they possess some characters that are more common in core eudicots, including pollen with endoapertures and pentamerous flowers. This indicates either that they are more closely related to core eudicots than is indicated by current molecular evidence, or that these characters are homoplastic. The latter would suggest a high degree of experimentation prior to evolutionary canalisation of some key morphological features in eudicots. The evolution of endoapertures in early-divergent eudicots is probably associated with possession of endexine sculpture (endosculpture) such as endocracks; endoapertures may have been retained in eudicots as a harmomegathic mechanism.
43558043|Immunochemical investigation of the seed storage proteins of some large genera in the tribe Peucedaneae (Umbelliferae) has clearly demonstrated the heterogeneity of Angelica and Peucedanum and the comparative homogeneity of Ferula. Among the taxa included in Angelica, Ostericum appears to be the most distant from the type species A. sylvestris, and should be treated as an independent genus. On the contrary, Archangelica is serologically similar to Angelica s. str. A rather complicated picture has been revealed within Peucedanum s. 1. Serotaxonomical studies show a relationship pattern largely corresponding to the infrageneric classification of Thellung (1926). The splitting of satellite genera from Peucedanum s. 1. is only partially supported.
23663565|This study addresses the phylogenetic relationship between Pistacia species by amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP). The plant materials of this study consisted of a total of 44 accessions belonging to P. vera, P. eurycarpa, P. khinjuk, all subspecies of P. atlantica (atlantica, mutica, kurdica and cabulica), three unknown genotypes and three accessions, proposed to be hybrid from P. eurycarpa  P. atlantica. The accessions were from Iran, Turkey, USA and Syria. Six AFLP primer combinations produced a total of 475 fragments, with average of 79.16 fragments per primer pair, of which, 336 bands were polymorphic. Unweighted pair group method based on arithmetic average (UPGMA) analysis was performed on jaccard's similarity coefficient matrix and also average similarity of each species. According to the results, two main clusters were developed and P. vera, P. eurycarpa, P. atlantica (subsp. atlantica, kurdica, mutica, cabulica) and the hybrid genotypes located in the first main cluster. P. khinjuk accessions from Iran and USA localized in second main cluster. The hybrid accessions located between eurycarpa and atlantica species and their hybrid nature between these two species were confirmed. One of the unknown accessions clustered with the hybrid ones and the two other were grouped closely with P. Khinjuk. According to this study, the closest species toP. vera was Eurycarpa group, followed by P. atlantica. UPGMA analysis separated P. atlantica subsp. mutica and cabulica from P. atlantica and P. eurycarpa. Subspecies mutica and cabulica were two closest genotypes; hence, P. atlantica subsp. mutica could be classified as a distinct species as P. mutica and the cabulica as a subspecies of P. mutica. This study revealed that P. eurycarpa is synonym for P. atlantica subsp. kurdica and should be considered distinct from P. atlantica; however, P. atlantica showed a closer genetic similarity to P. eurycarpa than the other species.
23673745|In North Africa, Ornithogalum L. subg. Beryllis Baker is represented by three taxa (O. narbonense L., O. pyrenaicum L., and O. sessiliflorum Desf.), often difficult to identify. 90 individuals from 4 localities were subjected to a biometric study based on 19 morphological characteristics. Several types of multivariate analyses allow a perfect identification of the three species. Studies on the reproductive biology, cytotaxonomy, and ecology supplement these data.
23643314|Previously reported electrophoretic seed albumin data have shown an unexpected association of Vicia faba with V. kalakhensis. In the present work, seed albumins of V. faba (subsp. paucijuga and subsp. faba) were compared with those of V. kalakhensis using ion-exchange (IE) and reversed-phase (RP) high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Two subspecies of V. faba displayed similar seed albumin profiles. On the other hand, seed albumin profiles of V. faba and V. kalakhensis showed no major protein peak in common either in IE-HPLC or RP-HPLC chromatograms. The reported differences in seed albumin composition of V. faba and V. kalakhensis are consistent with other taxonomical data showing V. faba to be genetically distant from the wild relatives.
43558245|The genus Hypochaeris offers an excellent model for studies of recent adaptive radiation in the South American continent. We used karyotype analysis with chromomycin A (CMA)/4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) banding and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) fingerprinting to investigate for the first time the Brazilian endemic H. catharinensis and define its position within the South American group of species. Strong CMA-positive signals were seen at the end of both arms of chromosome 3 and at the end of the long arm of chromosome 4. DAPI bands were only detected in subterminal position on short arm of chromosome 4. FISH with 5S and 35S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) probes revealed a single 5S rDNA locus on short arm of chromosome 2, typical for all other South American Hypochaeris taxa analyzed to date.The 35S rDNA locus was identified at subterminal position on the short arm of chromosome 3, as reported so far for only two of the known species (H. lutea and H. patagonica).The AFLP study included 55 individuals, comprising nine species of the South American Hypochaeris plus their putative ancestor H. angustifolia. Eleven AFLP primer combinations generated a total of 401 fragments, of which 388 (96.7%) were polymorphic. High genetic similarities were observed among taxa, with all South American Hypochaeris species falling into one main cluster [100% bootstrap (BS)]. Hypochaeris catharinensis is closely related to H. lutea (82% BS), forming a well-separated subcluster within the South American species. Taken together, the karyological and AFLP data contribute to the placement of H. catharinensis within the phylogenetic framework of South American species of Hypochaeris and allow the definition of a novel and well-resolved phylogenetic group (the Lutea group).
23642875|The attachment of pollen grains among themselves, on the loculus wall, and on flower-visiting insects is quite different in entomophilous angiosperms using pollenkitt and those using viscin threads as pollen adhesives. The sticky and viscous pollenkitt makes the pollen grains adhere, while the thin, non-elastic, non-sticky, and flexible viscin fibers fasten them like ropes on insect hairs or bristles. Nectar vomited by honey-bees, sticky stigma secretions or other additional sticky substances further improve the pollen adherence to flower-visiting insects. Mit Hilfe des Raster-Elektronenmikroskops wurden die Vorgnge bei der Pollenverkittung (Haftung des Pollens an seinesgleichen, an der Loculuswand bzw. am bltenbesuchenden Insekt) durch Pollenkitt einerseits (bei Hamamelis mollis und Ranunculus acris) und durch die Viscinfden andererseits (bei Rhododendron schlippenbachii und Rh. fortunei) untersucht. Dabei zeigte sich, da zwischen Pollenkitt und Viscinfden eine reine Funktionsanalogie besteht, da beide Substanzen auf voneinander vllig abweichenden Wegen zum gleichen Resultat gelangen. Der hochviskose, klebrige Pollenkitt bewirkt stets ein Verkleben des Pollens. Dagegen binden die nicht klebrigen Viscinfden den Pollen wie mit einem Seil an andere Objekte und schlingen sich dabei oft nur lose um Borsten, Haare, andere Pollenkrner usw.; die Befestigung wird im wesentlichen durch Reibung erreicht. Es liegt auf der Hand, Pollenkitt und Viscinfden als Resultat einer Konvergenzerscheinung zu sehen. Fr das Haften des Pollenkrpers am bltenbesuchenden Insekt sind jedoch nicht nur die genannten beiden Pollenklebstoffe magebend. Vielfach tritt nmlich ein weiterer, vom Insekt selbst ins Spiel gebrachter Faktor hinzu, wodurch die Wirkung der genannten beiden Prinzipien wesentlich untersttzt bzw. erweitert wird: Es handelt sich einerseits um den gezielt eingesetzten, erbrochenen Nektar bei der Honigbiene, andererseits um das  zufllig aufgenommene klebrige Narbensekret bei anderen Insekten. Pollenkitt bildet mit Nektar ein komplexes, uerst klebriges Gemisch; die Viscinfden vermischen sich zwar weder mit Nektar noch mit dem Narbensekret, werden jedoch damit an den Borsten bzw. Haaren des Insekts angeklebt. Im Vergleich zu den Viscinfden der Onagraceae sind die von Rhododendron dnner, krzer, biegsamer und geringer skulpturiert, doch ebensowenig dehnbar.
23674715|Seven tetraploid species of Elymus, viz. E. sibiricus, E. caninus, E. gmelinii, E. semicostatus, E. caucasicus, E. parviglume, and E. longearistatus subsp. canaliculatus, representing five sections were studied morphologically and used in interspecific hybridizations. The aim was to investigate whether the present sectional delimitation of the genus was in agreement with genomic data and if there was a correlation between genome constitution and morphology. The study revealed: (i) further information on the genomic affinities between the different species, (ii) that there is no congruence between genome constitution of the species and current sectional delimitation, and (iii) that there is a correlation between genome constitution and morphology in the palea apex shape and in the size of cilia of the palea.
43558067|We investigated the phylogeny of a Holarctic-Asian group of Frullania species, the Frullania dilatata-F. appalachiana-F. eboracensis complex, using multiple accessions of morphologically circumscribed taxa and three molecular markers (nrlTS region, cp DNA trriL-F and atpB-rbcL regions). Maximum parsimony and likelihood analyses indicated monophyly of morphologically defined taxa. Our phylogenies support a species rather than a subspecies concept within the complex, with four species in North America (F. appalachiana, F. eboracensis, F. parvistipula and F. virginica), and two species in Europe (F. dilatata and F. parvistipula). Accessions of F. dilatata from Southeast Europe and Asia are separated from other European accessions, indicating a former disjunct range of the species.
23673244|Achenes of 36 species representing all subgenera and sections of the genus Rosa were studied. All have stomata on the pericarp that seem to be normal in appearance. They are usually few, scattered, mostly on the upper part of fruit, and open or closed. This is the first report of stomata on fruits of Rosa.
23643147|The rbcL gene of 15 taxa was sequenced and analyzed cladistically together with a large sample of genera representing all main clades of the subclass Asteridae in order to determine more precisely the delimitation of the order Dipsacales and to elucidate the phylogeny of the families within the order. The cladistic analyses show that the Dipsacales comprise the families Caprifoliaceae, Morinaceae, Dipsacaceae, and Valerianaceae including Triplostegia. The results also provide a basis for the exclusion of a number of taxa previously placed in the Dipsacales, such as Desfontainia, Columellia and Adoxaceae s. l. (including Sambucus and Viburnum). Ever since the order Dipsacales was first suggested by Dumortier (1829) and the similar Caprifoliales by Lindley (1833, 1836), there has been confusion concerning the circumscription of the order, the relations between the included families, their circumscriptions, and the position of the order in a larger context.
23659844|The phylogenetic relationships of the tropical African genus Virectaria with its associated genera within the tribe Sabiceeae s.l. (Ixoroideae and Rubiaceae) were inferred from the combined analysis of nuclear ITS and chloroplast rpoC1 and trnT-F nucleotide sequence data. Phylogenetic relationships within Virectaria were investigated using combined analyses of ETS (nrDNA), ITS, rpoC1 and trnT-F sequence data. The present analyses further show that Hekistocarpa is sister to the TamridaeaVirectariaSabicea clade, Tamridaea and Virectaria are sister genera, and Sabicea s.l. is sister to the TamridaeaVirectaria clade. Our results strongly support the monophyly of Virectaria and the sister-group relationships between V. multiflora and V. herbacoursi, V. angustifolia and V. procumbens, and V. major and V. belingana. Our analyses indicate a tropical African origin for Sabiceeae s.l., a long isolated evolution for Tamridaea and a wide range of dispersal of Virectaria species in the Lower-Guinean, Upper-Guinean and Congolian regions, without a clearly defined direction of migration.
23674402|Epidermal surfaces of about 500 species from some 250 genera of centrospermous families plus some possibly related families were examined by scanning electron microscopy. The micromorphology of their epicuticular waxes is described under taxonomic aspects. In general, Centrosperms tend to develop wax platelets on their cuticle. Shape and size of these platelets are highly diverse, but specific for some taxa. Particular forms of rodlets and thick wax plates occur only in few taxa. The systematic and taxonomic applicability of wax micromorphology is limited, but tentatively family characterizations are given. The data presented provide additional information concerning the familiar and suprafamiliar classification of Caryophyllales.
23655570|Dystaenia (Apiaceae) consists of two species, one distributed in Japan (D. ibukiensis), and the other endemic to Ullung Island, Korea (D. takesimana). In comparison with representative outgroup taxa in Ligusticum, Seseli, Angelica, and Osmorhiza, Dystaenia is shown to be monophyletic based on sequences from chloroplast trnL-F intron and spacer regions confirming previously published results using ITS sequences. Loss of one large part of trn L-F in D. takesimana strongly suggests that this species evolved from D. ibukiensis rather than the reverse. AFLP analysis within and among twelve populations (six from each species; total 126 individuals) using three primer combinations reveals 130 reliable fragments. Neighbour-joining analysis shows the two species to be distinct populational systems. Levels of overall genetic variation as measured by Shannon Diversity are significantly higher in D. takesimana. Geographic structuring of genetic variation occurs within D. ibukiensis but not within D. takesimana, suggesting that the Ullung species exists as a single population. It is hypothesised that after a founder-effect reduction of genetic variation, anagenetic speciation may have occurred in D. takesimana by gradual morphological divergence accompanied by accumulation of genetic variation through mutation, recombination and drift.
23642479|Development, fine structure and distribution of pollenkitt is investigated in Euphorbia cyparissias, E. palustris, and Mercurialis perennis. The predominantly anemophilous M. perennis produces a great amount of strictly homogeneous pollenkitt, which is deposited in the exine caves. In contrast to this and to all other angiosperms so far investigated, both Euphorbia species produce large quantities of an extremely inhomogeneous and particular pollenkitt. Its ultrastructure is quite different, both during its development and after its deposition on the exine surface: Lipid particles with different electron density and size are wrapped in a strictly homogeneous electron transparent matrix. This can be considered as new and additional proof for the "secondary" entomophily of Euphorbia. Die Entstehung, der Feinbau und die Verteilung des Pollenkitts wurden bei Euphorbia palustris, E. cyparissias und Mercurialis perennis (Euphorbiaceae) vergleichend untersucht. Das berwiegend windbltige Bingelkraut produziert groe Mengen stets homogenen Klebstoffs, der bevorzugt in den Kavernen der Exine als einheitliche Masse abgelagert wird. Bei beiden Wolfsmilch-Arten entstehen die sehr groen Pollenkittmengen auf die bliche Weise, sind jedoch auffallend inhomogen: Zum Unterschied von M. perennis und darber hinaus von allen anderen bisher untersuchten Angiospermen weicht der Klebstoff nicht nur bei seiner Entstehung, sondern auch nach seiner Ablagerung auf dem Sporoderm wesentlich vom gewohnten Bild ab: Er stellt nmlich keine weitgehend homogene Masse dar, sondern ist aus vier verschiedenen Komponenten zusammengesetzt. Diese Ausnahmestellung bildet ein bislang unbekanntes Glied in einer Indizienkette, welche fr die phylogenetische Rckwendung der Gattung Euphorbia zur Insektenbltigkeit ber ein anemophiles Zwischenstadium spricht (sekundre Entomophilie).
23642182|New species of Crucianella (1), Asperula (2), Galium (3), and a new subspcies (Galium), most of them endemic to Iraq, are described and their closest affinities discussed. A number of new combinations and status alterations within Crucianella, Asperula, Galium and Cruciata are also published.
23645118|Illicium is a member of the ANITA grade and as such represents one of the basalmost lineages of flowering plants. Mapping morphological characters on a recently published molecular tree sheds some light on the conflict between the traditional classification of Illicium based on floral structures and the molecular based phylogeny. Floral characters of Illicium, i.e. number, size, and shape of perianth segments, stamens, and carpels, are highly variable. In Illicium sepaloid perianth segments intergrade with petaloid ones. This is also observed in the other ANITA taxa, where gradations from bracts to perianth segments and stamens occur, but not in more derived plant groups, and indicates that the number of floral organs may not be genetically fixed in basal angiosperms. Therefore, floral characters may have evolved in parallel in different groups of Illicium and, taken alone, may be unsuitable for a subgeneric division of Illicium. In contrast, seed structures such as the hilar area and a conspicuous hilar rim structure found in New World species of Illicium support a major division between New World and Old World species of Illicium as suggested by molecular data. Epidermal features generally are uniform within the genus but provide some support for one of the clades recognized in the molecular tree. In general, few morphological characters can be used to distinguish natural species groups within Illicium.
23642187|Cross-pollination was tested between different genotypes of Lycopersicon pimpinellifolium in an experimental plot situated in the southerly range of the species. Rates of cross-pollination were found to be highly correlated with flower size and were related to a lesser extent with degree of stigma exsertion. Comparisons of fertility suggest that exsertion of 1.5 mm or more from the anther tube orifice interferes with automatic self-pollination, thereby increasing rates of cross-pollination. A single species of Exomalopsis (Anthophoridae), observed to visit all tested genotypes of L. pimpinellifolium, was responsible for most of the pollination. Other species of solitary bees and other bee families participated in cross-pollination.
23642313|Under certain conditions in Botrydiopsis alpina stacks of chloroplasts are formed. They consist of up to 8 elements. In contrast to what is known from other algae in zoosporangia of this species and of Heterococcus caespitosus, stigmata are formed in early developmental stages. They are reproduced together with the chloroplasts, in which they occupy a position at the edge and near the existing or future incision. At the side of the old stigma a new one is formed, and partitioning of the chloroplast between these two leads to their distribution to the daughter chloroplasts. Young daughter cells in the zoosporangia of Botrydiopsis alpina contain one chloroplast which undergoes a last unequal division giving rise to one astigmate and usually somewhat smaller and to one stigmate chloroplast. In both species the capacity for locomotion may be suppressed, the presumptive zoospores thereby becoming aplanospores. Autospores in the proper sense were not observed. Their development quite generally is different from that of aplanospores (and zoospores), and both types of spores should be distinguished. Botrydiopsis alpina bildet unter bestimmten Lebensbedingungen Stapel von Piastiden aus, die bis zu 8 Glieder umfassen. Anders als bei anderen Algengruppen ist bei Botrydiopsis und bei Heterococcus caespitosus die Entwicklung der Zoosporangien durch die frhzeitige Ausbildung von Stigmen gekennzeichnet. Sie werden mit den Plastiden vermehrt, indem neben dem alten, seitlich an der Einschnrungsstelle des Chloroplasten liegenden Stigma ein anfangs kleineres neues entsteht und der Teilungsspalt zwischen ihnen hindurchfhrt. Bei Botrydiopsis erfolgt nach der Abgrenzung der Zoosporen eine letzte, und zwar inquale Teilung der Chloroplasten, so da reife Zoosporen eine etwas grere Stigma-fhrende und eine Stigma-freie Plastide besitzen. Infolge Hemmung der allerletzten Entwicklungsschritte kommt es bei beiden Arten zur Ausbildung von Aplanosporen anstelle von Zoosporen. Autosporen im strengen Sinn wurden nicht beobachtet. Der Bildung von Autosporen und Aplanosporen liegen ganz allgemein verschiedene Entwicklungsprozesse zugrunde, weshalb es sich empfiehlt, die beiden Sporentypen auseinanderzuhalten.
43558292|Using 23 F1 hybrids, 14 BC1 and 32 BC2 progenies, the genome composition of Darwin hybrid tulips was analysed through genomic in situ hybridisation (GISH) of somatic chromosomes. All plants were diploids (2n = 2x = 24) with the exception of one tetraploid BC1 (2n = 4x = 48) and one aneuploid BC2 (2n = 2x + 1 = 25) hybrid. Morphometric analysis in F1 hybrids revealed a difference in the total length of chromosomes representing genomes of T. gesneriana and T. fosteriana, where the percentage of each genome equaled 55.18  0.8 and 44.92  0.6% respectively. GISH distinguished chromosomes from both parent genomes although there was a lack of consistent chromosome labelling in some cases. In both T. gesneriana and T. fosteriana chromosomes some segments of heterochromatin in the telomeric and intercalary regions exhibited a higher intensity of fluorescence. In situ hybridisation with 5S rDNA and 45S rDNA probes to metaphase chromosomes of F1 hybrids showed that these regions are rich in rDNA. A notable feature was that, despite genome differences, there was a considerable amount of intergenomic recombination between the parental chromosomes of the two species as estimated in both BC1 and BC2 offspring. The number of recombinant chromosomes ranged from 3 to 8 in BC1 and from 1 to 7 in BC2 progenies. All recombinant chromosomes possessed mostly a single recombinant segment derived from either a single crossover event or in a few cases double crossover events. This explains the fact that, unlike the situation in most F1 hybrids of other plant species, certain genotypes of Darwin hybrid tulips behave like normal diploid plants producing haploid gametes and give rise to mostly diploid sporophytes.
43558145|Species in the genus Curcuma (Zingiberaceae) that are cultivated widely in Thailand for their phytoestrogen-producing rhizomes are called wan-chak-motluk.Five cultivars belonging to Curcuma comosa (cultivars with In = 42 and 63) and Curcuma elata (2n = 63) were examined using the molecular cytogenetic method of fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) in order to identify genetic relationships among these cultivars based on chromosomal maps of the 18S-25S ribosomal loci. The results revealed hybrid features in this Curcuma species group and a significant similarity among wan-chak-motluk cultivars. The main features included: (1) the presence of the single largest ribosomal site, assigned the Cc1 marker site, in the somatic In complement of all cultivars, and (2) the odd numbers of ribosomal sites in the complements, most often in sets of three. We therefore propose that the cultivar with In = 42 (C comosa) is a homoploid hybrid species comprised of two different ancestral genomes and has a diploid status with the basic chromosome number x = 21. The cultivars with In = 63 (C. comosa and C elata) are most probably triploids arising within the 2n = 42 diploid species/cultivars via a meiotic modification, rather than from hybridisation between diploid and tetraploid plants. The knowledge about genetic and genomic relationships among wan-chak-motluk cultivars will be important in the research projects that aim to explore and promote new plant materials for cultivation.
23674318|The common Mediterranean ruderal thistle Silybum marianum is associated with nutrient-rich sites. Its wind-dispersed achenes possess an oily food body, that is attractive to harvester-ants. Following removal of the oily body, the achenes are deposited in the refuse zone together with rich organic material and soil removed from the nest; while in the nest the achenes are partly protected from fires. The thistle grows successfully in the nutrient-enriched refuse zone and thus dominates patches in the grassland. Preadaptations to live in association with harvester-ants enable S. marianum to occur also on marking stations of male gazelle, on cattle dung deposits, and in synanthropic ruderal habitats.
43496726|Floral organogenesis of Chloranthus sessilifolius K. F. Wu is described. The inflorescence primordium is dome-like in the beginning and then elongates, and bract primordia initiate almost decussately. Each floral primordium, arising from the axil of a bract, soon becomes a scale-like structure, with three primordia of androecial lobes originating from its abaxial part, and the gynoecial primordium in adaxial position. As the androecial lobes become more distinct, four thecae are already in differentiation, and the gynoecial primordium appears as a shallow disc. The androecial lobes do not extend their length until the thecae approach maturity and the stigma is differentiated. The androecial lobes are united at all the stages of development, and the entire androecium falls off as a unit at the end of anthesis. Based on these results, combined with published evidence from neobotany, palaeobotany and phylogenetic studies, the morphological nature of the androecium of Chloranthus is further discussed. Our studies support the viewpoint that the androecial structure of Chloranthus may have arisen by splitting of a single stamen with 2 marginal thecae.
43558390|In this study, we used 20 morphological traits (during two consecutive growing seasons) and 11 microsatellite markers to assess the morphological and molecular variability and structure of the almond (Prunus dulcis (Mill.) D.A. Webb). Seventy one promising Iranian genotypes and three foreign reference cultivars (Ferragnes, Supernova, and Touno) were evaluated in this study. Kernel/shell ratio, kernel width/thickness ratio, softness of shell, nut weight, and kernel thickness were highly variable. Strong positive and, occasionally, negative correlations were detected among nut and kernel traits. Morphological traits were categorized by principle-components analysis (PCA) into 6 components which explained 88.1 % of the total variation. On the basis of the first two PCA axes, the 2-dimensional PCA plot grouped the samples according to their phenotypic characteristics. The results from molecular analyses (including a Bayesian clustering approach and a molecular phylogenetic network) did not correspond to morphological groupings. In this paper we report, for the first time, morphological and molecular variability and genetic structure of Iranian almond germplasm. Our results showed that model-based cluster analysis (using Structure software) was very appropriate for study of genetic relationships among almond accessions and can be used for study of the genetic structure of Prunus germplasm as well.
43558147|Phytoliths were extracted from 14 woody plants collected on the northern slope of the Changbai Mountain, including 10 broad-leaved species and 4 conifers.A total of 14 morphotypes of phytoliths were identified, including 3 types first examined in this study.Phytoliths in broad-leaved species were mostly silicified epidermal cells, cell walls, and vascular tissues; phytoliths in conifers were mainly silicified epidermal cells, cell walls, hypodermal cells, and parenchyma cells. Phytoliths produced by broad-leaved species in this region were usually not well silicified, and were fragile, whereas those produced by conifers were better silicified; this might be because of the different lengths of the growth periods.Phytoliths were found have potential in studies of fluctuations of the tree line in this region, and this study also provided a reference for further study of phytoliths in this region and the regional contrast of phytolith assemblages.
23673132|Molecular markers are routinely used to assess levels of diversity within and among populations, particularly with regard to species of conservation concern. However, when interpreting the level and partitioning of diversity observed, an implicit assumption is often made that the populations of the species in question form a monophyletic group. We tested this assumption in three endemics of Antirrhinum (A. charidemi, A. subbaeticum, and A. valentinum) using 79 nuclear [internal transcribed spacer (ITS)] and 85 plastid (psbA-trnH, trnT-trnL, trnK-matK, trnS-trnG) sequences representing multiple accessions of each of 24 Antirrhinum species (single accession of A. cirrhigerum). These species share six life history traits implicated in levels of genetic diversity, and have been the subject of previous population genetic studies. Populations of all three species formed monophyletic groups on ITS analysis. In contrast, none of the three species formed monophyletic groups on plastid sequence analysis: populations of A. charidemi fall in a monophyletic group including one accession of A. mollissimum, populations of A. subbaeticum form a polyphyletic group with plastid sequences shared with A. pulverulentum, and populations of A. valentinum are unresolved within a clade containing six other species. Lack of monophyly using plastid sequences is interpreted as a combination of shared ancestral polymorphism and hybridization in a reticulate evolutionary history of these species. Monophyly in the ITS tree may reflect a more recent sequence homogenization. We draw attention to the evaluation of species monophyly alongside the contribution of other life history traits in the historical interpretation of the level and partitioning of genetic diversity, and its use in recommendations for species conservation programs.
23642729|Chromosome numbers (2x, 3x, 4x), B-chromosomes, and variation among marker chromosomes in Allium commutatum Guss. was studied. These different chromosomal types exhibit distinct distribution patterns and a centre of variation has been located in the central Aegean area. A common origin of A. commutatum, the Aegean endemic A. bourgeaui Rech. fil., A. ampeloprasum L. and the cultivated A. porrum L. is discussed.
23674718|The paleotropical tree genus Macaranga (Euphorbiaceae) comprises all stages of interaction with ants, from facultative associations to obligate myrmecophytes. In SE.-Asia food availability does not seem to be the limiting factor for the development of a close relationship since all species provide food for ants in form of extrafloral nectar and/or food bodies. Only myrmecophytic Macaranga species offer nesting space for ants (domatia) inside internodes which become hollow due to degeneration of the pith. Non-myrmecophytic species have a solid stem with a compact and wet pith and many resin ducts. The stem interior of some transitional species remains solid, but the soft pith can be excavated. The role of different ant-attracting attributes for the development of obligate ant-plant interactions is discussed. In the genus Macaranga, the provision of nesting space seems to be the most important factor for the evolution of obligate myrmecophytism.
23655735|Turkey is one of the most important mulberry fruit producers in the world. In particular, in Eastern and Inner part of Turkey, mulberry fruits are processed into several products such as 'Mulberry Pekmez', 'Mulberry Pestil', 'Mulberry Kome' etc. Therefore, mulberry fruits give higher economic returns thus have greater employment potentials in Turkey. In order to improve the yield and fruit quality through breeding, the genetic variations and relationships among 15 selected white mulberry genotypes (Morus alba L.) were evaluated using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD). A total of 101 DNA markers were generated by 16 random primers, with an average of 6.3 easily detectable markers per primer. Several RAPD markers showed unique patterns of mean frequency that differed among the white mulberry genotypes. The distance matrix showed that the highest genetic distance (0.902) was between EMS13 and EMS8 and the least (0.413) was between EMS12 and EMS15. According to the results, RAPD analysis can be used for the characterization and grouping of mulberry genotypes. The genetically divergent genotypes identified from this study would be of much use in the future breeding program.
23643020|The Euxinian and the Hyrcanian floristic province are analysed in respect to their trees and shrubs. These provinces mark the southern limit of the Euro-Siberian Region in SW. Asia. Mesophyllic forests dominate; they are deciduous, but there is a substantial component of evergreen shrubs in the understorey. Characteristics species frequently have a relic nature. Species lists and some exemplary distribution maps are presented for the Euxinian and the Hyrcanian element, both with endemic and more wide-spread species, including the characteristic Euxine-Hyrcanian group.
23645281|Platanus neptuni (Ettingshausen) Bek, Hol & Z. Kvaek was a conspicuous warm-temperate to subtropical element of Late Eocene to Late Miocene European floras. In our concept, the P. neptuni plant includes not only globose infructescences upon which the species epithet is based, but also staminate and pistillate inflorescences and distinctive stipulate foliage. The leaves range from simple (P. neptuni morphoforma reussii (Ett.) comb. et stat. nov.) to trifoliolate (P. neptuni morphoforma fraxinifolia (Johnson & Gilmore) comb. et stat. nov.) and sometimes quinquefoliolate (P. neptuni morphoforma hibernica (Johnson & Gilmore) comb. et stat. nov.) with unlobed elliptical to obovate laminae that are uniform in venation, marginal serration, and epidermal structure. Foliar twigs confirm that the leaves are deciduous, with each petiole base enveloping a bud, as in extant Platanus subgen. Platanus. Platanus neptuni differs from extant species of the genus by large peltate glandular trichomes on the fruits and leaves, a prominent circumscissile rim on the stalk below the inflorescence, as well as by the tendency for compound foliage. These characters justify its position within an extinct subgenus of the Platanaceae (Platanus L. subgen. Glandulosa Z. Kvaek, Manchester & Guo). Platanus neptuni was common in mesic humid subtropical forests on volcanogenic subtrates and at sea shores.
43558058|In Asia, three species of Polystachya (Orchidaceae) are recognized, based on detailed morphological studies. They occur in southern Asia, from Tamil Nadu State in southern India and Yunnan Province in southeastern China to Sumbawa Island in southern Indonesia. As circumscribed here, two Asiatic species are endemic to southern India apart from P. concreta, which is a taxon of pantropical distribution. As part of a detailed nomenclatural review, 21 lectotypes and 1 neotype are designated. For each species treated, a full synonymy, detailed description, illustration, and distribution map are provided. A key for determination of the Asiatic species is included. One specis from southeastern India (Kalrayan Hills) is newly described: P. seidenfadeniana. Dendrobium parvum Seidenf. is reduced to a synonym of Polystachya concreta (Jacq.) Garay & H.R. Sweet.
43558677|The taxonomy of the genus Bursera has been traditionally supported by morphological characters such as fruit form, bark and leaves. Nonetheless, leaf architecture, another important source of phylogenetic information, has not been well studied in this group. For this purpose, venation patterns of 30 species of the genus Bursera in Mexico were studied. Clarified leaves allowed finding four types of venation patterns: brochidodromous and eucamptodromous in complex B. simaruba (section Bursera); a cladodromous pattern in fragilis, microphylla and fagaroides groups (herein informally called group Quaxiotea (section Bursera), and semicraspedodromous in section Bullockia species. Only bipinnated species of section Bullockia showed a brochidodromous venation pattern. Furthermore, section Bullockia and complex Simaruba presented reticulate tertiary veins, whereas the group of Quaxiotea species presented a ramified pattern in the tertiary veins and tracheoblasts.
23645117|Although many diclinous plants have a flower size dimorphism, the causes and ecological correlates of dimorphism in flower size remain poorly understood. In this paper we quantify the frequency and distribution of flower size dimorphism in the native flora of La Runion Island. The frequency of flower size dimorphism is lower than in a previous global study suggesting that the dimorphism may limit colonisation success. Flower size dimorphism is significantly more frequent in endemic taxa compared to indigenous taxa, a trend that is particularly evident at the species level, due to the large number of species with male flowers bigger than female flowers and is more common in species-rich lineages. These results suggest that flower size dimorphism may be associated with species divergence. The direction of dimorphism varies between dioecious and monoecious species, suggesting that the mechanisms acting on flower size variation differ in species with these different sexual systems.
23664348|Pleurothallidinae (ca. 4,000 spp.) is the largest myophilous group in Orchidaceae. Recently three self-compatible bird-pollinated genera were included at the base of the group, while Octomeria (plus Brachionidium) is the sister group to the remaining subtribe in the former circumscription. Studies of reproductive biology of three Octomeria species were carried out to determine the occurrence of myophily and self-incompatibility in the genus, to help trace the evolution of these characteristics in the subtribe. The three species showed a strong self-incompatibility and are intercompatible. Octomeria crassifolia and O. grandiflora are pollinated by Sciaridae (Diptera) species, presenting high specificity. These results indicate that both self-incompatibility and myophily are basal characteristics in the former delimitation of the Pleurothallidinae and possibly have been kept in the derived lineages, representing biological synapomorphies of the group.
23654266|Phylogenetic relationships based on internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences were used to assess evolutionary trends in genome structure within the genus Pennisetum on the basis of observed variations in genome size, basic chromosome numbers (x = 5, 7, 8 and 9) and ploidy level (from 2x to 8x). The evolutionary reconstruction is congruent with the gene pool classification and in agreement with some morphological grouping. Pearl millet, P. glaucum, together with elephant grass, P. purpureum, form a monophyletic group with a basic chromosome number of x = 7 but different chromosome sizes. The ancestral characters of the genus are x = 9 small chromosomes, an apomictic mode of reproduction and a perennial life cycle. Species with basic chromosome numbers of x = 5, 7 and 8 appear in the most recently divergent clades, indicating that the genome structure in Pennisetum might have evolved towards a reduced chromosome number and an increased chromosome size.
23673884|The paper offers comments arising from the author's experience as a practising taxonomist on two aspects of what is often called "the species problem": the reality of species and species as individuals. Three different meanings of "reality" are distinguished and discussed in this context: mental reality, biological reality and evolutionary reality. The author holds the view that, on all three definitions, species must be judged to be real. On the argument concerning species as individuals, the opinions of Hull, Ghiselin and others are carefully presented but rejected by the author, who retains the belief that "species are classes and not individuals".
23674696|According to their alkaloidal products species of the "new" genus Tabernaemontana can be partly differentiated. This differentiation is in agreement with the "old" genera classification. From the chemotaxonomic point of view a subdivision of subfam. Plumerioideae of the Apocynaceae is proposed.
23674340|The relationships of allozyme and life history variation in a particularly narrow ecological setting are studied. Levels of genetic variation are compared in five introduced, predominantly selfing weedy species that are undergoing rapid range expansion northward in eastern N. America, mostly in monocultures of soybean and maize. In all of these species, a low level of allozyme variation contrasts sharply with the substantial inter- and intrapopulational variation in morphological and phenological life history features. Evolutionary and historical factors, determining variability of the species examined are reviewed, including founder effects, breeding system, environmental homogeneity, polyploidy, domestication, and crop-weed interactions.
23655740|The Neotropical group of Ericaceae offers a variety of floral displays. Here we present data on floral characteristics and breeding system of Disterigma stereophyllum, a Neotropical epiphyte Ericaceae abundant in semi-disturbed areas with pollinator unpredictability. Floral characteristics are intermediate between those typical of beeand hummingbird-pollinated plants: the corolla is short, white, and urceolate, but the composition and amount of nectar are similar to those typically observed in hummingbird-pollinated species. Plants are capable of autonomously self-pollination, but manual outcrossing yielded more than twice as many fruits as self hand-pollination did. Moreover, outcross pollen grows more rapidly than self pollen down the style. Our results provide another example of a species with a "mixed pollination syndrome" which is cryptically self-incompatible and preferably attracts high-energy pollinators (hummingbirds), but which can also profit from small bee visitors and retains the ability to self-pollinate just in case. We hypothesize that interaction among several factors, including self pollinating possibility, and the capacity to attract a wide pollinator spectrum, may result in a lack of strong selection for a bee vs. a hummingbird floral morphology, thus allowing the persistence of mixed floral traits in these ericads. The maintenance of these traits may enhance the ability of this species to colonize semi-disturbed areas.
23644099|Proteopsis argentea (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) is a perennial herb endemic to the "campos rupestres" of the Espinhao Range in Minas Gerais, Brazil, with fragmented populational distribution. Eleven populations were sampled, throughout the entire distribution of the species, and assayed for isozyme variation. Low intra-population genetic diversity was found (P = 19.2; A = 1.30; He = 0.058) whereas species level diversity was higher (P = 55.5, A = 2.0, He = 0.093). The most geographically isolated population showed exclusive alleles at two loci, whereas two populations less than 2 km apart from each other showed inverted frequencies for two alleles. Mean genetic identity was high (I = 0.974), but the large Fst (0.30) indicates that the species could lose an important part of its genetic variation with the extinction of a single population. Our findings indicate that geographic isolation alone cannot explain population differentiation: localized pollinator behaviour and selection, for example, may be contributing to the patterns observed.
23645019|Ledermanniella (c. 44 species) is the largest podostemoid genus in Africa. This paper deals with the structure and development of the Ghanaian species Ledermanniella bowlingii (J.B. Hall) C. Cusset (subgenus Ledermanniella). Characters typical for L. bowlingii include: green ribbon-like roots with exogenous lateral roots and endogenous shoots up to 120 cm; most leaves 37 times forked, with intrapetiolar stipules; flowers solitary or in clusters, borne on elongate stems or directly on roots; each flower bud inverted within a spathella; flowers unistaminate; tricolpate pollen in dyads; ovary mainly unilocular but bilocular at the base due to a rudimentary septum; mature capsule with eight ribs, 1.01.8 mm long, containing 1234 seeds, dehiscing by two equal valves; capsule stalk with pedicel (10 mm) and gynophore (2 mm); silica bodies absent in all plant parts. Several characters of L. bowlingii are described here for the first time. The paper shows that accurate morphological analyses of African Podostemaceae are badly needed.
23673864|In a second paper on Arum pollen seven further taxa are investigated. Most of them have spinose pollen, only in A. korolkowii the pollen is scabrose. The possible relation between pollen sculpturing and the actual pollination mode is discussed.
23644984|Nectarivory has evolved many times in birds: although best known in hummingbirds, sunbirds and honeyeaters, it also occurs on an opportunistic basis in a varied assortment of birds. We present a phylogenetic analysis of the distribution of nectarivory in birds. Specialised avian nectarivores are generally small, with an energetic lifestyle and high metabolic rates. Their high degree of dependence on nectar as a food source has led to convergence in morphological, physiological and behavioural adaptations. We examine the constituents of nectar which are most important to bird consumers, and how the birds deal with them in terms of physiology and behaviour. There are still unanswered questions: for example, the dichotomy between sucrose-rich nectars in hummingbird-pollinated plants and predominantly hexose-rich nectars in sunbird-pollinated plants appears to have little to do with bird physiologies and may rather reflect patterns of nectar secretion.
23674237|Pollen  ovule ratios and percentages of stigmatic pollen germination (SPG) were measured for over 160 taxa of the Polemoniaceae. When related to taxa with known breeding systems, it is found that low SPGs and high P : O ratios characterize xenogamous plants, high SPGs and low P : Os characterize autogamous plants. There is a significant negative correlation between P : O ratio and SPG in the whole family as well as in certain genera. Both measures can serve as reliable indicators of the breeding systems in taxa of the Polemoniaceae and can be measured in dried or living specimens. Accordingly, most polemons feature "mixed" breeding system, i.e. facultative xenogamy or facultative autogamy. Xenogamy is common among the tropical genera and in the Leptodactylon, Phlox and Polemonium. Autogamy is more frequent in the tribe Gilieae (particularly in Gilia) than in the other tribes. Annual taxa tend to be autogamous, showing on the average higher SPG and lower P : O ratio. The lepidopteran-pollinated group of species have a higher mean P : O ratio and lower mean SPG thus indicating that such plants are associated with cross-pollination more than the others.
23643016|The major radiation of the Juglandaceae occurred during the early Tertiary as recorded by the proliferation of juglandaceous pollen and the appearance of fruits representing extinct and extant genera of the family. Juglandaceous pollen types of the Paleocene were predominantly triporate and exhibited a greater diversity in patterns of exinous thinning than occurs in the family today. Analyses of in situ pollen from early Tertiary juglandaceous inflorescences confirms the taxonomic value of certain patterns of exinous thinning. Data from co-occurring fruits and pollen indicate that relatively unspecialized, isopolar triporate pollen of the type presently confined to the tribe Engelhardieae also occurred in other tribes of the family during the Paleocene. Pollination has been mostly anemophilous throughout the Tertiary. Both wind and animal fruit-dispersal syndromes were established early in the radiation of the family but a greater diversity of wind-dispersed genera has prevailed.
23644200|The morphologically homogenous tribe Vanguerieae was investigated phylogenetically using sequence data from the Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) region in the nuclear ribosomal DNA. Sequences from 41 Vanguerieae species representing 19 genera were produced, and a parsimony analysis was performed. The phylogenetic analysis has several clades with strong support, among which three new informal groups are discussed, i.e. the Vangueria group, the Fadogia-Rytigynia group and the Spiny group. Also found monophyletic with strong support are Multidentia, Keetia, Lagynias, and Pyrostria. Canthium and Rytigynia are revealed as polyphyletic; Vangueria, Tapiphyllum, and Fadogia are paraphyletic. Results from this first phylogenetic analysis of the tribe clearly demonstrate a need for new circumscriptions of several genera. Morphological characters are discussed and putative synapomorphies are mentioned. Jackknife, bootstrap, and Bremer support are calculated and differences found in support are discussed.
23673712|The leaf indument of a number of North American, Macaronesian and European Dryopteris taxa is described. Trichome characters provide very useful taxonomical data for the study of species complexes and for tracing relationships among geographically isolated or separated taxa. The new combination, D. expansa var. alpina, is made. The present study sustains best the Wagner "D. semicristata" relationship scheme.
23674336|The biological analysis of six populations of Asphodelus tenuifolius and 12 populations of A. fistulosus has confirmed that they are separate species. Both their floral structures (length of the tepals, stamens, anthers and style) and also their pollen size are clearly different. A. tenuifolius has only the 2 n = 28 chromosome race, while A. fistulosus has 2 n = 28 and 2 n = 56. A. tenuifolius is genetically less variable than A. fistulosus and they have different electrophoretic mobilities. Gene duplication phenomena exist in the 2 n = 28 level of both species.
23674610|Karyotypes of 185 accessions of Triticum araraticum Jakubz. (2n = 28 = 4x = AtAtGG) from Iraq, Iran, Turkey, and Transcaucasia were analyzed using C-banding technique. All accessions showed a certain degree of C-banding polymorphism and further karyotypic diversity was generated by structural rearrangements, mainly translocations. Eighty-one accessions had the normal karyotype similar to that of T. timopheevii (cultivation), i.e., they showed C-banding polymorphism but no chromosomal rearrangements based on the resolving power of the C-banding technique. One-hundred four accessions showed 34 karyotypic variants, 31 had reciprocal translocations with the breakpoints in the centromeric regions of chromosomes. Three showed reciprocal translocations with the breakpoints in intercalary regions of chromosomes. A paracentric inversion for 7At chromosome was observed in some accessions. The rearranged karyotypes differed from the normal by one translocation in 21 variants, by two in 9 variants, by three in 1 variant, and by four in 2 variants of karyotypes. Translocations occurred more frequenty in the chromosomes of G-genome than of At-genome. Individual chromosomes differed in the frequencies of their involvement in translocations. Each geographical region contained a unique spectrum of translocations. Karyotypic diversity was the highest in Iraq followed by Transcaucasia and Turkey. Iran showed little karyotypic variation. Based on karyotypic analysis, Iraq should be considered as a centre of origin and primary centre of diversity of T. araraticum.
23673184|The long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons are the most abundant class of transposable elements in plant genomes and play important roles in genome divergence and evolution. Their accumulation is the main factor influencing genome size increase in plants. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a model monocot and is the focus of much biological research due to its economic importance. We conducted a comprehensive survey of full-length LTR retrotransposons based on the completed genome of japonica rice variety Nipponbare (TIGR Release 5), with the newly published tool LTR-FINDER. The elements could be categorized into 29 structural domain categories (SDCs), and their total copy number identified was estimated at >6,000. Most of them were relatively young: more than 90% were less than 10 My. There existed a high level of activity among them as a whole at 01 Mya, but different categories possessed distinct amplification patterns. Most recently inserted elements were specific to the rice genome, while a few were conserved across species. This study provides new insights into the structure and evolutionary history of the full-length retroelements in the rice genome.
23645088|Comparative sequencing of internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and 5.8S gene of nuclear ribosomal DNA was carried out to examine phylogenetic relationships among subgenera and sections of Old World Astragalus as well as the recent segregate genera Barnebyella and Ophiocarpus. For a subset of these taxa (43 accessions), the nrDNA ITS data were supplemented by sequences from the chloroplast ndhF gene. Phylogenetic trees resulting from separate analyses of the nrDNA ITS and ndhF sequences were in conflict mainly on the position and relationships of Ophiocarpus aitchisonii, Astragalus hemsleyi, A. grammocalyx, A. coelicolor, A. capito, A. epiglottis and A. annularis. Excluding these taxa, phylogenetic analysis of a combined nrDNA ITS-ndhF data matrix was also conducted, so that in the resulting tree, most clades were more resolved and better statistically supported than those were in the separate analyses. Our results indicate that the monotypic segregate genera Barnebyella (= A. migpo), Ophiocarpus (= A. ophiocarpus) and morphologically isolated annual species A. dipelta (= Didymopelta turkestanica), A. schmalhausenii (= Sewerzowia turkestanica) and A. vicarius (= S. vicaria) are clearly nested within Astragalus. Our results confirm earlier studies that shows A. vogelii is allied with the genera Colutea and Oxytropis rather than with any Astragalus species. It is therefore excluded from Astragalus and elevated to the new generic rank and named as Podlechiella Maassoumi and Kazempour Osaloo. None of the eight traditionally recognized Astragalus subgenera Epiglottis, Trimeniaeus, Phaca, Hypoglottis, Calycophysa, Tragacantha, Cercidothrix and Calycocystis are monophyletic. Similarly, the monophyly of Podlech's new subgenera Trimeniaeus, Astragalus and Cercidothrix is not supported. Among the many speciesrich sections analyzed here, only Cenanthrum, Chronopus, Laxiflori, Lotidium, Incani and Amodendron are monophyletic.
23644348|Phylogenetic relationships in Rosaceae were studied using parsimony analysis of nucleotide sequence data from two regions of the chloroplast genome, the matK gene and the trnL-trnF region. As in a previously published phylogeny of Rosaceae based upon rbcL sequences, monophyletic groups were resolved that correspond, with some modifications, to subfamilies Maloideae and Rosoideae, but Spiraeoideae were polyphyletic. Three main lineages appear to have diverged early in the evolution of the family: 1) Rosoideae sensu stricto, including taxa with a base chromosome number of 7 (occasionally 8); 2) actinorhizal Rosaceae, a group of taxa that engage in symbiotic nitrogen fixation; and 3) the rest of the family. The spiraeoid genus Gillenia, not included in the rbcL study, was strongly supported as the sister taxon to Maloideae sensu lato. A New World origin of Maloideae is suggested. The position of the economically important genus Prunus and the status of subfamily Amygdaloideae remain unresolved.
23655742|The taxonomic status of Central European taxa Festuca pallens s.l., F. psammophila, F. polesica, and F. vaginata was revised using the multivariate morphological analysis of well karyologically documented plants, and AFLP analysis. Six species were recognised: F. pallens Host (relict rocky habitats; diploid); F. csikhegyensis Simonk. (base-rich rocks; tetraploid); F. psammophila (elak.) Fritsch (acidic sands) with two subspecies, F. p. subsp. psammophila (E Germany, Poland, Bohemia) and F. p. subsp. dominii (Krajina) P. marda (SW Moravia, NE Austria, SW Slovakia, C and E Poland); F. vaginata Willd. (base-rich sands mainly in the Pannonian Lowland); F. polesica Zapa. (seaside and inland sand dunes); and F. pseudovaginata Penksza (base-rich sands in the Pannonian Lowland). Identification key and distribution maps as well as informations about type specimens, exsiccata collections, synonyms, and hybrids are provided. Evolutionary relationships with the assumed putative ancestor F. pallens and the rather isolated position of F. polesica are discussed.
43558295|Rhododendron aureum Georgi (Ericaceae) is a perennial alpine shrub endemic to Changbai Mountain in China. We used ISSR and RAPD markers to describe the diversity and genetic structure within and among four natural populations located at different altitudes. DNA from 66 individuals was amplified with ten ISSR markers and seven RAPD markers. High genetic diversity was observed by these two techniques at the species level. The genetic diversity of populations increased with altitudinal gradients from low to high. The coefficient of gene differentiation (GST 0.3652 in ISSR and 0.2511 in RAPD) and AMOVA analysis revealed that most genetic diversity was distributed within populations (61.96% in ISSR and 70.23% in RAPD). The estimate of gene flow based on GST was 0.8690 in ISSR and 1.4910 in RAPD. The UPGMA clustering results using ISSR and RAPD showed that all individuals from the same altitude were gathered together, and the two populations (TYD2a and YHLa) from middle altitudes always clustered together. Compared with populations from different altitudes, similar genetic diversity and low genetic differentiation were obtained from populations at the same altitudes, as revealed by ISSR markers. In addition to the reproductive strategy of R. aureum, these data highlight that local environmental conditions may play an important role in shaping the diversity and genetic structure of this species.
23643345|The results of a comparative survey on pollen morphology in the Boragineae by means of light, scanning and transmission electron microscopy are presented and discussed in relation to the taxonomy of the tribe. Multivariate analyses lead to the recognition of 15 pollen morphotypes for which a discriminant key is proposed. The discriminatory characters concern mainly the stereostructural and ultrastructural features of the grains, such as tectum sculpture and aperture morphology, while the number of apertures appears variable within genera and even single species. Seven out of the 12 investigated genera, as currently circumscribed, are matched by palynological data: Anchusella, Borago, Brunnera, Elizaldia, Lithodora, Symphytum and Trachystemon. On account of aperture shape, Lithodora is however closer to the Lithospermeae than to the Boragineae. Other genera, and in particular Nonea, show a wide variation in tectum ornamentation, shape of grains and number of apertures. Palynological data do not support a broad concept of the genus Anchusa, and point to the autonomy of the 'satellite' genera Hormuzakia, Gastrocotyle, Phyllocara, Pentaglottis and Cynoglottis.
43558612|The tea-scented China roses largely correspond to the three recognized double-petaled Rosa odorata (Andrews) Sweet (Rosoideae, Rosaceae) varieties, which are the ancestors of modern hybrid tea roses and had a definite and permanent influence on the evolution of modern garden roses. Here the hypothesis of a hybrid origin of the tea-scented China roses between R. odorata var. gigantea and R. chinensis was tested. Two single-copy nuclear genes of the cytosolic glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and the chloroplast-expressed glutamine synthetase (ncpGS) together with two plastid loci (trnL-F and psbA-trnH) were sequenced for representative accessions of four R. odorata varieties, R. chinensis, and 28 other Rosa species. Phylogenetic relationships were estimated from two nuclear loci using maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses, and a haplotype network was constructed on the combined plastid data using NETWORK. For GAPDH and ncpGS loci, the clonal sequences of the three double-petaled varieties were clustered into two clades, one clade with R. odorata var. gigantea, and the other with partial sequences of R. chinensis, which suggested that the tea-scented China roses were hybrids between R. odorata var. gigantea and R. chinensis. Two plastid loci suggested that R. odorata var. gigantea could be the maternal parent and R. chinensis the paternal parent.
43496764|Pollen ontogeny contributes significantly to the evolutionary analysis and the understanding of the reproductive biology of seed plants. Although much research on basal angiosperms is being carried out there are still many important features about which little is known in these taxa, such as the sporophytic structures related to pollen development and morphology. In this study, pollen development of Magnolia liliflora was analyzed by optical microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. The aim of this paper was to supply data that will help characterize basal angiosperms. Microsporogenesis is of the successive type, so that tetrads are decussate or isobilateral. The callosic walls form by the centripetal growth of furrows. The secretory tapetum develops orbicules, which start to form in the microspore tetrad stage. Pollen grains are shed at the bicellular stage. The exine wall has a granular infratectum. Ultrastructural changes observed in the cytoplasm of microspores and tapetal cells are related to the development of the pollen grain wall and orbicules. Centrifugal cell plates are more usual for the successive type of microsporogenesis. The presence of the successive type of microsporogenesis with callosic walls formed by the centripetal growth of furrows could reflect the fact that the successive type in Magnoliaceae is derived from the simultaneous type. The granular infratectum of the ectexine and the presence of orbicules could indicate that this species is one of the most evolved of the genus.
23642143|Within eight annual and perennial Microseridinae species studied, the duration of the mitotic cycle is positively correlated with the nuclear DNA content, cycle time (hrs) = 7.3 + 0.32  pg DNA/nucleus. Within the genera Agoseris and Microseris, the annuals have lower DNA contents and more rapid mitotic cycle times than do the perennials. This relationship is predicted by the nucleotypic theory of Bennett. Annual species of Pyrrhopappus have relatively high DNA contents and a proportionately longer mitotic cycle time, but contrary to that expected by the nucleotypic theory as originally proposed have the fastest growth rate and shortest generation time observed in the Microseridinae. This rapid developmental rate is discussed, nucleotypically, however, by analyzing relationships between DNA content, mitotic cycle time, and cell size.
23673207|Distyly has been clearly confirmed in Polygonum jucundum Meisn. The distylous species is dimorphic for tepals, styles, stigmas, and pollen size and number. Long (L)-morph flowers are slightly larger than short (S)-morph flowers. The stigma width of thrum flowers is larger than that of pin flowers, and pin stigmas have longer and fewer papillae than the thrum ones. Flowers of the L-morph produced significantly smaller pollen grains in greater numbers than flowers of the S-morph. We found that Polygonum jucundum is not an obligate cross-pollination plant, and a reliable pollinator of the species is often available in the field. Our study revealed that flower flies are the most effective pollinators of Polygonum jucundum, whereas ants and thrips probably behave as "nectar thieves"; during the foraging process, however, thrips may effect pollination. In addition, other insects visited Polygonum jucundum flowers. The study supports the model proposed by Barrett that heterostyly is a strategy evolved to reduce sexual interference and inhibit self fertilization.
23643692|Evolutionary relationship between disjunct populations of the palaeoaustral moss taxon Lopidium concinnum (Hypopterygiaceae) from New Zealand and southern South America were studied using non-coding chloroplast DNA sequences. No or only slight changes could be observed within the sequences of trnTUGU  trnLUAA 5exon intergenic spacer, trnLUAA intron and trnLUAA 3exon  trnFGAA intergenic spacer. This indicates nearly no genetic divergence between extant New Zealand and Chilean populations, i.e. no significant differing pathways of evolution within the 8060 million years of disrupted areas with interrupted gene flow. Molecular data support the idea of an old Gondwanan relict species of stenoevolutionary character. Ecological data on short-range dispersal strengthen this assessment.
23643039|Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was examined among Lepidium taxa usually classified in sects. Lepia, Lepiocardamon and Cardamon. By using 15 restriction endonucleases, filter hybridization experiments, and comparative mapping procedures, a total of 119 variable restriction sites was detected. Of these, 56 were phylogenetically informative and were used in a cladistic analysis. The resulting phylogenetic tree agrees with results derived from morphology, isozyme electrophoresis and the analysis of glucosinolates. The data suggest: 1) The recognition of sect. Lepia, and 2) that sect. Lepiocardamon has close relationships to sect. Cardamon and that both should be amalgamated. Low rates of interspecific chloroplast DNA sequence divergence in sect. Lepia correlated well with morphological data and isoelectric focusing analysis of Rubisco, suggesting that taxa of sect. Lepia are closely related and most likely have diversified recently.
23642717|It is proposed to use amongst other characters the type of cell division in order to delimit the Chlorosarcinales from the Chlorococcales. A definition of the two processes of division occuring in these orders is given. It differs from that of other authors. In the Chlorosarcinales only those genera should be assembled in which vegetative daughter cells arise by bipartition followed by firm association of the wall between the daughter cells with that of the mother cell. In contrast, autospores, the vegetative daughter cells of a number of Chlorococcales, develop by multiple division, their cell walls are formed all around the protoplasts and are free from that of the mother cell. The chlorococcalean genera Trebouxia and Dictyochloropsis incorporate species which multiply by zoo-, aplano- and autospores as well as others having no autospores. Autospores possibly have arisen more than once during evolution.
23642808|Observations of young leaf primordia give information about the origin of the fertile spike of Ophioglossum pedunculosum Desv. Each primordium shows a certain asymmetry that is visible in form and position of the fertile spike primordium, but above all in the course of the marginal meristem. The fertile spike primordium is connected with the marginal meristem on the right or that on the left side of the sterile segment. On the basis ot these observations the following concept of the origin of the fertile spike is formed: The marginal meristem curves on one side of the leaf primordium and turns towards the ventral side. This process is followed by meristem fractionation in the course of which the smaller part curved towards the middle of the leaf primordium becomes independent and initiates the development of the fertile spike, whereas the larger part of the marginal meristem contributes to the growth of the sterile segment. Beobachtungen an jungen Blattanlagen geben Aufschlu ber den Ursprung der fertilen Fieder von Ophioglossum pedunculosum Desv. Bei jeder Blattanlage ist eine Asymmetrie festzustellen, die sich in Form und Stellung der Anlage fr die fertile Fieder, vor allem aber im Verlauf des Randmeristems ausdrckt. Die Anlage fr die fertile Fieder steht entweder mit dem Randmeristem der rechten oder dem der linken Seite des sterilen Spreitenteils in Verbindung. Diese Beobachtungen bilden die Basis fr die nachfolgende Vorstellung ber den Ursprung der fertilen Fieder: Das Randmeristem wlbt sich auf einer Seite der Blattanlage vor und biegt auf die Ventralseite hin ab. Es kommt zu einer Meristemfraktionierung, wobei der kleinere, zur Blattanlagenmitte hin eingeschlagene Teil sich verselbstndigt und die Bildung der fertilen Fieder einleitet, whrend der grere Teil des Randmeristems fr das Wachstum der sterilen Fieder sorgt.
23674763|Further evidence for a specialized plant-pollinator relationship in the weevil pollinated Carludovicoideae (Cyclanthaceae) is presented, with emphasis on the previously uninvestigated genus Sphaeradenia. Weevils use the carludovicoid inflorescence for feeding, shelter, mating, and oviposition, the last-mentioned activity in the usually caducous staminate flowers. While visiting the inflorescence, they effect pollination. Adaptations, advantages, and consequences for this sophisticated system, both of the plants and pollinators, are discussed.
23669417|The global picture of plant reproduction at high altitudes is still diffuse due to conflicting reports (e.g., about which are the prevalent breeding systems) and incomplete geographical and taxonomic coverage of high-altitude ecosystems. This paper reports on the reproductive biology of Kentrothamnus wedellianus, a shrub inhabiting the Puna semidesert in Argentina and Bolivia at ca. 3,600 m a.s.l. A set of four traits, including a high pollen/low nectar floral reward strategy, homogamy, a dry stigma, and partial self-compatibility, appear to be central for K. weddellianus to accomplish sexual reproduction in the high-altitude Puna. The existence of an entirely different set of characteristics in the related species Ochetophila nana suggests that adaptation to reproduction at high altitudes can be achieved through different pathways. Hence, the final results may strongly diverge from the patterns found in lowland species of each lineage, or not. More case studies still seem to be necessary before specific patterns can be discerned within the panorama of high-altitude plant reproduction.
23645356|Phylogenetic relationships of polyploid Aegilops species sharing the U-genome were investigated by analyzing heterochromatin banding patterns of their somatic metaphase chromosomes as revealed by C-banding and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with the heterochromatin-limited repetitive DNA probes pSc119, pAs1, as well as the distribution of NOR and 5S DNA loci revealed by pTa71 (18S-26S rDNA), and pTa794 (5S rDNA) probes. Seven tetraploid (Ae. triuncialis, Ae. peregrina, Ae. kotschyi, Ae. geniculata, Ae. biuncialis, Ae. columnaris, and 4x Ae. neglecta) and one hexaploid (6x Ae. neglecta) Aegilops species of the U-genome cluster were studied. The Ut and Ct chromosomes of 4x Ae. triuncialis (UtCt) were similar to the diploid donors Ae. umbellulata (U) and Ae. caudata (C). However, the size of the NOR locus on chromosome 5Ut was reduced. Karyotypic analyses confirmed that 4x Ae. peregrina (SpUp) was derived from a hybridization of the diploid species Ae. umbellulata with Ae. longissima, whereas Ae. umbellulata and Ae. sharonensis (or an immediate precursor) were the diploid progenitor species of Ae. kotschyi (SkUk). In both 4x species, the NORs on S-genome chromosomes were inactivated and were accompanied with a decrease or loss of rDNA sequences. Karyotypes of the tetraploid species, Ae. geniculata (UgMg) and Ae. biuncialis (UbMb) differed from each other and from the putative diploid progenitors Ae. umbellulata and Ae. comosa indicating that various types of chromosomal alterations occurred during speciation. Inactivation of major NORs on the M-genome chromosomes, redistribution of 5S rDNA sites, and loss of some minor 18S-26S rDNA loci were observed in Ae. geniculata and Ae. biuncialis. Significant differences in the total amount and distribution of heterochromatin, the number and location of 5S and 18S-26S rDNA loci observed between Ae. columnaris (UcXc)/4x Ae. neglecta (UnXn) and Ae. geniculata/Ae. biuncialis indicate that these species have different origins. Similarities in C-banding and FISH patterns of most Ae. columnaris and 4x Ae. neglecta chromosomes suggest that they were probably derived from a common ancestor, whereas distinct differences of three chromosome pairs may indicate that the divergence of these species was probably associated with chromosomal rearrangements and/or introgressive hybridization. Ae. umbellulata contributed the U genome, however, the source of their second genomes remains unknown. The formation of 6x Ae. neglecta (UnXnNn) was not associated with large modifications of the parental genomes.
23670050|As a rule, Gentianaceae exhibit a "double" unilacunar nodal pattern. Upon leaving the lacun, the complex leaf trace divides first into three branches, and then into five or more bundles which become the leaf veins. Only Gentiana lutea (and G. punctata) as well as Menyanthes trifoliata differ from all other species investigated by their multilacunar nodes. Both Centaurium and Orphium within the cortex form a completely closed bundle ring around the nodal flanks from smaller bundles which depart from the lateral branches of the complex leaf traces.
23642987|Subclass and ordinal relationships of Loasaceae, a small predominately New World family, are examined using rbcL sequence data. Sequences were examined for eight of the fifteen genera of the Loasaceae and the morphologically anomalous aquatic genus Hydrostachys (Hydrostachyaceae). Parsimony analyses of these sequences, combined with previously published rcbL data, indicate that Loasaceae belong in the Cornales, and are the sister group of Hydrangeaceae. This agrees with phylogenies based on chloroplast DNA inverted repeat restriction site, morphological and chemical data. The rbcL trees support the monophyly of the Loasaceae and most generic relationships correspond to current subfamily divisions. The rbcL phylogeny also provides the first suggestion that Hydrostachys is allied with the Hydrangeaceae in the Cornales.
43558182|We studied the floral biology and performed experimental intra- and interspecific pollinations in populations of a complex of four Acianthera (Orchidaceae) species occurring in Brazilian campo rupestre vegetation (A. hamosa, A. limae, A. modestissima, and A. prolifera). All four species flower synchronously, are partially intercompatible, and exhibited some degree of self-sterility. Floral morphology is similar in all the species, with their principal differences associated with size of the floral structures. The four species were visited only by Diptera species of the families Phoridae (Megaselia spp.) and Chloropidae, but visits are rare and fruit set is very low. Sympatric species were not pollinated by the same Diptera species. Acianthera hamosa and A. modestissima have the smallest flowers, and no marked morphological differences between them were observed; they were both pollinated by very similar Megaselia species. Both prepollination barriers and postpollination events are important to maintaining the isolation of the species, functioning as overlapping filters that diminish the possibility of gene flow between them. However, putative hybrids between A. prolifera and A. limae have been found. Conversely, A. hamosa and A. modestissima, which are recognized only by vegetative characters that show high phenotypic plasticity, seem only to be isolated by geographical barriers, and they may actually constitute a single species or be sister species.
23642766|The pollen wall of Strelitzia reginae (Musaceae) consists of a nearly unsculptured, very thin, highly reduced, but coherent exine, and a thick intine (with an outer, channeled layer and an inner, largely homogeneous layer). After short, incomplete acetolysis the exine covers the remaining, severely shrinked protoplast as a folded, but unaltered "skin", while the intine has totally disappeared. After extended acetolysis only the coherent, skin-like exine remains. Thus, the term "exine-less pollen" sometimes used for similar sporoderm structures in other genera of Zingiberales is misleading and should be substituted by the term "skin-like exine". Surprisingly, the peculiar pollen wall ultrastructure of Strelitzia and some other Zingiberales is very similar to that of some genera of the Laurales, an example for convergent evolution within the angiosperms.
43558678|Despite their genetic homogeneity, many taxonomic species are described as European dogroses (Rosa L. section Caninae (DC.) Ser.) with consistent morphological variability. Here we report a morphometric study of 27 hip and leaf characters of proximate dogrose populations that include Rosa agrestis, a member of the subsection Rubigineae, in Flanders. In principal components analysis one R. agrestis population in Kanne had intermediate morphology between R. canina and R. corymbifera, on the one hand, and three other R. agrestis populations, on the other, suggesting hybridogenic origin. Half-sib R. agrestis seedlings were grown under controlled conditions and their leaf characters were studied. A tendency toward deviating morphology in seedlings from the Kanne population, analogous to the mother plants in the field, and a correlation for specific leaf characters between mother plants and their corresponding seedlings reinforce a genetic basis for the observed divergence in the Kanne population. The assumed hybridogenic mother plants did not produce fewer seeds per hip than the others of the pure populations. In addition, for all sampled dogroses, which included six species, the diameter of the discus was correlated with the number of seeds per hip, whereas the diameter of the orifice was not correlated with this character. This implies that only the diameter of the orifice and not the diameter of the discus might be decisive for species identification among European dogroses.
23645270|Using sequences from the plastid trnL-F region and nrDNA ITS, we investigated the phylogeny of the fleshy-fruited African tribe Haemantheae of the Amaryllidaceae across 19 species representing all genera of the tribe. ITS and a combined matrix produce the most resolute and well-supported tree with parsimony analysis. Two main clades are resolved, one comprising the monophyletic rhizomatous genera Clivia and Cryptostephanus, and a larger clade that unites Haemanthus and Scadoxus as sister genera to an Apodolirion/Gethyllis subclade. One of four included Gethyllis species, G. lanuginosa, resolves as sister to Apodolirion with ITS. Relationships among the Clivia species are not in agreement with a previous published phylogeny. Biogeographic analysis using the divergence/vicariance method roots the tribe in Eastern South Africa, with several subsequent dispersals to the winter rainfall Western Cape region. Chromosomal change from an ancestral 2n = 22 (characteristic of Clivia) is associated with each main clade. Reduction in number has occurred in all but Cryptostephanus, which has 2n = 24 chromosomes. Increasing the sampling across all of the species in the tribe will allow a more detailed understanding of the biogeographic patterns inherent in the parsimony topology, which undoubtedly reflect Quaternary climatic changes in Southern Africa.
23655497|The family Brassicaceae is well known for its large variation in chromosome numbers, common occurrence of polyploids and many reports of interspecific gene flow. The present review summarizes studies from the past decades on polyploidization and hybridization events, recognizing them as important evolutionary forces in the family. Attention is drawn to the issue of the reconstruction of reticulated pattern of evolution resulting from allopolyploid and homoploid hybrid speciation. The research of various authors on several Brassicaceae genera is presented and discussed in the context of our current understanding of polyploid and hybrid evolution. Model species, Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica taxa, are referred to only marginally, major focus is on a comprehensive survey of studies on about a dozen best explored nonmodel genera (e.g. Cardamine, Draba, Rorippa, Thlaspi). The increasing amount of genetic and genomic resources available for Brassicaceae model species provides excellent opportunities for comparative genetic and genomic studies. Future research directions and challenges are thus outlined, in order to obtain more detailed insights into the evolution of polyploid and hybrid genomes.
23643019|Due to the considerable annual fluctuations of water level of the Amazonian rivers, their river banks are fringed with periodically flooded forests of vast extension. The biota of these communities are adapted to annual inundations that can last for more than half a year. Water chemistry is most important for the floristic differentiation of these flooded forests. White water rivers, which carry a rich load of suspended material originating from the erosion of the Andes, have a floristic composition related to that of the non-inundatable Amazonian forest. Clear water and black water rivers, which originate in the Amazon Basin or its adjacent crystalline shields, are nutrient-poor and more or less acidic; their flora is related to that of peculiar woodland and savannah vegetation on oligotrophic white sand. The distribution patterns of floodplain species of nutrient-poor waters point to a centre of diversity in the Upper Rio Negro region, and another one in the Guayana lowland. These coincide with diversity centres for species of non-flooded habitats. Hence it seems unlikely that species diversity is directly influenced by pluviosity. The flooded forests have developed biotic interactions with the fish fauna of the Amazon Basin, which are vital for their continued existence. It is assumed that the origin of these habitats, their biota and their interactions dates back long into the Tertiary.
23642874|The macroscopic colonies of Tetrasporopsis fuscescens consist of a tegument of irregularly folded bag-like mucilage. It contains isolated ellipsoidal cells arranged in a regular peripheral stratum and rather sparsely and irregularly beneath. They show polarity, 4 parietal chromatophors when fully developed, have a wall containing cellulose, and no contractile vacuoles. Naked protoplasts are released from them through circular openings oriented towards the surface. Flagellated cells and cysts were not observed. T. reticulata may be closely related to T. fuscescens, but probably no other species is allied. Der faltig-sackartige Thallus von Tetrasporopsis fuscescens enthlt eingebettet in Gallerte eine durchgehende Schicht isolierter bzw. unmittelbar nach der Zweiteilung paarweise angeordneter Zellen; nach unten (innen) schlieen sich weitere, verstreut liegende an. Die Gallerte setzt sich aus zylindrischen, den Einzelzellen bzw. Zellpaaren zugeordneten Bauelementen zusammen. Die Zellen sind ellipsoidisch und polar gebaut, enthalten keine pulsierenden Vakuolen, besitzen eine zellulosehaltige Wand und bei voller Entwicklung vier Plastiden. Es wurden Stadien der Freisetzung unbegeielter Zellen, jedoch keine Zoosporen und Cysten beobachtet.  Verwandtschaftliche Beziehungen zu Tetrasporopsis reticulata erscheinen mglich, zu anderen Arten dagegen sehr fraglich.
23654228|We used ITS and trnL sequence data, analyzed separately and combined by MP, to explore species relationships and concepts in Trema (Celtidaceae), a pantropical genus of pioneer trees. Whether Trema is monophyletic or includes Parasponia is still unresolved. Three clades within Trema received moderate to high support, one from the New World and two from the Old World, but their relationships were not resolved. In the New World, specimens of T. micrantha formed two groups consistent with endocarp morphology. Group I, with smaller brown endocarps, is a highly supported clade sister to T. lamarckiana. Group II, with larger black endocarps, is poorly resolved with several subclades, including the highly supported T. integerrima clade. Both Old World clades contain Asian and African species, with three or more species in each region. Trema orientalis is not monophyletic: specimens from Africa formed a highly supported clade sister to T. africana, while those from Asia were sister to T. aspera from Australia.
23644052|Developmental morphology is described of the one-leaf plant Monophyllaea singularis which possesses a huge macrocotyledon, a long petiolode below it, and many small inflorescences scattered along the petiolode and midrib. Cell proliferation and basipetal differentiation occur in both cotyledons after water imbibition and germination. The basal meristem forms from a group of small, least differentiated cells at the base of a future macrocotyledon and continues blade production even at the reproductive stage. The petiolode meristem, which forms as an intercalary meristem near the base of the macrocotyledon, contributes to the elongation of the petiolode and the midrib. Although the 'groove meristem', like the groove meristem of Streptocarpus, forms between the cotyledons at the site of a shoot apical meristem, it is not involved in inflorescence production. In M. singularis, instead of the 'groove meristem', the inflorescences are initiated adventitiously from groups of cells in the dermal and subdermal layers of the petiolode and probably also of the midrib.
23673692|15 new species are described: Sect. Sclerocalycinae: S. farsistanica, S. stapfii.  Sect. Spergulifoliae: S. paktiensis.  Sect. Auriculatae: S. caroli-henrici, S. danensis, S. gertraudiae, S. nizvana, S. oligophylla, S. persepolitana, S. pseudaucheriana, S. pseudonurensis, S. renzii, S. salangensis, S. sojakii.  Sect. Brachypodae: S. rasvandica.  All the new species are from Iran with exception of S. paktiensis and S. parvanica which are from Afghanistan.
23674784|Estimates of the phylogenetic relationships among cultivated and wild Allium species would benefit from identification of objective molecular characters. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms in the nuclear 45s ribosomal DNA (rDNA) were identified among two of five accessions of each of six cultivated Alliums. Restriction enzyme sites for BamHI, DraI, EcoRI, EcoRV, SacI, and XbaI were mapped. Different lengths of the rDNA repeat unit among the cultivated Alliums were due to sizes of the intergenic spacer. Nineteen polymorphic restriction enzyme sites were discovered and used to estimate phylogenetic relationships. Cladistic analyses based on Wagner parsimony were completed without an outgroup and resulted in two equally most parsimonious trees of 22 steps. A combined analysis of differences at RE sites in the ribosomal (19 characters) and chloroplast (15 characters) DNA generated a single most parsimonious tree of 39 steps. Single trichotomies were observed at 40 and 41 steps. Strict consensus of the three trees of 41 or fewer steps consisted of a lineage for A. tuberosum, a second for A. ampeloprasum and A. sativum, and a third for A. cepa, A. fistulosum, and A. schoenoprasum. Estimates of phylogenetic relationships based on variability at restriction enzyme sites in the rDNA and chloroplast DNA agree with the classification scheme of Traub. Because of the predominance of autapomorphies, restriction enzyme analysis of the nuclear 45s rDNA is of limited use in estimating phylogenies among Allium sections. However it is useful in the establishment of interspecific hybridity.
23643157|Dirachma has a bitegmic, crassinucellate and anatropous ovule with a single median provascular tegumentary bundle. The seed coat is characterized by an exotesta and an endotegmic pigment layer. Although the fruit of Dirachma superficially resembles that of the Geraniaceae s. str., the characters of ovule and seed do not support a relationship with that family. Also a relationship with Barbeyaceae, as suggested by recent rbcL studies, is not supported by seed anatomical characters. The true relationships of Dirachma are difficult to assess on the basis of ovule and seed characters alone. The Rhamnaceae may be a closer relative.
23644197|Little is known about genetic variation in members of the genus Aesculus (Hippocastanaceae), in particular A. flava (yellow buckeye) and A. glabra (Ohio buckeye). Here, three synthetic DNA probes (composed of tandemly repeated, core sequences) that reveal alleles at multiple variable-number tandem-repeat (VNTR) loci in these two species were used to investigate: 1) levels of genetic variation in one stand of A. flava and three isolated stands of A. glabra; 2) whether the stands of A. glabra are genetically differentiated from one another; 3) whether there has been selection for more heterozygous individuals through time in one stand each of A. flava and A. glabra; and 4) whether a possible genetic bottleneck had occurred during the formation of either species of Aesculus. First, variation of VNTR genetic markers within and among three populations of A. glabra separated by 60180 km was examined. In each one hectare (ha) population, 22 individuals were randomly sampled. Among the three populations, the mean number of bands scored per individual was 80.35 and the average number of estimated loci surveyed was 54.17. Mean similarity and estimated heterozygosity within populations ranged from 0.634 to 0.743 and from 0.342 to 0.486, respectively. The mean similarity across populations was 0.657, while the mean estimated heterozygosity across populations was 0.484 for A. glabra. The most isolated site was the most genetically differentiated as indicated by differences in levels of similarity, heterozygosity, and Fst value comparisons. In a separate experiment, genetic variation in 22 large (reproductively mature; dbh > 8 cm) individuals was compared with that in 22 small (not yet reproductive; dbh < 1 cm) individuals collected within one ha stands for both A. flava and A. glabra. Mean similarity values among large versus small individuals of A. flava were 0.665 versus 0.662, while for A. glabra the corresponding values were 0.686 versus 0.691, respectively. Permutation tests of these similarity data detected no evidence for size class genetic differentiation in either species (both p-values > 0.050). Further, permutation tests for the number of bands per individual (average band number should be higher in more heterozygous individuals) detected no significant differences between size classes for either species. Thus, evidence of pronounced inbreeding and/or selection altering population genetics within small relative to large individuals was not detected. In addition, comparable similarity and heterozygosity values between these two closely related species (which still maintain an active zone of hybridization) suggests that either: 1) no extreme genetic bottleneck has accompanied the formation of these species from a common ancestor; or 2) signs of such a bottleneck have largely been eliminated. These studies demonstrate the utility of multilocus VNTR DNA probes for investigating genetic variation within and among plant populations, between size classes within a population, and between closely related species.
23656031|Three species of burdock (Arctium lappa, A. tomentosum, and A. minus; Asteraceae), which commonly occur in sympatry in Central Europe, are thought to hybridize frequently, hence raising questions about their integrity. We surveyed mixed, monotypic, and/or single plant stands of these species in Central Germany to assess their extent of hybridization and introgression, and also the likelihood of insect host shifts between them. Individual plants were characterized by multivariate analyses of morphological and RAPD variation in combination with RAPD-based character-index-scores. All analyses recognized the three species as distinct units, but also identified a limited number of first (or early) generation hybrids between sympatric A. lappa and either A. tomentosum or A. minus, respectively, as well as one introgressant of A. tomentosum into A. lappa. While pre-zygotic isolation may partly account for the rarity of first generation crosses (F1's), the near absence of later generation hybrid segregants or introgressants likely reflects post-zygotic isolation due to the disruption of co-adapted gene complexes and/or habitat-mediated superiority shared by the ruderal parentals. As the tephritid fly Tephritis bardanae oviposits on both A. tomentosum (T) and A. minus (M), but not on A. lappa (L), the occurrence of L  M and L  T hybrids and/or introgressants may have important evolutionary consequences regarding the acquisition of a new host, i.e. A. lappa, by these insects.
43498307|Tea plant [Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze)] is one of the most popular non-alcoholic beverage crops in the world today. In recent years, many clonal tea cultivars have been developed and widely planted to replace the diverse traditional tea populations. In this article, we study the relationships between classifications based on simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers and on morphological traits for 185 tea plant cultivars. Results show that the genetic diversity index (H) is between 0.229 and 0.803, and the mean value is 0.543; the observed heterozygosity (Ho) ranges form 0.103 to 0.683, with an average of 0.340, while the genetic identity varies from 0.267 to 0.984. Based on tea-making properties, the genetic diversity in the "black-green tea" group is much higher than in the "Oolong tea" group. Based on morphological traits, cluster analysis classifies the 185 cultivars into three groups, "group I," "group II" and "group III." Most cultivars are related based on the geographical origin and their genetic backgrounds.
23674774|We have used total genomic DNA as a probe to size-fractionated restriction enzyme digests of genomic DNA from a range of Triticeae species from the genera Leymus Hochst., Psathyrostachys Nevski, and Hordeum L., and hybrids between Hordeum and Leymus to investigate their taxonomic relationships. Genomic Southern hybridization was found to be an effective and simple way to assess the distribution and diversity of essentially species-specific and common, repetitive DNA sequences, and is hence especially useful in evolutionary studies. The DNA sequences of H. vulgare seem to diverge substantially from those of H. brachyantherum, H. lechleri, H. procerum, and H. depressum. The genome of Thinopyron bessarabicum shows little homology to those of the Leymus species investigated, confirming that T. bessarabicum is not an ancestral genome in Leymus. Although the genomes of Leymus and Psathyrostachys share substantial proportions of DNA sequences, they include divergent repeated sequences as well. Hybridization with a ribosomal DNA probe (pTa 71) showed that the coding regions containing structural genes encoding the 18 S, 5.8 S, and 26 S ribosomal RNA were conserved among the species investigated, whereas the intergenic spacer region was more variable, presenting different sizes of restriction fragments and enabling a classification of the species. The rye heterochromatin probe pSc 119.2 hybridized to DNA from H. lechleri and T. bessarabicum, but not to DNA from the other species investigated.
23642472|The present communication deals with the observations made on the morphology, reproduction and cytology of Ulothrix zonata (Weber & Mohr) Ktz. in culture. The alga displays a remarkable phenotypic plasticity in nature as well as in culture. The present study provides additional evidence of karyology in support of Lokhorst and Vroman's treatment of U. zonata which merges a number of earlier described species in it. The cytological details and chromosome number (n = 10) determined for the Indian isolates of U. zonata agree with those of Sarma for the British material.
23673129|Micro- and megasporogenesis as well as male and female gametogenesis in genus Agapanthus are reported for the first time. The results are as follows: The anther wall, whose development is of dicotyledonous type, consists of four layers: the epidermis, the endothecium, one or two middle layers, and the secretory tapetum. Fibrous thickenings are developed in the endothecium when shed. Successive cytokinesis during microsporogenesis results in a decussate tetrad of microspores. Ellipsoidal pollen grains are 2-celled when anthers dehisce, with monosulcate extending to polar area; pollen ornamentation is pitted and reticulate. Ovary is superior and trilocular, with axial placenta. The ovule is anatropous, bitegmic, and tenuinucellate. The archesporial cell below nucellus epidermis functions directly as the megasporocyte. Successive cytokinesis in the megasporocyte usually produces a T-shape tetrad, and the chalazal megaspore of the tetrad develops into a Polygonum-type embryo sac. The systematic significance of embryological characters of Agapanthus is discussed.
23655123|The monophyly and evolution of Cynara was investigated using ITS sequence data. Parsimony analysis supports the monophyly of Cynara sensu lato, i.e. including the distinctive taxa C. humilis and C. tournefortii. This contradicts the recent decision to create a new monotypic genus Arcyna for C. tournefortii. A hypothesised close relationship between C. tournefortii and Silybum Adans. is also refuted. Four of the five species of Cynara, for which multiple accessions were sequenced, were shown to be monophyletic but C. baetica was found to be non-monophyletic. Free energy estimates for ITS1 secondary structure and conservation of the 5.8S region suggest that this is not due to the occurrence of pseudogenes. Hybridisation is a plausible explanation but evidence for the likely parents involved in such an event is inconclusive.
23669759|Chromosome variability within three populations of Scilla autumnalis was analysed. Among a total of 167 individuals we have detected one triploid structural heterozygote, 26 B-containing (with two different B-types), 11 structural variants (in the fifth chromosome pair), and one asynaptic. The possible relation between both types of chromosome variability (structural and chromosome numbers) is discussed.
23642560|Chromosome analysis of nine species of Haemanthus (2n = 16) and four species of Scadoxus (2n = 18), using conventional stains, Quinacrine fluorescence and C-banding, has shown that the two genera do not possess significant amounts of constitutive heterochromatin. The two genera are closely related and differ in respect of a translocation which has resulted in the dysploid reduction in chromosome number from 2 n = 18 in Scadoxus to 2n = 16 in Haemanthus.
23674343|Oenothera nutans, common to the Appalachian Mts between 650 and 1 700 m altitude, was investigated cytogenetically and taxonomically. The species is permanently structurally heterozygous. It consists of two genomes of the B-type which are more or less indistinguishable phenotypically. Nearly all of the strains investigated possess a self-in-compatibility factor in one of the two complexes. Both complexes show a close relationship to the predominantly homozygous O. grandiflora, a native of the southern lowlands. O. nutans and O. grandiflora possess the same plastid type, plastome III. Probably, O. nutans evolved by an accumulation of reciprocal translocations within an originally structurally homozygous population, which must be regarded ancestral to the present forms of O. grandiflora.
23643015|A systematic reassessment of megafossil records of Fagaceae in Central Europe has been undertaken on the basis of leaf cuticular characters. The oldest representatives date back to the Eocene: Quercus subhercynica spec. nova, Dryophyllum furcinerve (Rossm.) Schmalh., Trigonobalanopsis rhamnoides (Rossm.) gen. & comb. nov. In the Oligocene other members of extant genera appear: Quercus rhenana (Weyl. & Kilpp.) Knobloch & Kvaek, Fagus attenuata Goepp., Lithocarpus saxonicus spec. nova. In the Neogene these ancient taxa (except in Fagus lineage), are gradually replaced by deciduous species of Quercus and Castanea. Trigonobalanus and Castanopsis are recorded by fruits (or wood) only.
23643070|The chemosystematic potential of the 15 more common diterpene types in vascular plants was evaluated. Oxidation levels and skeletal specializations indicate diterpene biosynthesis to involve contrasting modes in pteridophytes and angiosperms on one hand, and in gymnosperms on the other. In angiosperm lineages diterpene diversification accompanies trends towards increase of herbaceousness and depletion of polyphenols, i.e., towards evolutionary advance. Nevertheless, even closely related families may display disjunctions of diterpene type and substitution. Thus the taxonomic value of this metabolic class remains confined to single (advanced) families.
23674618|132 cultivated populations (2x16x) of 15 arctic-alpine species of Draba were investigated to clarify a possible relationship between reproductive strategies and polyploid evolution in the genus. The populations were exclusively sexual and produced viable seed after spontaneous self-pollination, but showed large variation both in traits promoting cross-pollination and in autogamous fruit and seed set. Traits promoting cross-pollination, e.g., floral display, protogyny, and delayed selfing, were positively correlated, and these traits were negatively correlated with autogamous fruit and seed set. All diploid and many polyploid populations had high autogamous seed set and small, unscented, non-protogynous, and rapidly selfing flowers. In contrast, all populations with low autogamous seed set and large, scented, and strongly protogynous flowers with distinctly delayed selfing were polyploid. These results are consistent with those previously obtained from enzyme electrophoresis, suggesting that the genetically depauperate diploids are extreme inbreeders and that the highly fixed-heterozygous polyploids vary from extreme inbreeders to mixed maters. The reproductive data lend additional support to the hypothesis that allopolyploidy in arctic Draba serves as an escape from genetic depauperation caused by uniparental inbreeding at the diploid level.
23643032|Intergeneric hybridization between Elymus anthosachnoides (2n = 28, SSYY) and Psathyrostachys huashanica (2n = 14, NN) was performed. Three hybrid plants, obtained via embryo rescue, were intermediate between the parents in morphology and developed vigorously, but were completely sterile. The mean chromosome configuration was 19.48 I + 0.76 II per cell in the hybrids at meiotic metaphase I. This result indicates that E. anthosachnoides and P. huashanica are distantly related and that there is little or no homoeology between N (P. huashanica) and S or Y (E. anthosachnoides) genomes.
23645309|In Europe, the genus Dactylorhiza comprises a bewildering variety of forms that are difficult to sort into discrete species. Most Dactylorhiza species are diploid or tetraploid and contrasting hypotheses have been proposed to explain the complex variation within this group. Using PCR-RFLP analysis in eight putative species, we could identify four highly differentiated chloroplast DNA lineages. The first lineage (clade A) included the unique haplotype found in D. sambucina. Clade B grouped four haplotypes belonging mostly to D. incarnata. Clades C and D included 27 haplotypes detected in diploid D. fuchsii and in all tetraploid species investigated. Eighty percent of the chloroplast variation were consistent with currently accepted species boundaries. The imperfect agreement between chloroplast variation and species boundaries may be ascribed to incomplete lineage sorting and/or reticulation. Our cpDNA results provide strong evidence that the allotetrapolyploids have been formed through asymmetric hybridization with a member of the D. fuchsii/maculata group as the maternal parent.
23642858|Two homoeologous sets of chromosomes in pentaploid Allium neapolitanum Cyr. (Liliaceae) are recognizable by their C-bands. The banding pattern is the same for one Californian and five Yugoslavian populations, suggesting a common chromosomal origin. Predominant meiotic association of identically banded homologues indicates a genomic formula of AA AI BB, confirms an allopolyploid origin, and argues against genetically controlled pairing.
23671524|Biochemical and physiological arguments and several plant-predator relationships described in the literature are presented in which cyanogenesis plays a role as a protecting process. HCN arising from the cleavage of cyanogenics is regarded to be the most important agent, but also the cyanogenic itself, carbonyls and -cyanoalanine, which are products of degradation processes of cyanogenics, may possess protecting properties. Some examples show that these substances are also utilized by arthropods. This presents the opportunity to look at a coevolutionary system combined of snails, plants, moths and moth-parasites in which cyanogenesis obviously plays an interesting role. Cyanogenese (Freisetzung von HCN) spielt bei Beziehungen zwischen Pflanzen und Herbivoren eine Rolle als ein Proze mit Schutzfunktion. In der Literatur existieren dafr etliche Beispiele neben biochemischen und physiologischen Daten, die als Argumente fr eine solche Funktion herangezogen werden. Blausure, die beim Abbau cyanogener Verbindungen entsteht, scheint der wichtigste Effektor zu sein; aber auch die cyanogene Verbindung selbst, Carbonyle (Ketone, Aldehyde) oder -Cyanoalanin als Abbau- bzw. Entgiftungsprodukte, knnen Schutzfunktionen besitzen. Auch Arthropoden nutzen diese Substanzen zur chemischen Abwehr. Eine interessante Rolle spielt die Cyanogenese in einem coevolutionren System aus Schnecken, Pflanzen, Schmetterlingen und deren Parasiten.
23655664|The increasingly common phenomenon of habitat fragmentation raises the probability of pollination failure in a number of species, as both pollen quantity and quality often decrease as populations become isolated. We experimentally investigated whether pollen was limiting reproductive success of the endangered shrub Buxus balearica in five populations, two continental and three insular, during 2002 and 2003. Pollen limitation varied among populations and years, but such variation was not related to density or degree of isolation. All populations showed inbreeding depression at different phases of the reproductive cycle, although its effects differed greatly among sites. Between-population outcrossing did not have a consistent effect on several components of fitness. The highest levels of inbreeding depression  detected at the level of fruit and seed set- occurred at the smallest and least fecund populations from each region. This indicates that further fragmentation of the populations of this already endangered species could certainly threaten their survival.
23674878|Previous studies have shown that two separate loci for 5S DNA sequences may exist within a species. Two size classes have been tentatively assigned in the ranges 327 468 bp (chromosome 1), and 469500 bp (chromosome 5) and the entire data-base was subjected to various numerical taxonomic analyses. The results confirm the existence of two lineages of 5S DNA sequences represented by the two size classes. Hordeum vulgare is separate from the species known also as Critesion and, together with Dasypyrum, occupy an intermediate position between the two size classes. The 5S DNA units from Triticum spp. that have also been named Aegilops spp. in other classifications appear as a distinct group within Triticum spp. at both loci. The consensus 5S DNA sequence from Psathyrostachys is remote from Hordeum s.l. in contrast to opinions based on morphology. Other aspects are detailed and discussed, including the inadequacy of the computing methods used as well as the need for more data in view of the large amount of homoplasy. The merit of using the spacer for phylogenetic inference is also discussed.
23674800|Fourteen common southern Spanish species in the Cistaceae were examined for quantitative variations in floral traits. These included the diameter of the corolla, number and size of anthers, number of ovules, and the size and shape of the gynoecium. The variables were in most instances positively correlated, species with larger flowers having more and larger anthers, more ovules, etc. Shrubs were observed to possess the largest, annuals the smallest, and subshrubs medium-sized flowers. Detailed observations of flower structure and function in a shrub (Cistus salvifolius), a spring-annual (Tuberaria guttata) and a winter-annual (T. inconspicua), revealed substantial variations in the breeding system. While C. salvifolius (and probably most woody species in this family) presents self-incompatibility, annual species of Tuberaria are self-compatible. In the studied population, T. inconspicua plants bore only reduced, cleistogamous flowers with no sign of a corolla. T. guttata has chasmogamous flowers that can facultatively self-pollinate.
23674981|The ontogeny of the translator is analysed in Fockea edulis, Pachycarpus dealbatus, and Calotropis procera. The three species show a similar basic pattern in the construction of the corpusculum. Each side wall consists of two originally separate flanks. In the primitive state (Fockea), these flanks remain separate throughout their development, only the two inner flanks fuse along their base. In the derived state, the two flanks on each side fuse to form solid side walls, and the corpusculum develops a floor by additional secretion. The primitive state of divided flanks is recapitulated in early ontogeny. In Fockea, the pollinia are attached apically and dorsally to the outer flanks by means of unmoulded adhesive material; in more advanced translators, caudicles are inserted as new elements between the outer flanks and the pollinia. The caudicles are attached to the lower part of the corpusculum. Within the four tribes of the family, many species have retained parts of the primitive structure in their corpuscula. Flanks divided in the lower part of the corpusculum and caudicles attached dorsally to the outer flanks seem to be common in Marsdenieae and Stapelieae. In Asclepiadeae and Gonolobeae the side walls are solid throughout the length of the corpusculum.  The question of cellular mechanisms underlying the formation of the translator is discussed. In all probability, the main factor responsible for the complex structure of the corpusculum is a differential secretory activity of the glandular field. This, in turn, points to differential genetic activity as a regulating factor of the ontogeny of the translator.
23642836|A phylogenetic analysis of the Ulmaceae, Cannabaceae, Barbeyaceae, and Broussonetia of the Moraceae produced nine equally parsimonious trees with 127 steps. The Ulmoideae (Ulmaceae, sensu Grudzinskaya) are a monophyletic group and distinct from the Celtidoideae. The genus Ampelocera occupies an isolated taxonomic position among the celtidoids. The similarity of Ampelocera to the fossil celtidoid flower Eoceltis of North America suggests that Ampelocera posesses an archaic suite of characters, and occupies a primitive position among the celtidoids, the Cannabaceae and the Moraceae. The relationships among the other celtidoid taxa, Cannabaceae, and Broussonetia are problematic. The Cannabaceae and Broussonetia of the Moraceae are nested within the celtidoids suggesting that this is a paraphyletic group. The close, but unresolved, relationship of the celtidoids to the Moraceae and Cannabaceae observed in this analysis, and the appearance of the celtidoids in the fossil record prior to the ulmoids suggests that the evolutionary relationship of the ulmoids and celtidoids may be more distant than current taxonomic treatments reflect.
23674881|The DNA sequence structure of 5S DNA units in Acacia species, including representatives from the three subgenera of Acacia, have been determined. The data was interpreted to suggest that at least three lineages of 5S DNA sequences exist in Acacia and the proposal was made that the lineages be named 5S Dna-1, 5S Dna-2, and 5S Dna-3. The 5S Dna-1 lineage was represented by units from A. boliviana and A. bidwilli, the 5S Dna-2 lineage by units from A. melanoxylon, A. pycnantha, A. ulicifolia, A. boliviana, A. bidwillii, and A. albida, and the 5S Dna-3 lineage by units from A. bidwillii, A. boliviana, and A. senegal. Based on this interpretation of the sequence data, the Australian species of subg. Phyllodineae grouped together as a cluster, quite separate from the subgenera Aculeiferum and Acacia. As expected from the analyses of morphological characters, the 5S DNA units from Acacia albida (syn. Faidherbia albida) were quite separate from the other Acacia spp.
23664070|Nuclear genome size, as measured by flow cytometry with propidium iodide, was used to investigate the relationships within the genus Tulipa L. (Liliaceae). More than 400 accessions representing 123 taxa from mainly wild-collected plants were investigated. Most species of Tulipa have the same basic chromosome number, 2n = 2x = 24. However, the somatic DNA 2C value (2C) is shown to range from 32 to 69 pg for the diploids. The largest genome contains roughly 3.4  1010 more base pairs than the smallest and has chromosomes that are more than twice as large. These large differences in the amount of nuclear DNA predict that the hybrids, if any arise, are usually sterile. Depending on the size of the total genome, 1 pg amounts to several thousand genes. Moreover, genome sizes are evaluated here in combination with available morphological, geographical, and molecular data. Therefore, the taxonomy proposed here is not a single-character taxonomy based on genome size alone. The genus Tulipa, as here determined, has 87 species, 29 more than accepted by van Raamsdonk et al. [Acta Hort (ISHS) 430:821828, 1997], but including 25 species that were not available to them. Of these 87 species, 28 were not seen by Hall (The genus Tulipa, The Royal Horticultural Society, London, 1940) in a living state and placed by him in an addendum. Species of the subgenus Clusianae (Baker) Zonn. differ strongly in nuclear DNA content (DNA 2C value), 32 versus 4068 pg for all other tulips, and are placed here in a separate subgenus. Also Orithyia, the only group with a style and with only 3839 pg is placed in a separate subgenus. Therefore, all tulips are attributed to four subgenera, Clusianae (Baker) Zonn., Tulipa, Eriostemones Raamsd., and Orithyia (D. Don) Baker and divided further into 12 sections. Seven of the eight series of section Eichleres (A.D. Hall) Raamsd. are now placed in four sections: (1) section Lanatae (Raamsd.) Zonn., mainly confined to species from the Pamir-Alay and including series Lanatae Raamsd., (2) section Multiflorae (Raamsd.) Zonn. (including series Glabrae Raamsd.), (3) section Vinistriatae (Raamsd.) Zonn. (including series Undulatae Raamsd.), and (4) section Spiranthera Vved. ex Zonn. and Veldk. Triploids, tetraploids, and pentaploids were found in several species. DNA content confirmed the close relationships of the species within the different sections. The rather similar looking and therefore often confused T. armena Boiss. (51.8 pg), T. systola Stapf (56.3 pg), and T. julia K., Koch (61.6 pg) could be clearly distinguished. The same is true for T. biebersteiniana Schult. f. (56.9 pg), T. sylvestris ssp. australis (Link) Pamp. (62.0 pg), and T. primulina Baker (64.6 pg). T. doerfleri Gand. and T. whittalli (Dykes) Hall could be placed as polyploid forms of T. orphanidea Boiss. ex Heldr. On the basis of DNA content, a systematic association between T. julia K. Koch and the triploid T. aleppensis Boiss. and between T. systola Stapf and the triploid T. praecox Tenore was suggested. The new species T. lemmersii Zonn., Peterse, and de Groot is described, and four possible new species are indicated. Genome size as measured by using flow cytometry may conveniently be used to produce systematic data. It is applicable even in the case of dormant bulbs or sterile plants for monitoring the trade in bulbous species.
23664374|Introns and spacers are a rich and well-appreciated information source for evolutionary studies in plants. Compared to coding sequences, the mutational dynamics of introns and spacers is very different, involving frequent microstructural changes in addition to substitutions of individual nucleotides. An understanding of the biology of sequence change is required for correct application of molecular characters in phylogenetic analyses, including homology assessment, alignment coding, and tree inference. The widely used term "indel" is very general, and different kinds of microstructural mutations, such as simple sequence repeats, short tandem repeats, homonucleotide repeats, inversions, inverted repeats, and deletions, need to be distinguished. Noncoding DNA has been indispensable for analyses at the species level because coding sequences usually do not offer sufficient variability. A variety of introns and spacers has been successfully applied for phylogeny inference at deeper levels (major lineages of angiosperms and land plants) in past years, and phylogenetic structure R in intron and spacer data sets usually outperforms that of coding-sequence data sets. In order to fully utilize their potential, the molecular evolution and applicability of the most important noncoding markers (the trnTtrnF region comprising two spacers and a group I intron; the trnSG region comprising one spacer and a group II intron in trnG; the group II introns in petD, rpl16, rps16, and trnK; and the atpBrbcL and psbAtrnG spacers) are reviewed. The study argues for the use of noncoding DNA in a spectrum of applications from deeplevel phylogenetics to speciation studies and barcoding, and aims at outlining molecular evolutionary principles needed for effective analysis.
23673774|Leaf flavonoids have been identified in seven species of Triticum, all of which have been considered at one time as putative parents of the cultivated tetraploid and hexaploid wheats. The major constituents are apigenin- and luteolin-based glycosylflavones, some of which contain various O-glycosidic attachments at the 6-position. Four tricin glycosides are present in minor amount, as is free tricin. The flavonoid patterns link together T. searsii, T. speltoides and T. squarrosa, on the one hand, and T. monococcum, T. boeoticum, T. thaoudar and T. urartu, on the other. These results indicate that the first three taxa are more likely to be diploid ancestors to the hexaploid T. aestivum than the latter four species.
23645174|The tribe Liabeae (Compositae, Cichorioideae) comprises three subtribes, Liabinae, Munnoziinae, and Paranepheliinae. For one of these, the Munnoziinae, which contains the genera Munnozia, Chrysactinium, Erato, and Philoglossa, the nuclear ITS (internal transcribed spacer) region was sequenced to examine the monophyly of the subtribe and the core genus Munnozia within it. Thirty-six samples representing four currently recognized genera of Munnoziinae and two outgroups were included in this study. Molecular phylogenetic analyses confirm the close relationship of Munnozia with Chrysactinium, and Erato with Philoglossa. However, the monophyly of the Munnoziinae and Munnozia is not supported, in disagreement with the current morphological findings. The discrepancies were attributed to the placements of Munnozia perfoliata outside the Munnoziinae and Munnozia, and Chrysactinium within Munnozia. The resulting tree indicates that first, M. perfoliata needs to be moved out of the munnoziinae and second, Chrysactinium originated from within Munnozia. For the first finding, morphological and palynological reevaluation of this species with allegedly related species reveals additional support in agreement with molecular data. Therefore we propose that the genus Munnozia be re-delimited to the members having black or dark brown anther theca and sordid or reddish pappus and re-organized.
23669985|Karyotype analyses were conducted on Cunninghamia konishii, Cunninghamia lanceolata, and Taiwania cryptomerioides, all members of Taxodiaceae. The somatic chromosome number was found to be 2n = 2x = 22 in all species which concurrs with previous reports. The karyotypes are generally asymmetrical with the smaller chromosomes being more submedian than the larger ones. Chromosomes with unusual or specific structures, thought to be associated with the nucleolar organizing region, were found in each species. Cunninghamia species have a marker chromosome pair with an unusually long secondary constriction. Taiwania has an unusually long kinetochore region present in a submedian chromosome pair.
23669025|This study aimed to elucidate the anther wall development, pollen wall development, and exine structure of Trochodendron aralioides Siebold and Zuccarini, a tree with primitive vessels but long considered to lack vessel elements in its wood. The anther wall is the basic type: epidermis, endothecium layer, three middle layers, and tapetum. The anther tapetum is glandular and cells are uniseriate. Microspore mother cells undergo meiosis with simultaneous cytokinesis to produce tetrahedral tetrads enclosed within a callose wall. Before development of the protectum, primexine is inserted against the callose, and the plasma membrane is invaginated. Then, the probacula are elongated under the protectum and arise basally from the plasma membrane. The foot layer formation is concomitant with callose wall dissolution. The foot layer is thick, and the endexine is thin. The foot layer and the endexine are both continuous. The intine is initially formed in the vacuolated microspore stage. Hollow Ubisch bodies are observed on the inner surface of the tapetum in free microspore stage. Pollen grains are tricolporate and 2-celled at the time of shedding. The numerous anthers of a single flower are at different development stages in both protandrous and protogynous individuals.
23662383|The pollen morphology of forty taxa of the genus Nepeta L. was studied and documented in detail using light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron (SEM) microscopy in this study. Nepeta L. pollen grains are small to large (P = 18.6463.46 m, E = 15.6246.33 m), suboblate to perprolate (P/E = 0.862.09) in shape and hexacolpate (very rarely tetracolpate) with granular membranes. Alternate position of colpi occurs in six Nepeta taxa, N. nuda ssp. glandulifera, N. concolor, N. crinita, N. congesta var. cryptantha, N. stricta var. stricta and N. sibthorpii ssp. tumeniana. In examinations of exine ornamentation with SEM, two types of pollen grains were recognized: (1) type I, with microreticulate sculpture; and (2) type II with bireticulate sculpture, type I and II to be divided into two and five subtypes, respectively. In the two taxa with microreticulate pattern, N. pilinux and N. sulfuriflora, a tendency towards a bireticulum could be recognized due to traces of secondary tectal connections. The bireticulate exine ornamentation is characterized with varying characteristics of the primary muri and secondary reticulum. Pollen morphology within the genus is compared with infrageneric relationships.
23644409|We studied the interrelation between nectary structure (13 parameters), nectar characteristics (yield, chemical composition), and flower size of 11 Labiatae species in a Mediterranean shrub community near Athens, Greece. We also explored whether the above attributes are affected by the Mediterranean summer drought constraints. Our findings show that among all nectary parameters studied, nectary size and stomatal opening are the most important in (positively) shapin nectar secretion, nectary size being the most meaningful. Nectary structure is correlated to quantity of the nectar secreted, not its quality. Wide flowers bear wide nectaries with large stomatal openings, whereas deep flowers are not related to any nectary size. Corolla size (both length and width) and nectary stomatal opening decrease with flowering time. This applies also to nectary size, nectar volume and sugar content of the perennials (9 species). All above cases of time dependence show that there is a constraint effect of Mediterranean climate on floral and nectary structure, reflected also as a decrease in nectar secretion. Nectary structure in Labiatae is largely shaped by both phylogenetic and climate constraints. On the other hand, although nectar is largely influenced by nectary structure, it is to a large extent ecologically biased, implying that, in addition to phylogeny, there are many other ecological parameters interfering in its secretion such as time within the season, life history, and light requirements.
23674266|Pseudanthia occur in more than 40 angiosperm families. With regard to the underlying inflorescence structure they can be classified into the following groups: (a) floral and (b) hyperfloral pseudanthia, each with (c) or without (d) pseudocorollas. Pseudanthia have developed along independent evolutionary lines and are not bound to a particular inflorescence structure. They are the result of (a) the specific morphological predisposition of the taxon concerned, (b) aggregation and diminution of the flowers, giving rise to the formation of an attraction unit (for animal pollination), (c) variation, and (d) selection. Ontogenetical abbreviation is regarded to play an essential role in the origin and elaboration of pseudanthia.
23642293|The chromosome numbers of several Greece species of the genus Silene L. from natural habitats are reported for the first time: S. sieberi, S. niederi, S. radicosa subsp. rechingeri, S. oligantha, S. skorpilii, S. schwarzenbergeri and S. fruticulosa. All species are diploid with 2n = 24 chromosomes, including 0, 2 or 4 SAT-chromosomes; S. niederi has B-chromosomes.
23674493|Medicago truncatula is a member of Medicago sect. Spirocarpos, in which all 34 species have coiled fruit, usually tightly coiled, that permanently retain the seeds. A variant of M. truncatula from Libya is unique for the species in possessing very loosely coiled fruits, and is here recognized as a new forma, M. truncatula f. laxicycla E. Small. In germination tests of a number of species of Medicago, the unusual Libyan variant proved to be the only one in which rapid and simultaneous germination of most of the seeds occurred while still within a fruit. The loose coiling of the fruit of the Libyan variety appears to facilitate water entry and seedling escape. Its rapid germination might adapt it to respond quickly to intermittently available moisture, but at the cost of abandoning the strategy of intermittent germination adopted by other populations of Medicago sect. Spirocarpos.
23656053|Pollen and orbicule morphology of 84 species, representing 52 genera from all tribes and subfamilies are investigated, in order to assess the systematic value of palynological data and to determine palynological evolutionary trends in Cyperaceae. A total of 90% of the species are examined for the first time with scanning electron microscopy. Pollen grains of Cyperaceae are oblate spheroidal to perprolate in shape, inaperturate to polyporate with opercula or pontopercula on pori or colpi. We distinguished seven different sexine ornamentation patterns. Orbicules occur in all species investigated. Pollen morphological variation within Cyperaceae is considerable and includes dispersal unit; number, location and degree of differentiation of apertural zones; and sexine ornamentation patterns. In subfamily Mapanioideae both tribes can be characterized by palynological synapomorphies. However, in subfamily Cyperoideae, the observed pattern of variation does not fit the most recent molecular phylogeny due to high levels of homoplasy and polymorphism in major pollen characters.
23674508|The interrelationships of the tribe Inuleae s. str. have been analysed with a computerized parsimony program (Hennig 86), using the Arctotideae as functional outgroup. The results are illustrated with a cladogram and a strict consensus tree. A detailed character discussion is presented. Descriptions of all genera are supplied with brief notes on distribution, references to chemical investigations, and chromosome numbers. Lists of recognized species are also presented in connection to each genus, respectively. 21 new combinations are made, one new genus, Xerolekia A. Anderb., is described, Mollera is reduced to a synonym of Calostephane, and the genus Duhaldea is resuscitated. Anisopappus was found to be a paraphyletic basal group in the tribe. The paleate genera Asteriscus, Nauplius, Ighermia, Buphthalmum, and Xerolekia form one monophyletic group, Inula and other, similar genera were found to constitute the ancestral complex of the Pulicaria group.
23643159|Cannaceae seeds have been analysed regarding seed coat structure, germination and macromolecular composition of the seed coats. Data of several mass spectrometric techniques were combined with those of microscopic and histochemical techniques to acquire insight into the functions of the seed coat. Cannaceae seeds have an exotestal layer of Malpighian cells with a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic part. The hydrophobic part is mainly responsible for the impermeability of the seed and contains silica, callose, lignin as water repellent substances. Water can only enter the seed after a certain temperature-induced opening of an imbibition lid. During imbibition the hydrophilic part of the Malpighian cells swells and the seed coat ruptures due to differences in pressure in the upper and lower part of the Malpighian cells.
23659843|The Atlantic rainforest in southeastern Brazil is one the main centers of diversification of Bromeliaceae. Empirical estimates of the relative importance of different pre- and postzygotic barriers to gene flow between recently diverged species are important for understanding speciation processes. While many bromeliad species easily hybridize in cultivation, few records of natural hybrids between closely related sympatric species suggest the existence of strong prezygotic barriers. A community of 42 sympatric bromeliad species, represented by nine genera (Aechmea, Billbergia, Edmundoa, Neoregelia, Nidularium, Quesnelia, Racinaea, Tillandsia, and Vriesea), were surveyed from 20042005 to assess the role of microhabitat isolation, phenological isolation and ethological isolation as potential prezygotic barriers. These bromeliads are abundant in the understory and frequently grow densely aggregated in multispecific patches that may facilitate promiscuous pollination. There was a large overlap of flowering periods even between congeneric species. Most species shared a similar assemblage of flower visitors; the hummingbird Rhamphodon naevius was the major visitor for 35 species. Only one putative hybrid was observed. This uncommonness of hybridization is puzzling, given that the prezygotic isolation mechanisms investigated are potentially weak to effectively avoid interspecific pollination.
23643340|An investigation of randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) marker distribution was made for two well-characterised hybrids and their parents, Leucaena leucocephala and L. esculenta and Parkinsonia aculeata and Cercidium praecox. Three chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) markers identified the maternal parent of each L. leucocephala  L. esculenta hybrid. Fifteen species-diagnostic RAPD markers (invariant in one taxon and absent from the other) were always present in the Leucaena hybrid and assumed to be of nuclear origin, whilst three RAPD markers showed expression patterns identical to the cpDNA markers and were assumed to be of organellar origin. No RAPD or PCR-RFLP taxon-diagnostic markers were discovered for either P. aculeata or C. praecox. However, 21 RAPD markers were species-specific (polymorphic within one taxon but absent from the other) and Southern analysis indicated that none of the markers were of organellar origin. Only 67% additivity of markers specific to P. aculeata and C. praecox was demonstrated in the hybrids between these two species, whilst in Leucaena 97% additivity was demonstrated. Differences between the two hybridising situations were related to the behaviour of the molecular markers and the biology of the species.
23674890|In melittophilous plants the colour pattern of the flowers, as perceived by bumblebees, is a gradient of centripetally increasing spectral purity. This pattern serves as a signal for innate flower recognition in naive bumblebees permitting orientation to flowers and landing on flowers. Structures which make up the total signal pattern can include the background (e.g., green leaves), corollas, and stamens or floral guides. How various colour parameters, such as dominant wavelength, intensity, and spectral purity influence the colour signal pattern of flowers is analyzed. The process of strong absorption of ultraviolet light is shown to be a mechanism for the enhancement of spectral purity in flower guides. The importance of other mechanisms is also demonstrated. The presence of a gradient of centripetally increasing spectral purity in floral colour patterns as perceived by a bumblebee's eyes is demonstrated by a comparison of the spectral reflectance in different parts of the flower and a representation of colour loci in the colour triangle.
23655555|Thirty-nine species and subspecies of the genera Centaurea, Colymbada, Psephellus and Cyanus (all included in Centaurea s.l.) including many rare and endemic taxa of preponderantly Bulgarian distribution have been investigated with Feulgen DNA image densitometry for holoploid and monoploid genome size (C- and Cx-values). Cyanus varies gradually 2.17-fold between 0.74 pg and 1.56 pg (1Cx). In the remaining taxa two major genome size groups are found, which differ about 1.8-fold in Cx-value. Low values occur in Centaurea subgenera Acrolophus, Solstitiaria, Phalolepis (0.77 pg to 0.90 pg, 1Cx) and Jacea (0.95 pg to 1.09 pg, 1Cx), high values in the genera Colymbada (1.65 pg to 1.93 pg, 1Cx) and Psephellus (1.79 pg, 1Cx, in P. marschallianus). Cx-values support a distinction of Colymbada from Centaurea. Genome size variation is discussed with regard to phylogeny, life form (annual versus perennial), polyploidy, chromosome basic numbers, altitude of occurrence and climate, endemism, and rarity.
23655798|Hogweed (Heracleum sphondylium L.), a common European umbellifer, is very variable in terms of flower and inflorescence morphology. Its flowers are visited by numerous insects, yet little is known about the importance of the particular insect taxa. I observed umbels of two colour morphs (subspecies) of Heracleum sphondylium growing in NE Poland, which were visited by more than 108 insect species during two study seasons. Analysis of the insects' importance suggests that the most efficient pollinators are the medium-sized flies Eriozona syrphoides, and Lucilia spp. (Diptera). Bumblebees Bombus terrestris (Hymenoptera), beetles of genus Stenurella spp. and Dasytes spp. (Coleoptera) and flies Eristalis spp., Meliscaeva cinctella, Phaonia angelicae and Thricops nigrifrons also contribute to pollination of the studied plants, but their efficiency shows considerable seasonal variation. Although the dense umbels of the white flowered H. sphondylium subsp. sphondylium are generally more attractive for insect visitors than the loose yellowish inflorescences of H. sphondylium subsp. sibiricum, these taxa do not seem to attract different sets of the pollinators. For both subspecies, flowers in the staminate phase were visited significantly more often than those in the pistillate phase. Some flower visitors visited the staminate phase only, which suggests they may be parasites rather than pollinators.
23671748|Fourteen taxa of the Triticum-Aegilops group have been investigated for their sieve-element plastids. At maturity they contain dense and thin crystalloid inclusions and are classified into the PIIc' plastid type; only Ae. comosa var. biaristata lacked the thin crystalloids and thus conforms to the PII c type. The proteinaceous nature of the crystalloids was demonstrated by application of proteolytic enzymes. Ultrastructural evidence suggests that both kinds of crystalloid inclusions are involved in the sealing of sieve-plate pores of injured sieve tubes. Measurements and calculations of the spacings and angles carried out on crystalloid prints permitted the construction of a two- and three-dimensional pattern for T. aestivum thin crystalloids.
23643392|The phylogeny of Fumariaceae, as inferred from rps16 intron sequences, is compared with morphological data, and nrDNA-ITS. The different data sets are largely congruent and indicate that (1) Dicentra and the tribe Corydaleae as hitherto circumscribed are polyphyletic, (2) Lamprocapnos (= Dicentra spectabilis) is sister group to the rest of subfam. Fumarioideae, (3) Ehrendorferia, gen. nov. (= Dicentra chrysantha and D. ochroleuca) is basal in the latter group, (4) the morphologically aberrant Ichtyoselmis, gen. nov. (= Dicentra macrantha) groups with Dicentra s. str., (5) the genus Cysticapnos should be included in the tribe Fumarieae, (6) Dactylicapnos (= Dicentra subg. Dactylicapnos) is sister group to Corydalis, (7) the genus Corydalis is monophyletic, and consists of three subgenera: Chremnocapnos, stat. nov., Sophorocapnos, stat. nov., and Corydalis. The following new combinations are validated: Ehrendorferia chrysantha, E. ochroleuca, Ichtyoselmis macrantha, and Lamprocapnos spectabilis.
23672600|Ultrastructural and micromorphological investigations of the sporoderm of Tetrameranthus duckei pollen confirm the interpretation of this genus as being isolated within the Annonaceae.
23670128|Salvia tuxtlensis, sp. n., is immediately recognized by its semipersistent bracts and yellow flowers. Its affinities are not clear. It is endemic to the Soteapan area in the Sierra de Los Tuxtlas, in Veracruz, Mexico.
23642477|In the Chrysophyceae as well as in different species of Cryptomonas bilobed chromatophores are present. These chromatophores consist of two large parietal lobes closed to the lateral sides of the cell and joined by a narrow bridge on its dorsal part. A survey of all species with a single bilobed chromatophore is given. Besides, also species with two separate chromatophores have been found. The presence of several chromatophores in Cryptomonas cells is doubtful. The morphology of the chromatophores has to be taken into consideration in the taxonomy of Cryptomonas. hnlich wie bei den Chrysophyceen kommen auch bei verschiedenen Arten der Cryptomonaden zweiteilige Chromatophoren vor. Diese Chromatophoren bestehen aus zwei groen Lappen, die die Seitenflanken der Zelle auskleiden und dorsal mittels eines schmalen Verbindungsstcks zusammengehalten werden. Es wird eine bersicht jener Arten gegeben, die einen zweiteiligen Chromatophor besitzen. Auerdem sind auch zwei getrennte Chromatophoren bei manchen Cryptomonaden festgestellt worden. Das Vorhandensein von mehr als zwei Chromatophoren in Cryptomonas-Zellen wird bezweifelt. Der Bau des Plastidenapparates wird in der Taxonomie der Cryptomonaden bercksichtigt werden mssen.
23659848|The taxonomy of all species of Narcissus (Amaryllidaceae), an important horticultural crop, has not been investigated recently. As a new approach, genome size was determined by flow cytometry with propidium iodide from 375 accessions. The somatic nuclear DNA contents (2C) were shown to range from 14 to 38 pg for the diploids. Narcissus assoanus and N. gaditanus are, based on their nuclear DNA content, removed from section Apodanthi and placed in a new section Juncifolii. The different ploidy levels and species involved were entangled for N. "fernandesii" s.l. and a new allotetraploid form is named here. Section Pseudonarcissus was much more heterogeneous in nuclear DNA content than expected. Sixty-five accessions of N. pseudonarcissus possessed, with 23.7 pg, similar amounts of DNA. However, several species from this section were clearly distinctive in nuclear DNA content. It runs from the diploid N. primigenius with 21.7 pg to the also diploid N. nevadensis with 38.2 pg. Also N. abscissus and N. moleroi are with about 26 pg clearly different from N. pseudonarcissus. For the first time, in 11 accessions, hexaploidy was found in N. pseudonarcissus ssp. bicolor. A new section Nevadensis with 3039 pg of nuclear DNA was split off from the section Pseudonarcissus with now 2127 pg. A nonoploid N. dubius with 96.3 pg has by far the highest amount of nuclear DNA and can be calculated to have the highest ploidy ever reported in Narcisssus. The total number of Narcissus species was determined as 36, nine more than in Flora Europaea and they were divided up in two subgenera and 11 sections. Flow cytometry is shown to produce easily obtainable and original systematic data that lead to new insights. Genome size or C-value turns out to be one of the most salient features to define the status of the species in the genus Narcissus.
23656088|Low levels of genetic diversity in endemic species are generally attributable to the small size of their populations. This lack of genetic variability will, predictably, be more evident in those species that occur in only one or a very few localities with a total population consisting of a few dozen individuals, or sometimes fewer (i.e. 'extremely narrow endemics', ENEs). We used allozyme electrophoresis to survey the genetic variability of Coristospermum huteri, an endemic species from the island of Majorca (Balearic Islands, W. Mediterranean Basin) with a single natural population of about 100 individuals. As expected, allozyme variability was virtually nil for this species (P = 8.3 %, A = 1.08, H e = 0.022), which seems to be a general rule for ENEs (mean H e = 0.057). A founder effect associated with a dispersal event from the continent is probably behind the lack of genetic diversity in this highly threatened species. Preservation of the mountain summit where the plant is found (Puig Major) is essential for the survival of C. huteri, and would also guarantee the conservation of other ENEs and rare and threatened species.
23643252|The annual Mediterranean herb Theligonum cynocrambe shows a peculiar combination of morphological characters, e.g., switch from decussate to spiral phyllotaxis with 90100 divergence, combined with a change from interpetiolar to lateral stipules, anemophily, lack of calyx, flowers often dimerous to trimerous, corolla fused in both male and female flowers, male flowers extra-axillary, with 219 stamens per flower, female flowers axillary, with inferior uniovulate ovary, basilateral style and perianth, nut-like fruits with elaiosome. In male flowers the androecium emerges as an (uneven) elliptical rim with a central depression. This common girdling primordium is divided up into several stamen primordia. In male flowers with low stamen number the stamen primordia may occupy the corners alternating with the corolla lobes. There are no epipetalous androecial primordia that secondarily divide into stamens. Male flowers occasionally show a hemispherical base that may be interpreted as remnant of the inferior ovary. In female flowers a ring primordium grows into a tube on which the petal lobes arise. The perianth and style become displaced adaxially by uneven growth of the inferior ovary. The ovary is basically bilocular. The lower region of the ovary is provided with a septum that is overtopped and hidden by the single curved ovule. Theligonum is referred to the Rubiaceae-Rubioideae, with the Anthospermeae and Paederieae as most closely related tribes.
23655509|We present new comparative morphological and developmental data on gynoecia of three genera of early-divergent monocots: Tofieldia (Tofieldiaceae, Alismatales), Petrosavia and Japonolirion (Petrosaviaceae, Petrosaviales) and one lilioid monocot: Narthecium (Nartheciaceae, Dioscoreales). Our data show significant differences between the genera examined, and are congruent with the splitting of former Nartheciaceae sensu Tamura (1998) into families Tofieldiaceae, Petrosaviaceae NB-cosistent with later and Nartheciacae (APG II 2003). Our investigation confirms the presence of at least partial carpel fusion in all taxa examined. Previous data indicating apocarpy in Japonolirion, some Petrosavia and Tofieldia could be due to late postgenital carpel fusion in these plants. Syncarpy also characterises other early-divergent monocot lineages such as Acoraceae and Araceae. It is most parsimonious to regard syncarpy as a primitive condition for monocots, but an alternative scenario suggests that apocarpy is plesiomorphic among monocots, involving multiple origins of syncarpy. The latter hypothesis is supported by significant differences between gynoecia of early-divergent monocots, including different modes of carpel fusion.
23674611|The only hard evidence from field studies in the natural range of Apios americana (Leguminosae) indicates that this species is frequently triploid and seed sterile, and that the only legitimate pollinators are Megachilid bees. Claims of fly pollination based exclusively on examination of floral features of a European botanic garden specimen are unwarranted.
23674503|Seventeen glucosinolates were identified and quantified by micro-scale GC analysis in Algerian samples from Sisymbrieae, Arabideae, Lepidieae, and Brassiceae tribes of the Cruciferae. Major glucosinolates and their amino acid precursors allowed species to fall naturally into tribes as classified by Janchen.
23656072|In flora of Turkey, there are six species of Carthamus L: Carthamus dentatus (Forssk.) Vahl., C. glaucus M. Bieb. subsp. glaucus, C. lanatus L., C. tenuis (Boiss. & Blanche) Bornm., C. persicus Desf. ex Willd. and C. tinctorius L. Within these species, C. tinctorius L. is an alien species for the Turkish flora. The pollen grains belonging to six taxa collected from different locations of Anatolia and examined both under light microscope (LM) and under scanning electron microscope (SEM). As a result of these examinations and measurements, pollen grains of taxa are radially symmetrical, isopolar, oblate-spheroid, spheroid, tricolporate rarely tetracolporate, echinate. There are high similarities among taxa but some differences are recorded in size and spin length. According to cluster analyses of Carthamus species' pollens, C. glaucus and C. tenuis have the most similar pollens. C. dentatus grouped with these two. C. persicus placed as the closest relative of C. tinctorius in the dendrogram.
23655670|The composition of the essential oils of ten Centaurea species from Turkey, Centaurea aladaghensis, C. antiochia var. prealta, C. antitauri, C. babylonica, C. balsamita, C. cheirolepidoides, C. deflexa, C. iconiensis, C. lanigera, C. ptosimopappoides have been studied. Multivariate statistical analyses (Principal Component Analysis, Multidimensional Scaling, Hierarchical Cluster Analysis) applied to GC-MS data, seem to be very useful to investigate and establish the natural taxonomic delimitation of this very difficult genus. The groupings resulted independent from the ecological similarities (i.e. plants that live in the same habitats or share similar morphological characteristics), so it seems that the environment has no influence on the biosynthesis of the volatiles of these plants.
23642314|Five new species of soil algae from a Dalmatian island are described and figured. One of them belongs to the Xanthophyceae: Chlorellidium astigmatum Schwarz, the other are Chlorococcales: Borodinellopsis oleifera Schwarz, Tetracystis compacta Schwarz, T. sarcinalis Schwarz, and Bracteacoccus minutus Schwarz. For a sixth species, Gloeobotrys firmus (Xanthophyseae), originally described by Pascher 1939, a complete description, a latin diagnosis and figures of developmental stages and reproduction are given. Aus Bodenproben der mitteldalmatinischen Insel Lavsa werden fnfneue Algenarten beschrieben und abgebildet; davon sind 1) eine Xanthophycea, 2)5) Chlorococcales. 1) Chlorellidium astigmatum, spec, nova, ist durch stigmalose Zoosporen charakterisiert. 2) Borodinellopsis oleifera, spec, nov., zeichnet sich durch einen axialen Chromatophor mit zentralem Pyrenoid aus. Die Zellen besitzen pulsierende Vakuolen und speichern l. Als Ruhestadium werden skulpturierte Zysten gebildet. 3) Tetracystis compacta, spec, nova, unterscheidet sich von hnlichen Formen (T. illinoisensis) durch den leicht asymmetrischen Bau der Zoosporen, deren Geieln meist die doppelte Krperlnge erreichen, und das winzige, hinter der Zellmitte liegende Stigma. 4) Tetracystis sarcinalis spec, nova bildet auffallend regelmige aus isodiametrischen Viererpaketen aufgebaute Gruppen, die eher an Chloro sarcinopsis erinnern. Es werden jedoch behutete Zoosporen gebildet. 5) Bracteacoccus minuties spec. nova. Die Zellen sind besonders klein und besitzen in der Jugend einen einzigen Chromatophor, der bei heranwachsenden Zellen in zahlreiche kantige Bruchstcke zerfllt. Die Zoosporen sind stigmalos. 6) Eine weitere Xanthophycea, Gloeobotrys fir mus Pascheb, wurde zum zweiten Mal gefunden. Die Artbeschreibung wird ergnzt und mit einer Diagnose versehen. Diese Art erscheint dadurch bemerkenswert, da sie in zehn von elf Proben mehrfach vorkam und nur unter Brachypodium ramosum fehlte, whrend Chlorellidium astigmatum nur unter Pistacia lentiscus gefunden wurde. Neben Gloeobotrys firmus erwies sich auch Borodinellopsis oleifera als euryhaline Art, da sie sowohl unter Statice cancellata und Crithmum maritimum als auch unter Quercus ilex relativ hufig war.
23674413|Two regions of the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) were sequenced from a range of species from the tribe Triticeae. One region, the central spacer, was found to be more divergent in sequence than the other, the 18 S-spacer junction. Both regions contained sequences 20  30 bp long which were more highly conserved than the remainder of the region and their possible significance in rDNA expression is discussed. Phenetic relationships based on the sequence data were generally consistent with the relationships based on other criteria. Species possessing the S, E, J1J2, D, and B genomes clustered together, with the H genome species being the most distinct of those examined. The R, P, and V genome species occupy an intermediate position in the overall pattern of relationships. Some relationships differed in detail from those established by other parameters, for example the position of the N genome species, and explanations for discrepancies of this type are discussed.
23673211|Variations in the chloroplast and mitochondrial DNA of Cycas revoluta Thunb. (Cycadaceae) were examined in 22 populations distributed across the Ryukyu Islands and southern Kyushu. Among the 14,130 bp of sequence examined, only one site mutation and one indel were polymorphic. The identified polymorphisms were located in the spacers between trnS (UGA) and trnfM (CAU) of the chloroplast DNA and between nad1 exon B and exon C of the mitochondrial DNA, respectively. Three haplotypes were identified from the Ryukyu Islands and southern Kyushu. The areas of distribution of the three haplotypes were highly geographically structured. The boundaries of two of the three haplotypes were demarcated by Okinoerabujima Island in the middle Ryukyus. The northern type and southern types lay north and south of the island, respectively. The third haplotype was almost symaptrically distributed with the southern type. The genetic variation within C. revoluta was estimated to be very low (h = 0.641,  = 0.00071) in comparison to its relative in Taiwan, C. taitungensis, which possesses 97 cpDNA haplotypes and 55 mtDNA haplotypes from two relic populations. A reasonable explanation for the low genetic diversity of the cycad on the Ryukyu Islands could be severe bottleneck effects, resulting from the submersion of low islands and the diminished landmass of islands in the interglacial age in the Quaternary period. The geographically restricted nature of the haplotypes could be attributed to vicariance resulting from the land configuration of the Ryukyu Islands, including changes in geography during the interglacial age in the Quaternary.
23674835|Intergenic spacers of the rRNA genes of three species of the Cynareae tribe: Cynara cardunculus subsp. scolymus (artichoke), Onopordum acanthium, and O. illyricum were cloned in the plasmid pGEM-7zf(+). Detailed restriction mapping and partial sequencing of the IGSs were carried out. The structural analysis showed a clear diversity between Cynara and Onopordum, while a high degree of homology was found between the two Onopordum spp. In all three species a fragment of about 450 bp from the 5 end of 18S to the Acc I site with a high sequence homology was present. Nucleotide sequences upstream from the above mentioned Acc I site show a gradual decrease of homology between Cynara and Onopordum.
23669750|Populations of the common wild rice of Asia O. rufipogon Griff. (= Oryza perennis Moench) were studied with regard to interrelations between life-history traits and habitat conditions. They showed a perennial-annual continuum and differed in reproductive allocation and many other traits. Perennial populations were found in deep swamps, while annual populations were in shallower, temporary swamps which were parched in the dry season. The perennial and annual types tended to be in association with other perennial and annual plants, respectively, suggesting their niche differentiation. Intermediate perennial-annual populations were in communities with a high species diversity. In one population, plants growing on the periphery of the swamp were of annual and those in deeper center were of perennial type. Another population seemed to be differentiated into an annual and an intermediate type in accordance with different degrees of habitat disturbance. The small genetic distances found between the sub-populations suggested their differentiation within a gene pool.
23643120|Hybridization between two diploid (2n = 2x = 16) species of Brassicaceae, Cardamine rivularis and C. amara, at Urnerboden, Central Switzerland, resulted in the rather unusual triploid hybrid C. insueta (2n = 3x = 24), and later on in the amphiploid C. schulzii (2n = 6x = 48). The hybrid and the neopolyploid species colonized successfully some man-made biotopes. Plants of C. insueta are mostly functional females with non-dehiscent anthers, but true hermaphrodite individuals with partly sterile pollen grains also occur within the population. Analyses of cpDNA and nuclear DNA permitted to establish the parentage of the hybrid: the maternal parent which contributed unreduced egg cells proved to be C. rivularis whereas the normally reduced pollen originated from C. amara. The pronounced genetic variability in C. insueta revealed by isozyme and RAPD analyses, at variance with the polarized segregation, heterogamy and strong vegetative reproduction of the hybrid, is possibly influenced by recurrent formation of C. insueta which party results from backcrosses between C. insueta and C. rivularis but may also proceed by other pathways. The amphiploid Cardamine schulzii has normally developed anthers but its pollen is sometimes highly sterile. The surprisingly uniform genetic make-up of the new amphiploid species might be related to its possible monotopic origin and/or young phylogenetic age but should be further assessed. Site management seems to be very important to a further development of hybridogenous populations and their parent species. In conclusion, the evolution at Urnerboden is discussed in the context of the traditional concept of multiple plant origins.
23655611|To test whether the nectarless flowers of Cypripedium tibeticum attract pollinators through mimicry like the allied species C. macranthos var. rebunense, pollination biology of C. tibeticum was investigated in western China. Although C. tibeticum was also pollinated by bumble bee queens, i.e. Bombus lepidus, B. lucorum and B. hypnorum, no special, rewarding model plants were found in the habitat. Field experimentation confirmed that the flowers were self-compatible but insects were required to transfer orchid pollen to the stigma. Both Bombus queens and workers were visitors, but queens were much more frequent than workers and only queens were effective pollinators. Floral functional morphology analysis showed that it was large queens rather than small workers that fitted well with the flowers of C. tibeticum. With the faint sweet-fruity scent, the minor floral fragrance compound, ethyl acetate, probably plays a role in attracting bumble bees by food deception. The dark flowers with the inflated, trap-like labellum are hypothesized to mimic the nest site of queens. Therefore, bumble bee queens tend to be attracted by C. tibeticum through nest site mimic combined with food deception. Considering that the co-blooming flowers of C. flavum are pollinated by the Bombus workers, and C. smithii pollinated by a queen, we suggest that using the same bumblebees with different body sizes as the pollinators is the main reproductive isolation between interfertile C. tibeticum and C. flavum, while C. tibeticum and C. smithii tend to hybridize naturally.
43558216|Wheat taxonomy has a long history. The existence and use of competing wheat classifications and the use of different botanic names for a single species are causing confusion in the research community. Options for employing a different classification of the genus Triticum L. for molecular biological, genetic, and phylogenetic investigations; for identifying and collecting wheat accessions; and for use in breeding practice are discussed. 2002). It is also crucial in plant breeding, for identification, for prediction of the success of introgression, and for certification of new accessions and commercial cultivars. The goal of most taxonomists today is to produce classifications that reflect phylogenetic relationships while contributing to the effective preservation of species. At present, there is disagreement both on the circumscription of Triticum itself and of its species. In this paper, I review the taxonomic history of Triticum and the differences between the Mac Key and Dorofeev classifications and propose adoption of a treatment that better meets the present and future needs of those engaged in research on the genus.
23642089|The shrubby to herbaceous genus Ambrosia is centred in the arid regions of N. America. Its remarkable variability appears to be related to occurrence as pioneers and weeds in unstable habitats, extensive migrations and hybridization, seed-longevity, inbreeding, polyploidy and dysploidy. Volatile oils underline that the genus is a natural assemblage. Sesquiterpene lactones profiles parallel migration routes and characterize geographical races in several groups, but patterns of chemical and morphological differentiation sometimes are not congruent. Seed proteins are  individual-specific and useful as parameters of genetic polymorphism. In connection with other approaches analyses of chemical constituents can greatly help to clarify problems of species, speciation and evolution.
23645307|Native to South-Africa, species of the Senecio inaequidens complex are presently invasive in Europe, Australia and South-America. Previously, different ploidy levels have been found in these different areas, with only tetraploid individuals reported in Europe, and only diploids in South-Africa and Australia. In the present study chromosome counts and flow cytometry were used to survey DNA ploidy levels in a large sample of 66 native and 21 European invasive populations. One Mexican individual was also added to the study. We found only tetraploid individuals occurring in Europe, whereas both ploidy levels, diploid and tetraploid, were found in South-Africa. Moreover, based on genome size, we suggest that two largely allopatric varieties of diploids exist in South-Africa. The Mexican individual was diploid. We suggest that European tetraploid individuals come from South-Africa and hypothesize that a hybridization event between the two DNA types of diploids occurred in the Lesotho area. The taxonomic difficulties surrounding species of the S. inaequidens complex are briefly discussed.
23674772|Homosporous ferns are generally considered polyploid due to high chromosome numbers, but genetically diploid since the expression of isozymes is generally controlled by a single locus. Gene silencing over evolutionary time is one means by which this apparent contradiction can be explained. A prediction of this hypothesis is that silenced gene sequences still reside in the genomes of homosporous ferns. We examined the genomes of Ceratopteris richardii and C. thalictroides for sequences which are similar to expressed gene sequences. Genomic DNA blots hybridized with C. richardii cDNA clones showed that the majority of these clones detected multiple fragments, suggesting that most gene-like sequences are duplicated in Ceratopteris. Hybridization signal intensity often varied between fragments of the same size between accessions, sometimes dramatically, which indicates that not all sequences are equivalent, and may represent the products of silenced genes. Observed reciprocal differences in intensity could be due to reciprocally silenced genes. In addition, an unusual segregation pattern for one locus followed by one probe may indicate homeologous chromosome pairing and segregation.
23642819|Morphological and molecular comparisons were made for Campsis grandiflora (Thunb.) K. Schumann (Bignoniaceae) from eastern Asia and C. radicans (L.) Seemann from eastern North America. Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) variation was surveyed with 20 restriction endonucleases. The cpDNA divergence between the two vicariad species was 2.44%, which is the highest reported among North Temperate disjunct taxa and one of the highest reported for infrageneric taxa. Detailed morphological comparisons also suggest a high level of divergence. Cluster analyses based on 22 morphological characters and 39 OTUs revealed two distinct groups corresponding with the two species. The average taxonomic distance between the two species was 1.806. Analyses of variance (ANOVA) revealed that 12 of the 18 quantitative characters differed significantly (  0.01) between C. grandiflora and C. radicans. Divergence time based on cpDNA data was estimated as 24.4 million years. The Bering land bridge hypothesis was favored over the North Atlantic land bridge hypothesis based on the estimated divergence time and the geological history of the North Temperate region. The high levels of morphological and cpDNA divergence are not consistent with morphological stasis, which has been proposed as a common mode of evolution for North Temperate disjunct taxa.
23674563|Lignite fossil flowers (including pollen) and isolated stamens of probable hamamelidalean (possible hamamelidaceous) affinities from the upper Cretaceous (Late Santonian or Early Campanian) of Sweden are described. The flowers are 67-merous with probably a double perianth, one whorl of stamens and (2?)3 carpels. The stamens are disporangiate; each theca opens by a valve towards the centre of the flower. Pollen is tricolpate, tectate-columellate and reticulate; the endexine is lamellated in the apertural region. The gynoecium has free styles and a syncarpous ovary. In the one flower that was serially sectioned the ovary is either non-functional or development of the few (2?) ovules is retarded.
23642342|The seed set and breeding system in a naturalized population of Euonymus europaeus is described. The average seed set is lower (5.7%) and more variable in male than in female plants (9.3%). Some male plants set little or no seed. The results are compared with those of Darwin, who described E. europaeus as polygamous and trioecious; it is concluded that the species is better described as gynodioecious.
23644042|Cortinarius sarcoflammeus is proposed as a new species belonging to subgenus Dermocybe, on the basis of its morphological, chemical and ecological characters. The strong red-orange colour of the context and stipe base, large spores, sphagnicolous habitat and high dermorubin content are characteristic for the new species. Holotypes of C. huronensis and C. huronensis var. olivaceus have been examined for comparison, and their differences discussed. Photographs and line drawings of C. sarcoflammeus are added.
23643510|Cladistic analyses of chloroplast DNA disagree with current classifications by placing Polemoniaceae near sympetalous families with two staminal whorls, including Fouquieriaceae and Diapensiaceae, rather than near sympetalous families with a single staminal whorl, such as Hydrophyllaceae and Convolvulaceae. To explore further the affinities of Polemoniaceae, we sequenced 18S ribosomal DNA for eight genera of Polemoniaceae and 31 families representing a broadly defined Asteridae. The distribution of variation in these sequences suggest some sites are hypervariable and multiple hits at these sites have obscured much of the hierarchical structure present in the data. Nevertheless, parsimony, least-squares minimum evolution, and maximum likelihood methods all support a monophyletic Polemoniaceae that is placed near Fouquieriaceae, Diapensiaceae and related "ericalean" families.
23642852|The spectral reflection of pollen in 67 plant species out of 28 families was measured by means of mass recording of pollen grains. Various types of spectral reflection curves were found, but 75% belonged to two categories: 1. Human-yellow pollen with strong reflection in the green and red, and low reflection in the ultraviolet and blue range of wavelengths. 2. Human-whitish pollen with strong reflection in the green and red and additional reflection of shorter wavelengths. It is shown that it is important to have information about the mode of the visual pollen display  crypsis or colour contrast against the corolla, pollen advertisement, or concealment  and the visual capabilities of the presumed pollinators in order to be able to discuss the signalling function of pollen colours.
23644234|The genus Boronia Sm. section Boronia series Boronia contains species with n = 7 (B. megastigma), n = 7 or 8 (B. heterophylla), n = 8 (B. molloyae) and n = 9 (B. purdieana), representing ideal species with which to examine comparative chromosome morphology. Between species there were few chromosomes with similar morphology, indicating numerous genome re-organisations. Karyotypes between and within species of Boronia could be distinguishd and inheritance of some chromosomes was observed. Species and hybrids with 2n = 14 or 15 had at least one large chromosome. Chromosome morphology indicated a closer relationship between B. heterophylla and B. molloyae and between B. purdieana and B. megastigma than between these two groups. Whole genomic DNA was extracted from 9 genotypes of Boronia. RAPD bands were analysed and pairwise distance matrices between genotypes were computed. Dendrograms were generated and analysed using unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic average cluster analysis. Dendograms supported cytological results, indicating B. heterophylla and B. molloyae are closely related and clearly distinct from B. megastigma and B. purdieana. The evolution of boronias is discussed.
23644389|Floral organogenesis of Chloranthus sessilifolius K. F. Wu is described. The inflorescence primordium is dome-like in the beginning and then elongates, and bract primordia initiate almost decussately. Each floral primordium, arising from the axil of a bract, soon becomes a scale-like structure, with three primordia of androecial lobes originating from its abaxial part, and the gynoecial primordium in adaxial position. As the androecial lobes become more distinct, four thecae are already in differentiation, and the gynoecial primordium appears as a shallow disc. The androecial lobes do not extend their length until the thecae approach maturity and the stigma is differentiated. The androecial lobes are united at all the stages of development, and the entire androecium falls off as a unit at the end of anthesis. Based on these results, combined with published evidence from neobotany, palaeobotany and phylogenetic studies, the morphological nature of the androecium of Chloranthus is further discussed. Our studies support the viewpoint that the androecial structure of Chloranthus may have arisen by splitting of a single stamen with 2 marginal thecae.
23664811|In this study, the genetic diversity of 15 Turkish natural Capparis populations was screened using the randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis (RAPD) technique. Ten RAPD primers produced 98 loci, 73 of which were polymorphic. The binary RAPD data were computed using the POPGENE (version 1.31), a genetic data analysis software program. According to genetic diversity analysis at locus level, the total genetic diversity (H t ) and genetic diversity within population (H s ) were detected as 0.16 and 0.12, respectively. The genetic differentiation (G st ) and gene flow (N m ) between populations were observed as 0.22 and 1.79, respectively. The mean number of allele per locus (n a ), the mean number of effective allele (n ea ), and the mean value of genetic diversity (H e ) were determined as 2, 1.20, and 0.16, respectively. According to Pearson's correlation analysis, the mean number of allele had a strong negative correlation with wind and a strong positive correlation with rain. According to multiple regression analysis, eco-geographical factors had a significant effect on the mean number of allele, the mean number of effective allele, and the mean value of genetic diversity. The principal component analysis revealed 87.42 % of total genetic variation. The principal coordinate analysis displayed the separation of population according to genetic distances based on dissimilarities matrix values on a scattered plot graph. Five different varieties, Capparis spinosa L. var. spinosa, var aegyptia and var. canescens, and Capparis ovata Desf. var. palaestina, and var. herbacea were identified in this study. Intermediate forms of plants were observed among the specimens.
23674721|The Giemsa C-banding pattern of the chromosomes of the native self-pollinated Aegilops comosa subsp. comosa var. comosa was studied. Six of the seven chromosomes of the haploid genome were found to be polymorphic for C-banding patterns. Chromosome A had four variants, chromosome E three variants and each of the chromosomes B, D, and F two variants. Chromosomes E and G were polymorphic for arm length and arm ratio.
23655991|Espinhao Range is a Brazilian chain of mountains, extremely rich in endemic species. Minasia has six species, all perennial herbs endemic to this range. Twenty-two populations were sampled from all Minasia species and assayed for allozyme variation. The species showed low genetic variation, compatible with the expectation for endemics. Genetic identities in Serra do Cip and Diamantina were high, even between populations of different species. On the other hand M. cabralensis, from Serra do Cabral, was more differentiated from the other species. We also observed a marked genetic differentiation within M. cabralensis. Most strikingly, two close populations of this species showed very different allele frequencies. Our findings highlight the importance of local differentiation in campos rupestres. The observed genetic structure indicates that substantial portions of genetic diversity could be lost with the extinction of only one population, which is especially threatening considering the already low genetic diversity.
23644972|Herbert and Irene Baker were a team. Their contributions to pollination biology have been many, but it is in the area of nectar its chemical composition, functional and ecological significance, and value in taxonomy and evolution that we honour them here. Although nectar can be described as simply a sugary secretion from plants, we know that it is more than that. Herbert and Irene explored the depths of nectar chemistry, analysing sugar components, non-sugar constituents that can benefit nectarivorous animals (amino acids, lipids, antioxidants, proteins, minerals, vitamins) or that may be deleterious (alkaloids, phenolics, other toxins, salts, and perhaps some other amino acids). They related the ratios of disaccharide (sucrose) to monosaccharides (glucose and fructose), and the amounts of amino acids, and other constituents in nectar to pollinator types and theorized on the reasons for the trends they observed. They noted tight relationships between nectar constituents and plant systematics, and additive effects of some constituents after hybridization. In all their nectar studies made over a quarter century, evolution and ecology were forefront. This scholarly couple made an indelible mark.
23674221|Comparisons between previous intuitive or phenetic classifications of the net-veined Liliiflorae was used to determine a suitable group of taxa for cladistic analyses. The resultant 48 genera and generic groupings comprising 19 families from within the Asparagales, Liliales and Dioscoreales were then analysed. The cladistics largely supported previous treatments, with the Liliales, Dioscoreales and Asparagales all monophyletic.
23656018|The only Balkan endemic of the genus Picris, Picris hispidissima, was studied in detail using morphological and karyological methods. The species was shown to be morphologically distinct from the closest taxon, Picris hieracioides, by the pectinateciliate indumentum of involucral bracts, dilatation of the peduncle, length of the outer and inner bracts, and indumentum colour. No morphological variation that would require taxonomic classification was found within this species. Despite the diploid chromosome number (2n = 2 = 10) being confirmed for P. hispidissima, variation of up to 9.5% in genome size was found. The likely explanation for this variation is hybridization and introgression with closely related P. hieracioides. The most convincing evidence for this hypothesis is the detection of plants with two clearly different DNA contents arising from a single capitulum found in the location where P. hispidissima and P. hieracioides co-occur.
23643374|Flowering and pollination biology of the monoecious palm Euterpe precatoria was studied in the forest of the "Reserva Ducke" near Manaus, Brazil, during two annual flowering periods (middle of October to end of March) between 1991 and 1993. Individuals produced one to four bisexual inflorescences per flowering period. Inflorescences have staminate and pistillate flowers in triads. The anthesis of the whole inflorescence averaged 26 days, with the male phase extending over the first 17 days, followed by six days without any open flowers, and the female phase covering the last three days. The distinct dichogamy of the inflorescence results in obligate outcrossing. The pollen-ovule ratio is high (42000). Both male and female flowers emit an almond oil-like scent and produce nectar in septal nectaries. The concentration and total amount of sugar of the nectar of female flowers (37% and 0.021 mg) were significantly higher than that of male flowers (9% and 0.007 mg). The nectar is hexose-rich and with a moderately high amino acid concentration (68 g/ml). Euterpe precatoria seems to be a generally entomophilous palm with a predominance of beetles and bees as potential pollinators. The most constant visitors were beetles of the families Curculionidae, Chrysomelidae, Staphylinidae, and bees of the family Halictidae. The actual composition of the insect spectrum depends on climatic and biotic factors. Additionally, wind pollination may occur. Fruit development lasted four months and ripe fruits are swallowed by toucans who thus disperse the seeds.
23673257|The current classification systems recognize Salacioideae as a monophyletic group within Celastraceae. Nonetheless, some divergences exist for genera: in some cases, most species of the subfamily have been included in only two genera; in others, these genera have been subdivided. This study characterizes the leaf anatomy of 31 species of the subfamily Salacioideae as a contribution to identifying them through features that may also help distinguish among genera. Cross-sections of the median region of the leaf blade and of the petiole and dissociated and macerated epidermis were analyzed. Taxonomically relevant anatomical characters include the type of crystals in the parenchymatous tissue (monocrystals in Cheiloclinium and druses in other genera); the presence of laticifers in Cheiloclinium and Tontelea only; the variable form of the petiole vascular system among studied species; the type of stomata (cyclocytic with two concentric circles of subsidiary cells in P. dulcis; anomocytic in T. attenuata, T. fluminensis, and T. leptophylla; laterocytic in C. anomalum and C. hippocrateoides; and ciclocytic in the other species); the sinuosity of the anticlinal walls of the epidermal cells (sinuous in Cheiloclinium and Peritassa, except P. laevigata, and in S. arborea, S. insignis, S. mosenii, S. nemerosa, and S. opacifolia, and straight in all other studied species); the presence of crystalliferous idioblasts in the epidermis of P. dulcis, P. flaviflora, and P. mexiae; and the presence, form, and disposition of sclereids in the leaf blade, which is a highly variable character among the studied species.
23674106|Evolutionary variation of aspartate aminotransferase and superoxide dismutase isoenzymes in 14 wild and cultivated species of Phaseolus and Vigna has been studied by electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing in polyacrylamide gel. The American cultivated beans of the genus Phaseolus s. str., P. vulgaris, P. coccineus, P. lunatus and P. acutifolius, form a homogeneous group with only minor isoenzyme variation. The genus Vigna, on the contrary, proves to be heterogeneous in isozyme characters. Several clusters of taxa can be distinguished in close correspondence with modern treatments of the genus. The isoenzyme data support the inclusion of the Asian Azuki beans of subg. Ceratotropis in Vigna, but argue against the transfer of the S. American species P. adenantha. The cowpea complex V. unguiculata s. lato of sect. Catiang forms an uniform and isolated group, distinct from other sections of subg. Vigna, and shows affinity to Phaseolus s. str. by some isoenzymes. It is suggested to remove V. unguiculata s. lato from subg. Vigna and to recognize it as a separate subg. Catiang (DC.) Jaaska & Jaaska, stat. nov.
23642924|A comparative investigation was carried out on the ovule and seed development of three mountain species of Gentianaceae, the perennial species Gentiana pyrenaica, and the two short-lived monocarpic species Gentianella caucasea and G. germanica. In all three species most embryological characters conform to those generally found in the family of the Gentianaceae. In some features, however, G. pyrenaica and the two Gentianella species differ from each other. In G. pyrenaica the ovule is anatropous, the integument 810 layered and the three reduced antipodals degenerate soon after fertilization. In contrast, G. caucasea and G. germanica form a hemitropous ovule, a 45 layered integument and up to 16 antipodal cells by secondary multiplication. All three species exhibit differences in synchronization between embryogenesis and endosperm development. Functional relations between the antipodal structure and the dynamics of seed development of the investigated species are postulated.
23674934|The use of steroids as taxonomic markers of the angiosperms was evaluated. To this end evolutionary advancement parameters, based on oxidation state and skeletal specialization of each steroid were calculated. The averages of these values for the steroids registered for a particular plant group were assumed to represent the evolutionary parameters of the plant group. Positive correlations of these chemical parameters and of morphological Sporne indices, as well as of herbacity indices, were observed to constitute a general trend. Furthermore, steroids are not uniformly distributed within a morphologically homogeneous plant group, but are replacement characters. Thus, in spite of their functional importance, steroids can be considered, analogously to many other classes of secondary metabolites, for chemosystematic purposes.
43496778|A comparative chromosomal evaluation was carried out between Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) and V. radiata (mung bean) with chromomycin A (CMA)/4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) banding and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) using 5S/45S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) probes. Both species had symmetric karyotypes (2n = 22), with prevalence of centromeres in chromosomes at median (m) and submedian (sm) regions and chromosomes ranging in size from 2.1 to 1.25 m (V. unguiculata) and 2.18 to 0.93 m (V. radiata). Three different banding patterns were identified for V. unguiculata: $CMA_3^ + /DAP{I^0}$, $CMA_3^{ + + }/DAP{I^ - }$, and $CMA_3^ + /DAP{I^ - }$. The $CMA_3^ + /DAP{I^0}$ bands were observed in the pericentromeric regions of all chromosomes, while the $CMA_3^{ + + }/DAP{I^ - }$ and $CMA_3^ + /DAP{I^ - }$ bands were co-localized with the 45S rDNA in the subtelomeric position (chromosomes B, G, and D, J, respectively) and in the proximal position in chromosome F. Two pairs of chromosomes (D and I) bearing interstitial 5S rDNA have been also identified. Vigna radiata displayed $CMA_3^0/DAP{I^ + }$ bands distributed in the centromeric region of chromosomes B, C, and F, while $CMA_3^{ + + }/DAP{I^ - }$ bands were co-localized with the 45S rDNA sites in the subtelomeric position of the short arm in the F and K chromosome pairs. Three pairs of 5S rDNA sites were identified, the first in the proximal region of the long arm in chromosome E and the two others in the proximal and subterminal positions in the long arm of chromosome J. These data highlight some divergences regarding the amount and composition of the heterochromatin in both species, allowing the identification of individual chromosomes in V. unguiculata and V. radiata, and a comparison with other members of the Phaseoloid clade.
23670125|Two of the five species of Oliniaceae (Olinia emarginata and O. ventosa), a monotypic and problematic family of the Myrtales, were investigated embryologically. Oliniaceae clearly agree with other Myrtales in their basic embryological characteristics, and are characterized further by having an ephemeral endothecium, a campylotropous ovule, and a thick, three-five-layered, outer integument. A combination of these three characteristic features is unknown elsewhere in Myrtales, so that embryological features do not support a close relationship with any other member of the order. Shared distinctive anther characteristics (i.e. ephemeral endothecium) suggest that Oliniaceae are derived from the common ancestor of Crypteroniaceae s. str., Rhynchocalycaceae, Alzateaceae, and Penaeaceae.
23644357|The South African Restionaceae make up a highly diverse group of genera displaying several reductive trends in the configuration of the flower, especially in the gynoecium. In this paper the floral ontogeny of fourteen species representing nine of the 11 genera of the Restio clade is studied with the SEM. Although flowers are basically simple, the variability in both mature and developmental stages is striking. Differences between species are the result of changes in growth rate, coupled with differential pressures of organs. Trends in the elaboration of bracts, perianth, androecium and gynoecium are compared. Together with data that have been presented elsewhere about the other clade of African Restionaceae, viz. the Willdenowia-clade, a scheme with potential developmental pathways is proposed and the most evident routes are selected based on ontogenetic evidence. Nine possible reductions are presented arising through three main routes.
23673758|A review of current knowledge of chromosome numbers and modes of reproduction in the genus Rubus L. is presented. Chromosome numbers from some species of subg. Malachobatus Focke together with results of crossing experiments are reported for the first time.
23643062|Intergeneric crosses were made between representatives of the genomically-defined genera Elymus, Agropyron, Elytrigia, Pseudoroegneria, and Thinopyrum. The genomic constitution of Elytrigia repens, the type species of Elytrigia, is shown to be SSH, a genomic combination otherwise found only in Elymus. The S genome of Pseudoroegneria has almost always a dominant influence on the morphology of the taxa of which it is a component. Wang (1989) showed that the J genome in Thinopyrum and the S genome have considerable homoeology, with a mean c-value of 0.35 in diploid SJ hybrids. A genetic coherence from S to SJe, Je, JeJb, and Jb can be expected, agreeing with the continuous morphologic variation pattern observed. Because of the absence of morphological discontinuities between the taxa, Pseudoroegneria (S), Elymus (SH, SY, sometimes with additional genomes), Elytrigia (SSH, SSHX), and Thinopyrum (SJ, SJJ, J) are best treated as a single genus, Elymus, following the generic concept of Melderis in Flora Europaea and Flora of Turkey. The basic genomic constituents of Elymus will then be the S and/or J genomes. Agropyron, with diploids, tetraploids, and hexaploids based on the P genome is morphologically distinct from other genera in Triticeae. In a few species of Elymus and Pseudoroegneria, a P genome is an additional constituent. In these cases the P genome has a negligible morphological influence. Therefore, it seems reasonable to maintain Agropyron as a separate genus.
23643403|The ever-larger data matrices resulting from continuing improvements in DNA sequencing techniques require faster and more efficient methods of phylogenetic analysis. Here we explore a promising new method, parsimony jackknifing, by analyzing a matrix comprising 2538 sequences of the chloroplast gene rbcL. The sequences included cover a broad taxonomic range, from cyanobacteria to flowering plants. Several parsimony jackknife analyses were performed, both with and without branch-swapping and multiple random addition sequences: 1) including all positions; 2) including only first and second codon positions; 3) including only third positions; and 4) using only transversions. The best resolution was obtained using all positions. Removal of third positions or transitions led to massive loss of resolution, although using only transversions somewhat improved basal resolution. While branch-swapping improved both resolution and the support found for several groups, most of the groups could be recovered by faster simple analyses. Designed to eliminate groups poorly supported by the data, parsimony jackknifing recognizes 1400 groups on the basis of all rbcL positions. These include major taxa such as green plants, land plants, flowering plants, monocots and eudicots. We include appendices of supported angiosperm families, as well as larger groups.
23655979|Field studies of 13 of the estimated 17 species of the southern African geophytic genus Ferraria (Iridaceae: Iridoideae) identified four distinct pollination systems. Ferraria flowers are radially symmetric and cupped with a large, mostly pale or dull-colored perianth. Perigonal nectaries secrete hexose dominant (fructose and glucose) nectar. Most species are pollinated by Diptera of four families, apparently attracted by strong floral odors, mostly putrid or fermenting, but sometimes apparently sweet, and a large perianth mottled and edged with dark color. Concentrated sugary secretions are produced on the tepal claws that form a shallow floral cup. In contrast, flowers of F. ferrariola have a deep, narrow floral cup, a pale blue or yellow perianth, and a spicy scent and are pollinated by bees in the family Apidae, rewarded by nectar of moderate sugar concentration. Ferraria divaricata and F. variabilis have dull-colored, darkly speckled or streaked perianths and produce ample, highly dilute nectar pooled at the base of the floral cup and are pollinated by eumenid and masarine wasps (Vespidae). Lastly, F. uncinata has flowers with a narrow floral cup and dull violet tepals with brown margins. They are visited only by meloid and melyrid beetles. All pollen transfers from the anther of a Ferraria flower to an insect's body are passive, regardless of pollinator. Pollen load analyses suggests that all pollinators show a high degree of faithfulness to Ferraria flowers.
23643331|The detection of hybridity in Leucaena is discussed in relation to: (i) traditional criteria, (ii) molecular criteria and (iii) models to predict hybrid leaf morphology. Morphological, geographical and molecular evidence for the occurrence of interspecific hybrids between L. leucocephala and L. diversifolia in south-central Mexico, northern Guatemala, Jamaica, Dominican Republic, the Philippines and Papua New Guinea is presented. Predicted mean hybrid leaf trait values calculated from parent material are compared with data from putative hybrids and shown to be similar. The origin of these hybrids is discussed and shown to be the result of artificial sympatry resulting from indigenous, and recent exotic, domestication of the parent species. The hybrid is described as L.  spontanea.
23642461|Asperula visianii Korica is described as a new stenoendemic species from the small Central Dalmatian island of Svetac (near Vis). It differs in several morphological features (which remain constant in cultivation) and in its ecology from the closely related A. staliana Vis., endemic on the nearby island of Bievo.
43496781|Pollen morphology and exine structure of the seven Hymenocallis Salisb. species present in Venezuela were investigated using scanning (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy. Pollen grains of all species are monosulcate, heteropolar, with bilateral symmetry, oblate to peroblate, heterobrochate, semitectate-columellate, possess unequal tectal surfaces, and are clvate or baculate when viewed with They present two equatorial apexes. When observed under SEM their surfaces appear as granulate; however, it is evident from that they are in fact constituted by pila. All the species possess very large pollen (ranging from 64 to 85 m and from 125 to 155 m for polar and equatorial axes, respectively), and no relationship was evident between pollen size and chromosome number. All the taxa are also very similar in relation to their pollen outline, ornamentation and internal structure, thus indicating that the genus is accurately delimited from the palynological point of view and that discrete characteristics can only be used in some cases to delimit individual species.
23643386|Capsella comprises diploid (C. grandiflora and C. rubella) and tetraploid taxa. It is argued that the tetraploid C. bursa-pastoris is of intraspecific origin despite disomic inheritance and "fixed heterozygosity". It is of considerable age as evidenced by the fossil record and molecular data. Gene duplication by polyploidization and a mixed mating system provided the genetic flexibility for greatest colonizing success. Pronounced variation patterns at a micro- and macrogeographic scale are observed in C. bursa-pastoris for many characters including life history traits, leaf morphology and allozymes. This variation pattern can be explained by several components comprising phylogenetic age, random processes, ecotypic variation and colonization history. The adaptive strategy of C. bursa-pastoris cannot be assigned to either ecotypic differentiation or phenotypic plasticity alone. It depends on the trait under study.
23655977|Geographically peripheral populations often experience a reduction of genetic diversity and divergence from the core populations. Habitat geometry and quality can induce a local genetic diversity pattern, which overlies the regional variability issued from the range-wide phylogeography. We evaluated the genetic variation and genetic divergence of Saponaria bellidifolia Sm. on limestone outcrops within peripheral island-like populations from the Southeastern Carpathians, using RAPD markers. We also determined the degree of isolation related to other European populations, using AFLP. The Romanian populations had a decreased overall genetic diversity shared among populations, with lower level in small populations. Potential habitat size had a positive effect on genetic diversity estimates. Fisher's exact tests of genetic differentiation revealed significant divergences only between the geographically most distant populations. Romanian populations were genetically pauperised as compared to Bulgarian and Italian populations and our results suggest that they might have originated from a recent range expansion from southern glacial refugia.
23673848|The phenology, compatibility system, and pollinator fauna of Opuntia polyacantha Haw. and O. phaeacantha Engelm. in southern Colorado were studied and compared. The total blooming periods overlap, but the peak of blooming differs between the species with O. polyacantha blooming first and for longer. Neither species is apomictic, O. polyacantha is largely self-incompatible and O. phaeacantha is self-compatible but may not automatically fully self-pollinate. Examination of flowering structures showed that the former has larger flowers with more perianth parts and heavier (but fewer) anthers. Further the flowers of the allogamous species are visited by greater diversity (but similar abundance) of pollinators. Medium to large bees of the genera Diadasia, Lithurge, Melissodes, Bombus, Agapostemon and Megachile were found to be effective pollinators of the Opuntias studied. The two species were compared as to their floral attributes, breeding systems, and pollinators, and the possible role of competition for pollinators is discussed with respect to its role in their evolutionary paths.
23655567|Thymelaea velutina (Thymelaeaceae) is a dioecious shrub that presents a unique type of heterocarpy which consists of the simultaneous production of dry and fleshy fruits. It is endemic to the Balearic Islands (Western Mediterranean) and is found both in dunes and mountain areas. The goal of this study was to identify which factors influence the production of both fruit types, examining the variation of their effects at a spatio-temporal scale (comparing two localities in different years). Specifically, we investigated (1) whether pollen limitation influences the type of fruit produced, and (2) the possible differences in seed size, mass, dispersal capacity, seed predation, germination patterns and seedling survival between fruit types. We also examined if the production of fleshy fruits was modified with the application of gibberellins to reproductive branches. Although fleshy fruits were consistently more abundant than dry ones at both populations, their proportion was significantly higher at the site with greater precipitation. The addition of either pollen or gibberellins did not affect the proportion of each fruit type. Seeds in fleshy fruits are consistently larger, heavier and more likely to be dispersed than seeds in dry fruits, but germinability, germination rate and seedling survival was similar among fruit types. Heterocarpy in this species is currently maintained as there is no apparent factor that exerts any strong selective pressure on either fruit type. The two fruit types might even have different 'functions', one serving especially for dispersal and population expansion and the other for producing a seed bank that ensures an eventual germination.
23674805|An immunochemical investigation of some Old-World Umbelliferae belonging to the tribe Smyrnieae in current classifications has clearly demonstrated that the genera of this tribe do not form a natural monophyletic taxon. The presence of a more or less deep groove on the commissural side of the seeds cannot be regarded as an essential marker of phylogenetic relationships within this family.
23674677|The origin of Echinocereus  lloydii Britt. & Rose, pro sp. (Lloyd's Hedgehog Cactus) was investigated using comparative morpholoy, cytology, biochemistry, and particularly, artificial hybridization. Numerous artificial crosses between the putative parents E. coccineus Engelm. (a species of claret-up cactus) and E. dasyacanthus Engelm. (Texas Rainbow Cactus) were successful, resulting in the production of hundreds of seeds with hybrid embryos. The F1 hybrid progeny (i.e., synthetic E.  lloydii) grew to sexual maturity in about four and one-half years, whereupon successful backcrosses and F2 generation hybrids were also obtained. The known F1 hybrids closely approximated natural E.  lloydii. The fertility of these synthetic E.  lloydii was high, like their natural counterparts. The populations of E.  lloydii in Pecos County, Texas are inferred to have originated as the result of natural interspecific hybridization. It is assumed that E.  lloydii or similar plants may arise wherever the parental taxa grow sympatrically.
23654256|The floral development of Triaenophora has been studied in order to explore the developmental basis for the phylogenetic relationship between Triaenophora and allies in Veronicaceae. The simple raceme with a subtending bract and two lateral bracteoles for each flower is probably derived from a compound inflorescence consisting of basic units of 3-5-flowered cymes. The initiation sequence of the calyx and corolla lobes fits into the common pattern of Digitaleae and Veroniceae. The delay in early growth of the corolla and aestivation is intermediate between Digitaleae and Veroniceae. Only four stamens are initiated, with a gap at the expected site of the fifth stamen. The occasional re-occurrence of the fifth stamen as a staminode is probably a reflection of an ancestral feature as in Digitalis. The affinities of Triaenophora within Veronicaceae are discussed based on comparative floral development.
23645175|Previous taxonomic assessments of the hydrophytic genus Nuphar Sm. (Nymphaeaceae) have inadequately considered the range of morphological variation existing in the genus. A comprehensive statistical analysis of morphological features among the recognized taxa of Nuphar is presented here, first using 10 fruit characters to delimit the separation of two infrageneric groups of taxa, and secondly using 31 characters to quantify the morphological variation found within sect. Nuphar. Results from combined phenetic analyses provided empirical support for recognition of two infrageneric groups of species in the genus (largely by fruit, stigmatic disk margin, neck, and stigmatic disk size) and for separation of taxa within sect. Nuphar (by leaf size, and fruit disk and neck size). Statistical analyses demonstrate that extensive variation in ranges of character states exists among sect. Nuphar taxa. However, a suite of qualitative and quantitative characters can be used to recognize five species and three subspecies within this predominantly Old World assemblage.
23674531|Asperula sect. Oppositifoliae is validated. 2 new species of Asperula and 7 new species and 1 variety of Galium from Iran are described, discussed in respect to their affinities and illustrated. 2 subspecies are raised to species rank.
23674798|The genetic relationships among 10 inbred lines representing 10 populations of the autogamous annual Microseris elegans from throughout California has been determined using random amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs). Seventeen arbitrary 10 base pair primers produced 134 amplification products; 81 of these were shared by two or more strains. The 3 genotypes from Northern California are closely related as are 3 genotypes from Middle Californian populations which are not nearest neighbors. DNA fingerprinting with the oligonucleotide (GATA)4 gave compatible results, but the comparison was limited to samples run on one gel. Isoenzyme patterns are compatible with the DNA results, but limited by the very low number of informative polymorphisms. The clustered relationship among genotypes within a species and their geographic distribution suggests very restricted genetic recombination and an origin of new populations from randomly dispersed achenes within the range of the species.
23643445|The purpose of this study is to examine floral trait variation between four Cyclamen species that show variation in their ability to reproduce in the absence of pollinators and in levels of inbreeding. Pollen and ovule production, pollen/ovule ratio, pollen volume, petal length and width, diameter of the corolla mouth, pistil and stamen length, and stigma-anther separation varied significantly between the four study species. Flower, pollen and ovule production, pollen volume and corolla size were generally highest in C. hederifolium, the species with the lowest level of inbreeding (mean Fis = 0.329), intermediate in both species with relatively high levels of pollinator-mediated inbreeding, C. repandum (mean Fis = 0.658) and C. creticum (mean Fis = 0.748), and lowest in the highly inbred C. balearicum (mean Fis = 0.930). The two species with the most different inbreeding coefficients, C. hederifolium and C. balearicum, had lower pollen-ovule ratios and shorter longevities of stigma receptivity and pollen viability than C. creticum and C. repandum. These patterns of variation in floral traits are discussed in relation to the relatedness, pollination ecology and levels of inbreeding of the four species.
23655537|Classifications of Theaceae have usually placed the endangered monotypic genus Apterosperma in tribe Schimeae ( = 18), whereas recent molecular phylogenetic evidence supports its transfer to tribe Theeae (x = 15). Molecular data have not resolved the phylogenetic position of Apterosperma within Theeae. We investigated the chromosome number and karyotype of Apterosperma in the context of molecular and morphological phylogenetic evidence to provide further insight into the placement of Apterosperma within Theaceae. The chromosome number and karyotype was found to be 2n = 30 = 26m + 4sm, consistent with the transfer of Apterosperma to tribe Theeae. When the chromosome data were incorporated into a data set of 46 other nonmolecular characters, Apterosperma was placed as the first-diverging lineage within the clade comprising tribe Theeae. This supports its placement based on molecular data. The low intrachromosomal asymmetry (type 1A) of Apterosperma, presumably ancestral for the family, is also consistent with this placement. Character optimization strongly supports a base chromosome number of  = 15 for tribe Theeae. Because of variable and sometimes conflicting chromosome count reports of species in tribes Schimeae and Stewartieae, the base chromosome number of Theaceae could be either  = 15 or 17.
23674636|Gynoecium development in taxa of the tribe Vanguerieae (Rubiaceae, subfam. Antirheoideae) was studied, using primarily a 2- and a 5-carpellate genus (Keetia and Vangueria) as examples. All investigated taxa, characterized by ovaries with a solitary,  apically inserted, pendulous anatropous ovule per locule/carpel, showed a very similar gynoecium development. Comparisons with other uniovulate Rubiaceae (taxa of subfam. Rubioideae) revealed that notwithstanding the place of insertion and orientation of the solitary ovules (apically vs. basally inserted, pendulous vs. erect, anatropous ovules) the gynoecium development follows the same pattern; differing ovule insertion and orientation can easily be explained by the principle of variable proportions.  Since secondary pollen presentation is characteristic for the tribe, particular attention was paid to the development of the conspicuous "stylar head"-complex, defined here as structural unit comprised of pollen presenting organ, "receptaculum pollinis", plus stigmatic (i.e., receptive) surfaces. It was found that their morphological differentiation, following the same pattern in all investigated taxa, starts at very early stages of floral development. They already had their final shape at a stage when the ovule development in the ovary had just barely started. The fully developed, actual "receptaculum pollinis" is made up of enormously enlarged,  cylindrical epidermis cells which have peculiar ring-like thickenings in vicinity of and parallel to the outer tangential walls (a "mechanical barrier" preventing pollen tubes from entering?) and a much smaller-celled subepidermal tissue. With regard to shape, size, and exposure of the stigmatic surfaces, the investigated taxa exhibited certain morphological differences. These were found to be correlated with differences in androecium structure (and, ultimately, pollen presentation).
23674688|Komrek has recently reviewed the various species assigned to the green algal genus Neochloris Starr (Chlorococcales, Chlorococcaceae) and removed those with uninucleate vegetative cells to a new genus, Ettlia. Watanabe & Floyd, unaware of Komrek's work, also reviewed the species of Neochloris and distributed them among three genera  Neochloris, Chlorococcopsis gen. nov., and Parietochloris gen. nov.  on the basis of details of the covering of the zoospore and the arrangement of the basal bodies of the flagellar apparatus. This paper reconciles these two treatments and makes additional recommendations at the ranks of genus, family, order, and class.
23654236|New morphological and developmental observations are presented of Gunnera herteri (subgenus Ostenigunnera) which is, according to molecular studies, sister to the other species of Gunnera. It is an annual dwarf (up to 4 cm long) whereas the other Gunnera spp. are perennial and slightly to extremely larger. External stem glands are combined with channels into the stem cortex serving as entrance path for symbiotic Nostoc cells. Young stem zones show globular regions of cytoplasm-rich cortex cells, prepared for invasion by Nostoc. The leaf axils contain 25 inconspicuous colleters (glandular scales) which can be taken as homologous to the more prominent scales of G. manicata (subg. Panke) and G. macrophylla (subg. Pseudogunnera). Foliage leaves of G. herteri have tooth-like sheath lobes which may be homologous to stipules. Adult plants have extra-axillary inflorescences arising from leaf nodes. The main stem is interpreted as a chain of sympodial units, each one consisting of a leaf and an extra-axillary inflorescence. This "sympodium hypothesis" may be also valid for other species of Gunnera. Each globular inflorescence of G. herteri contains several female flowers and 27 stamens at the top, perhaps equalling a single male flower. There are neither bracts nor bracteoles. The ovary is inferior, bicarpellary and unilocular. Its single hanging ovule develops into a dry and endosperm-rich seed.
23655801|Centaurea tchihatcheffii is a steppic annual possessing some unique features absent in other Centaureas. The chromosome number is 2n = 20, differing from all other annual species of Centaurea sect. Cyanus. The type locality as published is erroneous and the correct provenance is provided.
23655499|For approximately 20 years Arabidopsis has been a model system to investigate developmental and physiological questions in plant biology, leading to the identification of genes and genetic systems involved in many processes. Extending ideas arising from knowledge of developmental genetic systems in Arabidopsis to other species of the Brassicaceae will require the application of genomics technologies developed in Arabidopsis and the establishment of additional genetic systems and resources in other species. Morphological variation in all plant organs, as well as in growth habit, mating systems, and physiology are represented in the breadth of Brassicaceae species offering ample opportunity to investigate the molecular basis of morphological evolution in this family. In addition, the frequent recent hybridization events in Brassica and Arabidopsis facilitate study of this pervasive force in the evolution of all plants.
23673264|Nucleotide-binding site (NBS) disease resistance genes play an important role in defending plants from a range of pathogens and insect pests. Consequently, NBS-encoding genes have been the focus of a number of recent studies in molecular disease resistance breeding programs. However, little is known about NBS-encoding genes in Lotus japonicus. In this study, a full set of disease resistance (R) candidate genes encoding NBS from the complete genome of L. japonicus was identified and characterized using structural diversity, chromosomal locations, conserved protein motifs, gene duplications, and phylogenetic relationships. Distinguished by N-terminal motifs and leucine-rich repeat motifs (LRRs), 92 regular NBS genes of 158 NBS-coding sequences were classified into seven types: CC-NBS-LRR, TIR-NBS-LRR, NBS-LRR, CC-NBS, TIR-NBS, NBS, and NBS-TIR. Phylogenetic reconstruction of NBS-coding sequences revealed many NBS gene lineages, dissimilar from results for Arabidopsis but similar to results from research on rice. Conserved motif structures were also analyzed to clarify their distribution in NBS-encoding gene sequences. Moreover, analysis of the physical locations and duplications of NBS genes showed that gene duplication events of disease resistance genes were lower in L. japonicus than in rice and Arabidopsis, which may contribute to the relatively fewer NBS genes in L. japonicus. Sixty-three NBS-encoding genes with clear conserved domain character were selected to check their gene expression levels by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. The results indicated that 53 of the genes were most likely to be acting as the active genes, and exogenous application of salicylic acid improved expression of most of the R genes.
23645373|Cone traits (volatile components and thermogenesis) of three cycad species in the genus Macrozamia were examined for differences related to their specific insect pollinators, the weevil, Tranes spp., or the thrips, Cycadothrips chadwicki. Linalool (>80% of emissions) dominated cone volatile components of M. machinii (Tranes-pollinated) and beta-myrcene was a minor component (<9% of emissions). Volatiles of M. lucida and M. macleayi cones (Cycadothrips-pollinated) were dominated by beta-myrcene (up to 97% of emissions), but no linalool was detected. Pollinator movement into and out of cones coincided with cone thermogenesis and peak odor emission: around sunset for Tranes, and at mid-day for Cycadothrips. Female cone traits were similar to those of their conspecific male cones. Differences in cone traits between Macrozamia species may thus be responsible for conferring pollinator specificity in areas of sympatry.
23642854|The anomalous distribution of (+)-lupanine and (-)-lupanine in Podalyria species provides circumstantial evidence that hydroxylation and subsequent esterification of lupanine is only possible when (-)-sparteine and (+)-lupanine are the precursors. The optical rotation of lupanine and/or sparteine isolated from different genera, in combination with literature data, provide evidence of a separate biosynthetic pathway which leads to lupanine-type esters rather than -pyridones. The occurrence of this pathway can be predicted from the optical rotation of sparteine and/or lupanine, even in the absence of end products. Enantiomers-specificity is thus an important variable for establishing homology in comparative studies.
23644388|A valuable approach to understanding the evolution of gender dimorphism involves studies of single species that exhibit intraspecific variation in sexual systems. Here we survey sex ratios in 35 populations of Wurmbea biglandulosa, previously described as hermaphroditic. We found pronounced intraspecific variation in sexual systems; populations in the northeastern part of the species' range were hermaphroditic, whereas other populations were gynodioecious and contained 244% females. Populations with lower annual rainfall were more likely to be gynodioecious, supporting the view that gender dimorphism evolves more frequently in harsher environments. In gynodioecious populations, however, female frequency was not related to either annual rainfall or habitat, indicating that other factors are important in determining sex ratio variation. Females had smaller flowers and shorter stems than did hermaphrodites, potentially providing a basis for resource compensation. A female fecundity advantage may contribute to the maintenance of females in populations because females produced more ovuliferous flowers and had more ovules per flower than did hermaphrodites.
23669876|The primary mode of fruit dispersal in the woody Magnoliidae is animal dispersal. Illicium floridanum and other members of the genus have a well development system of ballistic fruit dehiscence. The ballistic dispersal is effective only over short distances, but may be important in propelling the seeds away from the parent tree. The presence of explosive dehiscence mechanisms in relatively primitive angiosperm genera suggests that a diversity of dispersal mechanisms may have been present in early angiosperms.
23664375|Malpighiales are one of the most diverse orders of angiosperms. Molecular phylogenetic studies based on combined sequences of coding genes allowed to identify major lineages but hitherto were unable to resolve relationships among most families. Spacers and introns of the chloroplast genome have recently been shown to provide strong signal for inferring relationships among major angiosperm lineages and within difficult clades. In this study, we employed sequence data of the petD group II intron and the petB-petD spacer for a set of 64 Malpighiales taxa, representing all major lineages. Celastrales and Oxalidales served as outgroups. Sequence alignment was straightforward due to frequent microstructural changes with easily recognizable motifs (e.g., simple sequence repeats), and well defined mutational hotspots. The secondary structure of the complete petD intron was calculated for Idesia polycarpa as an example. Domains I and IV are the most length variable parts of the intron. They contain terminal A/T-rich stem-loop elements that are suggested to elongate independently in different lineages with a slippage mechanism earlier reported from the P8 stem-loop of the trnL intron. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of the petD dataset yielded trees largely congruent with results from earlier multigene studies but statistical support of nodes was generally higher. For the first time a deep node of the Malpighiales backbone, a clade comprising Achariaceae, Violaceae, Malesherbiaceae, Turneraceae, Passifloraceae, and a LacistemataceaeSalicaceae lineage received significant statistical support (83% JK, 1.00 PP) from plastid DNA sequences.
23645310|Pollen morphology from 143 collections representing 11 genera and 75 species of native South American Convolvulaceae was analyzed with LM and SEM. Exine structure and sculpture allow to distinguish three main types, in two of these types some subtypes were recognized. 1) Tectate, microechinate-perforate exine, with ramified columellae. On the basis of apertures three subtypes were distinguished: tricolpate in Aniseia, Bonamia, Convolvulus, Cressa, Dichondra, Merremia and Jacquemontia blanchetii; penta-hexacolpate in Merremia umbellata; and pantoporate with elliptic and circular pores, in Calystegia. 2) Tectate, microechinate-perforate exine with microspines and single columellae in concordant pattern, relates pantocolpate pollen of Jacquemontia and Evolvulus. From pollen data generic status of J. blanchetii should be considered. 3) Semitectate, echinate or gemmate, microechinate-microreticulate exine with single columellae is exclusive of pantoporate pollen of Ipomoea. Four subtypes were recognized in this genera, which are discussed in relation to Austin's infrageneric classification.
23656065|In this study, we evaluate the impact of fossil assignments and different models of calibration on divergence time estimates carried out as Bayesian analyses. Estimated ages from preceding studies and liverwort inclusions from Baltic amber are used as constraints on a molecular phylogeny of Cephaloziineae (Jungermanniopsida) obtained from sequences of two chloroplast coding regions: rbcL and psbA. In total, the comparison of 12 different analyses demonstrates that an increased reliability of the chronograms is linked to the number of fossils assigned and to the accuracy of their assignments. Inclusion of fossil constraints leads to older ages of most crown groups, but has no influence on lineage through time plots suggesting a nearly constant accumulation of diversity since the origin of Cephaloziineae in the early to Middle Jurassic. Our results provide a note of caution regarding the interpretation of chronograms derived from DNA sequence variation of extant species based on a single calibration point and/or low accuracy of the assignment of fossils to nodes in the phylogeny.
23642850|The seeds of 19 sunflower species were compared on the basis of their protein contents and the relative proportions of their protein fractions. The globulin content varied from 50% to about 70% and the albumin content from 18% to 35% according to the species. The level of intermediate Mr polypeptides showed a great variability (9.6 to 24.3%). Comparative studies on Mr polymorphism were carried out by means of sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of non reduced and/or reduced samples using both mono- and bidimensional procedures. Polypeptide constituents of helianthinin were compared including both number and molecular size (cultivated H. annuus was used as a standard). Studies focused on differences observed between the major two  (Mr 38 000),  (Mr 32 000) and  (Mr 25 500),  (21 000) polypeptides families constituting the main A, B, and C subunits. and  polypeptides analyses permit to discriminate easily H. petiolaris from the other species. Charge polymorphism was studied using isoelectric focusing (IEF) and IEF-PAGE in mono and bidimensional procedures in the presence or absence of 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME). Only a specific 4 polypeptide enables an easy discrimination between H. petiolaris and all the other species. Detailed nomenclature of the ,  and ,  polypeptides constituting the different helianthinin globulin subunits is given via the results of pI and Mr analyses. Monodimensional IEF patterns of the more basic albumins (pI > 8.0) appear to provide a more valuable approach to identifying specific protein markers.
23673657|Desmaria mutabilis is unique in Loranthaceae in having dimorphic shoots, the short shoots producing a terminal inflorescence. Other unusual features in the family are well differentiated bud scales and deciduousness. The normal position of mature plants on the trunks of large trees is shown to be a consequence of profuse vegetative reproduction from the epicortical roots, the predominant growth direction of the latter towards the trunk from the original site of establishment on a lateral branch, and the ability of epicortical roots to generate haustorial contacts through heavy host bark. The seedling is heterocotylar, one cotyledon being phanerocotylar, the other cryptocotylar and functioning as a haustorial organ in the endosperm. It is suggested that Desmaria is a member of the primitive complex of loranthaceous genera which includes Gaiadendron.
23674345|The Antennaria rosea polyploid agamic complex is one of the most morphologically diverse and widespread complexes of N. American Antennaria. The group is taxonomically confusing because of numerous agamospermous microspecies, having been recognized as distinct species. Morphometric analyses have demonstrated that the primary source of morphological variability in the complex derives from six sexually reproducing progenitors, A. aromatica, A. corymbosa, A. media, A. microphylla, A. racemona, and A. umbrinella. Additionally, two other sexually reproducing species, A. marginata and A. rosulata, may have contributed to the genetic complexity of the A. rosea complex. Cluster analysis indicates that four discrete morphological groups exist within the A. rosea complex. Each group could be the result of predominance of genes from different groups of sexual progenitors. As A. rosea is of multiple hybrid origin, from among several sexual progenitors, it is advisable to recognize A. rosea as a distinct species from its sexual progenitors.
43558327|Nuclear genome size was determined to investigate the relationships between all 19 species of Araucaria de Jussieu. Species from the two other genera of Araucariaceae, Wollemia and Agathis, were also studied.The genome size of 17 out of the 19 species of Araucaria are reported here for the first time. All Araucariaceae have the same chromosome number 2n = 26. However, the nuclear DNA contents (2C value) for Araucaria range from 31.3 to 45.4 pg. There is a good correlation between genome size and division in sections, and geographical distribution.The two species from South America have 44.7 and 45.4 pg, the two species from Australia have 35.7 and 44.4 pg and the two species from New Guinea 34.7 and 40.4 pg. All 13 species of New Caledonia and the one from Norfolk Island have a similar, if not identical, amount of nuclear DNA of, on average, 31.9 pg. This corroborates the identical DNA rbcL sequences found for the New Caledonian araucarias. It suggests that the species from New Caledonia diversified more recently and it questions their status as separate species. Compared with this 31.9 pg a strong increase seems to have occurred in the genome size of the "mainland" araucarias. Genome sizes are evaluated and compared with available taxonomic treatments and extant geographic spreading. The nuclear DNA contents found within the sections are close, making it possible to assign an unknown plant to a section. A difference of 1 pg, which amounts to a difference of 978 Mbp, far exceeds a single character. Nuclear DNA content, as measured by flow cytometry, may conveniently be used to produce systematic data. It is applicable even with young plants or seeds for monitoring the trade in endangered species.
23674048|C-banding studies support earlier evidence that B. bulbosa, as a previously circumscribed, is heterogeneous, consisting of three distinct entities: (1) the B. bulbosa complex (B. bulbosa s. str.) at 4 x (2n = 24), 8 x (2n = 48) and 12 x (2n = 72) ploidy levels, (2) the "rock lily" and (3) the Kroombit population (both 2n = 46). Each of these three main groups has a distinctive banding profile, though centromeric and telomeric dot bands, variably expressed, are common to all. In the B. bulbosa complex, substantial heterochromatin development, apart from bands associated with the NORs on chromosomes 1 L, 2 S and 3 L, occurs only at the terminal regions of the short arms of the large and middle-sized acrocentric chromosomes, with considerable polymorphic and polytypic variation in the number and size of the heterochromatic blocks, especially at the 4 x level. Queensland 8 x B. bulbosa populations differ in having terminal heterochromatin, probably associated with NORs, on 11 S and 12 S, and in having some strong interstitial bands. The differences appear to correlate with attributes relating to flower morphology, and may have systematic significance. The karyotypes of "rock lily" and Kroombit are somewhat similar but the former has a characteristic C-band profile with multiple interstitial bands on chromosomes 15 and 79, whereas the latter has only one interstitial band on chromosome 9.
23642592|Development of pollen and female gametophyte in Epipogium roseum (D. Don) Lindl. has been investigated. The embryo sac conforms to the Apinagia type. The taxonomic position of Epipogium within the family is discussed.
23673949|Nine accessions of Vicia narbonensis, considered to be the wild progenitor of faba bean (Vicia faba), were investigated to ascertain the nature and extent of intraspecific karyotypic polymorphism. The chromosome complements resolved into four distinct types (A, B, C, D), and the meiotic data of F1 hybrids (A  B, B  C, A  C) revealed that alteration in chromosome morphology is the result of segmental interchanges. The interchange complexes indicate that the parents differ from each other by 1 to 2 interchanges. It is also evident that karyotype B, and not A as previously reported, is the normal karyotype of the species, and A and C are single homozygotes for unequal interchange. The comparative karyomorphology of the parents and the hybrids, and of two interchange heterozygotes of four chromosomes each in F1 hybrids of A  C shows that the chromosomes involved in the single interchange homozygotes (A, C) are not common and the breaks in both interchanges occurred in short and long arms of the involved chromosomes. Identification of the interchanged chromosomes in the complements and the frequency of ring and chain quadrivalents in the heterozygotes enabled location of the breakpoints. The present results provide probably the first example indicating that interchange homozygosity (A) is not only firmly established but also has enabled the species to spread further by adapting to a wide range of habitats.  The genetic relationships between A and D are very different. All seven chromosome pairs in D could be distinguished from A, and for that matter, B and C as well. From the meiotic pairing properties it is also amply clear that genome D is well differentiated from A and possibly B, and C, and deserves special status.
23644076|The Callitrichaceae are a monogeneric family of aquatic angiosperms comprising approximately 50 terrestrial, amphibious, and obligately submersed species. Callitriche is unique in being the only known genus with co-occurring aerial and underwater pollination systems. Mature pollen structure is correlated with growth habit, pollination biology, and phylogeny within the genus. In the present study, development of exineless pollen in the obligately submersed species Callitriche truncata was examined, with particular emphasis on the tetrad stage. Pollen ontogeny occurred rapidly and non-synchronously; tetrads, free microspores, and two-celled pollen grains were identified within the same anthers. Formation of the intine also occurred relatively early, during the tetrad stage. Tetrads were surrounded by a structurally distinct envelope, and its ultrastructure and histochemistry indicate that this callose-like envelope is in a transitional state. Reduction or complete loss of the exine has evolved at least twice in Callitrichaceae, and the new ontogenetic data indicate that exine loss evolves more quickly than the loss of callose. In addition, developmental information on exineless pollen in C. truncata coupled with other palynological data for the exine-bearing terrestrial and amphibious growth forms provide support for the hypothesis that underwater pollination has had a relatively recent origin in the family.
23655714|The morphological nature of the thalloid plant body of podostemads has remained controversial for long. The present investigation was carried out on two members of the Podostemoideae i.e. Griffithella hookeriana and Polypleurum stylosum to understand their organ identity. The origin of the plant body was traced from the embryo by germinating the seeds under aseptic conditions. Mature embryo of both species does not show an identifiable shoot apical meristem (SAM) and root apical meristem (RAM). Upon germination, the radicular pole does not form a primary root but differentiates adhesive hairs. At the cotyledonary junction, SAM is initiated that differentiates 69 leaves apically (primary axis) and a primordium laterally. This primordium subsequently emerges from the hypocotyl and develops into a thalloid plant. The latter has been interpreted as a flattened stem because it not only shows tunica-corpus like organization at the tip but also originates endogenously from the same SAM that forms the 'primary axis'.
23643353|The systematic utility of sequences from a non-coding region of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) between psbA and trnH(GUG) was examined by assessing phylogenetic relationships in subtribe Sonchinae (Asteraceae: Lactuceae). Primers constructed against highly conserved regions of tRNA genes were used for PCR amplification and sequencing. The psbA-trnH intergenic spacer contains several insertions and deletions (indels) in Sonchinae with the length varying from 385 to 450bp. Sequence divergence ranges from 0.00% to 7.54% within Sonchinae, with an average of 2.4%. Average sequence divergence in Sonchus subg. Sonchus is 2.0%, while the mean for subg. Dendrosonchus and its close relatives in Macaronesia (the woody Sonchus alliance) is 1.0%. Our results suggest that this region does not evolve rapidly enough to resolve relationships among closely related genera or insular endemics in the Asteraceae. The phylogenetic utility of psbA-trnH sequences of the non-coding cpDNA was compared to sequences from the ITS region of nuclear ribosomal DNA. The results suggest that ITS sequences evolve nearly four times faster than psbA-trnH intergenic spacer sequences. Furthermore, the ITS sequences provide more variable and phylogenetically informative sites and generate more highly resolved trees with more strongly supported clades, and thus are more suitable for phylogenetic comparisons at lower taxonomic levels than the psbA-trnH intergenic chloroplast sequences.
23674116|Cluster analyses by different methods and a minimum spanning tree were used to study phenetic relationships in the genus Chlerodendrum. 129 species were scored for 52 morphological characters corresponding to 119 character states. The phenetic results suggest a classification into 7 distinct groups, which may be grouped into two subgenera. This classification is supported by the iridoid distribution as well as by some phylogenetic considerations.
23673690|Distyly in Linum tenuifolium L. is associated with a high degree of self-incompatibility. Breakdown in this system has occurred without the morphological rearrangement expected as the result of cross-over within the distyly supergene. Pollen-flow in both distylous and monomorphic populations is leptokurtic. A high proportion of intra-flower pollination occurs. Pollen production per ovule is reduced in the self-compatible race. Mean seed-set is increased. Individuals of the self-compatible race produce less vegetative growth and require a shorter time to reach reproductive maturity under cultivation. Increased fecundity appears to provide the selective advantage promoting the breakdown of self-incompatibility in this species. This is achieved through a massive shift of resources toward female reproductive function in plants of the monomorphic race. Subsequent colonization by this race has led to its increased distribution in C. & S. Europe.
23655722|Sassafras (Lauraceae) consists of three species disjunct between eastern Asia (S. tzumu and S. randaiense) and eastern North America (S. albidum). Phylogenetic analysis based on sequences of nuclear ribosomal ITS and three chloroplast non-coding regions (rpl16, trnL-F, and psbA-trnH) showed that Sassafras is monophyletic and that the eastern North American S. albidum is sister to the clade of its two eastern Asian counterparts. Their intercontinental divergence was estimated to be 13.80  2.29-16.69  2.52 million years ago (mya) using the penalized likelihood method with the ITS and three chloroplast markers. Biogeographic analyses combined with fossil evidence suggest that Sassafras has a relict distribution in the Northern Hemisphere without a Gondwanan link. The divergence time of the two eastern Asian species (the continental Chinese Sassafras tzumu and S. randaiense endemic to Taiwan) is estimated to be 0.61  0.75-2.23  0.76 mya. Sassafras randaiense from Taiwan was most likely derived from an ancestor from continental China.
23674758|Interspecific hybridizations were made between species of the E. semicostatus group, viz., E. semicostatus (Nees ex Steud.) Meld., E. validus (Meld.) B. Salomon, E. abolinii (Drob.) Tzvel., and E. fedtschenkoi Tzvel., and species of the E. tibeticus group, viz., E. pendulinus (Nevski) Tzvel., E. tibeticus (Meld.) Singh, E. shandongensis B. Salomon, and E. gmelinii (Ledeb.) Tzvel., as well as among species within the E. tibeticus group. All species are tetraploid (2n = 4x = 28) and possess SY genomes. Meiotic pairing data from 24 hybrids involving 17 interspecific combinations are presented. The average number of chiasmata per cell ranged from 17.91 to 26.20 in hybrids within the E. tibeticus group, compared with 7.26 to 22.04 in hybrids between the two species groups. Despite the extensive collection of cytological data, there was no definite evidence for confirming or disproving the separate existence of the two groups.
23643985|Allozyme markers from ten European taxa of Viola subsection Viola suggest that this group is allotetraploid, based on x = 5. All taxa had distinct multilocus phenotypes except V. alba subspp. alba and scotophylla, which were identical and different from subsp. dehnhardtii. Variation was consistently higher in Mediterranean populations than in North European ones. Hybridisation seems extensive but putative F1 hybrids were distinctly less fertile than the parental species. Nevertheless, increased fertility in later-generation hybrids and shared band patterns among taxa indicate an important role of hybridisation and introgression in past and present evolution within the subsection. The octoploid V. ambigua shows affinity to V. hirta (tetraploid). The octoploid V. suavis probably originated from V. pyrenaica and other unidentified tetraploids, and high variability suggests polytopy or even polyphyly. The stoloniferous condition (series Flagellatae) seems to be primitive in the subsection but the reduction of stolons (series Eflagellatae) may have originated multiple times.
23673938|Karyotypic and heterochromatin studies suggest a basic division of the orchid genus Pleione into two groups, one represented by the clearly epiphytic species and the other including both species with terrestrial trends as well as those that are truly terrestrial. The epiphytic group possesses only (sub) metacentric chromosomes and is characterised by a considerable amount of terminal heterochromatin while the terrestrial group has some subtelocentric chromosomes and only small amounts of centromeric heterochromatin. It is concluded that a major phyletic split in the mode of chromosome change occurred during the transition from the epiphytic to the terrestrial habitat.
23673815|Noaea griffithii, which hitherto was known from the type collection only, is transferred to Salsola by reason of its horizontal embryo and other fruit characters. The description is completed; ecological, phytocoenological and distributional data are given. The species is a common endemic psammophyte of SE Iran, S Afghanistan and adjacent Pakistan Baluchistan.
43558210|Pollen morphology is regarded as an additional tool for solving taxonomic problems at the family, generic, or species level. Seventy-three flowering plants, trees, shrubs, and herbs were collected from the Wadi El-Natrun region (West Nile Delta, Egypt) from March to July 2008. They were extracted for their pollen grains. The pollen was mounted on glass slides, examined using a light microscope, photographed, and identified. The identified pollen grains were conserved in the herbarium of the Environmental Studies and Research Institute (ESRI) Minufiya University, Sadat City, Egypt, as reference key pollen from the Wadi El-Natrun area for palynologists, botanists, taxonomists, and workers in other, related, sciences.
23673178|The irreversible style movement in Marantaceae is one of the quickest plant movements ever recorded. It is largely based on a special tissue construction, which is analysed herein for the first time. Histological sections, fluorescence and different electron microscopic techniques are used to study the style tissue of eight species in six genera of the Marantaceae. Tissue sections prior to the thigmonastic movement are only obtained after ether or chloroform narcosis. The tissue in the bending zone of the style has the construction of a lamellar collenchyma with elongated cells and extended intercellular spaces. The thicker cell walls abut the intercellular spaces, while the thinner walls between adjacent cells are extraordinarily porous. The tissue is thus characterised by strongly perforated cell bundles which are able to slide alongside each other and the intercellular spaces. Cell-wall loosening starts about 24 h before flowering and is interpreted as a result of enzymatic ageing processes. It is also found in other members of the Zingiberales, but only the Marantaceae take advantage of the maceration process. We conclude that the specific tissue construction contributes to the rapid style movement. It combines qualities for stabilisation (collenchyma), pliability (intercellular spaces) and water transport (extremely porous tissue), thus supporting the irreversible style bending by a sudden and final shift of fluid.
23655563|Reproductive character and genetic diversity were investigated for an autogamous species of Tylophora matsumurae endemic to the Ryukyu Islands and its progenitor species T. tanakae. Approximately one-fourth of bagged flowers set fruits in T. matsumurae, although no fruits were obtained from bagged flowers in T. tanakae. In situ pollen tube germination was observed with high frequency in all five populations examined in T. matsumurae. Furthermore, in T. matsumurae, anther sacs were not dehisced even at anthesis. These results suggest the highly autogamous nature of T. matsumurae. No allozymic variation was detected in all seven populations examined in T. matsumurae. The phenogram constructed using the neighbor-joining method based on Nei's unbiased genetic distance indicated that T. matsumurae clustered with the Okinoerabu Island population of T. tanakae. The estimated outcrossing rate of four populations of T. tanakae varied from 0.18 to 0.59. It is probable that T. matsumurae had been derived from the predominantly self-pollinating population of T. tanakae, and rapidly enlarged its distribution area.
23644416|This last portion of our developmental study of Pinus sylvestris L. pollen grains extends from just prior to the first microspore mitosis to the microsporangial dehiscence preparatory to pollen shedding. In nine years of collecting each day the duration of the above period was 7 to 11 days. Tapetal cells extended into the loculus and embraced microspores during the initial part of the above period. Thereafter tapetal cells receded, became parallel to parietal cells and so imbricated that there appeared to be two or three layers of tapetal cells. Tapetal cells were present up to the day before pollen shedding, but only rER and some mitochondria appeared to be in good condition at that time. A callosic layer (outer intine) was initiated under the endexine before microspore mitosis. After the first mitosis the first prothallial cell migrated to the proximal wall and was covered on the side next to the pollen cytoplasm by a thin "wall" joining the thick outer intine. There are plasmodesmata between pollen cytoplasm and the prothallial cell. After the second mitosis the second prothallial cell became enveloped by the outer intine. The inner intine appears after formation of the two prothallial cells but before the third mitosis. During this two-prothallial cell period before the third mitosis, plastids had large and complex fibrillar assemblies shown to be modified starch grains. After the third mitosis plastids of the pollen cytoplasm contained starch and the generative cell (antheridial initial), the product of that mitosis, is enveloped by the inner intine. On the day of pollen shedding cells are removed from the microsporangial wall by what appears to be focal autolysis. The tapetal and endothecial cells for 1015 m on each side of the dehiscence slit are completely removed. One or more epidermal cells are lysed, but both a thin cuticle and the very thin sporopollenin-containing peritapetal membrane remain attached to the undamaged epidermal cells bordering the dehiscence slit. Our study terminates on the day of pollen shedding with mature pollen still within the open microsporangium. At that time there is no longer a clear morphological distinction between the outer and inner intine but, judging by stain reactions, there is a chemical difference. The exine of shed pollen grains was found to be covered by small spinules on the inner surface of alveoli. These had the same spacing as the Sporopollenin Acceptor Particles (SAPs) associated with exine initiation and growth.
23664062|The objective of this study was to realize a typology approach toward the inflorescences in Selena in order to provide characters that would have potential use in further taxonomic and phylogenetic research and that would allow identification of the tendencies and processes that could have yielded the variations within Scleria inflorescences. The majority of species studied present a main florescence; Scleria reticularis and S. melanomphala have truncated inflorescences. The variations are related to the grade of development reached by the main florescence and the different parts of the paracladial zone. Major inflorescence variability was found in section Scleria. A change in spikelet sexuality can occur toward the distal parts. There were variations in the distinct species with respect to the hierarchy of the paracladia where the change occurs. Future investigations should center on the ontogenetic aspects of inflorescence development of Scleria, integrating these results, together with those of adult inflorescences, into taxonomic and phylogenetic investigations.
23643800|A comparative developmental study of the inflorescence of Philodendron solimoesense was conducted using scanning electron microscopy. The spadix of P. solimoesense is characterized by unisexual flowers. Staminate flowers are initiated on the upper portion of the spadix while pistillate flowers develop on the lower portion of the spadix. An intermediate zone located between the upper male and lower female portion of the inflorescence consists of sterile male flowers. Within this intermediate zone a row of flowers exhibit polarity with respect to the identity of sexual organs. Stamens are initiated on the flank of the floral meristem facing the upper male zone and carpels are initiated on the portion of the floral meristem facing the lower female zone. The resulting flowers therefore assume a bisexual identity. At the level of the inflorescence, all floral buds are initiated along a series of contact parastichies and the continuity of these parastichies is not disrupted at any level in the male, intermediate, and female zones on the spadix. Results from this study support the presence of a morphogenetic gradient acting at the level of the inflorescence and appears to be independent of the boundaries of floral primordia.
23673245|Petunia hybrida and Cucurbita pepo pollen was exposed to 30 and 75% relative humidity (RH). Water content, viability and carbohydrate content (glucose, fructose, sucrose and starch) were measured at fixed intervals over 6 h. Water content of C. pepo pollen decreased drastically at both RHs, while P. hybrida pollen dehydrated slightly at RH 30% and hydrated at RH 75%. The pollen of the two species also showed very different sensitivity to dehydration. P. hybrida pollen was resistant to desiccation, with viability remaining around 80% throughout the experiment, whereas C. pepo was very sensitive to desiccation, showing an abrupt decrease in viability when its water content reached about 13% (fresh weight basis) at both RHs. Carbohydrate content was also different in the two species. Sucrose content increased soon after dehydration of P. hybrida pollen at RH 30%, whereas it remained almost constant in C. pepo pollen at the same RH. The results are discussed in the framework of basic pollen physiology and of plant reproductive strategy.
23672620|Stigmatic surfaces of about 250 species from more than 100 families were examined by scanning electron microscopy. There are five main groups which differ by the amount of secretion, the morphology of the surface and the distribution of receptive cells. The types of stigmatic surfaces are often remarkably constant on the family level. Ericaceae and Liliaceae are examples for very heterogenous families. Particular interest was paid to heteromorphic (heterostylous and cleistogamous) species. In most heterostylous species there is a close morphological correlation between the stigmatic surface and the sculpture of compatible pollen. Heterostyly was established for the genus Goniolimon. The dimorphism of plants with chasmogamous and cleistogamous flowers is a phenomenon which is not comparable to the polymorphism of heterostylous forms.
23642579|The chromosome numbers of nearly all species of the grass subtribes Aristaveninae and Airinae from Europe and northern Africa are presented. Among the Aristaveninae the genus Aristavena has 2 n = 14 chromosomes, whereas Deschampsia forms a polyploid series with the basic number x = 13. In the subtribe Airinae the basic number x = 7 predominates. Avenella includes a polyploid series up to dekaploidy, whilst the lowest diploid value so far known in grasses  caused by descending dysploidy  exists in the annual genera Airopsis and Periballia with 2 n = 8. From both subtribes 12 different karyotypes are described and depicted as idiograms. The basic karyotypes of Corynephorus, Periballia and Vahlodea differ from each other by different chromosome length. SAT-chromosomes in the Airinae vary somewhat. Some marker chromosomes eludicate phylogenetic relationships. Amphiplasty appears in various genera and was studied particularly in the amphidiploid Aira caryophyllea. Karyological and genomatic trends are considered in relation to evolutionary strategies of annuals and perennials. The nuclear DNA content of some species has been determined cytophotometrically. In subtribe Airinae a positive correlation exists between chromosome volume, pollen diameter, and DNA content. A comparison of the duration of microsporogenesis and microgametogenesis in annual and perennial species with their nuclear DNA content has shown that a primary nucleotypic influence is not recognizable.
23657315|In order to study the genetic variation and phylogenetic relationship in Elymus repens, amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) were used, together with sequence data for the nuclear gene phytochrome B, phyB, and the chloroplast ribosomal protein encoding gene rps4. A total of 83 collected E. repens samples, 3 E. repens reference samples and 18 related species accessions were analysed and compared with 13 GenBank sequences. AMOVA analysis revealed a moderate genetic differentiation between the populations of E. repens in the three Swedish provinces investigated, while no differentiation was observed due to landscape type. A moderate genetic differentiation was also found when samples from different fields in one province were compared to samples from a selected field. A common female origin was found in E. repens and seven other Elymus species, Pseudoroegneria spicata, Thinopyrum intermedium, T. junceum, Hordeum bogdanii and H. stenostachys. The latter two both harbour the H genome. Taken together, the data suggest that the Swedish E. repens population is slightly heterogeneous and comprises multiple origins of genome donors; a nuclear genome with contributions from Pseudoroegneria (St), Hordeum (H), Thinopyrum (E) and Y with an unknown donor together with a maternal genome donated from Pseudoroegneria.
43496785|The leaf waxes of 23 woody bamboo species of three subgenera, Dendrocalamus, Bambusa and Dendrocalamopsis, from the Xishuangbanna tropical rain forest in Southwest China were analyzed by gas chromatography and coupled gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The waxes of the Dendrocalamus species are dominated by C and C n-alkanes and their average chain length (ACL) has an average of 28.3. In marked contrast to the Dendrocalamus species, the wax composition of the Bambusa species is characterized by a broad distribution of major n-alkanes from C to C, greater ACL values (>29) and an enhanced relative abundance (>30%) of n-alkanes with a carbon number greater than 30. Unlike the Dendrocalamus species and the Bambusa species, the Dendrocalamopsis species do not have a distinct n-alkane distribution; in some species the n-alkane distribution is comparable to that in the Bambusa species and in others to that in the Dendrocalamus species. The lipid data suggest that it might be reasonable to classify the controversial Dendrocalamopsis group as an independent genus separate from the Bambusa genus. On the basis of their smaller diversity of the dominant n-alkanes and their lower ACL values, the Dendrocalamus species might be more evolutionarily advanced than the Bambusa species, with the Dendrocalamopsis species being at an intermediate stage. The evolution and classification of the woody bamboos inferred from leaf wax n-alkanes are consistent with morphological investigations reported previously.
23674903|For ten Blandfordia grandiflora populations spanning about 90% of the species' range, univariate and multivariate analyses on 14 vegetative and reproductive characters separated plants into distinct coastal and tableland groups. Distinguishing characters were number of flowers and leaves, leaf length and width, and inflorescence stalk height and diameter; coastal plants were larger than tableland plants. In a transplant experiment, coastal and tableland plants retained their phenotypic distinctness, indicating that vegetative morphology was genetically determined. Coastal plants exhibited clinal variation with latitude. Compared to tableland plants, coastal plants had higher pollen : ovule ratios, and produced fewer but heavier seeds per flower. Tableland and coastal plants are phenotypically distinct, indicating that separate subspecific status is warranted.
23674760|A fossil trimerous flower from the Turonian (ca. 90 MYBP, Upper Cretaceous) of New Jersey is described as a new genus in the family Lauraceae. The fossil flower is charcoalified and preserved in exceptional detail. This fossil specimen is particularly remarkable in that several pollen grains have been preserved; pollen grains of Lauraceae generally have very thin exine and are rarely preserved in the fossil record. Although the specimen is incomplete and lacks anthers, there are sufficient structural details preserved to permit an assignment to the Lauraceae, as well as comparisons with the tribe Perseeae. This new genus provides an important addition to our knowledge of systematic and structural diversity in Cretaceous Lauraceae.
23643144|The reproductive success of three co-flowering species of Vaccinium (V. myrtillus, V. vitis-idaea and V. uliginosum) was studied in one heathland of the Upper Ardennes, Belgium, during three years (19881990). The purpose was to examine whether pollen limitation, flower position and flowering phenology may influence patterns of fruit set in these three sympatric species. I quantified fruit and seed set following supplementary hand-pollinations and compared this to natural fruit set. On the same plants, I also quantified fruit and seed set in relation to the spatial position of the flowers on the ramet and their temporal sequence of blooming. Hand-pollination had no significant effect on fruit set in V. vitis-idaea and V. uliginosum, but significantly increased seed number per fruit in 1989. In V. myrtillus both fruit and seed set were increased by supplementary pollination, but significantly in only one year. Analyses of position effects revealed that the fruits in the lower positions in the ramet did not mature preferentially and did not contain more seeds in V. uliginosum and in V. vitis-idaea. Flowering phenology also had no significant effect for these species. In V. myrtillus hand-pollinated flowers showed a seasonal decline in seed number, and control (naturally pollinated) flowers showed a seasonal increase in fruit set. Fruit and seed set appear to be pollen-limited rather than resource-limited in V. uliginosum. In the two other species, unfavorable weather (frosts) could be a more important cause of low fruit and seed set.
23655800|Previous studies of Antarctic mosses employing RAPDs have reported extraordinarily high levels of genetic variation, even within a single clump of moss. This is unexpected given their extreme isolation in Antarctica and lack of sexual reproduction. We offer an alternative explanation: that unusually elevated levels of genetic variability are artefacts from contamination of a number of biota known to be naturally associated with Antarctic mosses. We utilized sequence variation of nrITS and RAPDs to further investigate the effect of naturally occurring contaminants on estimates of genetic variation of mosses. Our results indicate that these "phantom hitch-hiker" contaminants hinder attempts to accurately and reliably estimate levels of genetic variation by non-specific PCR-based approaches. Furthermore, screening samples via amplification of nrITS failed to identify all contaminated samples, hence we caution against relying solely on "quick" screening methods and suggest that suspect samples be carefully examined for contamination.
23642844|Many angiosperms have arranged their flowers in inflorescences forming a distinct signalling unit to flower visitors. In some species, the flowers of inflorescences undergo a temporal colour change corresponding exactly to a change in the reward status. Based on information obtained from the spectral reflection curves of pre-change and post-chage colours of flower corollas and/or floral guides, it was possible to demonstrate that the colour phase associated with reward closely corresponds to the visual stimuli which trigger behavioural responses of inexperienced flower visitors, and that the colour phase associated with less reward corresponds to visual stimuli less attractive to nave flower visitors. Reciprocal colour changes were not observed. It is to be assumed that the unidirectionality of floral colour changes is an adaptation of angiosperms aimed at the guidance of first-time flower visitors. Signalling reward to inexperienced flower visitors is an additional function of floral colour changes. The main function of floral colour changes, however, is to provide cues with which the flower visitors can learn to associate one colour phase with reward.
23644238|A systematic study of 45 taxa belonging to 23 genera of tribes Arabideae, Euclidieae, Hesperideae, Lunarieae, Matthioleae and Sisymbrieae of Brassicaceae from Egypt was conducted by means of numerical analysis based on sixty two morphological characters, including vegetative parts, pollen grains and seeds. On the basis of UPGMA clustering and PCO analysis, four main groups are recognised: Lunarieae, Euclidieae, Matthioleae and a mixed group. Representatives of these groups are clustered together based on characters with high factor loading in the PCO analysis. The tribe Euclidieae is the most homogeneous group, and the tribe Arabideae is the most heterogeneous one.
43558584|Peripheral populations may be crucial for understanding processes underlying adaptive genetic variation. Their evolution and ecology are driven by various genetic and demographic processes, such as selection, gene flow and bottleneck. Peripheral populations often experience a reduction in density resulting in the Allee effect. The presence of interfertile species increases the opportunity for hybridisation, which allows for a rescue from the Allee effect, but at the risk of genetic extinction through introgression. In this article we investigated a peripheral population of Quercus pubescens, a European tree species. The study population is located in Poland, several hundred kilometres northwards from the main species range. Due to geographic separation, the study population exists under strong pressure of introgression from potentially inter-fertile Q. petraea and Q. robur, which are the only common oaks in Poland. The intermediate morphology between typical Q. pubescens and a common oak species found in the study population supports the introgression hypothesis, which could be in line with the earlier studies of this species complex conducted in the main range of Q. pubescens. Alternatively, the intermediate morphology could reflect the founder effect or selection at an ecological extreme. We attempted to verify these hypotheses using microsatellites and a reference of common oak species. The results showed that the study population is genetically distinct from both Q. petraea and Q. robur. Additionally, the population is characterised by a low effective population size and limited gene dispersal. This suggests that the study population reveals strong reproductive isolation from common species, implying alternative sources of atypical morphology.
23668872|Levels of genetic diversity and population genetic structure of the rare, endangered terrestrial orchid Liparis japonica were examined for eight natural populations (n = 185) in Northeast China using six AFLP primer pairs, where this species has experienced severe habitat loss and fragmentation. Based on 406 DNA bands, a high level of genetic diversity was found at the species level with the PPB of 85.47 %, while the genetic diversity at the population level was low (PPB = 47.48 %). A significantly high degree of population differentiation was found with 42.69 % variation existed among populations as measured by AMOVA, indicating potential restricted gene flow. The genetic distances between populations were independent of the corresponding geographic distances, and the genetic relationship of individuals had no significant correlation with their spatial distribution. The restricted gene flow might be impacted by reduced population size, habitat destruction and fragmentation. The results in this study suggested that habitat protection and keeping a stable environment are critical for the conservation of L. japonica species.
23656648|The structure and anatomy of mature flowers of four species of Meliosma is investigated using scanning electron and light microscopy. The vasculature of the flower, including the structure of the gynoecium, is described in detail. The mechanism of stamen maturation and pollen release is illustrated and discussed. The existence of an explosive pollination mechanism is questioned for at least part of the species. Flowers are proterandrous and fertile stamens are kept spatially separate from the style by a ring of large staminodes. Anthers are disporangiate by the loss of the adaxial pollen sacs. During maturation the filament bends progressively outwards and releases the pollen on the extension of the connective that acts as a secondary pollen presentation system. The nectary has five appendages topped with stomata secreting abundant nectar. The relationships of Sabiaceae are discussed relative to other early diverging eudicots. The significance of Sabiaceae as an isolated clade is highlighted, although some features point to a link with Menispermaceae.
23655496|In the past two decades our understanding of plant biogeography has been improved substantially by the introduction of various molecular marker systems. Especially within the angiosperms, maternally inherited chloroplast DNA based data sets have elucidated not only genetic relatedness but also geographic structuring of genetic variation. These findings were based on the observation that DNA molecules might mutate during migration, which consequently found its manifestation in the term phylogeography introduced in the late 80s by John Avise. However, other markers such as codominantly inherited allozymes were used before the advent of DNA techniques and were used in theoretical population genetic studies. In actual phylogeographic studies, highly variable markers, such as AFLPs (amplified fragment length polymorphisms), were needed to unravel recent species histories (e.g. pleistocenic differentiation). The levels of molecular variation at such markers are closer to that of allelic variation measured with allozymes. Hence, an increasing number of studies have relied on highly polypmorphic markers, such as DNA microsatellite loci. Herein, we try to present an overview on the various biogeographic and phylogeographic studies using various molecular (including isozyme) markers and methodological approaches to analyse them, concentrating on studies done with representatives of the Brassicaceae family.
23673897|12 species of Pertusaria DC. were collected from various areas in Japan. Their phycobionts were isolated and studied taxonomically. The phycobionts of these species were indentified as Trebouxia potteri Ahmadjian ex Grtner.
23655236|Development of ovular structures in the 'eucalypt group' (Eucalypteae, Myrtaceae) was investigated using scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy. Different modes of placental expansion account for the variation in initiation and arrangement of ovules and ovulodes. In Eucalyptus sensu stricto placental elongation proceeds proximally and the distally-positioned ovulodes develop from the first primordia initiated (congenital ovulodes). In Angophora, Corymbia, Arillastrum, Allosyncarpia and Stockwellia placental elongation is bi-directional and the ovulodes develop from lastinitiated primordia (residual ovulodes). Bi-directional elongation and residual ovulodes are present in the outgroup taxon Lophostemon confertus and is presumably plesiomorphic. This suite of characters is potentially informative for resolving relationships for several key taxa: E. microcorys (subgenus Symphyomyrtus) has proximal placental expansion and congenital ovulodes, which is consistent with most Eucalyptus; E. curtisii (subgenus Gaubaea) has the plesiomophic condition and may be sister to all other species of Eucalyptus.
23655510|Maximum likelihood analysis of 113 rbcL sequences leads to a well resolved phylogeny of Jungermanniales. All species with perigynia or marsupia are found in one clade, whereas species with coelocaules are placed in several lineages. The broadly circumscribed Geocalycaceae (including Lophocoleaceae) of most recent authors are resolved as polyphyletic. Geocalycaceae genera which develop female involucres without involvement of stem tissue (Chiloscyphus, Heteroscyphus, Leptoscyphus, Physotheca) form a robust clade which is placed sister to Plagiochilaceae whereas the genera with involucres originating at least partly from stem tissue (Geocalycaceae s.str., Geocalyx, Harpanthus, Saccogyna) are nested within the paraphyletic Jungermanniaceae. This topology leads to the exclusion of the strictly perianth-bearing species from Geocalycaceae and the reinstatement of Lophocoleaceae. Campanocolea is nested within Chiloscyphus. Physotheca and Chiloscyphus breutelii are placed within an unsupported clade with several accessions of Leptoscyphus. Heteroscyphus forms a paraphyletic grade at the base of Chiloscyphus.
23656047|Available resources could influence the trade-offs among different reproductive components in plants. Here, we created three nutrient levels to test the nutrient effects on trade-offs among sexual reproduction, clonal propagation and vegetative growth in a monoecious clonal herb Sagittaria pygmaea. The results of this study showed that the plant exhibited different trade-off patterns among different nutrient levels. When the nutrient level was low, there were weak trade-offs between sexual reproduction and vegetative growth and between clonal propagation and vegetative growth; when the nutrient level was moderate, we found a strong trade-off between sexual reproduction and clonal propagation; but when the nutrient level was high, we found no trade-offs among these three different reproductive components. These results indicated that the plant could adjust its trade-off patterns to fit the nutrient variation and suggested that trade-offs are unlikely to constrain the evolution of reproductive strategy in this species.
23674517|In Sedum rupestre L. a polyploid series (x = 16) occurs in which aneuploid chromosome numbers and odd levels of ploidy prevail. The most common and widely distributed cytotype, S. rupestre subsp. rupestre, is 2n = 112. Plants resembling S. rupestre subsp. rupestre can be obtained by hybridizing the tetraploid cytotypes of S. forsterianum Sm. (2n = 48) and S. rupestre subsp. erectum 't Hart (2n = 64). Comparison of these artificial hybrids with their parents and a large number of plants of S. rupestre subsp. rupestre (2n =112) from nature showed that S. rupestre subsp. rupestre and the artificial hybrids are morphologically indistinguishable, and intermediate between S. forsterianum and S. rupestre subsp. erectum. Morphologically S. rupestre subsp. rupestre is closer to subsp. erectum than to S. forsterianum. Chloroplast DNA restriction patterns of S. rupestre subsp. rupestre, however, resemble S. forsterianum more closely. The combined results of the hybridization experiments, the analysis of the cpDNA restriction patterns, and the morphological variation indicate the allopolyploid origin of S. rupestre subsp. rupestre.
23642922|Mature pollen grains of Nymphaea mexicana have a verrucate proximal surface, a psilate distal surface and an anazonasulculus (encircling-sulcate aperture). The developmental events of microspores and tapetal cells were observed with TEM and SEM. Radially oriented substructural elements are seen in the microspore surface coating of Nymphaea mexicana from the early tetrad stage through the whole exine development. These elements, being the structural units of the microspore surface matrix (glycocalyx), are associated with sporopollenin precursor accumulation. In young free microspores, radially oriented elements are observed at both proximal and distal poles as a "palisade" between the endexine and plasmalemma.  Several points are discussed: (1) the initial and mature forms of exine substructure elements; (2) the significance of exine substructure for realisation of morphogenetic processes; (3) the ways by which verrucate and psilate sculpture patterns are developed.
23675286|Desmarestia antarctica Moe & Silva, a new species from the Antarctic Peninsula and the Scotia Arc, is distinguished from all other ligulate members of the genus by the arrangement of zoosporangia, which are produced together with paraphyses in a raised sorus. Among all species in the genus, only D. anceps Montagne shares this feature. Desmarestia antarctica is the first species of the genus for which an endophytic gametophyte is demonstrated, the usual host being Curdiea racovitzae De Wildeman, a red alga of the family Gracilariaceae. The sporophyte contains only a moderate concentration of acid compared to Northern Hemisphere ligulate species, while physodes that probably contain polyphenolic compounds form noticeable speckles and dark margins in preserved plants. Often more than one axis arises from a single holdfast, probably as the result of compounding rather than proliferation.
23642598|The anatomy and development of mericarps in four representatives of Boraginaceae-Cynoglosseae has been investigated. In each case, the nutlets grow from a six-layered carpel. While the mesocarp becomes multi-layered and thick in correlation with epizoochory in Cynoglossum, it remains six-layered in Mattiastrum, Paracaryum, and Rindera. The wings are formed by both exo- and mesocarp and later on the inflated rim becomes hollow. Development of wings and reduction of glochids are discussed as adaptations to anemochory.
23643517|Microfossils which match Lactoris (Lactoridaceae) pollen more closely than those of any other living angiosperm occur in Campanian to Paleogene sediments around the margins of Australia. These are referred to the fossil genus Lactoripollenites (Zavada & Benson 1987). A species belonging to the same genus occurs in older (Turonian-Santonian) deposits off southern Africa but Australian specimens represent not only the most southern, but also the youngest known (Oligocene) records to date. Our data support suggestions that the Lactoridaceae were widespread across the Southern Hemisphere during the Late Cretaceous (Lammers & al. 1986, Zavada & Benson 1987). An homology between gymnosperm sacci and the saccus-like structures found in Lactoripollenites and some specimens of Lactoris pollen is contested, as is the use of (anasulcate) apertures to support the primitive position of the family.
43558196|Sequence data from nuclear (ITS) and chloroplast (trnL-F) regions for 89 accessions representing 56 out of 64 species from all five genera of the tribe Chorisporeae (plus Dontostemon tibeticus) have been studied to test the monophyly of the tribe and its component genera, clarify its boundaries, and elucidate its phylogenetic position in the family. Both data sets showed strong support for the monophyly of the Chorisporeae as currently delimited, though the position of its tentative member D. tibeticus was not resolved by ITS. Parrya and Pseudoclausia are polyand paraphyletic with regard to each other, and Chorispora is either polyphyletic or at least paraphyletic (comprising Diptychocarpus) within a weakly supported monophyletic clade. The incongruence in branching pattern among the markers was most likely caused by hybridization and possibly influenced by incomplete lineage sorting. The present results suggest uniting Pseudoclausia, Clausia podlechii, and Achoriphragma with Parrya and transferring P. beketovii and P. saposhnikovii to Leiospora (Euclidieae). We also obtained support for splitting Chorispora into two geographically defined groups, one of which is closer to Diptychocarpus. Both data sets revealed a close relationship of the Chorisporeae to Dontostemoneae, while ITS also indicated affinity to Hesperideae. Therefore, the position of Chorisporeae needs further verification.
23655502|A species checklist has been prepared for the Brassicaceae (Cruciferae) family, providing the first updated list in over 70 years. The family, currently, includes 338 genera and 3709 species. The database contains approximately 14,000 taxonomic names (records). Taxon status and synonymy, taxon name, scientific authority, literature source and source verification, and the basionym are provided for each record.
23645337|Phylogenetic relationships within the complex genus Lupinus are estimated from internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences of the nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat. The molecular data supports Lupinus as a distinct monophyletic group within the tribe Genisteae. Different geographical lineages are revealed within Lupinus, which are each restricted to either the Old or the New World. In the New World, the ITS data support an eastern-western geographic disjunction of the lupines and the recognition of some well-supported clades. In the Old World, almost all the previously recognized taxa are taxonomically well differentiated. The homogeneous African rough-seeded lupines, Scabrispermae, are strongly supported as a monophyletic group, which is distinct from the diverse and heterogeneous circum-Mediterranean smooth-seeded ones. The latter appear to have evolved as two lineages, in which are revealed some intersectional relationships. Also ITS data allow the assessment of the phylogenetic position of the newly discovered species, L. anatolicus (in the Old World) and L. jaimehintoniana (the Mexican tree lupin). The ITS phylogeny suggests a rapid initial radiation of the lupines subsequent to their divergence from a common ancestor. Moreover, the results indicate that the annual and perennial habits have evolved many times in Lupinus and suggest a role for generation time in affecting the evolutionary history of lupines. Data on adaptive processes and character evolution are re-examined and discussed in the light of the ITS phylogeny.
23656064|In this study anther ontogeny of Campsis radicans (L.) Seem. was investigated by transmission electron microscopy and light microscopy with special reference to the development of the anther wall. The anther wall formation follows the dicotyledonous type. The differentiation in anther starts with the appearance of archesporial cells which undergo periclinal divisions to give primary parietal layer to the epidermal site and the primary sporogenous cells to the inside. The primary parietal layer also divides to form two secondary parietal layers. Later, the outer secondary parietal layer (spl1) forms the endothecium and the middle layer by periclinal division whereas the inner one (spl2) directly develops into the outer tapetum forming the inner most layer of the anther wall. The sporogenous tissue is generally organized in two rows of cells with a horseshoe-shaped outline. The remainder of the tapetum lining the sporogenous mass is derived from the connective tissue. The tapetum thus has dual origin and dimorphic. Anthers are tetrasporangiate. The wall of the anther consists of an epidermis, endothecium, middle layer, and the secretory type tapetum. Tapetal cells are usually binucleated. Epidermis and Endothecium layers of anther wall remain intact until the end of anther and pollen development; however, middle layer and tapetum disappear during development.
23674740|Tiarella trifoliata comprises varieties laciniata, trifoliata, and unifoliata, and is distributed from southeastern Alaska to northern California. We analyzed restriction site variation of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) using 23 endonucleases in 76 populations representing the entire geographic range of the species and the three recognized varieties. We also employed comparative restriction site mapping of PCR-amplified chloroplast DNA fragments using 16 restriction endonucleases. This species exhibits low cpDNA restriction site variation. No differentiation is evident among varieties of this species based on cpDNA data; some plants of each variety were characterized by each of the two major cpDNA types detected. The two major cpDNA clades, which differ by only a single restriction site mutation, are geographically structured. A northern clade comprises populations from Alaska to central Oregon; most populations analyzed from southern Oregon and California form a southern clade. Populations that possess the typical northern cpDNA type also occur disjunctly to the south at high elevations in the Siskiyou  Klamath Mountain area of southern Oregon and northern California. Conversely, the southern cpDNA type is found disjunctly to the north in the Olympic Peninsula of Washington. Both geographic areas characterized by disjunct cytoplasms are considered glacial refugia. Tiarella trifoliata joins two other species, Tolmiea menziesii and Tellima grandiflora, in having well-demarcated northern and southern cpDNA lineages. All three species have similar life-history traits and geographic distributions. We suggest that glaciation may have played a major role in the formation of the cpDNA discontinuities present in these three taxa. The pronounced relationship between cpDNA variation and geographic distribution suggests the potential applicability of "intraspecific phylogeography" to plants via the analysis of intraspecific cpDNA variation. These three examples also join a rapidly growing data base which indicates that cytoplasms are often geographically structured within species and species complexes.
23642909|A classical morphological study of Hyacinthoides sect. Somera in the north-western Iberian Peninsula revealed the new species H. paivae. It differs from the closely related species H. italica, H. hispanica, and H. mauritanica by vegetative and generative characters, such as leaf length, raceme shape, tepal length and width. It typically occurs in woodlands in the A Corua province of NW Spain.
23674090|New chromosome counts and nuclei structures are reported for Annonaceae species from Madagascar: Ambavia (2n = 14), Xylopia (2n = 16) and Polyalthia (2n = 18). This first generic count of Ambavia and its nucleotypic parameters underline its long term isolation from the African continent and it should be regarded as an extremely distinct member of the basic stock of African Annonaceae. Some karyological similarities are found with the African genera Cleistopholis (2n = 14) and Uvariopsis (2n = 16) and the American Tetrameranthus (2n = 14, 28). The karyology of Xylopia is completely in line with previous results from the Palaeo- and Neotropics. Polyalthia has 2n = 18, and x = 9, probably the only base number within the whole genus. Fluorochrome and Giemsa-C-band patterns are identical with different congeneric species.
23644090|Banksia saxicola A.S. George (Proteaceae) is a rare Australian endemic, found in only two locations in Victoria that are separated by approximately 500 kms: the Grampians and Wilson's Promontory National Parks. The organisation of genetic variation between and within populations at the two locations was assessed using the Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) technique. Two populations were sampled in the Grampians National Park and one population was sampled at Wilson's Promontory. The three populations were genetically divergent from each other, in particular the Grampians and Wilson's Promontory populations, and this relates to the ancient geographic isolation of these two regions. The Wilson's Promontory population had lower genetic diversity than either Grampians populations, consistent with its smaller population size. The findings are important for strategies to conserve B. saxicola.
23644411|The polyphyly of Sarcostemma sensu latu, suspected on morphological and karyological reasons is confirmed by analysis of the trnL-F spacer region. With the exception of Cynanchum montevidense (subgen. Mellichampia, Sundell 1981), Old World and New World taxa belong to different clades. Sarcostemma sensu stricto and Platykeleba show a strong affinity to Old World Cynanchum; the affinities of Oxystelma cannot be determined at present. Philibertia and Blepharodon are sister groups, both are sister to Funastrum, and Pentacyphus is basal to the New World clade.
23643794|The importance of phylogenetic effects in controlling seed size variation at the macroevolutionary levels was examined using species of a well-defined, monophyletic family, the Leguminosae. A nested ANOVA was used to separate variance components at the various taxonomic levels such as subfamily, genus, and subgenus. Statistical significance was found at most of the taxonomic levels examined, which suggests that phylogeny as shown by the accepted taxonomy of the family, exerted a substantial influence over seed size variation. Thus, there appears to be a characteristic mean seed size for each genus and subgenus. The overall positive correlation between plant height and seed size was interpreted as a scaling of seed size to plant height. When the effect of plant height was controlled, the amount of variance changed to some extent across taxonomic levels, though resulting in no change in statistical significance at various taxonomic levels. This results indicate that phylogenetic effects in seed size variation among congeneric or consubgeneric groupings were largely independent of allometric effects. The patterns of variance components and intraclass correlation coefficients for seed size differed to some extent among subfamilies. The difference in those patterns among taxa will reflect evolutionary change more closely with larger sample sizes. A simple inverse relationship between seed size and number per fruit among related legume species was difficult to generalize. This was perhaps due to phylogenetic constraints on seed size and/or seed number (or ovule number). These results demonstrate that phylogeny and plant height affect seed size variation among related species.
23655905|Lignins are complex phenolic heteropolymers present in xylem and sclerenchyma cell walls in tracheophytes. The occurrence of lignin-like polymers in bryophytes is controversial. In this study two polyclonal antibodies against homoguaiacyl (G) and guaiacyl/syringyl (GS) synthetic lignin-like polymers that selectively labelled lignified cell walls in tracheophytes also bound to cell walls in bryophytes, the GS antibody usually giving a stronger labelling than the G antibody. In contrast to tracheophytes, the antibody binding in liverworts and mosses was not tissue-specific. In the hornworts Megaceros flagellaris and M. fuegiensis the pseudoelaters and spores were labelled more intensely than the other cell types with the GS antibody. The cell walls in Nitella were labelled with both antibodies but no binding was observed in Coleochaete. The results suggest that the ability to incorporate G or GS moieties in cell walls is a plesiomorphy (primitive character) of the land plant clade.
23645273|Paspalum notatum is a subtropical grass widely distributed in the temperate areas of America. Diploids are sexual while polyploids give rise to clonal seeds through aposporous apomixis. RAPD markers were used to analyze the genetic structure of three natural populations: i) diploids reproducing sexually (R2X); ii) sympatric apomictic tetraploids collected in the vicinity of the diploids (R4X); iii) allopatric apomictic tetraploids growing in isolation (C4X). The apomictic reproduction rate was evaluated by the use of molecular markers in progeny tests, while chromosome-counting allowed the verification of ploidy levels. Data revealed that the R4X group presented a variation considerably higher than that observed for C4X. Jaccards coefficients were used to produce a cluster diagram using the UPGMA method. All but one tetraploid genotypes grouped together and were associated to diploid genotype A21. The possibility of occasional generation of novel tetraploid clones from the interaction between tetraploid and diploid individuals is discussed.
43558162|Species belonging to the Amaryllidaceae (Zephyranthes and Habranthus) were analyzed by banding with chromomycin A3 (CMA)/4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) fluorochromes. The patterns of bands were studied in seven species of Zephyranthes Herb, and one of Habranthus Herb. Subterminal and interstitial DAPI+bands were observed in Z. robusta 2n = 12 and Z. brachyandra 2n = 24. Other species showed no AT-rich heterochromatin. In species with 2n = 12, CMA+ bands were observed on one chromosome pair of Z. robusta and Zephyranthes sp., while in Z sylvatica an additional small terminal band in the fifth chromosome pair was observed. Z. rosea and Z. grandiflora presented with 2n = 24 and had four CMA+ bands, while in Z. brachyandra, with 2n = 24 + 1B, there were eight interstitial dot bands and a larger terminal band in the short arm of the B chromosome. Z. candida with 2n = 38 presented CMA+ heterochromatin blocks on the long arms of five metacentric pairs and in the short arm of one of the submetacentric pairs; in addition a terminal band was observed on the long arm of one of the homologues of a larger submetacentric pair. H. itaobinus showed a heterozygous pair revealing a strong CMA+ band in only one of the homologues, likely a nucleolus organizing region. Taxonomic implications and karyotype evolution of this group are discussed and correlated with previous data from the literature.
43558137|Melastomataceae is a common and dominant family in Neotropical vegetation, with high species diversity which leads to a large variation in some morphological structures. Despite this, some species of Melastomataceae are very similar in their external leaf morphology, leading to difficulties in their identification without the presence of reproductive organs. Here we have proposed and tested a computer-aided texture-based approach used to correctly identify and distinguish leaves of some species of Melastomataceae that occur in a region of Neotropical savanna in Southeastern Brazil, also comparing it with other previously proposed approaches. The results demonstrated that our approach may clearly separate the studied species, analyzing the patterns of leaf texture (both adaxial and abaxial surfaces), and achieving better accuracy (100%) than other methods. Our work has suggested that leaf texture properties can be used as a new characteristic for identification, and as an additional source of information in taxonomic and systematic studies. As the method may be supervised by experts, it is also suitable for discrimination of species with high morphological plasticity, improving the automated discrimination task. This approach can be very useful for identification of species in the absence of reproductive material, and is a rapid and powerful tool for plant identification.
23674970|The seed storage globulins from six Helianthus and four hybrids were studied using mono and bidimensional gel SDS electrophoresis (+ 2 mercaptoethanol). The  polypeptide composition of each subunit was determined. Different  pairs are specifically expressed according to the species studied. Three typical patterns were discriminated. All the studied species exhibit five subunits: two of them are expressed in all the species (11 and 22). The subunit corresponding to the 11 pair is present in H. petiolaris and in the three populations of H. annuus studied. The 2b2 pair is common to H. annuus and H. argophyllus. H. petiolaris presents two specific 2a2 and 44 pairs and H. annuus a specific 33 pair. In H. argophyllus 11 33 or 44 are never observed but are replaced by 13 and 31 pairs. Some globulins, poorly represented, are of  forms but present  chains of higher molecular weights (in the range 5456 kDa). Expressing variations in the banding patterns between these species by the use of a similarity index reveals complete identity between the three populations of H. annuus. Identity between the two H. petiolaris studied is also observed. H. annuus and H. argophyllus appear to be closer to each other than H. petiolaris concerning the seed storage globulins.
43496751|Silene ciliata Poiret is a small perennial that presents several ploidy levels and inhabits the mountain ranges of the European Mediterranean basin. Recent studies have shown evidence of local adaptation in populations located across an altitudinal gradient in Sierra de Guadarrama (Central Spain) at the species' southernmost distribution limit. In this study, we assessed whether the existence of local adaptation in these populations was related to differences in karyological features (ploidy level or chromosome number modification) or in nuclear DNA amount. Optical microscope (phase contrast and epifluorescence after DAPI staining) and flow cytometry were used to estimate the ploidy level and genome size of several family lines in three populations across the altitude gradient. With a sampling three times higher than usual in genome size assessments, all individuals showed a constant diploid set (2n = 24), so that polyploidy or other chromosome number modifications were discarded. The small genome size found (mean  SD; 2C = 1.76  0.06 pg) was within the range of those found in other Silene species. Significant differences in genome size were found when the three populations of S. ciliata were compared. The largest genome size found at the intermediate population may be associated to lower environmental stress at the mid elevation, in line with the recent studies in this area.
43558385|To better understand the taxonomy and phylogeny of the Dicomeae (Asteraceae) the pollen morphology of seven genera including 15 species of that tribe and six genera with seven species belonging to five related tribes was studied by use of light and scanning electron microscopy. The quantitative data were analysed by use of principal-components analysis (PCA). The exine ultrastructure of Erythrocephalum longifolium and Pleiotaxis rugosa was also studied by use of transmission electron microscopy. Three pollen types were distinguishable from the apertural, columellar, and spinular morphology and inter-spinular sculpture. A dichotomous key to these pollen types is proposed. The existence of the Dicomeae as an independent tribe and its subdivision in two subtribes (Dicominae and Pleiotaxinae) are supported by this study, which also suggests the Oldenburgieae and the Tarchonantheae are the closest tribes to Dicomeae.
23660101|The inclusion of species of Colchicum within Androcymbium in a previous cpDNA phylogeny of the Colchicaceae, questioned the monophyly of Androcymbium, and it was proposed to unite the two genera in Colchicum. Here we expand the previous phylogenetic analyses of Androcymbium by increasing the taxon sampling and adding more data. The analysis include 29 of the 57 species of Androcymbium, more cpDNA (trnL intron, trnL-trnF IGS, trnY-trnD IGS, and trnH-psbA IGS), and nDNA (RNApol2 intron 23) regions, and morphological and life-history traits data. Both parsimony and Bayesian inference were used. According to our data there is no reason to expand Colchicum to include Androcymbium, but we support the inclusion of Bulbocodium and Merendera within Colchicum. Morphology and life history traits are the main arguments in favor of recognizing Androcymbium as a well-circumscribed genus. In the phylogeny two Androcymbium groups are clearly differentiated: (1) one including species from Western and Eastern South Africa, Namibia, and North Africa, and (2) one including species from the north west of South Africa and south of Namibia.
23655561|Floral closure may be induced by pollination and various other factors, but is rarely studied comprehensively. Different kinds of floral closure should have various effects on reproductive fitness of plants. Two contrasting types of floral closure were observed in the flowers of Gentiana straminea Maxim. in the eastern Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. The first type occurred prior to pollination during both gender phases, in response mainly to decreasing air temperatures. Flowers closed when decreasing temperatures approached 20C and subsequently began to reopen the following day during mid-morning when air temperatures warmed to approximately 1315 C. This kind of floral closure can protect pollen grains on either stamens or stigmas, increasing fitness of both male and female. Following pollination, permanent floral closure occurred, although there was a delay between the dates of pollination and permanent closure, during which flowers continued to show temporary closure in response to low temperature episodes. The time required for permanent, pollination-induced closure varied according to the age of the gender phase, including a prolonged time before closure if pollination occurred early in the female phase. The retaining of permanent closed flowers increased both approaching (to inflorescences) and visiting (to unpollinated flowers) frequencies of individual plants when with fewer open flowers and the persisting corolla is further beneficial for seed sets of these pollinated flowers. Thus, two separate types of floral closure, one in response to environmental cues and the other in response to the age of each gender stage, appeared to have a strong influence on reproductive fitness in this species. These results revealed a different adaptive strategy of alpine plants in the sexual reproduction assurance in addition to the well-known elevated floral longevity, dominant role of more effective pollinators and increased reproduction allocation in the arid habitats.
23669045|Persimmon (Diospyros L.) is one of the most important fruits worldwide and it has been recognized as a health nutrient supply for human consumption. In this study, sequence-related amplified polymorphism (SRAP) markers were used to characterize the genetic diversity of seven species of Persimmon, aiming at exploiting valuable wild resources for breeding new cultivars. Our results show that 303 out of a total of 303 bands amplified with 11 SRAP primer combinations reveal highly polymorphism. The 48 genotypes of persimmons were divided into five groups using the unweighted pair-group method of arithmetic average cluster analysis and principal coordinated analysis. The clusters results show that not only interspecies among seven persimmon genus, but also inner-species of each genus could be clearly differentiated. The phylogenetics positions of Deyang yeshi, Yemaoshi and Jinzaoshi have been elucidated. The results also indicated that wild Chinese persimmon species bear diverse genetic makeup.
43498303|Eight taxa of the genus Bellevalia (Hyacinthaceae) occurring in Greece, all with basic chromosome number x = 4, were cytologically studied using classical and molecular-cytogenetic techniques [fluorochrome banding with chromomycin A, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using probes of 18S-5.8S-26S and 5S ribosomal RNA genes]. Two of the examined taxa are endemic, i.e., B. brevipedicellata and B. sitiaca, both restricted to the Island of Kriti. B. hyacinthoides and B. edirnensis are Balkan endemics, and the four remaining taxa, i.e., B. dubia subsp. boissieri, B. trifoliata, B. romana, and B. ciliata, are more widely distributed Mediterranean elements. Genome size, estimated by flow cytometry, ranged from 18.59 to 53.38 pg. The results of fluorochrome banding and FISH are reported for the first time for the genus Bellevalia. Despite the morphological similarity of the chromosome complement, which is in accordance with the general "basic" Bellevalia karyotype formula, the karyotypes of the studied species are clearly distinguished by the number and position of GC-rich bands and ribosomal DNA (rDNA) loci, revealing clear interspecific differentiation among the taxa. Additionally, examination of the polyploid species B. sitiaca and B. edirnensis and populations of B. hyacinthoides and B. ciliata with different ploidy levels permits discussion about the origin of polyploids and the taxonomic relationships among the taxa.
23642294|Two basic patterns of exine ultrastructure are found in the Compositae, the caveate Helianthoid pattern and the non-caveate Anthemoid pattern. The Heliantheae, Astereae, Inuleae, Sececioneae, Calenduleae and Eupatorieae all have pollen with caveate exines. The Mutisiseae, Vernonieae and Cardueae have predominately Anthemoid pollen. The Anthemideae, Arctoteae and Lactuceae have pollen with exines of both patterns. Recent investigations of pollen in the Vernonieae suggest that these exine ultrastructures in the family have evolved in response to mechanical stresses on the wall which are caused by changes in volume of the grain as it loses or gains water from its environment.
23644333|The transport and capture of pollen in 20% of all angiosperm families occurs in air and water. In other words, pollination is abiotic and occurs via the fluid media, not an animal vector. Whereas some early concepts considered abiotic pollination to be largely a stochastic phenomenon, there is sufficient evidence to indicate that wind pollination (i.e. anemophily) and water pollination (i.e. hydrophily) have deterministic features and are sophisticated fluid dynamic solutions to the problem of pollen release, dispersal, and capture. An abiotic pollination syndrome is defined in which there is spatial or temporal separation of carpellate and staminate flowers, which are drab, a reduction in perianth parts, stigmas and anthers are exposed to the fluid, and typically unclumped pollen may be produced in large amounts. Separate pollination syndromes are defined for anemophilous (i.e. wind-pollinated), ephydrophilous (i.e. surface-pollinated), and hydrophilous (i.e. submarine-pollinated) plants. Distinctions are based on habitat and physical conditions for pollination, pollen size, shape, and ultrastructure, morphology and ultrastructure of stigmas, and outcrossing rates. For example, anemophilous pollen are spherical and small, ephydrophilous pollen are spherical or reniform and large, while hydrophilous pollen are filiform (i.e. filamentous) or funcionally filiform. The pollination mechanisms and mechanics associated with these syndromes reveals a strong evolutionary relationship between plant morphology and fluid dynamics.
23643984|DNA sequencing has been used to construct two molecular phylogenies at the intrafamily and intrageneric level within the Rutaceae. Analysis of trnL-trnF sequence data for five Rutaceae subfamilies has shown that there is no molecular support for the current subfamily classifications within the Rutaceae. The Dictyolomatoideae and Spathelioideae belong to a clade separate from the clades containing the remaining Rutaceae subfamilies. Rutoideae and Citroideae do not form discrete clades which suggests a reassessment of the subfamily classification is necessary, particularly as Ruta falls within the majority Citroideae clade. Flindersioideae forms a clade within the Rutaceae and does not form a separate family or form a clade with Meliaceae. Sequencing of 17 Flindersia species produces a similar phylogeny to that proposed by other authors using morphological methods with two exceptions. The molecular phylogeny indicates F. amboinensis is associated with F. fournieri and F. laevicarpa and, in addition, F. oppositifolia and F. pimenteliana were found to be genetically identical.
23643706|Graft failure that occurs in the clonal propagation of chestnuts is a practical problem which has arisen in recent years. Several hypotheses have been put forward to explain reasons for the failure but none have focused on origin and relationships of cultivars. This study was carried out to determine whether relationships of New Zealand chestnut selections and their origin reflect patterns of graft failure within the selections. Two different character data sets, random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and morpho-nut, were employed for the analyses of the relationships between the chestnut selections. Four different analyses were done to generate trees depicting the relationships of the selections. These were: morpho-nut character, RAPD character, taxonomic congruence (combination of morpho-nut and RAPD trees), and character congruence (combination of morpho-nut and RAPD data sets). When graft failure data were mapped onto the majority rule consensus tree constructed from character congruence analysis, it was found that self graft incompatibility was reflected in the origin and relationships of the chestnut selections. Information on the affinities of the chestnut selections to introduced chestnut species showed that the selections that were mostly implicated in graft failure which are from the North Island had
43558675|The means by which new species arise remain a fundamental question in the Orchid family evolution. Even if the Orchid-pollinator interactions are highly specific, events of cross-hybridization in Serapias are possible and represent a central issue of the plant's evolutionary biology. Italian Orchids have a wide variety of pollination systems and highly diverse floral traits, considered as some of the main tools for activating the speciation processes. The assess of diversity in Serapias taxa and eventual phylogenetic relationships among Serapias lingua, S. parviflora, S. vomeracea, S. apulica, S. nurrica, S. neglecta, S. cordigera, S. politisii, and some putative inter-specific hybrids were investigated at the DNA level by AFLP markers. The present molecular study on Serapias populations (1) confirms some previous finding, (2) opens new hypotheses on the possible evolutionary and taxonomic relationships existing among the Serapias species, and (3) gives indications about the real consistence of hybrid individuals in a genus characterized by a relevant gene flow.
23673698|The evolution of dioecy in Lauraceae cannot be attributed to selection for outbreeding but must have other reasons. Therefore it is interesting to note that in Ocotea there seems to be a correlation between mode of reproduction and geographical distribution.
23656087|The genus Gagea Salisb. is the largest amongst Liliaceae, including 50300 species. This genus can be subdivided into at least 14 sections: among them, there is the species-rich, relatively late-branching monophyletic sect. Didymobulbos. Most of species and putative hybrids within this section were included in this study for a total of about 148 accessions (corresponding to 35 taxa), almost all collected across the Euro-Mediterranean area. Thirty-seven morpho-anatomical and ontogenetic characters were considered, together with the cpDNA (trnLtrnF IGS, psbA-trnH IGS) and nrDNA (ITS region) molecular markers. Bayesian analysis revealed the phylogenetic relationships among Didymobulbos taxa, allowing us to demonstrate new circumscriptions of critical species complexes, such as those of G. chrysantha Schult. & Schult.f., G. dubia A. Terracc. and G. granatellii (Parl.) Parl. Also the prominent role played in this section by reticulate evolution is further highlighted: many taxa, often unexpectedly, are inferred to represent hybrids (31 % of investigated taxa). The division into series cannot be maintained as we found extensive molecular evidence of hybridization between them. A new taxonomic setting for Gagea sect. Didymobulbos is proposed, and five new species are described.
23656649|The spores of Syntrichia ruralis (Hedw.) F. Weber and D. Mohr., S. princeps (De Not.) Mitt., S. subulata (Hedw.) F.Weber and D.Mohr var. subulata, S. subulata (Hedw.) F.Weber and D.Mohr var. angustata (Schimp.) J.J. Amann and S. subulata (Hedw.) F.Weber and D.Mohr var. graeffii Warnst. were studied by light and scanning electron microscopy for the first time. The apertural region consists of a leptoma in all spores. All taxa of the family are uniform in their spore morphology. The spores of the five taxa are of granuloid type. The spore wall of the Pottiaceae family includes sclerine (the distinction between exine and perine may be difficult to define) and intine. The taxonomy of the genus Syntrichia is discussed on the basis of its spore morphology.
23642928|Genetic variation in 126 clones of the planktonic diatom, Fragilaria capucina, collected from seven lakes from Manitoba to Texas, was determined by RAPD analysis. Five primers yielded 48 scorable RAPD fragments in 123 unique combinations. Patterns of genetic variation were analysed by cluster analysis, which showed that most clones grouped together according to the site from which they were collected. This pattern in genetic variation may be a result of the geographically disjunct nature of these populations and/or the different environmental conditions, especially temperature, in the different lakes.
43558294|Saussurea esthonica Baer ex Rupr. is a species of the genus Saussurea that is found in Estonia, Latvia and the Leningrad region in Russia. Only two populations have been identified in Latvia, and it is protected at the national level. The taxonomic relationships within this genus are unclear, and the majority of phylogenetic studies of this genus have been undertaken on species found in Asia. The relationship of S. esthonica to the other Saussurea species is equally unclear, with some suggestions that this species should be regarded as a subspecies of S. alpina. Two different molecular marker techniques, iPBS and ITS sequencing, were utilised to investigate the phylogeny of S. esthonica and its relationship with other Saussurea species, including three European species: S. alpina, S. pygmaea and S. discolor. The phylogeny obtained with the iPBS markers was similar to that obtained with the ITS sequences. The phylogenies obtained were broadly consistent with previous morphological classification, with S. alpina, S. esthonica and S. discolor clustering together. S. pulchella, S. albescens and S. candicans also formed one discrete cluster. The taxonomic status of S. esthonica was not unambiguously determined, with Norwegian and Italian S. alpina populations clustering with Latvian and Estonian S. esthonica populations, and the Austrian S. alpina populations clustering with Austrian S. discolor populations.
23674036|A plant collected in South Africa in the early 1960's has been considered an intergeneric hybrid with the parental taxa being Ruspolia hypocrateriformis (Vahl) Milne-Redhead var. australis Milne-Redhead and Ruttya ovata Harv. The intermediate morphology of the plant provided the strongest evidence of its hybrid origin. The natural hybrid, named formally as  Ruttyruspolia A. Meeuse & de Wet, is highly sterile. Crosses between the two presumed parental taxa produced two plants that are very similar to the putative natural hybrid. We had examined the presumed parental species and the natural and artificial hybrids using enzyme electrophoresis. The two parental species are highly differentiated at genes specifying soluble enzymes; they have a genetic identity of 0.51. They have no common alleles at two genes, and contain alternative alleles in very different frequencies at two loci. Ruttya and Ruspolia exhibit both unique and common alleles at two additional genes. The natural and artificially produced plants of  Ruttyruspolia are identical electrophoretically and contain alleles unique to each of the parental species at two genes. In addition, individuals of  Ruttyruspolia combine alternative high frequency alleles from each parent at two loci. Allozymes provide strong confirming evidence for the hybrid origin of naturally occurring  Ruttyruspolia because the products of specific alleles either unique to or highly characteristic of the two putative parental taxa are found combined in  Ruttyruspolia.
23659841|Floral nectar chemical composition of conventional and transgenic sweet orange trees expressing the antibacterial peptide sarcotoxin IA (Stx IA), which has been shown to efficiently inhibit in vitro growth of the bacteria responsible for citrus canker (Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri), is reported. The nectar contents of primary metabolites (sugars, amino acids, proteins, triacylglycerides) and of the secondary metabolites (total purine alkaloids, phenolic compounds and phytosteroids) were determined by spectrophotometric analysis. The results showed small differences in the nectar primary and secondary metabolites composition. The biochemical and biological significance and the possible effects of these variations on key citrus pollinators are discussed.
43558268|The evolution of floral movement responding to pollination environments has long intrigued biologists. This has been mostly demonstrated in different species, but has as yet few explanations at the family level. Style curvature occurs in 23 species of eight genera among our observed and surveyed 52 species of 13 genera in the Malvaceae. To analyze the origin of style curvature in these species, we mapped this and correlated characters onto molecular phylogenetic trees that were constructed using the combination of the chloroplast DNA sequences of ndhF and the rpl16 intron. The results showed that style curvature evolved at least five times in species with herkogamous flowers. The occurrence of style curvature was associated with a shift to annual or perennial herbs with herkogamous flowers, which have similar ecological distributions with unpredictable pollinator environments. Style curvature appears to have evolved to facilitate delayed selfing if outcrossing fails under unpredictable pollination conditions.
23675278|Pyrenoid ultrastructure has been investigated from cultures of all 26 species of Trebouxia with the aim of establishing pyrenoids as a taxonomic character. Different arrangements and forms of thylakoid lamellae within the pyrenoid matrix allow eight pyrenoid types to be distinguished. Each type is characteristic of a group of species. The gigantea- and impressa-type are similar, differing only in the form of the tubules: short, branched tubules mark the gigantea-type;  long and straight invaginations the impressa-type. The arboricola-type is characterized by meandering pyrenoid membranes developing from lamellae parallel with each other in young autospores. Pyrenoids of the gelatinosa-type traversed by thin parallel-arranged tubules. Few thylakoids with a curved profile are typical of the irregularis-type. The corticola-type is different from all others in having a distinct starch sheath closely connected with the pyrenoid matrix and no pyrenoglobuli being associated with the pyrenoid membranes. No true pyrenoids have been found in T. magna and T. erici. Within the chloroplast, they have indistinct areas with pyrenoglobuli, but without differentiated thylakoids. Pyrenoid morphology is stable in culture on different media as well as in phycobionts within lichen thalli. Comparing the pyrenoid of a lichenized Trebouxia with that from cultured species, the identification of the phycobiont within the lichen thallus is possible, without the need of culturing the algae. This has been shown in species of Parmelia and Hypogymnia. New aspects for the taxonomy and systematics of Trebouxia are discussed.
23657051|Previous phylogeographic studies of arctic-alpine plants have partly elucidated that alpine areas at the southernmost edges of their distribution have been one of the most important areas for the survival of populations through Quaternary climatic oscillations. To reveal the genetic structure of arctic-alpine plants near the southern edge of their range in East Asia, 159 samples of Diapensia lapponica subsp. obovata (Diapensiaceae) were collected from 22 populations in Japan. Based on 1,134 bp of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA), we determined 10 haplotypes. Neighbor-joining (NJ) analysis, including D. lapponica from Sweden and Schizocodon soldanelloides, revealed that all haplotypes in Japan were monophyletic. Genetic differentiation between populations of central Honshu and northern Japan was strongly supported by the NJ tree (100%), analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA, 68%), and Monmonier's algorithm (>95%). The most ancestral haplotype rarely occurred in Japan, which implied that the extant genetic structure was not caused by genetic divergence during colonization. Thus, these results suggest that the arctic-alpine plant D. lapponica subsp. obovata survived climatic oscillations in central Honshu. This finding supports the hypothesis that high mountains in temperate regions were important for survival of arctic-alpine plants during Quaternary climatic oscillations.
23642868|The meiotic behaviour abnormalities, fertility and size of pollen of 6 taxa of Sesamoides have been analysed. Besides diploids (2 x), polyploids (4 x, 6 x, 8 x) have been found. The chromosome base number is x = 10, but an origin from x = 5 is suggested.
43496795|Karyotype and nuclear 2C-value data are considered important in taxonomic and evolutionary approaches in Coffea. Still, new methods are needed to further support such studies, especially to determine the progenitors of Coffea arabica. In this work, new cytogenetic and flow cytometry data were used to compare Coffea arabica, Coffea canephora and Coffea congensis. These data corroborate the hypothesis that C. canephora and C. congensis originated from a single ancestor, whose basic chromosome number was x = 11. In agreement with the observations of other authors, the karyotype and mean 2C-values confirm that C. arabica is a true allotetraploid originating from two diploid Coffea species with similar genomes. Although C. canephora and C. congensis have been considered potential progenitors of C. arabica, karyotype comparison revealed that only one of these species may be parental to C. arabica. These accurate cytogenetic and flow cytometry data contribute to expand our knowledge of the Coffea genome, as well as of possible progenitors of C. arabica.
23674834|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the 18S25S nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat was sequenced from 19 populations of the tribe Lactuceae, including all species of dwarf dandelion (Krigia) and five outgroup genera. The incidence of length changes and base substitutions was at least two times higher for ITS 1 than ITS 2. Interspecific sequence divergence within Krigia averaged 9.62% (1.61%15.19%) and 4.26% (0%6.64%) in ITS 1 and ITS 2, respectively. Intergeneric sequence divergence ranged from 15.6% to 44.5% in ITS 1 and from 8.0% to 28.6% in ITS 2. High sequence divergence and homoplasy among genera of tribe Lactuceae suggest that the phylogenetic utility of ITS sequence data is limited to interspecific studies or comparisons among closely related genera. Trees generated from ITS sequences are essentially identical to those from restriction site comparisons of the entire nuclear ribosomal (nr) DNA region. The degree of tree resolution differed depending on how gaps were treated in phylogenetic analyses. The ITS trees were congruent with the chloroplast DNA and morphological phylogenies in three major ways: 1) the sister group relationship between Krigia and Pyrrhopappus; 2) the recognition of two monophyletic sections, Krigia and Cymbia, in genus Krigia; and 3) the monophyly of the K. occidentalis-K. cespitosa clade in sect. Cymbia. However, the two nrDNA-based trees are not congruent with morphology/chloroplast DNA-based trees for the interspecific relationships in sect. Krigia. An average of 22.5% incongruence was observed among four Krigia data sets. The relatively high degree of incongruence among data sets is due primarily to conflict between trees based on nrDNA and morphological/cpDNA data. The incongruence is probably due to the concerted evolution of nrDNA repeating units. The results from Krigia and the Lactuceae suggest that nrDNA data may have limited utility in phylogenetic studies of plants, especially in groups which exhibit high levels of sequence divergence. Our combined phylogenetic analysis as a total evidence shows the least conflict to each of the individual data sets.
23657062|Recent molecular systematic investigations suggested that Ferula, an umbellifer genus of about 170 species, is polyphyletic, with its members placed in the apioid superclade and within tribe Scandiceae. We analyzed ITS sequence variation from 134 accessions of Apiaceae, including 83 accessions (74 species) of Ferula to ascertain the phylogenetic position of the genus within the family. Phylogenetic analyses of these data using maximum parsimony, Bayesian, and neighbor-joining methods support the monophyly of Ferula upon the addition of Dorema and Leutea (as Ferula sensu lato) and its placement in tribe Scandiceae. Ferula sensu is closely allied with other major lineages of Scandiceae, corresponding to subtribes Scandicinae, Daucinae, and Torilidinae. Therefore, we recognize the Ferula clade as subtribe Ferulinae. Another addition to tribe Scandiceae is a clade composed of genera Glaucosciadium and Mozaffariania. The three accessions of Ferula misplaced in the apioid superclade represent a species of Silaum.
23644169|The following crosses were made using four recognized species/subspecies and a new population of Guizotia, referred to as Chelelu after the name of the locality in Ethiopia from which it was collected: G. scabra subsp. schimperi  Chelelu, Chelelu  G. scabra subsp. scabra, G. zavattarii  G. arborescens and Chelelu  G. zavattarii (all accessions with 2n = 30). Plant morphology as well as mitotic and meiotic chromosome analysis confirmed the hybrid nature of the obtained progeny. At metaphase I of meiosis, the F1 hybrid plants (2n = 30) showed a mean of about 95%, 31%, 63% and 0.50% of the pollen mother cells with 15 bivalents, and a mean of about 14.95, 13.75, 14.40 and 7.86 bivalents per cell, respectively. The respective mean pollen stainability was about 67%, 19%, 31% and 2%. From the results it was concluded that Chelelu is more closely related to G. scabra subsp. schimperi than to G. scabra subsp. scabra but more to the latter than to G. zavattarii. Guizotia zavattarii and G. arborescens are closely related to each other. Based on the cytological observations made, the probable basic chromosome number for the genus is discussed.
23669874|Electron microscopic observations on the membrane of the spermatial vesicles in the red alga Erythrocystis montagnei are presented. A portion of this membrane is modified and more electron dense, with a layer of microtubules of about 20 nm. Generally, this membrane portion forms two paired bulges, appearing 3-shaped in cross-section. More rarely, two completely separate cylindrical bodies of about 0.3 m diam. surrounded by membranes have been observed in the spermatial vesicles. The significance of these structures as possible vestigial remnants of flagella is discussed.
23674866|The manner whereby the oil-producing bisaccate flowers of Angelonia (Scrophulariaceae) are pollinated by female oil-collecting bees is reported for the first time. Observations were made in the Caatinga formation of Pernambuco, NE. Brazil, on four synchronopatric species. These differ in sizes and structural details of the corolla, level of flower exposition, and habitat preferences. All legitimate visitors were Centris spp. (Anthophoridae): Angelonia hirta was mainly pollinated by C. fuscata and A. pubescens by C. hyptidis; A. bisaccata and A. hookeriana shared an unidentified species. Several exomalopsine, tetrapediine and meliponid bees exploit the flowers less descriminately for oil or pollen, respectively, without regularly contacting anthers and stigma. The flowers are protandrous, and are self-incompatible except those of the annual A. pubescens. After alighting, the Centris bees introduce their front legs simultaneously into each of the pouches and start alternate collecting movements to gather the oil from the trichome elaiophores. While doing so, they are forced by projections of the corolla floor to press their head under the anthers and stigma, whereby pollen is transferred with their frons or clypeus. On account of their collector type and behaviour, C. fuscata and C. spec. are not specialized to Angelonia but may equally exploit other nonrelated taxa for oil, whereas C. hyptidis exhibits oligolecty on A. pubescens. It possesses relatively elongate forelegs with padlike collectors suitable for sweeping the lipids from the scattered glandular hairs inside the divergent spurs of its host. It is the only species that also collects pollen (by buzzing) from the oil host. A. hirta and relatives, provided with dense elaiophore carpets, are, for their part, adapted to "scraping" Centris species with typical oil collectors. Flower and bee phenologies, although largely dependent on the irregular rainfalls, are not always coincident.
23657064|The phylogeny of Menispermaceae (Ranunculales) is reconstructed here using both morphological and molecular data from a broad sample of species. Morphological data include characters of leaves, wood, flowers, fruits, seeds, pollen and phytochemistry from 73 species representing the different subgroups recognized within the family. This dataset allowed us to study the morphological evolutionary trends in Menispermaceae. The molecular data focused on cpDNA sequences: rbcL and atpB. Maximum parsimony (MP) and Bayesian methods were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of Menispermaceae. The results obtained from the three datasets are partly incongruent. The morphology indicates that Menispermaceae can be divided into two major groups, one including the tribes Fibraureae and Tinosporeae, the other one including the tribes Anomospermeae, Pachygoneae and Menispermeae. Only Burasaia Thouars was not included in any of these groups. The characters of fruits and seeds appeared to be most useful to differentiate these groups whereas convergences were found for the androecium.
23642485|Auxospore formation in Achnanthes hungarica shows the same peculiarities as in other species of the subgenus Microneis. During cell diminution the outline of the valves changes in an otherwise uncommon manner from simple to more complicated, i.e. the polar regions, at first broadly rounded, become subcuneate. The direction of curving of the distal ends of the raphe to the right or the left is fixed in relation to the organisation of the cell.In comparison with A. lanceolata var. lanceolata, the new var. minor differs very significantly by its size variation. Other characters peculiar to var. lanceolata, e.g. the middle inflation and the change to isopolarity of the otherwise heteropol transapical axis of the primary cells, also occur in var. minor.The comparison of eight members of the subgenus Microneis shows much uniformity in life history, except the mode of fastening to the substrate. In connection with the different behaviour of the daughter cells after cell division there is an obvious correlation between the occurrence of a localized holdfast and the formation of colonies. Die Auxosporenbilding von Achnanthes hungarica luft wie bei anderen Vertretern der Untergattung Microneis ab. Der Formwechsel fllt dadurch auf, da entgegen der allgemeinen Regel im Laufe der Zellteilungen die Umriform der Schalen komplizierter statt vereinfacht wird. Die Abbiegung der Polspalten der Raphe erfolgt in bestimmter Beziehung zum Zellbau, d. h. nicht beliebig nach rechts oder links. A. lanceolata var. minor var. nova unterscheidet sich markant von var. lanceolata durch die vllig verschiedene Grenvariation. Sie zeigt die gleiche, soweit bekannt nur dieser Art eigentmliche Aufgabe der Heteropolie der Transapikalachse in den Erstlingszellen und dieselbe Ausgleichung der besonderen Umriform der Erstlingschalen im Laufe der Zellteilungen statt der sofortigen Herstellung der artspezifischen Schalenform durch Spontanplasmolyse. Der Vergleich von 8 Vertretern der Untergattung Microneis ergibt eine gewisse entwicklungsgeschichtliche Uniformitt, abgesehen von der Art der Befestigung auf dem Substrat. Offenbar besteht eine Korrelation zwischen der Ausbildung eines Gallertstiels und der Koloniebildung und dies im Zusammenhang mit dem verschiedenen Verhalten der Tochterzellen nach der Zellteilung.
23642242|Cytotypes of the Crocus vernus aggregate differ slightly in their seed surface patterns. Crocus albiflorus may be grouped together with Crocus vernus subsp. vernus, both are relatively easily distinguishable by their seed surface patterns from the Crocus scepusiensisCrocus heuffelianus group.
23673797|The genus Moldenkeanthus has to be rejected; its two species have to be placed in Paepalanthus Kunth. The supposed differential character of fused filaments and petals as well as the fusions between petals and stigmas are due to erroneous observations. A revised and emended description of Paepalanthus itremensis (Morat) Sttzel comb. nov. and Paepalanthus bosseri (Morat) Sttzel comb. nov. is presented. Furthermore, it is shown that the genera Paepalanthus and Leiothrix also can be distinguished by characters of the gynoecium even when appendices are lacking.
23642489|11 new taxa (8 new species, 3 new varieties) of Orchidaceae are described from South Central Africa, including data on their habitat and distribution and discussions of their systematic affinities.
23644271|11 needle characters of Pinus uncinata Ramond from the Spanish Pyrenees, P. mugo Turra from the Tatra Mountains, and P. sylvestris L. from N.E. Poland were analysed. It was shown that P. uncinata is much more closely related to P. mugo than to P. sylvestris. Nevertheless P. uncinata remains distinct from both in a number of the characters examined. The species differs from P. mugo especially in the length of the needles and in the distance between the vascular bundles. It differs from P. sylvestris in such characters as the number of resin canals, thickness of epidermis cells and the distance between the vascular bundles. Width of epidermis cells was similar in all taxa studied.
23664360|Anatomical observations of the petiole and lamina of Mammea L. (Clusiaceae, Kielmeyeroideae) show extensive variation. All species have a complex folding pattern of the vascular bundle within the petiole, differing from most of the patterns found in the rest of the family. Except for the species found in the Neotropics and Africa, the laminas of almost all species contain fibers not immediately associated with the vascular tissuea unique feature in the Clusiaceae. Fiber motifs range from bundles originating within the petiole, sheets forming an almost contiguous layer, to fibers with various patterns of organization derived from the secondary veins. Species groups based on fiber motif are recognized, and these correlate with other anatomical and morphological characters.
23642174|The increasing degree of oxidation of the major secondary products characterizing six sibling species of the Ramalina siliquosa complex is directly correlated with the northern limits of the ranges of the chemotypes in Europe. In the telescoped environments on maritime cliffs, the zonation of sympatric chemotypes shows similarities to this correlation.
23642750|Anthers are tetrasporangiate in Emilia sonchifolia and Notonia grandiflora and bisporangiate in Gynura nitida. The male archesporium consists of a single row of 68 hypodertnal cells. Development of anther walls is according to the Dicotyledonous type. The tapetum corresponds to the periplasmodial type. Both tetrahedral and isobilateral pollen tetrads are produced. The pollen grains at the time of anther dehiscence are three-celled in G. nitida and E. sonchifolia; N. grandiflora is male sterile. All the three species have Polygonum type embryo sacs with variable antipodal cells. In G. nitida and E. sonchifolia fertilization is porogamous, endosperm development is of the cellular type, and embryo development closely follows that of Senecio vulgaris (Souges 1920 a, b).
23644180|Somatic chromosome numbers of 2n = 24 are reported for all three species of Australian Zostera: Z. capricorni Aschers., Z. muelleri Irmisch ex Aschers. and Z. mucronata den Hartog and 2n = 36 for Heterozostera tasmanica (Martens ex Aschers.) den Hartog. All Australian zosteroidean species apparently have similar chromosome morphology: dot-like or rod shaped. It is suggested that the chromosome number and its morphology can be used to distinguish genera and subgenera in the Zosteraceae but not for species identification, and that speciation is not accompanied by changes of chromosome numbers.
23642633|The presence of multigerm seedballs in the chenopodiacious genus Spinacia is noted. In the wild, colonising, and "weedy" dioecious species, S. turkestanica and S. tetrandra, the distribution of a multigerm seedball could effectively overcome the problem posed by isolation of the sexes. The hypothesis is tested assessing the extent of intra-seedball progeny hybridisations and seed production in the two wild species. The success in seed production by intra-seedball progeny crosses suggests that the distribution of such seedball progeny groups permits not only a percentage survival under isolation of these dioecious plants, but also the colonisation of areas outside that of the parent populations.
23668877|Acacia visco is a native South American tree species that has been extensively used for ornamental purposes and in carpentry, bodywork and parquet due to the hardness and durability of its wood. Little is known about genetic diversity and mating system of A. visco. The main aims of this study were to (1) estimate outcrossing rates in natural Argentinean populations using AFLP markers, (2) test for any difference in mating patterns among a large a patchy and relict population, and (3) compare the mating system of A. visco with other Acacia species. The three primer pairs used in the AFLP analysis revealed a total of 569 variable loci. Most genetic variation was observed among individuals within families (61.2 %). The estimate of multilocus outcrossing rate (tm) was high (0.971) in all populations. Average pairwise coancestry between progenies within families for each population ranged from 0.082 to 0.105 or from 0.125 to 0.136, depending on the method  was estimated. In the three populations studied, the progenies of open pollination were constituted mainly for half-sibs (94.3 %). This work shows a similar mating system in all populations of A. visco in spite of their size differences, hypothesizing that the entire species has a similar mating system of outcrossing preferential. Considering the results obtained here where a high percentage of individuals were half-sibs, sampling large numbers of pods from individual trees for ex situ conservation will result in a genetically diverse sample as a consequence of high outcrossing rates.
23674663|Floral scent was collected by headspace methods from intact flowers, petals, and stamens of four species of Pyrolaceae. The scent samples were analyzed by coupled gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The floral scent in Pyrola spp. is differentiated into a characteristic petal scent  phenyl propanoids and a characteristic stamen scent  methoxy benzenes. In Moneses the scent is characterized by isoprenoids and benzenoids, with a larger proportion of benzenoids in the stamens compared to the petals. Specific anther scents may promote foraging efficiency in buzz-pollinated species and enhance flower fidelity. Variation in floral scent composition is consistent with the taxonomic relationships among the genera and species examined.
23674581|The 16 species of the Sedum acre-group were investigated for the presence of alkaloids. They are S. acre of S. ser. Acria, S. alpestre, S. annuum, S. apoleipon, S. borissovae, S. euxinum, S. grisebachii, S. laconicum, S. multiceps, S. sexangulare, S. tuberiferum, S. tuberosum, S. ursi, and S. urvillei of S. ser. Alpestria, S. samium of S. ser. Samia, and S. litoreum of S. ser. Litorea. S. acre differs significantly from the other species. It contains sedamine, "hydroxy" sedamine, and a number of 2,6-disubstituted piperidine alkaloids. The leafy parts of the species of S. ser. Alpestria, S. ser. Samia, and S. ser. Litorea contain 4 piperidine alkaloids which also occur in S. acre, and in addition 4 pyrrolidine alkaloids not present in S. acre. The composition of the alkaloid fraction agrees with the infrageneric classification (series) based on the hybridization patterns of the species (comparia).
23674309|16 morphological characters were assessed in 300 plants sampled from 27 populations of Polygonum aviculare sensu lato representative of the whole ecological range of the species in Belgium. The three multivariate treatments performed, namely principal component analysis, cluster analysis and discriminant analysis provide evidence that P. aviculare can be divided in 4 units, roughly corresponding to the four taxa recognized by Chrtek. However, the results point out that subsp. monspeliense and subsp. calcatum should be included at the varietal rank within respectively subsp. aviculare (= P. heterophyllum) and subsp. aequale (= P. arenastrum) as defined by Lindman. Fruit dimensions, fruit shape and tepal length are the most discriminant characters for separating the four taxa, while several other characters are discriminant at the population level only. The evolutionary significance of the variation pattern of the whole complex is discussed in terms of life history differentiation and ecological specialization.
23642926|Thirteen populations of Larix decidua subsp. decidua and subsp. polonica, and three populations of L. sibirica were investigated by starch-gel electrophoresis. In the populations assayed 61 alleles at 17 loci were revealed. The allozyme data support the earlier observations about close relationships between these two larch species. Nei's genetic distances between L. decidua and L. sibirica were relatively small (D = 0.057), however, almost five times larger, on average, than those between populations of the same species. Results obtained in this study disagree with Bobrov's hypothesis about the hybrid origin of the Polish larch and suggest a direct origin from the European larch.
23643771|Multivariate analyses of quantitative characters were undertaken to examine the pattern of variation resulting from adaptive radiation of Tetramolopium in Hawaii and to investigate the systematics of an undescribed species in the Cook Islands and a group of populations of uncertain affinity on Kalaupapa Peninsula in Hawaii. Taxa differentiated on quantitative characters in the absence of qualitative characters. Differentiation was observed in multiple characters which could be organized into a few principal components. The analyses supported the species rank of the Cook Islands plants. The relationship of the Kalaupapa Peninsula populations to the rest of the taxa needs further study.
23673213|The phylogenetic position of the African and Malagasy species of Pimpinella is assessed using nrDNA ITS sequence data and a representative sampling of the genus, including 16 species from Africa and Madagascar and 26 species from Eurasia. The results of maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses of these data show that the African and Malagasy species ally with their Eurasian counterparts in Pimpinelleae. The genus Pimpinella is rendered paraphyletic by the inclusion of African Cryptotaenia and the small African and Malagasy endemic genera Frommia and Phellolophium. Within a paraphyletic Pimpinella, three major clades are recovered, with the African species occupying two of these clades. The current sectional classification of the genus, based predominantly on fruit vestiture, is largely artificial. Chromosome base number, however, was found to be consistent with the groupings recovered in the molecular analyses. Those African and Malagasy Pimpinella species with a chromosome base number of x = 11 and largely glabrous petals and fruits, form the earliest diverging clade together with Frommia, which also has a base count of n = 11 and glabrous petals and fruits. The remaining African species ally with several Eurasian species of Pimpinella and share a chromosome base number of x = 9 and usually hairy petals and fruits.
23643761|Pinus krempfii is morphologically very unique as compared to other Pinus species by having flat leaf-like needles. Its taxonomic position has been problematic ever since its discovery. In this study, an attempt was made to infer the taxonomic status of P. krempfii through restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of 12 PCR amplified chloroplast (cp) DNA regions. Phylogenetic analysis was conducted using 10 representatives of the two Pinus subgenera: Strobus and Pinus. In addition, to infer the position of P. krempfii in Pinaceae in relation with other genera, 14 representatives of eight additional genera were included in the analysis. Our cpDNA-based results indicate that: 1) P. krempfii clearly belongs to the genus Pinus. This result does not favour the creation of a new genus Ducampopinus in Pinaceae for this taxon. 2) Within the genus Pinus, P. krempfii is more allied with species in subgenus Strobus and differs distinctly from species in subgenus Pinus. 3) Despite the similarity in certain morphological and anatomical leaf and wood characters to Keteleeria and Pseudolarix, the cpDNA data do not support the hypothesis for close relationship between P. krempfii and these two genera.
23673673|Psilocybe laetissima sp. n. of the sect. Merdariae is close to P. sabulosa s. l. and known to us from Austria, Hungary, and West Germany.
23655568|Schisandraceae are traditionally subdivided in two genera, Schisandra and Kadsura, based on differences in the organisation of the floral receptacle, the carpels, and the presence or absence of a ''pseudostigma''. Recently, phylogenetic analyses utilizing ITS sequence data and morphological data resulted in incongruent tree topologies, with the morphological trees suggesting monophyly of the two genera, whereas ITS trees did not resolve Schisandra and Kadsura as monophyletic clades. In the present paper we study seed morphology and leaf epidermal features of 22 species of Schisandraceae in order to provide additional data for a morphological data matrix. Seed morphological characters are highly homoplastic and do not yield further evidence for monophyly of the two genera. Instead, a number of characters appear to support sister group relationships between taxa within the genera, such as, for instance, for K. coccinea and K. scandens, both of which have large seeds along with a multi-layered mesotesta. Considering leaf epidermal characteristics, species of Kadsura were found to be consistently amphistomatic, whereas species of Schisandra are always hypostomatic. Phylogenetic analysis using the extended data matrix resulted in weakly supported Kadsura and Schisandra clades with five and four synapomorphies indicating monophyly of Kadsura and Schisandra, respectively. Fossils ascribed to Schisandraceae date back to the Late Cretaceous. These are tri-and hexacolpate pollen types displaying a combination of features found in modern Schisandraceae and partly also in Illiciaceae. Leaf remains from this period are poorly preserved and difficult to ascribe to Schisandraceae because of the lack of synapomorphies for the family. In the Early Cainozoic, leaf and seed remains from North America and Europe unambiguously belong to the family. Seeds from the Eocene of North America show some similarities to the modern Schisandra glabra from North America, while fossils from Europe show more similarities to modern Asian species.
23643110|Though dichogamy is generally interpreted as a means of preventing selffertilization, the efficiency of this mechanism has been questioned. Little attention has been paid to functional aspects of male/female timing, such as variation over time in pollen germinability and in stigma receptivity. In the present study these aspects of male/female timing were investigated in the protandrous species Salvia verbenaca. To evaluate the effects of selfing, fruit set, total seed weight produced and seed/ovule ratio were also determined, (a) following artificial crossing, (b) following selfing (i.e. bagging) and (c) under natural conditions. Both pollen germinability and stigma receptivity peaked on the last day (day 3) of the flower's life, which presumably favours selfing. Neither fruit set nor seed/ovule ratio were significantly affected by pollination regime, but the total seed weight produced by artificially crossed plants was significantly higher than that produced by bagged or untreated plants. Neither fruit set, seed/ovule ratio nor total seed weight differed significantly between the two years of study. Thus, if a S. verbenaca flower receives outcrossing pollen it will produce a greater weight of seeds (with consequent advantages in terms of female reproductive success). However, the peaking of both pollen germinability and stigma receptivity on day 3 of the flower's life means that selfing is likely to occur if outcrossing pollen has not been received over the early part of the flower's life.
43496740|The literature supports a positive correlation between pollen size and style length and that pollen size may be affected by a trade-off with pollen number. A correlation between pollen size and pollinator type has been hypothesized by some authors but not confirmed. To assess these associations, pollen grain number, pollen grain diameter and style length were measured in 53 species of Caryophylloideae that had been classified beforehand as being diurnal, nocturnal or self-pollinated. Surprisingly, many species showed two, and a few even three, distinct pollen grain size classes per individual anther. Therefore, further analyses were based on the different pollen size classes and respective pollen grain numbers. Firstly, we found no indication of a trade-off between pollen size and number. Secondly, a positive linear correlation between style length and pollen grain diameter was found using conventional analysis methods and phylogenetically independent contrasts. Thirdly, when using conventional analysis methods a strong relationship between style length and pollination mode was found, with nocturnal species having significantly longer styles and larger pollen grains than diurnal and selfing species. These results were not supported, however, when calculating comparisons of phylogenetically independent pairs. We discuss our findings in relation to intra-specific pollen polymorphism and pollen degeneration, both of which have been associated with different pollen grain sizes in Caryophylloideae. Furthermore, we discuss the possibility that pollen polymorphism might be a mixed strategy to optimise the success of pollen grains deposited at different pollen-ovule distances on long styles.
23643168|The genus Solenopsis (Lobeliaceae) is revised on the basis of morphological and biogeographical features, and a new taxonomic arrangement is proposed. Seven taxa (six species and one additional subspecies) are accepted, of which three are proposed as new combinations: Solenopsis bivonae, S. corsica, and S. minima. For all accepted taxa nomenclatural types, descriptions, distribution areas and identification keys are provided.
23671354|The Stipa section Smirnovia Tzvel. includes 32 taxa. Of this number, 18 taxa, with glabrous (smooth or scabrous) awn columns, belong to the Stipa lipskyi group, which is the object of the present study. The centre of diversity of the studied group is located in the mountains of Middle Asia (Pamir Alai and Tian-Shan). Based on the examination of a large number of herbarium specimens (over 550 sheets), field observations, scanning electron microscopy observation of lemma micromorphology and statistical analysis of macromorphological characters, 12 taxa at the specific level were recognized on the area studied. Three species of hybrid origin, Stipa  tadzhikistanica M. Nobis, S.  brevicallosa M. Nobis, and S.  hissarica M. Nobis, as well as the variety S. lipskyi var. pilosivaginata M. Nobis, were described as new to science. Additionally, lectotypes for S. karataviensis Roshev. and S. longiplumosa Roshev. were designated and a new combination Stipa macroglossa subsp. kazachstanica (Kotuch.) M. Nobis was proposed. Numerous new localities, often far from the previously known distribution area, were reported for several species. Illustrations and a key to species and varieties are provided in addition to complete descriptions including information on nomen-clatural types, synonymies, distributions, habitat and specimens examined.
23664804|The genus Opisthopappus consists of two species, O. longilobus and O. taihangensis. Both of them are important economic and ornamental plants but endangered in China. In this study, genetic variation in four populations of O. longilobus and nine populations of O. taihangensis was estimated by chloroplast microsatellites (cpSSR). Low genetic diversity was detected in O. longilobus and O. taihangensis populations. The percentages of polymorphic loci (PPL), Nei's gene diversities (h), and Shannon's indices (I) was 53.56 %, 0.074, and 0.139, respectively, for O. longilobus, while PPL = 44.44 %, h = 0.018, I = 0.048 for O. taihangensis. Thirteen chloroplast haplotypes were identified from 153 individuals analyzed of two species. Ten haplotypes were found in O. longilobus, while seven in O. taihangensis. Haplotype 1 was the common and ancestral one. The level of haplotype diversity was also low (Hd O. longilobus = 0.4875, Hd O. taihangensis = 0.3452). AMOVA analysis revealed that the majority of the genetic differences was partitioned within populations of O. longilobus and O. taihangensis, as confirmed by PCoA and cluster analysis. Inter-population genetic distances among population of O. longilobus and O. taihangensis correlated insignificantly with geographic distances (r = 0.286, P = 0.128 for O. longilobus vs. r = 0.356, P = 0.058 for O. taihangensis). The self-compatibility, effective gene flow, narrow geographical distribution, and historical factors may be the main factors causing differentiation in the genetic structure of O. longilobus and O. taihangensis populations.
43496745|The relationships among the floral morphologies, breeding system and pollination insects in nine Carthamus tinctorius L. clones were investigated in Ya'an, Sichuan province, China. No significant differences in seed setting rate were observed among the clones following unbagged treatment, but significant differences in seed setting rate were observed among the clones following bagged treatment. Breeding experiments indicated that both reproductive systems (selfing and outcrossing) coexisted in each tested C. tinctorius clone. It exhibited reproductive assurance through automatic self-pollination, which might be an important factor in enhancing the amount of seeds. Among 17 species of visitors, the main effective pollinators were Apis cerana Fabricius, Apis mellifera Linnaeus and Erstalis tenax Linnaeus. All floral morphology traits (corolla length, corolla diameter, pistil length, anther length, stigma length, and stigma-anther separation) showed significant variations among the clones. However, only corolla diameter showed a significant negative correlation with the frequency of pollinator visits and a positive correlation with seed set following unbagged treatment. There was a negative correlation between stigma-anther separation and seed set, and although this was not significant, it could be argued that if a pistil developed that was too long, seed set would decline under natural conditions. Corolla length was significantly positively correlated with stamen and anther length, and corolla diameter was significantly negatively correlated with pistil length. Stigma length was also significantly positively correlated with stamen length. These findings indicate that corolla diameter could significantly affect seed set in C. tinctorius under the conditions in Ya'an, China, and corolla diameter affects seed set by the combined effect of multiple traits.
23674223|Fruits and seeds of four anemochorous taxa of Rhamnaceae-Gouanieae were studied by SEM. Flight performance of diaspores of three genera was analyzed. Diverging postfloral morphogeneses lead to different fruit and diaspore types: (1) a solid schizocarp dehiscing into three 2-winged mericarps (Gouania, Crumenaria), (2) an inflated schizocarp dehiscing into three inflated mericarps (Reissekia), and (3) a "hollow" septicide capsule which releases three winged hemimericarps (Alvimiantha). The latter convey significantly heavier seeds than Gouania and Reissekia at comparable fall rates. The generic status of Alvimiantha is confirmed. The Neotropics are pointed out as being a site of strong adaptive radiation for the tribe Gouanieae.
43496792|Over the past few decades, use of molecular markers for species delimitation has drastically increased. Schoenoplectiella Lye has been recognized as a taxonomically difficult genus because of its morphological simplicity and frequent interspecific hybridization. The main objective of this study was to clarify the taxonomic identities of eight Schoenoplectiella species by use of molecular markers. We also evaluated the genetic relationships among S.  trapezoidea, known as a natural hybrid, and its close relatives. We used six microsatellite markers for 44 individuals from 31 natural populations of eight Schoenoplectiella species in South Korea. Six microsatellite marker combinations generated 59 amplification-detectable bands, of which 33 were specifically detected in one or more individuals of each species. Cluster analysis revealed that the grouping was consistent with the taxonomically recognized species. Our results do not support the hybrid origin of S.  trapezoidea. Rather, they suggest that this species is more closely related to S. hotarui. The informative microsatellite markers enabled us to clarify the distinctions among Schoenoplectiella species from South Korea and to identify the genetic relationships among these species. The molecular signatures found suitable for accurate identification of Schoenoplectiella species can be reliably used for studies of the phylogeny and evolution of this genus.
23674935|Genetic analysis of unusual complex-heterozygous genotypes in populations of O. grandiflora from Alabama (USA) has shown that these strains are composed of a typical grandiflora (B) complex and an altered B complex (designated as BA) which probably contains genetic elements derived from an A genotype such as the beta complex of O. biennis group 1. Analysis of the meiotic configurations of artificial hybrids between the new strains and a series of complexes of known segmental arrangement allowed determination of the arrangements of the unknown complexes. These data are evidence for origin of the altered B complexes.
23643018|Trends of pollen grain aperture evolution and exine characters as well as characters of leaf venation, petiole and axial vascularization are briefly described and related to geographical distribution and classification of Buxus. A review of fossil records is given. Three major taxonomic groups can be delimitated within the genus, and aspects of their relationships and chorogenesis are presented. The level of differentiation, the pattern of distribution and the fossil record speak in favour of an ancient origin of the genus.
23642800|The term "phyletic diversity" is used here to denote the continued co-existence and evolution of separate major phyletic groups which have a similar mode of life (e.g. within the angiosperms). This work attempts to show that an understanding of the factors which determine the degree of phyletic diversity could contribute to understanding the nature and evolution of higher taxonomic categories, such as families. The opposite of phyletic diversity, phyletic uniformity (Fig. 1 AB), should result from unequal evolutionary rates of different groups and repeated adaptive radiations of the most successful groups; the following competition for essential, limiting resources should lead to the extinction of all less rapidly evolving, inferior groups. At least some plant families are shown to have specific adaptive specializations which give them competitive advantages for part of the environmental resources only. This ensures their co-existence and the maintainance of phyletic diversity. The nature of these family specializations is considered briefly. It is shown that physiological adaptations to particular conditions, symbioses which aid in obtaining nutrients and, especially, chemical defence mechanisms could be major components of these specializations and thereby the raison d'tre of plant families.
23655939|The Normapolles complex, characterised by its oblate and triaperturate pollen, constitutes an important and diverse element of many Late Cretaceous and Early Cainozoic floras of the Northern Hemisphere. Based on the dispersed pollen record alone it has been difficult to assess systematic affinities, but relationships with Fagales have been proposed. Over the past twenty years several exquisitely preserved Late Cretaceous reproductive structures with Normapolles type pollen in situ have been described. In this study we provide a summary and new information of these floral structures. Further, a new genus, Dahlgrenianthus, is described from the Late Cretaceous of southern Sweden. The genus includes the type species Dahlgrenianthus suecicus, a number of reproductive structures referred to Dahlgrenianthus sp., and Dahlgrenianthus trigonus (Knobloch et Mai) comb. nov. from the Maastrichtian flora of Walbeck, Germany. Dahlgrenianthus comprises small flowers with pentamerous perianth and androecium and a tricarpellate gynoecium. It is distinguished from all other Normapolles floral structures in its hypogynous floral organisation. All Normapolles floral structures described so far are thought to be related to various members of the core Fagales, but the group is obviously not monophyletic. The stratigraphic range of the Normapolles taxa and other fagalean fossils strongly suggests that all major fagalean lineages were present by the Cenomanian or earlier.
23645250|The distributional pattern of AT- and GC-rich regions and the physical mapping of ribosomal DNA (location of 18S-5.8S-26S and 5S rDNA) in the chromosomes of seven Artemisia species have been established by means of fluorochrome banding and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). This is the first study in the large genus Artemisia using FISH. Five species (A. barrelieri, A. caerulescens subsp. gallica, A. fragrans, A. herba-alba subsp. valentina, A. herba-alba subsp. herba-alba) belong to the subgenus Seriphidium, one of the most homogeneous in the genus; one (A. tridentata susbp. spiciformis) belongs to the small subgenus Tridentatae, classically included in Seriphidium; and one (A. annua) belongs to the subgenus Artemisia, but shows some affinities with Seriphidium. Genome organization is relatively constant in all the species studied. AT- and GC-rich DNA is predominantly terminal, but some intercalary and centromeric bands also exist. The rDNA loci are also most often terminal and usually located in GC-rich regions. 5S rDNA sites are present in a lower number than 18S-5.8S-26S sites, and are always colocated with some of them. In the light of these cytogenetic features, subgenus Seriphidium is clearly placed within the genus Artemisia, so that it does not make sense to segregate it as a genus; on the other hand, subgenus Tridentatae must not be classified within Seriphidium, but kept as an independent subgenus.
23656045|In this study, outcrossing rates and genetic diversity in natural populations of Nelumbo nucifera were investigated. The estimated multilocus outcrossing rate (tm) based on 28 ISSR loci was over 90%. Analysis of genetic diversity revealed that this index was high at the species level (Hs = 0.325, I = 0.514), but low within the individual study populations (Hs = 0.148, I = 0.212). Gst-B was 0.547 and Nm was 0.414. The results of AMOVA indicated that 54.6% of the variation was due to the difference between the regions and 45.4% to the variation within the region. Although the populations were predominantly outcrossing, most of the genetic diversity was attributed to geographical effects instead of their habitats because low sexual recruitment and clonal growth deeply reduced the genetic diversity within the populations. On the basis of the high tm, Gst-B and low Nm values, we recommended that any future conservation plans should include both in situ conservation and germplasm collection.
23644961|Morphological and electrophoretic data were studied to examine species delimitation, patterns of morphological and genetic variation in three Korean Hepatica including two endemics, H. maxima and H. insularis. Based on a phenogram using 15 morphological characters, taxa were distinct; it was consistent with the phenogram based on genetic distance. In the enzyme electrophoresis study, the genetic identities suggested that three taxa were genetically divergent enough to be recognized as different species, falling within the range expected for congeners. The genetic identity between H. asiatica and H. insularis was higher than the values between these two taxa and H. maxima, a restricted endemic of Ulleung Island. The least genetic variation was found in H. maxima and the greatest in widespread H. asiatica. These data are consistent with theoretical expectations that small populations are more likely to be genetically depauperate.
43558356|The study of pollen and female gametophyte development of Oxalis debilis was carried out to elucidate the reasons for the absence of seed production in this species. The formation of an incomplete callosic wall separating the microspores of the tetrad was observed; therefore, cytoplasm connections were present between the microspores. Microspores of different sizes and with different grades of vacuolation were observed in the mature anther. Only few microspores divide mitotically and form the generative and vegetative cell. The cytoplasm of the vegetative cell may accumulate different substances in reserve. Pollen grains are 8-12 colpate, and the morphology and electron density of the exine varies. Because flowers in full anthesis have all ovules at the megasporocyte stage with the nucellar epidermis intact, fecundation could not occur. The production of only a few viable pollen grains and the absence of successful megagametophyte development prevent fertilization and account for the absence of fruits and seeds formation.
23668879|Sexual and asexual reproduction may occur simultaneously in some plant species. Under certain environmental conditions asexual reproduction is predominant, which generates ecological consequences on sexual fecundity. In this context, we studied the reproductive ecology of the creeping clonal cactus Echinopsis thelegona in La Bodega (Salta, Argentina), where low fruit and seed production was preliminarily observed. Specifically, we studied the flower availability, fruit and seed production, reproductive system, floral visitors and effects of neighbor ramets on reproductive success. The number of available flowers per day was low, and fruit production was low or null as well. Echinopsis thelegona is self-incompatible. Although its flowers have sphingophilous traits, we did not find evidence of moths visiting them. Only native and exotic bees visited the flowers of this species, though with a low number of visits. Therefore, nocturnal visitors were not registered as pollinators of E. thelegona, perhaps because of their low local abundances. On the other hand, bees behaved as inefficient pollinators of E. thelegona due to their foraging behavior, which moves pollen within individuals. A pollen-addition experiment revealed that there is no fruit production at short distances among ramets. Therefore, the combination of self-incompatibility, low flower production and low local abundance of pollinators could account for the low fruit production observed in this species. This finding suggests that populations of E. thelegona persist by clonality and that they tend toward the loss of sexuality.
23643777|The fatty acid composition of the seed oil has been used as a criterion in searching for a rational infrageneric classification of Linum L.. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the taxonomic potential of other seed traits such as tocopherols and plastochromanol-8 in this genus. The results revealed that, in addition to fatty acids, tocopherols and plastochromanol-8 possess an important chemotaxonomic value for the genus Linum. Sect. Linum and sect. Syllinum Griseb. clearly differed from each other for the three types of compounds. Sect. Linum was characterized by the presence of plastochromanol-8, a high concentration of linolenic acid, and an intermediate or low concentration of alpha-tocopherol. Contrarily, sect. Syllinum lacked plastochromanol-8 and contained a low concentration of linolenic acid and a high concentration of alpha-tocopherol. The three species evaluated of the section Linastrum (Planch.) Bentham showed no common pattern, questioning their classification within the same section.
43558343|A survey of the secretory structures of leaflets has been carried out for five taxa of the genus Zornia J.F. Gmel. to assess possible taxonomic value of the glands, taking into account that these taxa, Zornia curvata Mohlenbr., Z. gemella Willd. ex Vogel, Z. glabra Desv., Z. latifolia Sm. and Z. reticulata Sm., have overlapping diagnostic characters. The leaflet secretory structures of the five studied taxa of Zornia were mucilage epidermis, mucilage cavities, and idioblasts secreting phenolic compounds.Mucilage epidermis is found in all five aforementioned taxa. Mucilage cavities are observed on both epidermal surfaces of the leaflets in four taxa, the exception being Z. glabra, whose cavities occur only on the abaxial surface. Idioblasts secreting phenolic compounds were detected only in the mesophyll of Z. latifolia and Z. reticulata. The joint occurrence of mucilage epidermis with mucilage cavities seems to be of unifying value for the five taxa analyzed. The position of mucilage cavities and the occurrence of secretory idioblasts in the mesophyll of the leaflets are of diagnostic value, providing a key to enable identification of the taxa studied. This study reveals that the secretory structures provide important information in support of systematic studies of the Leguminosae. In relation to the five taxa of Zornia studied, current results suggest recognition of four species: Z. curvata, Z. glabra, Z. latifolia, and Z. reticulata.
43558582|Floral spurs are regarded as features affecting pollinator behaviour. Anacamptis pyramidalis is regarded as a deceitful, non-rewarding orchid species. In the form fumeauxiana, additional spurs occur on the lateral sepals.In this study we analyse micromorphological and ultrastructural floral features and suggest the mechanism of deception in A. pyramidalis and A. pyramidalis f. fumeauxiana. In f. fumeauxiana, the adaxial surface of the lip, the lip calli, the tips of the lateral sepals, the abaxial and adaxial epidermises of the lip spur, and the lateral sepal spur have a secretory function. Numerous stornata were observed on the abaxial surfaces of spurs and sepals. The characteristic features of the ultrastructure of osmophore cells were noted: dense cytoplasm with numerous profiles of ER, mitochondria, plastids with plastoglobuli and tubular structures, a large nucleus, lipid droplets, and vesicles fusing with the plasmalemma. The similarity of the floral morphology and anatomy, the flowering period, and pollinators of A. pyramidalis, A. pyramidalis f. fumeauxiana and Gymnadenia conopsea suggest a possible food-deceptive mechanismimitation of nectar presence produced in the spurs of Gymnadenia.
23674868|The developmental morphology of Indotristicha ramosissima, a submerged rheophyte from South India, is described. Besides creeping organs (called roots) there are branched shoots with two kinds of short-lived photosynthetic appendages: scales and compound structures (called ramuli). These ramuli may be interpreted as leaf-stem intermediates because they combine typical leaf characters (extra-axillary position, determinate growth, subtending an axillary bud) and typical stem characters (nearly radial symmetry, acropetal development with apical meristem, arrangement of the scaly subunits helical or irregular). Floral shoots arise from axillary exogenous buds along the vegetative shoots, occasionally also from endogenous buds along the roots and vegetative shoots. The uppermost scales and ramuli of each floral shoot form a cup-like structure around the base of the terminal flower. Indotristicha is thought to be primitive within the Tristichoideae (Podostemaceae). Some morphogenetic switches are postulated in order to derive Indotristicha from a putative ancestor that still showed the classical root-shoot model typical of most angiosperms.
23669032|The karyotype and numeric changes in chromosomes among taxa of Lycoris (spider lilies) have been attributed to whole-arm rearrangements; however, the history of karyotype evolution of Lycoris is still ambiguous. In the natural habitat, one-third of Lycoris taxa are interspecific hybrids that are mainly sterile and extremely diverse in morphologies. Lycoris are geophytes with the reproductive stage initiated inside the bulbs during the storage period, which brings some inconveniences in collecting meiotic materials for studying chromosome pairing. The partial fertility of an artificial F1 interspecific hybrid between L. aurea (2n = 14) and L. radiata (2n = 22) provides an alternative option for tracing the meiotic process in F1 hybrids. The chromosome compositions of those functional gametes generated by the F1 hybrid could be recovered according to the chromosome complements of backcross progenies. We perform genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) analysis on somatic chromosomes of 34 BC1 plants (2n = 1422) to reveal chromosomal divergences in number and composition of those functional gametes. GISH results also indicated a high homology between the MT- and A-genomes of Lycoris, reflecting on the partial fertility and frequently homoeologous recombination at meiosis of the F1 interspecific hybrids. The diverse chromosome complements and recombinant patterns presented in these functional gametes suggested that interspecific hybridization is an important force in driving diversification among Lycoris species. We suggest that the MT-karyotype genome may be the ancestral type in Lycoris, and some other chromosomal rearrangements in addition to centromeric fission may have played roles in the karyotype evolution of Lycoris.
23642238|New taxa of Chrysophyceae from small heleocrene and limnocrene springs are described and pictured. The delicate flagellates were observed and drawn in living stage immediately after collection. Some of them show peculiar morphology and striking structure of organelles. The following new taxa are described in this paper: Chromulina nasuta, Chromulina pavlikii, Chromulina taeniata, Chromulina oligochrysis, Chromulina pyrenoidosa, Monochrysis stigmatica, Ochromonas oligochrysis, Ochromonas taeniata, Pseudokephyrion hypermaculatum, Pseudokephyrion hyalinum var. tubiforme, Chrysococcus ellipsoideus, Epipyxis borealis var. monoplastida. Es werden einige Chrysophyceen aus kleinen Sumpf- und Tmpelquellen neu beschrieben und abgebildet. Diese Chrysophyceen gehren zur Begleitflora von Algengesellschaften, die fr bestimmte Quellentypen des nordmhrischen Quellengebietes charakteristisch sind. Da es sich um uerst empfindliche, kaltstenotherme Flagellaten handelt, wurden sie gleich nach der Probenentnahme mikroskopiert und gezeichnet. Manche von ihnen zeigen besondere, auffallende Ausbildungen der Zellorganellen. Folgende neue Sippen wurden beschrieben: Chromulina nasuta, Chromulina pavlikii, Chromulina taeniata, Chromulina oligochrysis, Chromulina pyrenoidosa, Monochrysis stigmatica, Ochromonas oligochrysis, Ochromonas taeniata, Pseudokephyrion hypermaculatum, Pseudokephyrion hyalinum var. tubiforme, Chrysococcus ellipsoideus und Epipyxis borealis var. monoplastida.
23655919|The Cape Floristic Region and the Succulent Karoo in southwestern Africa are both noted for their plant species richness and high levels of endemism. The southwestern tip of Africa is one of the world's five Mediterranean-type climate regions. The biodiversity in the Cape Floristic Region and Succulent Karoo is thought to be at least partly due to changes to the climate of these regions that have occurred since the middle Miocene. Annual species are usually a significant proportion of local flora in Mediterranean-type climate regions. Previous studies of species radiations in the Cape Floristic Region have concentrated on genera that predominantly contain perennial species. Nemesia (Scrophulariaceae) comprises c. 65 species of annual and perennial herbs and sub-shrubs that are native to southern and tropical Africa. Annuals make up a significant proportion (75%) of Nemesia species. We have reconstructed a phylogeny of 23 Nemesia species using nucleotide sequences of the ITS, ETS and trnL-spacer regions. Species were grouped into five clades, two composed of annual species, one that contained two annual and one perennial species, one that contained one annual and two perennial species, and one that was predominantly composed of perennial species. Phylogenetic dating of the ITS + ETS based phylogenetic tree using penalised likelihood suggested the genus evolved during the Miocene, and that the majority of extant Nemesia species studied radiated during the Pliocene. Ancestral state reconstruction supports at least three separate origins of the annual habit from plants with a perennial life history. One origin can be traced to the late Miocene while the other two transitions occurred more recently during the Pliocene. The transition from perennial to annual life-histories in Nemesia may have been a response to climate change.
23642919|The morphological and anatomical leaf and scape differentiation of Leiothrix crassifolia is analysed and classified into seven types (I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII). The species has a relatively wide distribution in the campo rupestre of Minas Gerais in Brazil. Variation in the isolated populations on different mountain ranges is complex, does not follow a clear geographical pattern, and defies taxonomic classification. L. nubigena and L. obtusifolia are included in L. crassifolia.
23664806|The flowers constitute one of the main sites of accumulation of phenolic compounds in plants of the Hypericum genus. In addition to their important pharmacological activities, some metabolites found in species from the section Brathys and Trigynobrathys appear to have chemotaxonomic significance according to the literature. HPLC analyses were carried out to assess the pattern and accumulation of the dimeric phloroglucinols, benzophenones, benzopyrans, flavonoids and a phenolic acid in flowers of Hypericum species native to southern Brazil and Peruvian Pramos. Qualitative and quantitative differences are reported. Uliginosin B and hyperoside were the main components detected in all species and with maximum concentrations up to 0.188 % in H. caprifoliatum and 5.987 % in H. andinum, respectively. The content of japonicin A varied from 0.003 to 0.087 % in H. myrianthum, while the yield of hyperbrasilol B ranged from 0.006 & in H. laricifolium to 0.011 % in H. caprifoliatum. The major compounds in H. polyanthemum and H. carinatum were the benzopyrans 6-isobutyryl-5,7-dimethoxy-2,2-dimethylbenzopyran (HP1 = 0.200 %), 7-hydroxy-6-isobutyryl-5-methoxy-2,2-dimethyl-benzopyran (HP2 = 0.225 %) and 5-hydroxy-6-isobutyryl-7-methoxy-2,2-dimethyl-benzopyran (HP3 = 0.327 %) and benzophenones cariphenone A (0.309 %) and cariphenone B (0.062 %), respectively. Maximum amounts of chlorogenic acid, isoquercitrin, quercitrin and guaijaverin were observed, respectively, in H. campestre (1.458 %), H. andinum (1.161 %), H. carinatum (0.231 %) and H. laricifolium (0.404 %). The results obtained support the taxonomic evidence of the dimeric phloroglucinol derivatives at the section level.
23674849|Eupatoriastrum (including Matudina King & H. Rob.) is a small genus of southern Mexico, Guatemala, and El Salvador. It is characterized by its large convex paleate receptacles which bear numerous florets (100300). Five species are recognized. Relationships of the genus are discussed, descriptions, complete synonymy, and a hypothetical phyletic diagram of the species are provided. In addition, four of the taxa are illustrated by line drawings.
23654259|For a long time, Plagiochila (sect. Arrectae) punctata (Taylor) Taylor has been treated as an endemic of Atlantic Europe. Studies of larger specimen sets demonstrated that the species is widespread in mountainous regions of the Neotropics where it is known under several names including P. stolonifera Lindenb. & Gottsche, P. choachina Gottsche and P. patzschkei Steph. In tropical Africa P. punctata is established as Plagiochila subalpina Steph., nom. illeg. The sporophyte of P. punctata is described for the first time, based on material from Costa Rica. A maximum likelihood analysis of a nrITS sequence alignment with sequences of P. sects. Fuscoluteae (outgroup), Arrectae, and Rutilantes as well as of P. rubescens (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Lindenb. results in a tree with well bootstrap supported Arrectae and Rutilantes clades. ITS sequences of Plagiochila punctata from the Comoros and Zaire are placed in an unsupported monophyletic lineage together with P. punctata sequences from the British Isles and Ecuador. The species is nested in a robust clade with P. spinulosa (Dicks.) Dumort. and P. stricta Lindenb. The weak genetic separation of these three species indicates a recent diversification; the disjunct ranges may be the result of long range dispersal events. Plagiochila rubescens from southern South America is placed sister to P. sect. Arrectae. The latter section possibly originated from southern South American ancestors, diversified in tropical America after the uplift of the Andes and reached the Holarctics and tropical Africa by long range dispersal of diaspores.
23670124|Although the South American Iridaceae are cytologically diverse, three tribes are distinguishable on the basis of karyotype morphology. The Sisyrinchieae and Trimezieae have variable basic numbers, ploidy levels and chromosome sizes, while the Tigridieae are characterized by a relatively uniform basic number and bimodal karyotype. Changes in chromosome size within genera may suggest fluctuations in their DNA amount with latitude and altitude, particularly in Sisyrinchium. The results are considered in terms of opportunities for more detailed research.
23674641|55 accessions of wild peanuts (Arachis spp.) introduced from South America were analyzed for seed storage protein composition using SDS-PAGE electrophoresis. The objectives of the study were to evaluate variability within sect. Arachis and to classify taxa based on protein composition. 25 different band positions were resolved. Individual accessions had 11 to 18 bands which included the conarachin region (MW > 50 kD), two to five bands in the acidic arachin region (MW 3849.9 kD), three to seven in the intermediate MW region (23 to 37.9 kD), two to five bands in the basic arachin region (1822.9 kD), and one to three bands in the low MW protein region (1417.9 kD). These data were utilized in a principal coordinate analysis based on the matrix of genetic distances between all pairs of the 55 accessions. Several groups of accessions conformed to expected species classification including A. batizocoi, A. stenosperma, and A. monticola; while A. duranensis, A. cardenasii, A. helodes, and A. correntina did not form good groups. The study showed that great diversity exists for protein profiles and seed storage proteins have potential for aiding species classification and for serving as markers for interspecific hybridization studies.
23674527|Plant samples were collected from 13 populations of the two species Gentianella germanica and G. campestris. In addition, two samples from populations of grazed plants lacking their main stems were collected. A number of relevant morphological characters were measured, the flowering time, and the habitats of each population were studied. Some ecotypes of G. germanica with clear differences in flowering time were recognized. Differences in flowering time and morphology between populations of G. campestris seem to be clinal. The generally accepted theory of seasonal dimorphism with the assumption of separate aestival and autumnal vicariads proves to be inadequate. A hypothesis based upon the effect of human influences on the origin of this ecotypes is suggested.
23644332|My objective is the examination of selective forces that affect pollen number. Relationships among other floral traits of animal-pollinated plants, including pollen size, stigma area and depth, and the pollen-bearing area of the pollinator may affect pollen number and also provide a model to examine how change in one trait may elicit change in other traits. The model provides a conceptual framework for appreciating intra- and inter-specific differences in these traits. An equivalent model is presented for wind-pollinated plants. For these plants the distance between putative mates may be the most important factor affecting pollen number. I briefly consider how many pollen grains must reach a stigma to assure fruit set. I use pollen-ovule ratios (P/Os) to examine how breeding system, sexual system, pollen vector, and dispersal unit influence pollen grain number. I also compare the P/Os of plants with primary and secondary pollen presentation and those that provide only pollen as a reward with those that provide nectar as part or all of the reward. There is a substantial decrease in P/O from xenogamy to facultative xenogamy to autogamy. Relative to homoecious species the P/Os of species with most other sexual systems are higher. This suggests that there is a cost associated with changes in sexual system. The P/Os of wind-pollinated plants are substantially higher than those of animal-pollinated plants, and the available data suggest there is little difference in the pollination efficiency of the various animal vectors. The P/Os of plants whose pollen is dispersed in tetrads, polyads, or pollinia are substantially lower than those of species whose pollen is dispersed as monads. There was no difference in the P/Os of plants with primary and secondary pollen presentation. The P/Os of plants that provide only pollen as a reward were higher than those that provide nectar as a reward. All of these conclusions merit additional testing as they are based on samples that are relatively small and/or systematically biased.
23654189|A phylogenetic analysis of the small, Central Asian genus Psathyrostachys Nevski is presented. The analysis is based on morphological characters and nucleotide sequence data from one nuclear gene, DMC1, and three plastid genes, rbcL, rpoA, and rpoC2. Separate analyses of the three data partitions (morphology, nuclear sequences, and plastid sequences) result in mostly congruent trees. The plastid and nuclear sequences produce completely congruent trees, and only the trees based on plastid sequences and morphological characters are incongruent. Combined analysis of all data results in a fairly well-resolved strict consensus tree: Ps. rupestris is the sister to the remaining species, which are divided into two clades: one including Ps. fragilis and Ps. caduca, the other including Ps. juncea, Ps. huashanica, Ps. lanuginosa, Ps. stoloniformis, and Ps. kronenburgii. Pubescent culms and more than 20 mm long spikelets are synapomorphies for the former clade, whereas short lemma awns and leaf epidermis cells with thin, straight walls are synapomorphies for the latter.
43558350|Fourteen North American members of the "Xanthocephalum group" were studied by classical and molecular cytogenetics. Location and number of rDNA sites were determined by FISH. For the 5S rDNA, a probe was obtained from Prionopsis ciliata. Most species were diploid (2n = 12), although Isocoma menziesii, Grindelia hirsutula, G. robusta, both varieties of G. stricta, and one population of G. camporum were tetraploid (2n = 24).Diploid Grindelia and Prionopsis ciliata were 5m + 1sm, tetraploids 10m + 2sm, except G.hirsutula (8m + 4sm), and Isocoma and Olivaea 6m + 2sm and 3m + 3sm, respectively. Most species had satellites on the short arms of m pairs: two in tetraploids and P. ciliata and one in diploids. Satellites were associated with two CMA/DAPI bands in diploid species and four bands in tetraploids and in P. ciliata. rDNA loci (two in diploids to four in tetraploids) may be indicative of ploidy level. Grindelia tetraploids could have originated recently by autopolyploidy.Chromosome duplication was followed by modifications in the genome structure, resulting in higher heterochromatin amounts not associated with NORs. There is only one 5S site per basic genome in para or pericentromeric regions. Although not always large, chromosome variation has accompanied the evolutionary divergence of the taxa studied.
43558617|Family Azollaccae has seven species with a controversial taxonomy. The identification of species without reproductive structures relies on vegetative characters but some are variable, leading to misinterpretations. The molecular methods may be helpful, but until now, they did not provide a conclusive Azolla taxonomy. Therefore, we studied the family Azollaceae at vegetative and molecular levels. Analysis of vegetative, random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and combined data showed a comparable grouping of the Azolla species in two main clusters: cluster I, referred to as section Rhizosperma (A. pinnata and A. nilotica) and cluster II, referred to as section Azolla (A. filiculoides, A. microphylla, A. caroliniana and A. mexicana), with the exception of A. rubra, which clustered differently depending on the method. All the Azolla species were distinguished by the 13 polymorphic vegetative characters, the 211 RAPD markers or the combined data, with the latest showing the highest discrimination. The Shannon Index diversity was greater with RAPD (2.276) than with vegetative characters (0.054), highlighting the higher discriminating power of the molecular data. The partitioning of diversity was, as expected, high among species for all the types of data and low within species, with the lowest diversity obtained for morphological data. Both data sets (vegetative and RAPD) allowed the distinction of all the species and their clustering into sections Rhizosperma and Azolla, suggesting this as the most correct for this family. The dendrogram from the combined data was the most accurate, highlighting the benefit of integrating different types of data to study the family Azollaceae.
23645359|To evaluate the sectional classification in Carex, subgenus Vignea, the ITS region of 58 species of 20 sections was analyzed with Neighbor Joining (NJ) and Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. Sections Dioicae, Physodeae and Ovales are found to be monophyletic, with C. bohemica well integrated in the section Ovales. Section Heleonastes turns out to be monophyletic, if C. canescens is treated separately in section Canescentes. Section Elongatae is monophyletic, but C. remota is placed in section Remotae and C. bromoides in section Deweyanae. In both analyses, six representatives of section Arenariae cluster together in a terminal group, whereas C. disticha, C. repens and C. siccata form a basal cluster. C. maritima, as the only member of section Incurvae, shares this basal position. C. chordorrhiza is ascribed to section Chordorrhizeae and not ascribed to the paraphyletic section Divisae. C. vulpina and C. otrubae are assigned to section Vulpinae and separated from the heterogeneous section Stenorhynchae. The other members of sections Divisae, Muehlenbergianae, Multiflorae and Stenorhynchae are scattered throughout the trees. The representatives of section Foetidae are dispersed in both analyses, section Paniculatae appears to be non-monophyletic in the molecular results as well. The subgenus appears subdivided in at least four larger subgroups in all analyses. Whereas these subgroups are strongly supported, the relationships between these subgroups remain only poorly resolved.
23673241|Compositae exhibit some of the most complex and diverse pollen grains in flowering plants. This paper reviews the evolutionary and developmental origins of this diversity in pollen structure using recent models based on the behaviour of colloids and formation of micelles in the differentiating microspore glycocalyx and primexine. The developmental model is consistent with observations of structures recovered by pollen wall dissolution. Pollen wall diversity in Compositae is inferred to result from small changes in the glycocalyx, for example ionic concentration, which trigger the self-assembly of highly diverse structures. Whilst the fine details of exine substructure are, therefore, not under direct genetic control, it is likely that genes establish differences in the glycocalyx which define the conditions for self-assembly. Because the processes described here for Compositae can account for some of the most complex exine structures known, it is likely that they also operate in pollen walls with much simpler organisation.
23654271|The palaeotropic pioneer tree genus Macaranga Thouars (Euphorbiaceae) is characterized by various types of mutualistic interactions with specific ant partners (mainly Crematogaster spp.). About 30 species are obligate ant-plants (myrmecophytes). We used amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers to assess phylogenetic relationships among 108 Macaranga specimens from 43 species, including all available taxa from the three sections known to contain myrmecophytes. Eight primer combinations produced 426 bands that were scored as presence/absence characters. Banding patterns were analyzed phenetically, cladistically and by principal coordinates analysis. Monophyly of section Pruinosae is clearly supported. There is also good evidence for a monophyletic section Pachystemon that includes the puncticulata group. The monophyly of section Winklerianae and relationships between the three sections remain ambiguous. Section Pachystemon is subdivided into four well-supported monophyletic subclades that presumably correspond to taxonomic entities.
23642712|The usefulness of features of leaf hairs in distinguishing subgenera and sections is well documented in both Rhododendron and Solanum. In this analysis of the taxa of Solanum sect. Basarthrum (23 species), and of a sample of closely related taxa from sect. Petota (22 species), it is shown that such features serve to delineate subsectional groups such as series and some species as well. Section Basarthrum has an unexpected diversity of hair types. Although this group has been characterized by 2-celled "bayonet hairs", more than one half of the taxa in the section bear multicellular "finger hairs", and 3 species also possess branched hairs. Thus, major rearrangements of the species previously assigned to sect. Basarthrum are indicated or supported by pubescence features. The taxa studied from series Etuberosa and Juglandifolia (both of sect. Petota) show hair types that a) are relatively primitive for the section, and b) show linkage between sects. Petota and Basarthrum.
23674477|The distribution of excreted flavonoid aglycones within the family Labiatae was studied and differences were found, especially in the A-ring substitution patterns. Thus, 5,7-dihydroxy-6-methoxyflavones with substituted B-rings are characteristic of species of Salvia (sect. Salvia), Rosmarinus and Ocimum; 5,7-dihydroxy-6,8-dimethoxyflavones occur only in Ocimum and 5,6-dihydroxy-7,8-dimethoxyflavones in Thymus and related species. Members of the two subfamilies Lamioideae and Nepetoideae produce exudate flavonoids, but some genera are devoid of these compounds. There is a correlation between the habitat where the plant grows and production of these compounds, the species from (semi-)arid habitats being those which generally accumulate external flavonoids.
23656037|Pollen morphology of 36 species representing 14 genera within the tribe Rhinantheae in the family Orobanchaceae was studied and illustrated with light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Five major pollen types were recognized on the basis of exine ornamentation. Within these major types, minor types (subtypes) were distinguished based on exine surface pattern, size, shape, amb form, colpi and colpus membrane. These types and subtypes are as follows: type I. retipilate: subtype Ia. regular retipilate: (1) pollen size < 27 m, (2) pollen size > 27 m, subtype Ib. irregular retipilate; type II. verrucate: subtype IIa. macro-verrucate, subtype IIb. verrucate, subtype IIc. sparse verrucate; type III. retirugulate; type IV. granulate; type V. micro-reticulate. A key to pollen morphology of genera studied within the Rhinantheae was made based on pollen morphology from our study and earlier work. Combining with other sources of information on the Rhinantheae, the systematic relationships of this tribe are discussed. Rhinantheae pollen displays considerable variation between genera and species, with taxonomically significant characters at genus and species level. Palynological characteristics provide evidence for interpreting the conflicting views concerning the "Pterygiella Complex". The evolutionary trend in exine sculpture of Rhinantheae could be proposed, namely that retipilate sculpturing which is the most widespread type is more primitive than the other types (such as foveolate, granulate, regulate, reticulate, retirugulate and verrucate). The pollen data in present study and the view of Hong (1986), as well as the molecular data from Bennett and Mathews (2006) indicated that Asia and related regions were likely to the origin centre of the tribe Rhinantheae.
23645287|Phylogenetic relationships of Genista and related genera (Teline, Chamaespartium, Pterospartum, Echinospartum, Ulex, Stauracanthus and Retama) were assessed by the analysis of sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS region), and the cpDNA trnL-trnF intergenic spacer. The tree obtained by combining both sets of data indicates the existence of three lines of diversification within Genista, that correspond to three subgenera: Genista, Phyllobotrys and Spartocarpus, however, each of these lineages encompass also species of the related genera Echinospartum, Teline, Retama, Chamaespartium, Pterospartum, Ulex, Stauracanthus. The molecular data do not support division of these subgenera into taxonomical units at the sectional level; only sections Genista and Spartocarpus are monophyletic groups. The sequences of both regions are also informative at the specific level, grouping morphologically related species (e.g. the G. cinerea aggregate). The molecular data have also helped to clarify the position of taxa whose relationships were not well established (e.g. G. valdes-bermejoi). The relationships of related genera that belong to the Genista lines of diversification have also been investigated. Echinospartum splits into two separate clades matching the separation of two ecological and caryological differentiated groups. Teline also forms two groups, both placed near to Genista subgenus Genista, but that separated from the main core of the group. Retama, morphologically well differentiated from Genista, is close to Genista subgenus Spartocarpus. Chamaespartium and Pterospartum do not form a monophyletic group. Chamaespartium is closer to Genista subgenus Genista, whereas Pterospartum stands close to: 1) Genista subgenus Spartocarpus (particularly, sect. Cephalospartum); and 2) the Ulex-Stauracanthus clade (a terminal derivative of Genista subgenus Spartocarpus). Cases of incongruence (e.g. Echinospartum, Chamaespartium, Teline) between the trees obtained from the two molecular markers, may be indicating hybridisation and/or introgression between different lines of Genisteae.
23674710|The complex floral structure in the southern African genus Conophytum (Mesembryanthemaceae; 77 spp.) is described in detail and assigned to three basic floral types, two of which can be divided into two subtypes. Correlations between structural features and phenological patterns are demonstrated and discussed in the family context as well as in relation to the systematic subdivision of the genus.
23673142|Fossil cycadalean leaves recorded from the Miocene plant assemblage of Soma, western Turkey, are described and assigned to an extinct genus and species, Pseudodioon akyoli. Leaf macromorphology suggests affinity with members of the Zamiaceae (subfam. Encephalartoideae), particularly with modern Dioon. Micromorphological features on the other hand indicate affinity with modern Cycas (Cycadaceae). Ordinary cells on the adaxial epidermis are isodiametric and are not differentiated into thick- and thin-walled cells. This is similar to Encephalartoideae-like fossils reported from the Cenozoic of the Northern Hemisphere, and even from the Mesozoic. Shared macromorphological traits of P. akyoli and other coeval Encephalartoideae-like fossil cycadalean leaves from Europe suggest that an extinct group of cycads inhabited southern Europe from the western part of Turkey, through Greece and France to Switzerland in the north during the Oligo-Miocene.
23642106|Compositae (Asteraceae) are remarkably homogenous in basic type of inflorescence, flower and fruit. The Cichorioideae are more closely related to the other groups than usually realized. The classical concept of the Asteroideae tribes has been confirmed in general, but recent investigations (using palynology, carpology, phytochemistry etc.) suggest numerous corrections, and some genera (e.g. Liabum, Echinops, Tarchonanthus, Arnica) do not fit into the scheme. The tribes of Asteroideae may be divided into two groups characterized by several common characters and common tendencies. The oldest reliable fossils are known from the borderline Oligocene/Miocene. Looking for the nearest relatives, Campanulales (incl. Calyceraceae) andbecause of interesting phytochemical agreementsAraliales have to be discussed. Die Compositen sind bei aller Vielfalt (besonders im vegetativen Bereich) auffllig einheitlich im Grundtyp der Infloreszenz, der Blten und Frchte. Dies gilt auch fr die Cichorioideae (Cichoriaceae), die durch viele Merkmale enger als meist angenommen mit den anderen Tribus verbunden sind. Die klassische Tribus-Einteilung der Asteroideae hat sich im groen und ganzen bewhrt, doch machen neuere Untersuchungen unter Bercksichtigung von Palynologie, Karpologie, Phytochemie etc. zahlreiche Korrekturen ntig. Einige Gattungen (z. B. Liabum, Echinops, Tarchonanthus, Arnica) lassen sich nicht in das bisherige System einordnen. Man kann die Tribus der Asteroideae in zwei Gruppen zusammenfassen, die durch gemeinsame Merkmale und Tendenzen charakterisiert sind. Die ltesten sicheren Fossilfunde stammen aus der Wende Oligozn/Miozn. Als mgliche nchste Verwandte mssen die Campanulales (incl. Calyceraceae) und  wegen der aufflligen phytochemischen bereinstimmungen  die Araliales diskutiert werden.
23642724|In natural habitats of Carludovica palmata (Colombia) numerous stingless bees (Meliponinae) were observed as pollen collectors at the inflorescences and were believed to be the pollinators of the entomophilous flowers. Male flowers surround female ones on the spadix in a regular fashion. At first, the filiform, strongly scented staminodia of the female flowers unfold. After they have dropped, the anthers open, and finally the male flowers fall to ground. Only then, the stigmata of the female flowers are exposed. Previous literature references on proterogyny and the drying-up of the stigmata prior to the male phase in Carludovica are in conflict with these observations on the course of anthesis and pollination.
23655797|The spatial genetic structure of the widespread orchid Serapias vomeracea ssp. vomeracea and of the two rare S. vomeracea ssp. laxiflora and ssp. orientalis was examined using nuclear microsatellites. The three taxa showed low mean allele number (3.2), frequent significant deviations from the HW equilibrium (13 out of 20 populations) and intermediate to high gene diversity. F-statistics indicated either low or highly unpredictable levels of gene flow, in line with a not significant isolation by distance. Demographic tests suggested that most of populations experienced a size decline and show a small effective population size. The heterozygote excess detected in many populations could be the consequence of nonrandom mating due to the nonrewarding pollination strategy of Serapias. Hence, the divergence of lineages within the genus could be driven by a combination of stochastic forces such as drift and bottlenecks, as well as locally selective forces.
23673147|Solanum dulcamara (bittersweet) is one of the few native species of Solanum present in Europe. It is a common weed that occupies a wide range of habitats and is often found in the direct vicinity of cultivated potatoes (Solanum tuberosum), where it could transmit diseases. A broad sampling of European S. dulcamara accessions was carried out to gain insight into the population structure and crossing preferences of this species. Three amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) primer combinations generating 288 polymorphic fragments were used to analyze 79 bittersweet accessions (245 individuals). Dendrograms revealed a low level of genetic polymorphism in the bittersweet populations, caused partially by the out-crossing nature of this species.
23674823|The D genome cluster includes six allopolyploid Aegilops species having as pivotal genome that of Aegilops squarrosa. Alpha-gliadins, endosperm proteins coded by multigenic families, have been analyzed in the D genome species cluster and in their putative progenitors. They can be present or weakly expressed when analyzed in acid polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Molecular analysis has shown the possibility to distinguish subsp. strangulata from subsp. eusquarrosa and to confirm the presence of Ae. caudata and of Ae. umbellulata in the polyploids Ae. cylindrica and Ae. juvenalis, respectively. Finally, introgression from Ae. longissima or Ae. searsii in tetraploid and hexaploid Ae. crassa, Ae. juvenalis, and Ae. vavilovii is supposed.
23655802|Flowering cherries are classified into Prunus subgenus Cerasus (family Rosaceae). Nine species and some varieties originated in Japan were used in this study. Phylogenetic relationships among Japanese taxa were analyzed by four chloroplast regions using 46 individuals from 16 taxa. Eighteen haplotypes were distinguished. P. pendula f. ascendens and P. cerasoides formed a clade which is distantly related to other Japanese taxa. These two species were morphologically different from other taxa. All Japanese taxa except for P. pendula f. ascendens formed another clade. All taxa in this clade except for P. maximowiczii showed very similar sequences. However, these taxa could be identified by many morphological characters. Even now, based on previous work, it is thought that interspecific hybridization frequently occurs in flowering cherries. We conclude from the current study, Japanese flowering cherries have experienced complicated speciation arising from hybridization.
23674548|The structure of ribosomal DNA of Brachypodium and several other grass species was investigated using a heterologous rDNA probe from wheat. Several different rDNA families were present among perennial and annual species within the genus. In contrast to the annual species the perennial species exhibited a very low degree of repeat length variation. An extra Eco RI site and a Hin dIII site were observed in the IGS, which distinguished Brachypodium from other grass genera. The restriction fragment length polymorphism and length variation of the repeat units have taxonomic value within Brachypodium and are correlated with the classification of Brachypodium derived from other data.
23674467|Helianthus petiolaris and H. niveus are polytypic species which are morphologically distinct at the periphery of their ranges but intergrade in areas of sympatry. Helianthus niveus includes both annual and perennial members, whereas H. petiolaris is strictly annual. Chloroplast DNA and nuclear ribosomal DNA restriction site data were used to reconstruct the evolutionary history of populations of the two species. Cladistic analyses reveal the following: (1) neither species is monophyletic; (2) the annual habit is derived once in this complex; and (3) the region of morphological intergradation appears to be primary in origin. The significance of interbreeding versus common descent in defining species concepts is discussed in relation to the above cladistic analyses.
23674972|Restriction site polymorphism in cpDNA of 35 legumes was studied in order to address natural relationships and geographic distribution within the tribe Genisteae. 386 sites were studied, 277 were polymorphic, 207 were informative. Phylogenetic inferences with distance and parsimony methods suggest that the American and Mediterranean Lupinus species belong to a monophyletic group which arose from a single center of diversification. The data furthermore indicate that Lupinus should not be included in the tribe Genisteae since at the level of cpDNA polymorphism Anagyris foetida (tribe Thermopsideae) appears more closely related to other Genisteae than Lupinus does.
23642678|Mature seeds of diploid and tetraploid Hibiscus species were analyzed for enzyme activity (alcohol dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, leucine aminopeptidase), total protein content, DNA amount and dry weight. The recently formed tetraploid, H. radiatus, generally had enzyme and protein levels very similar to the sum of its progenitors, while the more ancient species H. acetosella had several lower levels. This difference may reflect the greater amount of time H. acetosella has had to evolve dosage compensations.
23655155|The pollination system of Holcoglossum rupestre was studied in northwestern Yunnan. The species is self-compatible but pollinator-dependent and offers nectar as a reward to visitors. A species of beetle, Hybovalgus bioculatus Kolbe, is identified as the pollinator among all visitors observed. The beetles carried the pollinia in two different positions, i.e. on the buttock and the foreleg, and pollinated the flowers by two different mechanisms. The analysis suggests that Holcoglossum rupestre and its pollinator may be in an unstable pollination relationship. The natural fruit set is low, which is attributed to the low visiting frequency of pollinator and the effective mechanism to prevent self-pollination.
23645112|Internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) were used in the phylogenetic reconstruction of Pedicularis, a genus with strong adaptive radiation. Forty-two species representing 12 greges of the genus were all, except P. resupinata, sampled from the Hengduan Mountain region, China. A high level of ITS sequence variation was found among the species distributed in such a small geographical area, which had been rarely reported in other groups. The great ITS divergence in Pedicularis could be explained by a relatively ancient origin and diversification of the genus followed by migration of different floristic components into the Hengduan Mountains, or accelerated rates of molecular evolution in parasitic lineages of Orobanchaceae. In the present ITS phylogeny, almost all the main clades are not consistent with the high hierarchical taxa within Pedicularis, which implies that significant parallel evolution occurred in floral morphology of the genus, and that undue attention has been paid to corolla characters in the intragenus classifications.
23643506|This paper describes the structure of a 9.2-kb repeat unit of DNA, which represents one -secalin gene and spacer sequence located at the Sec-1 locus on the short arm of chromosome 1 of rye. The gene units at the Sec-1 locus comprise 1.1 kb representing the gene and 8.1 kb of spacer sequence separating the genes. A sequence comparison of nine genes and their promoter regions from the Sec-1 locus, reveals that there is greater variation within the coding sequence than there is within the promoter regions. The gene sequence variation is discussed in terms of the size variation seen for the -secalin proteins in rye species. The results include a comparison of promoter sequences from members of the Triticeae to examine the degree of conservation between other seed storage protein genes.
23643350|Many members of Ranunculaceae contain unusual fatty acids in their seed oils. This leads to rather typical genus-specific fatty acid patterns or "fingerprints" in these seed oils. The members of the Delphinioideae and/or Helleboroideae, however, do not contain highly unusual fatty acids. Nevertheless, their seed oil fatty acid fingerprints are also fairly typical and genus-specific, and the patterns found are rather consistent throughout several species of one genus. It was found that species of Aconitum do not contain fatty acids with 20 carbon atoms. Delphinium, Consolida, Helleborus, Nigella and others do contain C20 fatty acids. In all Helleborus species, for example, there was a consistent C20 fatty acid pattern of 20:0<<20:1>>20:2>20:3. Species of Nigella and Garidella contain high levels, Helleborus low levels, of 20:2n-6 in their seed oils. Delphinium and Aconitum both contain low levels of 18:3n-3, whereas Helleborus spp. consistently show high levels of this fatty acid. The genus-specific fatty acid patterns found are discussed, and a correlation with the subfamily and tribe affiliation of the genera investigated here is attempted.
23655736|98.9% of 5092 flowers from 1041 individuals of Circaeaster agrestis have five floral organs, the formula is P3A1G1 (73.13%), P2A2G1 (25.59%), and P2A1G2 (0.22%). Only 0.4% of the flowers have six floral organs and the formula is P3A1G2 (20 flowers) or P3A2G1 (one flower). All these flowers have one vascular bundle in the pedicel and were considered to be normal ones. There are 33 flowers (0.65%) with six or more floral organs and two vascular bundles in the pedicel and we found traces of fusion of different degree of two flowers into one. These flowers were considered as abnormal. Therefore the normal number of floral organs of C. agrestis is five and occasionally six, and the floral formulas are P3A1G1 or P2A2G1, sometimes P2A1G2, and occasionally P3A1G2 or P3A2G1. A tepal in P3A1G1 may be replaced by a stamen in P2A2G1 or by a carpel in P2A1G2 or in reverse. A carpel in P3A1G2 may be replaced by a stamen in P3A2G1 or in reverse. We hypothesize that there are two possibilities for the number of the floral organs to be five (six), the result of reduction from P3A2G2, or there exists homeosis among floral organs.
23672718|In a flavonoid survey of direct and hydrolysed leaf extracts of sixteen Attalea, seven Scheelea and four Orbignya species free tricin, tricin 7-glycosides, tricin 5-glucoside and flavone C-glycosides were the most frequent constituents; present in 100, 89, 70, and 81% of species, respectively. Luteolin, quercetin and isorhamnetin were each found in only 15% of the sample. The present results confirm the findings of a previous survey that Attalea, Scheelea and Orbignya are chemically heterogeneous with as much variation between species as between genera. Furthermore, three Attalea species, A. allenii, A. guaranitica and A. victoriana showed some infraspecific variation. On the other hand all three accessions of A. ferruginea and six of A. geraensis examined gave identical flavonoid profiles. The results support the view that A. geraensis and A. guaranitica are closely related but do not support the suggested close relationship based on morphology between A. oleifera, A. burretiana and A. piassabossu.
23674974|Certain non-liliiflorous taxa within the monocotyledons (e.g., Strelitzia, Heliconia, Typha) are characterized by compound epicuticular wax rodlets (Strelitzia type). Similar rodlets are also encountered on the surface of the dicotyledonous plant Benincasa hispida (Thunb.) Cogn. Chemical analysis of the surface wax from both sources showed that the rodlets are chemically distinct. The rodlets of the monocotyledons consist exclusively of aliphatic wax lipids, mainly wax esters. In contrast, the rodlets of Benincasa are chiefly composed of triterpenol acetates and triterpenols. Formation of rodlets is therefore interpreted as ultrastructural convergency. It is concluded that taxonomical studies on wax crystalloids can be misleading when interpreted in terms of micromorphology of crystalloids only.
23669986|Chromosome numbers are polyploid, 2n = 28 in Brunellia comocladiifolia and B. mexicana, and 2n = 46 in Caryocar brasiliense, C. microcarpum and C. villosum. The chromosome are small in both genera, with a length of ca. 1,60,4 m. Interphase nuclei correspond to the prochromosomal and the chromocentric type, respectively. This is in conformance with the systematic placement of Brunelliaceae into Cunoniales, and of Caryocaraceae into Theales. Brunellia exhibits affinities to various other orders of Rosidae (and Hamamelididae), and is suggested to be primarily apetalous. On a comparative basis, the chromosome numbers found in both families are interpreted as paleopolyploid (4x and 6x). This apparently is in correspondence with their rather primitive features, systematic isolation, relatively depauperate status, and evidently great age.
43558247|Dichogamy in Salicornieae species is not clearly described in literature, and its efficiency remains untested. In this work we aim to establish the pathway for flower development, the degree of interaction between the two sexes, and the efficiency in overcoming selfing. Flower development was studied in six populations of four Salicornieae species at the Odiel Marsh Natural Park (Huelva, SW Spain) by calculating the percentage of different floral phases established in accordance with the position of their stamens and stigmas. To study the sexual functionality of each phase, the lengths of the perianth, stigma, and ovule were measured, and the number of germinated pollen grains on the stigmas was counted. In the Arthrocnemum macrostachyurn and Salicornia ramosissima populations, the stigma protrudes from the perianth when the anthers have shed their pollen. In the Sarcocornia fruticosa and Sarcocornia perennis populations, anthesis starts with the extrusion of one anther, but in the most common pattern the stigma protrudes from the perianth while the anthers are shedding their pollen. All species studied were morphologically protandrous, but only in one population of Arthrocnemum macrostachyum was the number of germinated pollen grains on the stigma significantly greater when the stigma was exserted than in the previous phases.
23670054|Chromosome counts are reported for several E. Alpine taxa of Euphrasia sect. Euphrasia. First records of diploidy for small-flowered taxa are 2 n = 22 for E. inopinata and E. sinuata, related to E. minima (4 x). Aberrant E. Alpine E. hirtella is 2 x, just as the typical W. Alpine populations of this species. Tetraploidy, 2 n = 44, has been found in E. pumila, close to E. stricta (also 4 x). The limitation of ploidy levels within sect. Euphrasia to 2 x and 4 x on the chromosome base number x = 11 is confirmed.
23674594|In order to estimate pollen tube attrition and to relate it to the breeding system, numbers of microgametophytes within the stigma and at the bottom of the style were scored in species of the Brassicaceae, 17 sporophytically self-incompatible, 11 predominant inbreeders, 4 facultative outcrossers. Attrition was evident in almost all species. The mean number of tubes at the bottom of the style, and mean number of stylar tubes per ovule were significantly lower in outbreeders. The degree of attrition, measured as "attrition rate" (the proportion of tubes in the stigma that do not reach the bottom of the style) was higher in outbreeders; it was positively correlated with the pollen: ovule ratios as estimates of the degree of outbreeding in the species involved. In outbreeders, sexual selection seems to be rather effective in inhibiting certain microgametophytic genotypes from reaching the ovules. Because of the low number of tubes per ovule in most cases, we assume that, in the Brassicaceae, female choice may be more effective in sexual selection and in ensuing pollen tube attrition.
23674227|Nine species of Neochloris can be divided into three groups on the basis of comparative ultrastructure of the flagellar apparatus, the cell wall and the pyrenoid of zoospores. In Group I, N. wimmeri and N. minuta, zoospores are thin-walled, pyrenoids are penetrated by stromal channels, and the basal bodies are in the clockwise absolute orientation and connected by the distal and two proximal fibers. In Group II, N. aquatica, N. vigenis, N. terrestris, N. pyenoidosa, and N. pseudostigmatica, zoospores are naked or covered by fuzzy material, pyrenoids are covered by a continuous starch sheath or invaginated by cytoplasmic channels, basal bodies are directly opposed, the distal fiber is differentiated into a ribbed structure at the central region, a striated microtubule-associated component (SMAC) is continuous between opposite two-membered rootlets and connected to the ribbed structure, proximal ends of basal bodies are covered by partial caps, each two-membered rootlet and a basal body are connected by a striated fiber to the X-membered rootlet associated with the opposite basal body, and the basal bodies, when oriented at wide angles, are joined at their proximal ends by core extensions. In Group III, N. pseudoalveolaris and N. cohaerens, zoospores are naked, pyrenoids are traversed by parallel thylakoids, basal bodies are in the counterclockwise absolute orientation and overlapped, and each X-membered rootlet is connected to the end of the opposite basal body by a terminal cap. It is suggested that the genus Chlorococcopsis gen. nov. be erected for the Group I species. Group II, which includes the type species, N. aquatica, should be preserved as Neochloris. The group appears to be closely related to the coenobial genera Pediastrum, Hydrodictyon, and Sorastrum, and to have affinities with the coenocytic genera Sphaeroplea and Atractomorpha as well. It is also suggested that the genus Parietochloris gen. nov. be erected in the Pleurastrophyceae for the species of Group III.
23674238|Somatic metaphase karyotypes were analyzed for 22 diploid species of Eupatorium. The karyotypic comparisons were made using two indices: minimal chromosomal distance (MCD), measuring overall dissimilarities, and chromosomal identity (CI), measuring number of morphologically identical chromosomes between species. The resulting phenograms from these indices are largely compatible. The 22 species cluster into four groups in the phenogram using MCD, and the grouping corresponds well with morphology or geographic distribution into the three N. American groups Eutrochium, Uncasia, Traganthes, and the E. Asian group. These results suggest that karyotypes in perennial Eupatorium have been considerably conservative and changed not through large chromosomal mutations but through small chromosomal mutations gradually fixed.
23642730|The spindle apparatus of Coprinus micaceus begins to develop from the diglobular polar body outside the nucleus. During both meiotic divisions it operates inside the nuclear envelope and consists of two amorphous poles, a central bundle of interpolar microtubules, and chromosomal microtubules. A metaphase plate cannot exist because the interpolar strand of fibers is persistent throughout the division process. Within the spindle axis more than 100 microtubules can be estimated. They are encircled by a ring of chromatic structures. During the telophase the former spindle pole is evaginated from the nuclear envelope and contacts the plasmalemma near the cell wall.
23669994|Chromosome counts were determined for 46 populations of Biscutella representing 28 taxa. The genus was found to contain diploid taxa with 2n = 12, 16 and 18, tetraploid taxa with 2n = 36 and hexaploid taxa having 2n = 54. B. laevigata L. s. l. consists of diploid and tetraploid populations which are poorly differentiated morphologically. Tetraploid B. laevigata s. l. and hexaploid B. variegata Boiss. & Reuter (s. l.) are characterized by chromosomal instability. The variation in chromosome numbers and the occurrence of polyploidy is discussed in relation to the taxonomy of the genus. An investigation of the breeding system showed that most of the annual species were self-compatible and partly inbreeding and most of the perennial species self-incompatible and, therefore, outbreeding, while one annual species, B. cichoriifolia Loisel., showed both systems.
23644309|In the partly apomictic Ranunculus cassubicus group, a subgroup of the R. auricomus complex, two species were studied by morphometric analyses: R. cassubicifolius W. Koch (with three diploid and two autotetraploid sexual populatoins), and R. carpaticola So (with three diploid sexual populations and a hexaploid apomictic one). Multidimensional scaling analyses (MDS) of individuals, boxplots and cluster analyses of populations revealed a differentiation of R. cassubicifolius and R. carpaticola, whereby in MDS the hexaploid apomictic individuals are partly intermediate between R. cassubicifolius and R. carpaticola. The cytodemes of R. cassubicifolius showed no morphological and only a weak genetic differentiation. A comparison of morphology, isozymes, reproductive system and ploidy levels showed only partly congruence of data sets in respect of grouping populations, thus illustrating the problem to find criteria for a taxonomic concept. A treatment of the apomictic population as a separate group is indicated by all data sets, afterwards R. cassubicifolius and diploid R. carpaticola represent two other well-defined groups. Canonical variate analysis including all characters confirmed the three suggested groups as significantly different and showed that a total of 89.3% of individuals are correctly classified; number of teeth of stem leaf segments and number of petals are the most discriminating characters. Herbarium studies confirm the morphological differentiation yielded from populatoin samples. The three population groups are even better separated in a canonical variate analysis of isozyme data (presence/absence of 25 alleles) of the same material, here 92.6% of individuals are correctly classified. Morphology and isozyme data suggest that the hexaploid apomict originated from hybrids of R. cassubicifolius and diploid R. carpaticola and must be excluded from the sexual taxa; the final classification and naming of the apomicts must be left for further studies on a larger material. The sexual taxa should be classified as separate species. Herbarium studies indicate that R. carpaticola s.str. is widespread over the Carpathians and might include other populations hitherto ascribed to other microspecies as well.
43558293|The intricate genus Rhinanthus L. contains many taxonomically unresolved taxa. The assessment of genetic diversity may clarify the differentiation and taxonomic relationships between species and help to determine their mating system, which is important for understanding the future prospects of populations and species. Isozymes were used to assess the mating system, genetic diversity, and differentiation in R. rumelicus, R. osiliensis, R. wagneri, R. alectorolophus, and R. angustifolius from sect. Cleistolemus and R. minor from sect. Rhinanthus. Genetic diversity at species level was found to be higher in widespread R. angustifolius and R. rumelicus compared with insular endemic R. osiliensis. Positive inbreeding coefficient revealed dominant inbreeding in endemic R. osiliensis and R. wagneri. We also detected a significant departure from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in some populations of R. rumelicus and R. angustifolius. The common R. alectorolophus and R. minor and several populations of R. rumelicus and R. angustifolius displayed a mixed mating mode. Six studied species divided into three distinct clusters. Rhinanthus alectorolophus was the most differentiated taxon among the investigated species. The species of sect. Cleistolemus formed two distinct groups. The first cluster consisted only of R. alectorolophus while another comprised R. rumelicus, R. osiliensis, R. wagneri, and R. angustifolius, indicating their close affinity. Thus, our isozyme results call into question the monophyly of section Cleistolemus and the taxonomic position of R. alectorolophus.
23673958|Amphiraphia Chen & Zhu, together with the Amphiraphiaceae and Amphiraphidales, should be abandoned, since Amphiraphia cells are the heterovalvar initial cells of Caloneis. When Caloneis reproduces sexually two cells pair and become surrounded by a two-layered capsule of mucilage. Each cell produces two gametes and these become rearranged within the gametangial frustule before plasmogamy. The gametes are amoeboid and fusion is isogamous. Following plasmogamy the zygote contracts, becomes ellipsoidal, and lays down a primary perizonial band. This is a complete, wide hoop, while subsequent perizonial bands are narrow and open.
43558354|Fluorescent chromosome banding and measurements of nuclear DNA content by image cytometry of Feulgen-stained cells were performed in one sample each of eight diploid (2n = 24) species of Solanum: S. endoadenium, S. argentinum, S. pseudocapsicum, S. atropurpureum, S. elaeagnifolium, S. sisymbriifolium, S. chenopodioides, and S. palustre. The species studied could be distinguished by heterochromatin amount, banding patterns, and genome size. They exhibited only GC-rich heterochromatin and showed a comparatively low heterochromatin amount (expressed as percentage of haplotype karyotype length), ranging from2.10 in S. argentinum to 8.37 in S. chenopodioides. Genome size displayed significant variation between species, with 1C-values ranging from 0.75 pg (735 Mbp) in S. palustre to 1.79 pg (1,754 Mbp) in S. sisymbriifolium. No significant correlation between genome size and heterochromatin amount was observed, but intrachromosomal asymmetry index (A) was negative and significantly correlated with heterochromatin amount. DNA content was positively and significantly correlated with karyotype length. DNA C-value distribution in the genus as well as karyotype affinities and relationships between species are discussed in relation to different infrageneric classifications of Solanum.
23673649|Differentiation on hormoneless media, habituation ability and crown gall induction in Nicotiana tissue cultures have been used as physiological parameters of evolutionary differentiation between species. Some of them on hormone free media differentiated whole plantlets, others produced only shoots or roots or showed undifferentiated growth (habituation), some eventually died. Moreover, the same genotypes showed a differential behaviour as far as tumor formation by Agrobacterium tumefaciens was concerned. Particularly, the competence for crown gall transformation in Nicotiana species seems negatively correlated with differentiation capacity and may be ascribed to differences in the plants capacity to synthesize growth regulators. The correlation between the results obtained and the phylogenetic position of the genotypes tested is finally discussed.
23655676|The phylogeny of Monsonia L. (Geraniaceae) is examined. Analysis of nrDNA ITS and trnL (UAA) 5'exon-trnF (GAA) chloroplast DNA sequence data of 26 Monsonia and two outgroup Pelargonium species, suggests monophyly for the genus including the former genus Sarcocaulon (DC.) Sweet. The species of Monsonia sect. Sarcocaulon resolve as two subclades (ITS cladogram 80% and trnL-F cladogram 96%) and two additional species in an unresolved basal polytomy, in a clade with species of the sect. Olopetalum and M. senegalensis. All these species share the basic chromosome number x = 11. The remaining species have derived karyotypes of x = 12, 10, 9 or 8. Chromosome sizes vary considerably between the species, and polyploids are rare. The current infrageneric classification is discussed.
23664349|Twelve taxa belonging to two subsections of section Idaeobatus in Rubus L. from southwestern China were characterized by karyotypic, palynological, and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) data as follows: (1) The 12 taxa were all diploid species (2n = 2x = 14), among which the chromosome counts for R. mesogaeus var. oxycomus, R. subtibetanus, R. ellipticus var. obcordatus, R. inopertus var. echinocalyx, and R. stans were reported for the first time; (2) All taxa except for R. ellipticus and R. pinfaensis could be distinguished from each other by karyotype, pollen morphology, and RAPD markers. Karyotypes were mainly characterized by the difference in numbers and positions of submetacentric chromosomes and chromosomes with satellited pair, the index of the karyotypic asymmetry, and the ratio of the longest to the shortest chromosome. Pollen morphology were mainly characterized by the discrepancy in specific pollen size, P/E ratio, colpi width, distance between the apices of two ectocolpi, and exine ornamentation characters. The cluster results based on RAPD markers were consistent with morphology classification except for R. pinfaensis; (3) Based on the general data of karyotypic, palynological, and RAPD, R. ellipticus var. obcordatus should be treated as a species R. obcordatus, R. ellipticus and R. pinfaensis should be combined as R. ellipticus, and it was more reasonable to place the combinants and R. obcordatus into subsection Stimulantes rather than into subsection Pungentes.
23662375|The occurrence and extent of genome size variation within species is controversially discussed and thorough analyses are rare. Given the large morphological variation in Lagenaria siceraria (bottle gourds) and its wide distribution in Africa we here analysed (1) the genome size variation within cultivars of L. siceraria, (2) the correlation between genome size and morphological traits, and (3) the geographical patterns of DNA content within the species. We measured 2C-values of 366 individuals from 117 accessions of L. siceraria (2n = 22) from Africa, America and Asia via flow cytometry with propidium iodide as DNA stain. We found that 2C-value in L. siceraria (0.6830.776 pg/2C) is about two times lower than previously reported and varies by about 12% among all accessions. Moreover, our results indicated a clear correlation of genome size with two different seed or usage types and with growing elevations in West Africa. Within the seed types genome size varies by 6.6 and 7.5%, respectively. The genome size differences in seed types of L. siceraria might indicate differences in their evolutionary history and necessitates a re-evaluation of the phylogenetic relationships within L. siceraria while the correlation between 2C-value and the elevation of the collecting sites might indicate an adaptation of genome size to an unknown ecological parameter connected to altitude.
23643235|Vegetative and floral features of Cajophora coronata (Loasaceae) suggest adaptations to pollination by rodents: (1) mammal guard represented by a covering of stinging hairs; (2) geoflory: (3) white corolla; (4) open flowers with copious low concentration nectar; (5) abundant pollen; (6) maximum pollen and nectar presentation in the afternoon hours and in the night. Palynological analysis revealed pollen loads of C. coronata on the nostrils and whiskers of captured rodents (Graomys griseoflavus, fam. Muridae). Pollen and anther remains were also found in faeces sampled in the surroundings. Additional evidence includes rodent footprints obtained by placing smoked plates beneath the flowers, which revealed flower visitation during the night. These observations are to our knowledge the first evidence of flower visitation by rodents in South America and the first in the New World outside the range of flower bats and bat flowers.
23673121|The genetic relationships among the sedges Carex aquatilis, C. paleacea, and C. recta, and C. recta and other hybrids (C. aquatilis  recta and C. paleacea  recta) were investigated. Microsatellite-based, dominant inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) fingerprinting revealed no taxon-specific variation among five investigated Carex species or hybrids, while in codominant microsatellite genotyping, 5 out of 16 alleles were taxon specific. Despite significant genetic differentiation, our results demonstrate that there is also gene flow between taxa. Although principal component analysis (PCA) showed some structuring among groups, there was considerable overlapping. The analysis of genetic differentiation assessed for the expected five groups using the program Structure did not provide conclusive results for the number of main groups. However, it is visible that C. aquatilis and C. paleacea are genetically distinct, while the other studied taxa show intermediate genetic features. Both the microsatellite analysis and sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region supported the view that the parental species of C. recta are C. aquatilis and C. paleacea, although with unequal contribution. C. paleacea  recta is likely to possess additional genetic material apart from that originating from C. aquatilis and C. paleacea. Our study shows that ISSR markers failed to be sufficiently informative, but the combination of sequencing (ITS) and the use of microsatellite genotyping proved their applicability in resolving fine-scale taxonomic questions.
23671728|Detailed wood anatomical descriptions are given for the genera Anthospermum, Nenax, Phyllis, Carpacoce, Coprosma, Neogaillonia, Crocyllis, Plocama and Spermadictyon, and miscellaneous wood anatomical data on the genera Normandia, Pomax, Opercularia, Leptodermis and Aitchisonia. The wood anatomical variation within the large genus Anthospermum is discussed. Secondary woodiness is likely to occur in a number of Anthospermum species; other species of the genus have "normal" wood structure or are herbaceous. Nenax and Carpacoce may also have secondary woodiness. The Anthospermeae and the Paederieae differ from each other primarily in the fibre type: Anthospermeae have fibre tracheids, Paederieae libriform fibres. Except for the genus Phyllis, wood anatomical features largely support the delimitiation of the two tribes and to a certain extent the suggested groupings of genera within the two tribes.
23643697|Thirteen flavonoid compounds were isolated and identified from five Korean species in the A. jaluense complex; they were glycosylated derivatives of the flavonols kaempferol, quercetin, and isorhamnetin, and of the flavone apigenin. The flavonoid data revealed the presence of two entities in the complex in Korea; one includes A. jaluense s. str. and the other includes the remaining four species which have identical flavonoid profiles. Based on these results, in conjunction with evidence from the morphology, it is suggested that the taxa should be recognized as two subspecies of A. jaluense s. l. The flavonoid data also provide strong evidence for the occurrence of hybridization between A. jaluense s. str. and A. japonicum subsp. napiforme at Mt. Chiri in southern Korea.
23673944|Leporella fimbriata is a self compatible orchid of southern Australia. It is dependant across its range on unique pollination by sexually attracted male winged ants Myrmecia urens, which pseudocopulate with the flower. Typical pollination sequences began with an initial circling then zig-zag flight to the flower. Vectors usually alighted on the inflorescence stem and quickly crawled to the flower where they adopted a copulatory position sideways along the wide labellum, pseudocopulatory probing immediately followed. In this position pollen carried on the thorax was deposited on the stigma. Departure from the labellum usually resulted in pollinium removal. Pollinator movements were restricted and the distribution leptokurtic with a mean of 3.141  4.59 m. Pollination was widespread but variable from site to site and season to season with a maximum of 70% of all flowers being pollinated. Pollinator limitation is indicated. Traits essential for this pollination interaction include the coincidence of orchid and ant geographic distributions and the coincidence of flowering with the flight period of the ant. The production of pheromone-like substances and the distinctive floral morphology are also essential for attraction and manipulation of male ants. The ant mating system which the orchid can exploit is also important.
23654232|Previous studies have suggested that genomes A and B are two of the three genomes of the hexaploid species Stylosanthes erecta. To identify the third constituent genome of S. erecta, STS (sequence-tagged-site) and RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) markers were used to analyse genotypes representing several taxa that had not been tested previously. It was found in this study that 86% of S. erecta fragments of neither A or B genomes were found in S. angustifolia, and that S. angustifolia contributed at least one of its fragments to marker profiles of S. erecta for all of the markers tested. Data from a chloroplast DNA clone suggested that S. angustifolia and S. erecta have different cytoplasm. The molecular evidence is consistent with the notion that S. angustifolia is the likely third putative diploid progenitor of S. erecta, with Genome A as the cytoplasm donor of the hexaploid species. These findings are discussed in the context of the morphology and geographical distribution of the species concerned.
23642181|Hedyotis caerulea, a spring flowering herb widely distributed in eastern North America, has distylous flowers that differ by a number of morphological and physiological traits. The presence of a strong incompatibility system is indicated by the fact that intramorph crosses or self-pollinations produced little or no seed and intermorph crosses produced copious seed. An unusual homostyle was located that had most floral characters intermediate between pin and thrum flowers, although its pollen size was that of pin. The homostyle was only moderately self-compatible, and its pollen did not behave as pin pollen on thrum stigmas. It appears that, despite their intermediate position and morphology, the homostyle stigmas were fundamentally pin. Although the exceptional rarity of the homostyle suggests that it is an inadaptive failure, workers should watch for its further occurrence since additional study of it may provide insights into the genetic and physiological basis of heterostyly in the Rubiaceae.
43558167|The genetic relationships and diversity within the European and Asiatic Buxus species were analysed using AFLP, genome size analysis and chromosome counts. Based on these results two major clusters could be defined. One genetic cluster contained B. sempervirens and B. balearica, European species, and B. colchica, an Asiatic species but with leaf morphology similar to B. sempervirens. Species in this cluster were characterised by a genome size between 1.38 and 1.69 pg 2C and a chromosome number of 2n = 2x = 28 (diploid). Only four B. sempervirens cultivars within this cluster were triploid. A second cluster contained the Asiatic Buxus species B. microphylla, B. harlandii, B. hyrcana, B. myrica, B. henryi, B. bodinieri and B. wallichiana. Within this second genetic cluster three different ploidy levels could be observed. B. harlandii, B. hyrcana and nine B. microphylla cultivars were tetraploid (2n = 4x = 56) with a genome size of > 2.5 pg 2C. Fifteen other B. microphylla cultivars were triploid (2n = 3x = 42). The other Asiatic Buxus species, B. henryi, B. bodinieri and eight B. microphylla cultivars, were diploid with a genome size of ca. 1.5 pg 2C.
23642361|Artificial hybrids between dysploid "chromosome races" or microspecies of Erysimum sylvestre group are produced. From the meiotic behaviour it is inferred that E. montosicolum (n = 14) is an autopolyploid of E. australe (n = 7) and that the Italian race with n = 11 is probably derived from an unknown tetraploid.
23644419|Dictyochloropsis irregularis Nakano and Isagi which formerly has been newly described from a Japanese habitat, does occur also in Europe. Details of structure and function of its sporangia are described.
23662395|All known Italian Gagea species (23) representing seven out of 14 sections were included in this study. Morphological, molecular and combined data support the basal position of G. trinervia (Anthericoides). According to the molecular data, the sections Anthericoides, Lloydia, Gagea, Minimae and Spathaceae are very well supported; representatives of the sections Didymobulbos and Fistulosae clustered together in the same clade. In this clade, several near-related species groups (series) were recognised. According to 35 morpho-anatomical, ontogenetic and karyological data the section Gagea forms a well-defined monophyletic clade. Within this clade G. tisoniana, G. pusilla and G. cfr. paczoskii are near related. The position of the critical putative hybrid taxa G. luberonensis and G. polidorii is discussed. New series Solenarium (Dulac) Peruzzi and Tison, Occidentales (A. Terracc.) Peruzzi and Tison and Saxatiles (A. Terracc.) Peruzzi and Tison are proposed.
23659855|Seed storage proteins were analyzed for variation in polypeptide patterns and proportion of four protein fractions in Cucumis melo and for interrelationships of different taxa of the genus Cucumis. SDS-PAGE of total protein extracts of 11 lines of C. melo representing different geographic regions showed considerable variation in their polypeptides in the range of molecular weights 5055, 3539, 2026 and 1619 kDa. As compared to one subunit pair reported earlier, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed subunit pairs of molecular weights 53, 52, 50, 42, 39 and 23 kDa, each consisting of a large and a small subunit like those of legumin-like 11S proteins of leguminous seeds. The salt-soluble globulins represented the major protein fraction (44.848.1%), followed by glutelins and albumins with prolamins being the lowest in the seed. Based on the protein profiles of seed protein extracts of 28 Cucumis taxa, similarity matrix indices and UPGMA dendrogram showed that eight taxa of C. melo were clustered in two subclusters of four taxa each. Five taxa of C. sativus along with C. zeyheri belonged to another cluster, sister to the third cluster of remaining taxa. In this third cluster, C. anguria var. longaculeatus showed 100% similarity with C. myriocarpus and C. myriocarpus ssp. leptodermis as compared to only 64% similarity with C. anguria; C. myriocarpus ssp. myriocarpus occurred along with C. prophetarum in the same group rather than with C. myriocarpus. The accession PI-299570 representing an undescribed taxon of Cucumis exhibited 100% similarity with C. pustulatus, and C. sagittatus was the most distant from all Cucumis taxa.
23645296|Coleeae (Bignoniaceae) are a tribe almost entirely restricted to Madagascar. Coleeae have previously been placed in neotropical Crescentieae due to species with indehiscent fruits, a character otherwise unusual in Bignoniaceae. A phylogeny based on three chloroplast regions (ndhF, trnT-L spacer, trnL-F spacer) identifies a monophyletic Coleeae that is endemic to Madagascar and surrounding islands of the Indian Ocean (Seychelles, Comores and Mascarenes). African Kigelia is not a member of Coleeae, rather it is more closely related to a subset of African and Southeast Asian species of Tecomeae. The molecular phylogeny indicates that indehiscent fruit have arisen repeatedly in Bignoniaceae: in Coleeae, Kigelia and Crescentieae. The characteristic fleshy fruits of species of Coleeae likely arose autochthonously in Madagascar. Within Coleeae Colea and Ophiocolea are sisters, Phyllarthron is sister to Colea + Ophiocolea, and Rhodocolea is sister to the rest of the tribe.
23644392|Fagus (beech) is among the most abundant and economically important genera of broad-leaved trees in northern hemisphere temperate forests. The number of modern taxa present in Europe and Asia Minor has long been a matter of debate and up to five species have been recognised. To resolve taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships we conducted morphological and molecular genetic analyses in western Eurasiatic taxa and evaluated palaeontological evidence. To place our findings from western Eurasiatic populations in a broader context additional East Asiatic and North American species of the same subgenus Fagus as well as two species of the subgenus Engleriana were included in our study. The morphological features exhibited in western Eurasiatic populations of Fagus show a west-east gradient that is characterised by strongly overlapping variability between geographical races. Fagus populations from Asia Minor exhibit an even higher variability that is also reflected in their genetic variability of nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences. The intraspecific genetic variability recorded here is in conflict with previous ITS studies in Fagus. The high amount of ITS polymorphism within Fagus from western Eurasia along with the clinal variation observed for morphological characters suggest the presence of only a single species, Fagus sylvatica L., in Europe and Asia Minor. Previously recognised taxa such as F. orientalis Lipsky and Fagus moesiaca (Mal) Czeczott should therefore be treated as synonyms of Fagus sylvatica. Although species belonging to the subgenus Engleriana were genetically distinct from species of the subgenus Fagus, relationships within the subgenus Fagus could not be clearly resolved. A reason for this could be the low rate of diversification in Fagus during the early phase of range expansion of the genus in the Oligocene period as indicated by the uniformity of leaf and cupule/nut fossils. This may account for the low overall ITS divergence and the high degree of polymorphism encountered in the subgenus Fagus and points to a late differentiation of western Eurasiatic and eastern Asiatic species. Area disruptions during the Pleistocene and the post-glacial recolonisation of western Europe appear to have caused the west-east gradient that is apparent in modern Fagus of western Eurasia but absent in Late Tertiary ancestors of Fagus sylvatica.
23644269|Appearance and location of 45S rDNA and 5S rDNA signals were compared in chromosomes of nine species of the aneuploid Zamia and their taxonomically and phylogenetically closely related Ceratozamia mexicana. The 45S rDNA signal was detected in the proximal region of six chromosomes in Zamia angustifolia, Z. integrifolia, Z. pumila and Z. pygmaea (all 2n = 16); in the proximal region of 614 chromosomes in Z. furfuracea, Z. loddigesii, Z. skinneri and Z. vazquezii (all 2n = 18); and on the proximal region of 20 chromosomes in Z. muricata (2n = 23). The 5S rDNA signals were commonly seen near the terminal region of the short arm of two metacentric chromosomes in the four species with 2n = 16 and Z. furfuracea, Z. loddigesii and Z. vazquezii with 2n = 18. Other 5S rDNA signals were seen near the terminal region of two terminal-centromeric chromosomes in Z. skinneri and near the terminal region of a metacentric and a telocentric chromosomes in Z. muricata. In contrast, those with 45S and 5S rDNA signals were exhibited in chromosomes of Ceratozamia mexicana in a different manner from those in the nine species of Zamia; the 45S rDNA signal in the terminal region of four metacentric and two submetacentric chromosomes and the 5S rDNA signal near the proximal region of two metacentric chromosomes.
23673685|In a primary forest on the Central Plateau of Madagascar Plectranthus vestitus (Lamiaceae) was principally pollinated by the bee Pachymelus limbatus (Hymenoptera, Anthophoridae). A species of Stylogaster (Diptera, Conopidae) acted as a co-pollinator. Flower  pollinator interactions are described. The bee performed pollination while hovering, a flower-visit lasting only c. 0.3 seconds. Floral features such as shape and size of the corolla tube, and the lack of a landing place suggest specialization to hovering anthophorid bee-pollinators. Floral biology and pollination in the genus Plectranthus are discussed.
23643102|The genetic origin of kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa var. deliciosa) was studied using phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences derived from the polygalacturonase gene. Results indicate that hexaploid kiwifruit had an allopolyploid origin with the diploid A. chinensis contributing one genome (genome A) and another (as yet unidentified) diploid species contributing a second genome (genome B). The results leave open the question of whether a third, distinct species contributed to the hexaploid kiwifruit genome. A tetraploid race of A. chinensis is also suggested to be allopolyploid containing genomes A and B.
23672625|Self and outcross pollination treatments were applied to Neolloydia intertexta. Two distinct patterns of seed production were found, and are correlated with self-pollinated outcrossed treatments. The outcrossed result resembles the field exposed crop. The untouched controls produce a similar pattern to the actively selfed group. The self treatments produce substantially less seed than the outcrosses; thus, self-compatability is incomplete.
23655624|We present the first parsimony analyses of the Neotropical family Quiinaceae using nucleotide sequence data from the non-coding trnL intron and trnL-trnF intergenic spacer of the plastid genome, analysed separately as well as in combination with morphology. Both molecules and combined data recover Quiinaceae as a well-supported monophyletic group. Quiinaceae form a polytomy together with their potential sister groups, the monophyletic Ochnaceae s.str. and the monotypic Medusagynaceae from the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean. Froesia is resolved as sister to the rest of the family. Other members of the family, Lacunaria, Quiina, and Touroulia, are all recovered as monophyletic despite the inclusion of strikingly distinctive representatives (L. oppositifolia and Q. pteridophylla). Relationships among the last three genera, however, are yet uncertain. Optimising characters of breeding system onto the molecular phylogeny reveals that bisexual flowers (Froesia) are the ancestral state in Quiinaceae, whereas androdioecy (Quiina, Touroulia) and dioecy (Lacunaria) are derived breeding systems.
23662392|This study presents observations on the anatomical, palynological and ecological features of Tulipa gumusanica Terziolu and its morphologically similar relative, T. armena Boiss. var. armena, in order to clarify their similarities and differences. We found that these taxa have some important differences with regard to anatomical, palynological and ecological features, as well as morphological traits. General anatomical traits of both examined taxa are similar, both having isolateral leaves with distinct hypodermis and a stem with distinct monolayer collenchyma close to the epidermis. However, some anatomical characters such as mesophyll width, average number of stomata on lower epidermis, and epidermal cells on upper epidermis are found to be important in delimiting these taxa. In addition, considerable differences have been observed in pollen shape and size. The species differ ecologically in that T. gumusanica prefers slightly acidic soil with low organic content in the woodland, whereas T. armena var. armena prefers slightly alkali soil with high organic content in steppe vegetation.
23673195|Nectar and floral odor are frequently associated with the presence and maintenance of specialized pollination systems in Orchidaceae. We studied flowers of four Acianthera species, a genus of myophilous orchids belonging to the largest fly-pollinated orchid group Pleurothallidinae, in order to characterize the secretory structures related to their pollination mechanism. Flowers at anthesis were sampled to detect volatile compounds and nectar; samples were fixed for light microscopy and scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The labellum presents epidermal cells and the first mesophyll layer involved with secretory processes. Cellular characteristics of these regions associated with the occurrence of sugars allowed us to recognize them as nectaries. Some portions of the sepals also shown to be involved with secretory processes and the presence of nitrogenated volatile compounds characterize them as osmophores. The production of nectar in these species makes the occurrence of sapromyophily questionable, even though these flowers present characteristics of this floral syndrome. The presence of osmophores on the sepals reinforces that this localization is common among the Pleurothallidinae, whilst they occur in a different region (labelum) in the other major fly-pollinated orchid group (Bulbophyllum).
23643012|The assembly of Mediterranean pines in the sense of Mirov is inhomogeneous in respect to morphological, geographical and evolutionary affinities. Considering new or neglected characters (vegetative and particularly reproductive, cone scales, apophyses, mucros, seeds: Figs. 1  3) in extant populations and fossils, three groups are recognized. The group of coast and island pines extends from the Canary islands to the Himalaya region and is closely related to Caribbean and C. American taxa. This complex evidently has originated from haploxyl ancestors of sect. Parrya during the Mesozoic (Upper Jurassic/Lower Cretaceous) in the NW. Tethys area (Fig. 13). P. rzedowskii can be regarded as an extant survivor of this first phase of differentiation. The extremely variable P. canariensis (together with P. roxburghii in sect. Sula) marks a transitional phase towards the more advanced diploxyl species of sect. Pinea (with P. pinea, P. halepensis & P. brutia, and subsect. Oocarpae) and sect. Pinaster (with P. pinaster, etc.) (Figs. 4  12).  The second group consists of diploxyl mountain pines from the areas surrounding the Mediterranean. They are classified as members of the Eurasiatic sect. Pinus subsect. Sylvestres, have differentiated along the northern Parathetys area, and exhibit close links with E. Asiatic taxa. The third group includes the haploxyl mountain pines P. cembra and P. peuce which can be regarded as western outposts of the circumpacific centred sect. Strobus with a pre-Tertiary origin.  As an appendix, an improved classification scheme is presented for the pine groups discussed.
23655721|Veratrum (Melanthiaceae) comprises ca. 27 species with highly variable morphology. This study aims to construct the molecular phylogeny of this genus to infer its floral evolution and historical biogeography, which have not been examined in detail before. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analyses were performed on the separate and combined ITS, trnL-F, and atpB-rbcL sequences to reconstruct the phylogenetic tree of the genus. All Veratrum taxa formed a monophyletic group, within which two distinct clades were distinguished: species with white-to-green perianth formed one highly supported clade, and the species with black-purple perianth constituted another highly supported clade. Phylogenetic inference on flower color evolution suggested that white-to-green perianth was a plesiomorphic state and black-purple perianth was apomorphic for Veratrum. When species distribution areas were traced as a multi-state character, parsimonious optimization inferred that Veratrum possibly originated in East Asia. Our study confirmed previous phylogenetic and taxonomic suggestions on this genus and provided a typical example of plant radiation across the Northern Hemisphere.
23642463|The seed proteins of Trigonella foenum-graecum, T. berythaea, T. macrorrhyncha and T. gladiata were fractionated on polyacrylamide gels in anodic and cathodic systems. Similarity indices between the profiles of any two species indicated close affinity between T. gladiata and T. macrorrhyncha and between T. foenum-graecum and T. berythaea. It has been pointed out that according to morphological resemblance and similarity index of the seed protein profile T. berythaea is closer to the cultigen than any other species of section Foenum-graecum, but these two species are strongly isolated from one another by the albino seedlings of their F1 hybrids.
23660108|Litsea szemaois (Lauraceae) is an endemic and endangered species from the tropical rain forests of Xishuangbanna, southern Yunnan, SW China, but habitat fragmentation, especially exacerbated by rubber planting, has caused a decline in population size of the species. AFLP and ISSR were used to investigate the genetic diversity and population structure of eight populations from across its known distribution. Three AFLP and ten ISSR primer combinations produced a total of 203 and 77 unambiguous and repeatable bands respectively, of which 164 (80.8%) and 67 (87.0%) were polymorphic for the two markers. These two markers showed that Litsea szemaois exhibits comparatively high genetic diversity at species level (heterozygosity (hs) = 0.2109) relative to some other Lauraceae. Most of the genetic variation was partitioned within populations, but genetic differentiation between populations was significant and relatively high (st = 0.2420, B = 0.1986) compared with other tropical plants. The genetic characteristics of L. szemaois may be related to its outbreeding system, insect pollination and fragmented distribution. Because L. szemaois is dioecious and slow to mature, ex situ conservation across its genetic diversity is unlikely to succeed, although seedlings grow well under cultivation. Thus, in situ conservation is very important for this endangered species, especially as only 133 adult individuals are known in the wild. In particular, the Nabanhe and Mandian populations should be given a high conservation priority due to their higher genetic diversity, larger population size and better field condition, but wider sampling is required across all populations to determine additional areas with significant genetic conservation value.
23643113|At maturity, spermatozoids of the green alga Chara vulgaris are biflagellated, contain little cytoplasm, and coil for approximately 2 gyres within the mother cell wall. The anterior of the cell contains an ovoid headpiece anchoring two slightly staggered basal bodies that are positioned above and directly in front of approximately 30 linearly arranged mitochondria. An elongated stellate pattern occupies the transition zone between the BBs and axonemes. Flagella emerge from the cell just in front of the nucleus and encircle the full length of the spermatozoid. The spline comprises a maximum of 38 microtubules surrounding the anterior mitochondria and gradually decreases posteriorly to a minimum of 11. The dense nucleus is narrow, cylindrical, and occupies the central revolution of the cell. Six starch-laden plastids and associated mitochondria are linearly arranged at the cell posterior. Phylogenetic analyses of charalean taxa and archegoniates based on spermatogenesis strongly support the order Charales, with Nitella as the sister group to Chara. Diagnostic features of Chara spermatozoids include absence of a lamellar strip and axonemes embedded in the cell for almost the entire length of the anterior mitochondria. Potential relationships among Charales, Coleochaetales and archegoniates are evaluated in regards to the probable course of evolution of streamlined biflagellated gametes.
23655169|Flexistyly is a unique floral mechanism involving extreme curving of the style. It was first described in Chinese ginger (Amomum, Zingiberaceae). This is a pioneer report on flexistylous gingers of Malesia, where most species of this family grow. We observed the floral behaviour and flower visitors in Alpinia nieuwenhuizii Val., a Bornean endemic. Although the floral behaviour and effective pollinators (carpenter bees, Xylocopa) were similar between the Bornean species and the previously reported flexistylous Alpinia, the pollinator behaviour between them strikingly differed with regard to the visit frequency of the pollinators showing a bimodal pattern during the day. This was a better match for the floral behaviour of the flexistylous Alpinia. Some gender differentiation observed between the two types of morphs is also discussed in the present study.
43558303|The structure of perigonal nectaries, nectar production and carbohydrate composition were compared at various stages in the lifespan of the flower of Fritillaria meleagris L. The six nectaries each occupied a groove that is located 2-4 mm above the tepal base. The average nectary measured 11.0 mm long and 1.0-1.2 mm wide. The structure of nectaries situated on both inner and outer tepal whorls was identical, and at anthesis they were equally accessible to potential pollinators. However, secretion from nectaries associated with inner tepals tended to exceed that produced by nectaries located on the outer tepals. On average, regardless of flower stage, one flower secreted 10.87  12.98 mg of nectar (mean and SD; N = 182). The nectar concentration ranged between 3 and 75%, with average concentration of sugars exceeding 50%. Both nectar production and concentration were dependent on the stage of anthesis, with the highest scores being recorded during full anthesis (21.75  16.08 mg; 70.5%, mass and concentration, respectively) and the lowest at the end of anthesis (1.32  2.69 mg; 16.9%, mass and concentration, respectively). A decline in both mass of nectar secreted and nectar concentration during the final stage of anthesis indicates nectar rsorption. Nectar was composed of sucrose, glucose and fructose in approx. equal quantities, and its composition did not change significantly during subsequent stages of flowering. The nectaries comprised a single-layered secretory epidermis and several layers of subepidermal parenchyma. The nectariferous cells did not accumulate starch during any of the investigated stages. The nectary was supplied with one large and several smaller vascular bundles comprising xylem and phloem. Transport of assimilates and nectar secretion by protoplasts of secretory cells (and probably also nectar resorption) were facilitated by cell wall ingrowths present on the tangential walls of epidermal cells and subepidermal parenchyma. Epidermal cells lacked stornata. Nectar passed across the cell wall and through the cuticle which was clearly perforated with pores.
23674088|A long-term suspension culture of Brachycome dichromosomatica (2n = 4) was induced from a cotyledon-derived callus. Subcultures were obtained every week up to three years. The bulk of the cultures displayed a stable diploid karyotype, while one cell line evolved with 2n = 5 chromosomes in the 86th reinoculation. No further chromosomal change occurred also in that cell line. It is assumed that the fifth chromosome is the expression of a trisomy 2. The chromatin ultrastructure was of the species-specific chromomeric type in the wild-type line, while the trisomic line displayed more condensed chromatin, what probably indicates a rather inactive state of the extra-chromosome. Brachycome dichromosomatica is suggested to represent an ideal species to follow-up karyotype stability and/or variation in cell culture.
23643776|Recent studies of germination in natural habitats, of genetic variation within populations and of the relative proportion of vegetative and sexual reproduction in the clonal plant species Anemone nemorosa suggest that sexual recruitment by seeds from outcrossed flowers is important for the maintenance of this species' populations. Because published reports on its breeding system are controversial, pollination experiments were performed in five natural populations of A. nemorosa. Differences in ovule number per flower were recorded among populations, but they were not related to obvious habitat differences. Seed/ovule-ratios were significantly higher after open pollination and artificial crossing than after either artificial or spontaneous selfing. Populations had no effect on seed/ovule-ratios. Different breeding indices indicated that A. nemorosa is mainly self-incompatible. Nevertheless, some seed set also occurred after selfing, and both artificial and spontaneous selfing exhibited higher variation in seed/ovule-ratios than open pollination and artificial crossing. Continuous variation in seed/ovule-ratios after selfing suggested that the expression and effectiveness of the self-incompatibility system of A. nemorosa is influenced by both genetic variation and phenotypic plasticity.
23642977|Based on SEM examinations of some 1600 species of monocotyledons out of 61 families the characteristics of their epicuticular waxes are described in this preliminary paper and illustrated by 20 SEM micrographs. Four basic types of waxes are recognized. Two of them occur throughout the monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous orders of angiosperms; two others are of high systematic significance and restricted to particular orders of the monocotyledons: The "Convallaria-Type" is characterized by fine wax platelets with parallel orientation, forming a pattern around the stomata reminiscent of electromagnetic field lines. This type is restricted to the three liliiflorous orders Asparagales, Liliales, and Burmanniales. The "Strelitzia-Type" is characterized by massive compound wax rodlets; it is restricted to the superorders Areciflorae, Commeliniflorae, Zingiberiflorae, plus the two liliiflorous orders Bromeliales and Velloziales. The data are compared with the classifications of Dahlgren & Clifford (1982); they tentatively indicate the exclusion of Bromeliales, Velloziales, and Typhales from the Liliiflorae. Die Epicuticular-Wachse der Monokotylen werden basierend auf REM-Untersuchungen an etwa 1600 Arten aus 61 Familien in dieser vorlufigen Mitteilung beschrieben und durch 20 REM-Abbildungen illustriert. Die Wachse lassen sich in vier Haupttypen gliedern. (1) Durchgehende Wachsschichten und (2) einzelne Wachs-Kristalloide ohne Orientierungsmuster; beide Typen sind bei Mono- und Dikotylen weit verbreitet. Der (3) Convallaria-Typ ist durch feldlinienfrmige Orientierungsmuster von Schuppenkristalloiden in parallelen Reihen gekennzeichnet und innerhalb der Angiospermen auf die drei Liliifloren-Ordnungen Asparagales, Liliales und Burmanniales beschrnkt. Der (4) Strelitzia-Typ ist durch massive miteinander verwachsene Wachsstbchen charakterisiert und innerhalb der Angiospermen auf die Areciflorae, Commeliniflorae, Zingiberiflorae sowie die beiden Liliifloren-Ordnungen Bromeliales und Velloziales beschrnkt. Die neuen Daten werden im Zusammenhang mit dem System von Dahlgren & Clifford (1982) diskutiert; sie legen einen Verbleib der Bromeliales, Velloziales sowie Typhales bei den Nicht-Liliifloren nahe. Fr Einsicht in unverffentlichte Manuskripte und die Erlaubnis, das Klassifikationsschema in Abb. 21 zu bernehmen, sind wir Professor Dr. R. Dahlgren (Kopenhagen) zu groem Dank verpflichtet. Wertvolles Material wurde vom Botanischen Garten und Museum Berlin-Dahlem sowie von Professor Dr. W. Rauh (Heidelberg) zur Verfgung gestellt. Die Untersuchungen wurden im Rahmen eines von der Deutschen Forschungsgemeinschaft untersttzten Programmes durchgefhrt.
23642882|Halimodendron halodendron is a spiny shrub of north-western Asia. The spines are formed by the rachises of the paripinnate leaves. After abscission of pinnae the rigid rachises remain for several years. In culture these rachis spines do not develop fully. Halimodendron halodendron (Pall.) Voss., eine strauchige Fabacee Nordwestasiens entwickelt am natrlichen Standort aus ihren paripinnaten Fiederblttern steife Rhachisdornen. Unter den Kulturbedingungen des Mainzer Botanischen Gartens finden sich dagegen nur noch flexible, hufig ein wenig aufgekrmmte Dornen mit mig verhrteten Spindeln, die in eine abgesetzte und strker verhrtete Stachelspitze auslaufen.
43496755|Almond and its related wild species, which are widely distributed in Central and West Asia, have high genetic variation. This is an important source of genetic diversity for crop improvement. In this study a set of 32 SSR and 12 EST-SSR primer pairs were used to determine genetic diversity in 89 accessions of almond and other Prunus species. Most of the accessions (68) were collected from natural habitats of Iran. SSR primers amplified higher numbers of aleles than EST-SSR markers and discriminated genotypes more effectively. Results indicated high diversity among accessions. Observed heterozygosity (Ho) was 0.581. Nei's index of diversity (He) and average number of aleles per locus (na) were 0.885 and 34, respectively. The mean value of polymorphism information content (PIC) was 0.874. The average Fst (F-statistics index) was 0.271 and the fixation index (Fis) was 0.151. Estimated variance among putative populations (AP) and individuals (AI) and within individuals (WI) were 5, 35, and 60%, respectively, which revealed that most of the variation was distributed among individuals rather than groups. Cultivated almonds were highly similar to P. fenzeliana, which is native to West Asia, supporting the importance of these regions in almond domestication. In the dendrogram of groups, minimum genetic distance was observed between Amygdalus and Orientalis groups from the Euamygdalus section. The Leptopus and Chameamygdalus sections were more distant from almonds than plums. The results also showed Dodecandra (Lycioides) series should be taxonomically classified closer to the section Euamygdalus.
23674711|Meiosis and the meiotic spindle pole body cycle were studied electron microscopically in basidia of the heterobasidiomycete Pachnocybe ferruginea. Spindle pole body splitting in prometaphase I and II, and intermeiotic and postmeiotic duplication were investigated in particular detail. During prophase, the spindle pole body consists of two three-layered discs connected by a middle piece. At late prophase I and again in prometaphase II, the discs contact the nuclear envelope. Then, the nuclear membrane at the contact area is separated from the non-contacted part of the nuclear envelope and finally disappears. Each disc nests into the nuclear opening of the otherwise intact nuclear envelope. The disc remains in the gap and generates a half spindle. At late metaphase I, a co-disc develops eccentrically within the parent disc. The co-disc detaches from the parent disc during interphase I and becomes one of the metaphase II spindle pole bodies. Co-discs are absent during the second division. A cap of endoplasmic reticulum encloses each disc during prophase I through anaphase I. In the second meiotic division, the caps covering the spindle pole bodies of one nucleus of the pair, are developed from the neighbouring nucleus. Spindle pole bodies of P. ferruginea are similar to those of the rusts, and especially to those of Eocronartium muscicola and Helicobasidium mompa.
23671743|The secondary lichen products of 31 specimens of the Rhizocarpon superficiale group are examined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). At 260 nm 13 different compounds have been detected. 6 of them are well-known lichen acids which occur in nearly all the species; but proportions are different and constant for each species. An analytical key is added. Die untersuchten Arten zeichnen sich durch folgende Sekundrstoffverteilung aus: Rh. norvegicum enthlt einheitlich wenig Psoromsure, jedoch Stictinsure in groer Menge und im Gegensatz zu bisherigen Angaben keine Barbatsure. Psoromsure ist der Hauptinhaltsstoff sowohl von Rh. pusillum, das auerdem wie sein Wirt Sporastatia testudinea Gyrophorsure besitzt, als auch von Rh. effiguratum, das fakultativ auf Acarospora oxytona parasitiert. Rh. superficiale zeichnet sich durch das umfangreichste Inhaltsstoffspektrum aus; in bereinstimmung mit Runemark (1956) konnten zwei Rassen mit entweder Norstictinsure oder Stictinsure als Hauptkomponente unterschieden werden, darber hinaus wurde ein intermedirer Typ festgestellt. Unter den untersuchten Proben befanden sich auch einige Neufunde, z. B. Rh. norvegicum fr Kenia, Rh. superficiale fr Peru und Rh. pusillum fr Sdamerika.
23643230|Adonis sect. Consiligo is split into three subsections based on morphology, growth pattern, pollen and fruit morphology. For all species distribution maps are provided and discussed with regard to their ecology and climatic requirements. These data reveal additional characters that support the classification of the taxa. Most species of the section grow in continental Eurasiatic steppes and mountain steppe habitats. Only the species of subsect. Amurenses grow in Far Eastern temperate forests and prefer a more oceanic climate. The taxonomic position of these strongly divergent species is supported by the distributional and ecological data. The evolution of Adonis sect. Consiligo occurred under strong climatic control. During evolution the taxa could only slightly widen their ecological amplitude and, thus, ecology remained rather stable except that of the subsect. Amurenses. Ecological and distributional data can be used to validate taxonomy and phylogeny and reveal additional informations.
43558392|The evolutionary genetics of invasive species has been relatively unexplored. Hybridization of invasive populations can generate novel genotypes, stimulating the colonization of new environments. A sunflower complex occurring in Mexico formed by two native invasive species, Tithonia tubaeformis and T. rotundifolia was analyzed with molecular markers (RAPDs) in five hybrid zones and two pure sites for each parental species. We tested if morphological atypical individuals between T. tubaeformis and T. rotundifolia that occur in sympatry are the result of hybridization between these two species, in which case genetic diversity in mixed stands would be higher in comparison with pure parental stands. Total DNA of 230 individuals was analyzed with 17 diagnostic markers and six species-specific markers. Molecular data support the hypothesis of hybridization and a bidirectional pattern of gene flow in this complex. Cluster analysis suggests that individuals from the same parental species were more similar among themselves than to putative hybrids, indicating occasional hybridization with segregation in hybrid types or backcrossing to parents. Hybrid populations had the highest levels of genetic diversity in comparison with nonmixed/allopatric populations of their putative parentals. We suggest that hybridization between invasive species may result in the creation of genotypes with an increased capacity for colonization of new habitats. Moreover, invasive species with incipient reproductive barriers may overlap with species of narrow distribution range and increase their possible hybridization rates.
23642733|Flavonoid patterns of several provenances of Veronica triloba, V. sublobata, and V. hederifolia s. str. have been investigated. 7-0-glucuronides of apigenin and luteolin as well as of 6-substituted (6-hydroxyluteolin and hispidulin) and 3-methylated (chrysoeriol) derivatives represent characteristic accumulation tendencies in the V. hederifolia group. The three species show slightly different flavonoid profiles. V. hederifolia exhibits a cumulative pattern of all compounds occurring either in V. triloba or V. sublobata, thus supporting the hypothesis of an allopolyploid origin of V. hederifolia.
43558064|Allozyme diversity and population genetic structure studies were conducted in populations of two Mexican cycad species occurring in adjacent and closely related biogeographic regions. We evaluated if rarity traits in Dioon caputoi, a micro-endemic species, and Dioon merolae, a regional endemic with a wider distribution, influence levels of genetic diversity in different ways. We also explored if genetic structure differs in these species, considering that they have similar population histories. Our results indicate that D. caputoi harbors lower levels of genetic diversity and allelic richness (HE = 0.358, P = 76.9, Ar = 1.86) than D. merolae (HE = 0.446, P = 92.3, Ar = 2). However, genetic structure does not differ between the two species despite their contrasting geographic distributions (FST = 0.06 vs. 0.07; D. caputoi and D. merolae, respectively). The comparison of population genetic structure information with historical and geographical aspects of the populations suggests that the rarity of D. caputoi might be due to relatively recent local ecological factors.
23674046|Two closely related species of Capparis, C. ovata and C. spinosa, which are exposed to the same pollination environment were studied. The nectar volume and concentration of C. ovata are higher than in C. spinosa. Both species have similar pollination efficiency, but the relative contribution of each pollinator is different. C. ovata is pollinated mainly hy hawkmoths while the principal pollinators in C. spinosa are bees.
23643228|Controlled pollinations and observations of pollen tube growth, pollen fertility and cytological data were studied in 11 species of Melastomataceae growing in "cerrado" in SE Brazil. Seven species produced apomictic fruits with viable seeds. Four species were not apomictic, with two self-incompatible (gametophytic SI) and two self-compatible, one showing spontaneous self-pollination. The apomictic species had lower pollen fertility than sexual ones  although in some cases differences were not significant  showing that low pollen fertility may be a useful indicator of apomixis if analysed using careful sampling supplemented by emasculation experiments. The apomictic species also showed meiotic irregularities, probably related to hybridization, polyploidy and the cause of low pollen fertility. Apomixis in this group probably is more associated with taxonomy and phylogeny than habitat or habit, since 85% of the apomictic species reported in the literature belong to the tribe Miconieae and occur in a wide range of vegetation types and have diverse habits. This suggests the existence of very extensive apomictic complexes comparable to those reported in mainly temperate genera of Asteraceae and Rosaceae.
23671558|Various species of Taxodiaceae were selected for chromosome studies to indicate cytotaxonomic and phylogenetic relationships. Point dispersal patterns of diagrammatic presentations of the species' karyotypes, rather than marker chromosomes, were found to be the most significant cytotaxonomic characteristic in indicating phylogenetic relationships. Karyotypic evolution in Taxodiaceae appears to occur by unequal reciprocal translocations followed by pericentric and paracentric inversions. Cytotaxonomic relationships among species generally correspond to the phylogenetic relationships within Taxodiaceae indicated by classical taxonomic classification. Presence and types of marker chromosomes may have the potential to indicate relationships between different coniferous families.
23673763|Seed samples were collected from wild populations of Capsella bursa-pastoris along a transsect from Northern to Southern Europe. Progeny was grown in (a) open-field random block experiments (47 populations) and (b) in growth chambers under five to seven controlled temperature regimes (18 populations). Beginning of flowering was recorded, and great differences between and also within populations are documented. Some populations are extremely heterogenous whereas others are homogenous in this respect. Some biotypes react positively when exposed to lower temperatures, others are inhibited. In many cases specific effects of day- and/or night-temperatures can be inferred. In some progenies begin of flowering is independent of temperature as long as this exceeds the 5:10 C regimen. Altogether, Capsella bursa-pastoris displays definite intraspecific variation in time required until flowering. Adaptations to local ecological conditions are obvious. In addition to a genotypic component pronounced environmental interactions provide the plants with a component of phenotypic plasticity. The degree of modificability apparently varies itself and seems to be controlled by selection; the phenotypic plasticity, therefore, displays adaptive variation patterns, too.
23642163|Galium suberosum Sibth. et Sm. belongs to Asperula sect. Thliphthisa; the taxonomic transfer and a new name are therefore necessary: Asperula cypria Ehrend. is endemic on the isle of Cyprus. Its closest affinities are with A. antalyensis Ehrend. in S.W. Anatolia.
23643940|Adenocaulon and Eriachaenium are two problematic genera because their tribal and subfamilial placement in Asteraceae is uncertain. Previous cladistic analyses based on molecular data undertaken to analyze the relationships within Asteraceae, place Adenocaulon in the tribe Mutisieae (Cichorioideae). This paper investigates cladistic relationships among Adenocaulon and Eriachaenium and tribes of subfamilies Cichorioideae and Asteroideae using morphological data. Thirty-eight characters were scored across 52 genera selected as exemplar taxa to represent the current classification system. In the analysis (one tree, length = 86, c.i. = 0.55, r.i. = 0.64) Adenocaulon and Eriachaenium are sister taxa and appear as an isolated clade nested in Cichorioideae. A new, tentative position among the tribes of the paraphyletic Cichorioideae is proposed for these two isolated genera.
23674609|The myiophilous pollination syndrome of stapeliads is investigated. Olfactory stimuli, imitating dung or decaying organic (zoogenic or phytogenic) matter, are used as attractants, together with mimetic colouration and, sometimes mimetic sculpturing. In most species nectar is present. The nectar mainly serves as optical attractant causing brilliance effects, and as visitor guide. However, nectar obviously is also a reward in many species. Flies (Cyclorrhapha: Calyptratae) constitute the most important pollinating group. In the pollination process they carry pollinaria only at the distal parts of their proboscis, never on their legs. No fundamental differences between the pollinator spectra of flowers in habitat and cultivated ones were observed.
23674506|The genetic variation of seven enzymes for a total of nine loci was investigated in three species of terrestrial orchids of the genus Cephalanthera: C. longifolia, C. rubra, and C. damasonium. These species are characterized by presenting different breeding types: outbreeding, outbreeding with facultative vegetative reproduction, and inbreeding, respectively. Electrophoretic evidence points to a difference in the behaviour of each of the three species which seems strictly related to the breeding type. On the basis of our results C. longifolia behaves as a normal outbreeder, while C. rubra presents the influence of vegetative reproduction in some populations and not in others. C. damasonium shows a total lack of both among and within populations genetic variation, which is most probably due to the autogamic breeding type.
23644328|The literature is reviewed and new evidence presented that pollen produces odors, which serve multiple functions in pollination and defense. Pollen odor, which originates from pollenkitt, comprises volatiles that belong to the same chemical classes found in flower scents, that are in species-specific mixtures, and that contrast with odors of other floral parts. Pollen can also take up volatiles from surrounding floral odors, but this adsorption is selective and varies among species. Pollen odors are more pronounced in insect- than bird- or wind-pollinated plants, suggesting that volatile emission evolved in part under selection to attract pollinators. Pollen-feeding insects can perceive pollen odor and use it to discriminate between different pollen types and host plants. Pollen odor influences bee foraging, including the location of pollen sources, discrimination of flowers with different amounts of pollen, and hostplant recognition by pollen-specialist species. In the few wind-pollinated plants studied, odors of male flowers or pollen are comparatively high in -methyl alcohols and ketones; these volatiles may serve in pollen defense, with some known to repel insects. Pollen odor often includes chemicals with documented defense activity, which is probably aimed mainly at nonpollinator pollen-feeding insects and pathogens; an involvement in pollen allelopathy is also possible. Pollen volatiles comprise chemically diverse compounds that may play multiple roles, and their emission in pollen odor undoubtedly evolved under the principle, and often conflicting, selective pressures to both protect the male gametophyte and increase its dispersal by animals.
23673247|Representatives of the genus Ancistrocladus, woody lianas of tropical Africa and Asia, contain pharmaceutically interesting alkaloids and have been the subjects of intensive phytochemical investigations. In Southeast Asia, Ancistrocladus tectorius, previously regarded as the only species of the genus from this region, is extremely polymorphic with respect to naphthylisoquinoline alkaloids, indicating that this taxon might be comprised of several morphologically similar species. We performed a comparative study of the ITS region of nuclear rDNA and of the trnK intron of cpDNA as well as an ISSR fingerprint analysis. Using 75 samples of A. tectorius from 21 locations in comparison to samples of other Ancistrocladus species from Asia and from West and Central Africa, we investigated patterns of species differentiation within this taxon. We found the high variability of chemical compounds described for A. tectorius to be paralleled by a high genetic variability of the units that have been assigned to this taxon. Samples assigned to A. tectorius were paraphyletic with respect to species from the Indian subcontinent, and intraspecific variability was comparable to interspecific variability among the African taxa. In addition, groups of individuals occurring in sympatry were found to be more similar to those from other locations, suggesting low levels of gene flow between those sympatric groups. This indicates either a considerable number of hybridization events during the evolution of A. tectorius or the existence of several distinguishable species not yet recognized. Our results are a first step in the development of species or population-specific markers for the prediction of the alkaloid spectrum of samples. This will help to improve the reproducibility of phytochemical research on Ancistrocladus.
23655569|The 2C DNA values in 38 species and accessions of the genus Lupinus (Fabaceae) from the New World have been analysed using flow cytometry. They are representatives of North and South American species (the Atlantic and the Andean regions). Estimated 2C DNA values ranged from 1.08 pg in L. pusillus to 2.68 pg in L. albicaulis (both from North America), that is a variation of more than 2.5-fold. The variation for North American lupins was much higher than that for South American ones. Statistical analysis of the data resulted in a grouping that showed for North American lupins some correlation with the length of life cycle. Discussion concerns some aspects of the evolution of the genus.
23669415|Heterostyly functions as an outcrossing mechanism facilitating accurate pollen transfer from anthers to stigmas of particular heights as a result of the behavior of specialist pollinators. However, heterostylous plants are also visited by generalist pollinators, which may affect the plantpollinator mutualism. Eichhornia crassipes is a tristylous invasive species, with only the mid- and long-styled morphs (M and L) found in China. We recorded flower-visiting insects in Zhuhai, Zhongshan and Nanning in South China. We hand-pollinated the two morphs to determine their compatibility. In addition, by allowing controlled insect pollination in artificial isoplethically monomorphic and bimorphic populations, we undertook a detailed analysis of pollen deposition between the floral morphs, and fruit and seed set. Ranked by relative abundance, the flower-visiting insects were: Apis mellifera, A. cerana, Lasioglossum sp. and Eristalis arvorum. Hand pollination showed that both the M and L morphs were self-compatible, but the former was probably more so than the latter. Intra-morph pollen transfer by A. mellifera within a population was significantly greater than legitimate pollen transfer between populations, suggesting that the pollen exchange between populations was limited. Seed set of the L morph was significantly greater than that of the M morph in monomorphic populations, indicating intra-morph pollen deposition in the former was higher than in the latter. The results showed that A. mellifera was the major pollinator in South China and able to pollinate E. crassipes legitimately and to promote its fruit and seed set, even though high levels of intra-morph pollination occurred.
23642907|This study highlights the utility and limitations of multivariate procedures for the analysis and taxonomic interpretation of geographic variation within a complex species. Morphological data from herbarium specimens of Persoonia mollis (Proteceae) were analyzed by two ordination procedures, multidimensional scaling (MDS) and canonical varate analysis (CVA). Support for the earlier recognition of nine infraspecific taxa was found. However, plots of canonical varate scores against latitute or longitude across parapatric subspecies boundaries revealed unexpected phenetic homogeneity within subspecies with sharp transitions between subspecies. The geographic variation in morphology within P. mollis can be best described as a mosaic of nine recognisably distinct and internally homogeneous allopatric or parapatric taxa, where neighbouring taxa share surprisingly narrow zones of morphological transition at ecotones. The utility of these procedures was highlighted by the recovery of unexpected patterns of variation. However, questions of rank remain unresolved by phenetic analysis alone.
23643051|The occurrence of eight biflavones belonging to the biluteolin series, the apigenin-luteolin series and the 2,3-dihydro-biluteolin series, and one monomeric flavone with an acid group, was investigated in six taxa of Bartramia with emphasis on sect. Ithyphyllae. The variation of biflavone profiles contributes to the characterization of the Bartramia species studied; substitution patterns signalize relevance also on the sectional level. Based upon the flavonoid composition, Bartramia afro-ithyphylla is suggested to be transferred from sect. Ithyphyllae to sect. Bartramia of the genus Bartramia.
23656644|Chamaecrista sect. Absus subsect. Baseophyllum (LeguminosaeCaesalpinioideae) includes eight species with geographic distribution concentrated in the Cadeia do Espinhao mountain range of the States of Bahia and Minas Gerais, in eastern Brazil. During the taxonomic revision of this group, individuals were encountered with intermediate morphology between three sympatric species. Allozyme and multivariate morphometric analyses were carried out to investigate the occurrence of hybridization between these species in four populations and 14 suspected hybrid individuals between C. confertiformis and C. depauperata and between C. blanchetii and C. confertiformis. The results of both analyses support the occurrence of natural hybridization between them, and that all the individuals with intermediate morphology are probably F1 hybrids. The hybrids are formally described as C.  blanchetiformis and C. patyensis.
43498306|Recent molecular analyses found the Chinese monotypic genus Xanthoceras to be either a sister genus to the rest of a broadly defined Sapindaceae sensu lato (s.l.) including Aceraceae and Hippocastanaceae or the only genus of the Xanthoceraceae. Here we investigate for the first time the embryology of Xanthoceras and compare the embryological data with related taxa to aid in understanding the phylogenetic relationships of this genus. The results indicate that Xanthoceras shares many embryological features with Sapindaceae sensu stricto (s.s.), Aceraceae, and Hippocastanaceae, including a glandular tapetum, simultaneous microsporogenesis, three-colporate pollen grains, a bitegmic and crassinucellate ovule, Polygonum type of embryo sac development, endosperm formation of the nuclear type, and exalbuminous mature seeds. The wide range of similarities in embryological features suggests that Xanthoceras is closely related to other members of Sapindaceae s.l. However, Xanthoceras differs from other Sapindaceae in several morphological characteristics, for instance, five to eight ovules in each locule in Xanthoceras versus one to two ovules in each locule in other Sapindaceae s.l., and five golden horn-like appendages present on both staminate and hermaphrodite flowers of Xanthoceras versus absent on the flowers of other Sapindaceae s.l. We propose that Xanthoceras merits recognition at the subfamily level as Xanthoceroideae, rather than at the family level as Xanthoceraceae. The present study also reveals that late-acting ovarian self-incompatibility (OSI) occurs in X. sorbifolium and that postzygotic OSI contributes to the self-sterility of the species.
23642847|Crocus cartwrightianus and C. cartwrightianus cv. albus pollen have been studied from structural and ultrastructural points of view and the germination assayed in vivo and in vitro. C. cartwrightianus pollen is regularly shaped and sized, has a low percentage of anomalous grains and has a high germination rate in vitro, while C. cartwrightianus cv. albus is less regularly shaped with some variation in size and has a high percentage of anomalous grains and a low germination percentage in vitro. Ultrastructural observations have revealed, in the pollen of both the taxa, the presence of a thin elongated vegetative nucleus and a generative cell surrounded by a thin membrane. However, C. cartwrightianus pollen shows a thicker intine, and C. cartwrightianus cv. albus shows numerous pollen germination anomalies which are in common with C. sativus.
23674845|The Chilean annual, Microseris pygmaea, has differentiated in distinct coastal and inland series of populations after long-distance dispersal from western North America. Two plants from the most diverse biotypes were crossed, a large F2 was raised and analysed for segregation of 30 phenotypic characters. Segregation of molecular markers (47 RAPDs, 1 RFLP, 2 isozymes) was determined in a subpopulation of 45 plants which include all extremes for the phenotypic characters. 32 marker/character cosegregations were significant at the 1% level in t-tests between dominant and homozygous recessive marker genotypes. Considering linkage among markers and pleiotropy of certain marker loci, the number of independent quantitative trait loci (QTLs) is reduced to about 18. Interactions among 2 or 3 QTLs affecting one character have been characterized. The phenotypic differentiation of M. pygmaea during its evolution from a single founder individual begins to be understood at the level of single-gene mutants.
23674646|Morphological and anatomical characters (including pollen morphology) of the genus Rubrivena are described. The phylogenetic relationships of Rubrivena, the putatively related genus Koenigia and the four sections of the genus Persicaria are analyzed by the application of cladistic methods. Persicaria s. str. turns out to be paraphyletic; however, inclusion of Rubrivena produces a clade which is marked by five synapomorphies (e.g., long styles, semitectate reticulate pollen grains and some seed characters). In order to eliminate the paraphyly of Persicaria as well as to avoid nomenclatural changes of all taxa of sect. Cephalophilon, Rubrivena is included in the genus Persicaria. Sect. Rubrivena differs from the other sections in pollen morphology [granulated muri and 6 (7)-zonocolpate aperture system] and inflorescence type (well-branched panicles). In addition, heterostyly is confirmed in Persicaria wallichii, and is reported here also for P. pinetorum. Keys and descriptions are provided for all taxa and a distribution map is given. Two species are illustrated by line drawings. One new variety, Persicaria wallichii var. tomentosa, is described. Five lectotypes are selected.
43558270|The taxonomic position of Panax bipinnatifidus is controversial and problematic. To infer inter- or intraspecific morphological relationship in Panax bipinnatifidus and its alliesP. sikkimensis and P. sokpayensis, we carried out a phenetic study of these taxa, based on thirteen morphological characters (eight quantitative and five qualitative), using univariate and multivariate analysis. The results obtained from the principle component analysis (PCA) and cluster analysis (CA) revealed lack of taxonomic differences between Panax bipinnatifidus and P. sikkimensis, whereas P. sokpayensis showed distinct morphological features. Discriminant analysis (DA) of the quantitative morphological characters also did not reveal any dissimilarity between Panax bipinnatfidus and P. sikkimensis. There were no differences between majority of the morphological characters of Panax bipinnatfidus and P. sikkimensis except for the presence of pinnate leaflets and absence of bracts in the latter. The lack of differences in morphological characters of Panax bipinnatifidus and P. sikkimensis suggest that these two taxa are part of the same species complex. Our field studies show that Panax binnatifidus does not occur as an independent species anywhere in nature, but always shows a congeneric association with P. sikkimensis. In addition, the morphotype of undivided leaflets (P. sikkimensis) is more normal and common than the morphotype of pinnate or bipinnate leaflets (P. bipinnatifidus) in natural populations. Following the principle of priority of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature we conclude that Panax bipinnatifidus is a distinct species, while P. sikkimensis is a synonym of P. bipinnatifidus in Indian Himalaya. Based on the present investigations we propose that Panax bipinnatifidus Seem. should be given recognition and priority for the specific rank as opposed to the views of earlier workers. A taxonomic key of the studied taxa is provided.
23674407|The evolution and taxonomic relationships in the Triticeae are discussed with the view to highlight aspects of this agronomically important group of plants, which may be of interest to molecular biology. Some of these aspects are addressed in more detail in adjoining papers in which specific genomic loci have been examined at the DNA sequence or isozyme level. Aspects discussed include the systematics and geographic distribution of the Triticeae species, isozyme and chromosome pairing studies on some of the species as well as more recent developments in DNA analyses. A survey of the systematics of the Triticeae indicated that the genomic system of Lve is probably the most useful starting point for interpreting molecular data even though the system has many problems from a taxonomic point of view. The geographical distribution of Triticeae species, using both published and unpublished data, suggested that information of this type taken together with the theory of continental drift provides a broad time-span for considering data from DNA sequence studies. The significance, and modes of analyses, of isozyme studies were assessed because they often provide valuable characters in determining relationships between species. The main character underlying Lve's and Dewey's analyses of the Triticeae, namely chromosome pairing, is discussed with particular reference to isozyme studies to show that in some cases, such as species of Hordeum sensu lato, consistent relationships are obtained. Finally, new developments in understanding chromosome structure are considered in relation to the above variables in the taxonomy and evolution of the Triticeae.
23671526|Quinolizidine alkaloids deter the feeding of herbivores (mammals, insects, molluscs), inhibit the growth and the development of bacteria and fungi and inhibit the germination of grass seeds and lettuce. Half-maximal inhibitor concentrations fall in the range between 0.5 and 15 mM (= 0.010.3%). The actual concentrations of lupin alkaloids in the plant are between 5200 mmol/kg, i.e. much higher than the inhibitory concentrations. Since alkaloid-free lupins have a higher incidence of herbivory and disease, we assume that the biological function of lupin alkaloids is chemical defense besides minor roles as nitrogen transport and nitrogen storage compounds.
23642888|Nineteen populations of fifteen species of Gentiana sect. Chondrophyllae from China were observed cytologically. Gentiana alsinoides, G. anisostemon, G. asterocalyx, G. exigua, G. heterostemon, G. intricata, G. praticola, G. pseudoaquatica, G. spathulifolia, and G. subintricata all had the same chromosome number of 2n = 20 (or n = 10), whereas G. piasezkii had 2n = 36, G. squarrosa 2n = 38, G. prattii 2n = 18, G. aristata 2n = 14 (n = 7), and G. heleonastes 2n = 12. All these chromosome numbers are documented here for the first time, except for G. squarrosa, where it is a new number report. The basic numbers of x = 6, x = 7 and x = 19 are new for the section. Karyotype analyses of some species revealed that, except for a few cases, the species examined mainly had metacentric chromosomes. 2n = 20 = 2m(SAT) + 18m was found to be the main type of karyotype for the species with 2n = 20. Chromosomal evolution and its mechanism in this section are also discussed.
23664371|Awareness of the complex structure and evolutionary dynamics of noncoding DNA has improved both noncoding sequence alignment and the use of microstructural changes as characters in phylogenetic analysis. The next step is to consider improvements in the use and selection of phylogenetic models for noncoding sequence data. Models of character evolution are central to phylogeny estimation, but the use of an inadequate model can mislead topology selection and branch length estimations. This is particularly likely when sequence divergence is either limited (nearly invariable, as in population-level or species-level studies) or extreme (nearly saturated, as in deep-level studies that focus on conserved secondary structures). Noncoding data sets are often at these extremes, and they can be particularly awkward for model definition and model selection. This paper introduces the goals of model use in phylogenetics and identifies ten issues that arise from the application of models to noncoding sequence data. It is concluded that most of these issues derive from small data set sizes, very low or very high sequence variability, limitations of current phylogenetic models, and possibly character definition and nonindependence. Recommendations are made that should help to improve alignment, character quality, model selection, and phylogeny estimation based on noncoding sequence data.
23674037|Adventitious roots were observed on 3 wild perennial Glycine species, in short-podded G. clandestina, G. latifolia and most G. tabacina (2 x, 4 x, 6 x), while other species lacked adventitious roots. This suggests that the adventitious roots trait is associated with B genome species. Intra- and interspecific F1 hybrids reveal that adventitious roots apparently are inherited recessively. The presence of adventitious roots on short-podded G. clandestina, coupled with infertility with longer-podded G. clandestina, and enzymatic and leaflet morphology differences between the two G. clandestina subgroups, supports segregation of the short-podded form as a separate taxon.
23664056|Ceropegia includes more than 200 species distributed in the Old World ranging from the Canary Islands to Australia. In India, there are about 50 species described on a morphological basis as belonging to Ceropegia, and most of them are endemic to the Western Ghats. To investigate evolutionary relationships among Indian Ceropegia taxa and their allies, a phylogenetic analysis was conducted to include 31 Indian taxa of Ceropegia and Brachystelma and their congeners from other geographical regions using nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and three noncoding chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) sequences, including intergenic spacers trnT-L and trnL-F, and trnL intron. The Western Ghats Ceropegia species were found to be most closely related to Indian Brachystelma, with the two genera being placed sister to each other in the ITS phylogeny or with the Brachystelma clade nested within one of the two subclades of Indian Ceropegia in the cpDNA phylogeny. In contrast, Ceropegia species from other regions and African Brachystelma all formed separate clades basal to the Indian CeropegiaBrachystelma clade. Thus, it can be concluded that the classical morphology-based delineation of the two genera needs revision to reflect their phylogenetic relationships, which are more in accordance with their geographical origin than with morphology.
23644338|Visitation of orchids by Meliponini (stingless bees) is confirmed only in 13 Melipona, Partamona and Trigona, for Xylobium and Maxillaria, with the addition of Trigona fulviventris visiting Ionopsis. Some bees evinced multiple floral visitation by carrying several stipes and viscidia from pollinaria, thus may cause seed set. None foraged pseudopollen, nor is collection of this substance by bees verified. Meliponine-visited orchids had pollinia in quartets with emplacement on the bee's scutellum, possibly devices for pollinia survival on a social bee passing through its nest. Further, orchids produced no nectar, but bees repeatedly came to flowers. A testable basis for the orchid-meliponine relationship is mimicry of rewarding resources, or bee pheromone mimicry, recently documented for some honey bees. Meliponine pheromone analogs (nerol and 2-heptanol) are here noted for Maxillaria, but lack of foraging with pheromones by Melipona suggests multiple avenues of mimicry by orchids, including alarm pheromone and carrion mimicry.
23674602|A cladistic analysis of molecular data from the chloroplast gene rbcL was used to examine the taxonomic relationships of the walnut family (Juglandaceae). In addition, chemical and morphological data from a previous study by Hufford (1992) were incorporated, expanded, and analyzed independently and in combination with the molecular data. The results of these analyses suggest that the Juglandaceae are more closely related to the Fagaceae, Betulaceae, Casuarinaceae, and Urticaceae and their relatives (sensu Cronquist 1981) than they are to the Anacardiaceae (sensu Thorne 1983). However, sequence data from rbcL also suggest a relationship between the higher Hamamelidae and certain families in the Rosidae sensu Cronquist 1981 (such as Rosaceae and Rhamnaceae), an outcome which would add credence to the widely accepted view of the polyphyletic nature of the Hamamelidae.
23642360|Three species of the genus Picris L. are native in Tropical Africa: P. abyssinica Sch. Bip. (Ethiopia), P. xylopoda Lack, spec. nova (Nigeria, Ethiopia) and P. humilis DC. (Senegal, Mali). There are indications that the two perennial species, P. abyssinica and P. xylopoda, are related to and have evolved from a primitive Central Asiatic stock in a manner parallel to many African species of Crepis L. P. humilis, on the other hand, is a small annual plant with a high number of derived characters. The introduced species of European origin growing south of the Sahara are briefly mentioned.
23674664|Aspects of floral biology in relation to floral structures are investigated in seven species of Asclepiadaceae. Pollinaria removal and insertion by the insect pollinator is aided by various structural devices such as hairs or corona elements guiding the proboscis towards the entrance of the anther slit. The nectary is situated directly below this opening, thus increasing the probability of the proboscis being introduced into the anther slit during retraction. The anther slit itself often displays structural differentiation in adaptation to the guiding of the proboscis and the insertion of a pollinium in cross pollination. These mechanisms are highly elaborated so that they work as well in closed flower types, in which the pollinator does not enter the flower directly, but only introduces its proboscis (Sisyranthus, Microloma). A special feature of pollinaria removal is the variety of ways of fixing the corpusculum against the force of the proboscis when it is drawn into the cleft.  The stigma of all species except Secamone is located on the lower surface of the stigma head where it is appressed to the filament tube. In some cases a direct contact of the inserted pollinium with the stigmatic surface does not seem to be necessary for pollen tube germination, probably moistening by nectar suffices in these flowers. With Tylophora spec., a case of in situ pollen tube germination has been studied.  Concerning the path of the pollen tubes, two different strategies are followed. Secamone and Tylophora develop a structurally defined compitum, while the other five species have strictly divided stylar canals. In these higher evolved species, the pollen tubes of one inserted pollinium are all directed into one ovary only, thus enabling the plant to allocate its resources to one carpel only in the frequent case of fertilization by one pollinium. An sieben Asclepiadaceen-Arten wird der Zusammenhang von Bltenstrukturen mit dem Bestubungsproze untersucht. Die Analyse erfat die Bandbreite von einfacher organisierten (Secamone) bis zu hochdifferenzierten Asclepiadaceae, wobei neben dem offenen Bltentyp auch zwei Formen von geschlossenen Blten (Sisyranthus, Microloma) untersucht werden. Die Blten weisen unterschiedlich stark elaborierte Strukturen auf, die als Fhrungshilfen fr den Insektenrssel dienen. Neben der eigentlichen Leitschiene, die teilweise einen hohen Grad an innerer Differenzierung besitzt, sind vor allem Haare und Coronastrukturen an der primren Fhrung des Bestuberrssels beteiligt. Die interstaminale Lage der Nektarien sowie ihr Hinaufreichen bis zur Leitschiene sichert ebenfalls das Zurckziehen des Rssels durch die Leitschiene. Die Einfhrung des Rssels in den Spalt des Klemmkrpers erfordert einen relativ festen Sitz des Corpusculums, der in den hier untersuchten Arten auf drei verschiedenen Wegen erreicht wird: Anheftung an den Antherenrndern, basales Ankleben am Griffelkopf und Fixierung durch einen distalen Vorsprung des Griffelkopfes. Mit Tylophora spec. wird ein Fall vorgestellt, bei dem Fremdbestubung wie auch Auskeimen der Pollenschluche in situ und damit vermutlich Autogamie zugleich vorkommen.  Die bertragenen Pollinien werden gewhnlich in die Narbenkammer eingezogen, dort keimen die Pollenschluche aus und dringen an der Unterseite des Narbenkopfes in diesen ein. Bei Secamone erfolgt der Eintritt der Pollenschluche an der Flanke des Griffelkopfes, bei Microloma ist eine exakte Positionierung des Polliniums unntig, auch vor der Leitschiene abgelegte Pollinien keimen und senden ihre Pollenschluche durch die innere Leitschiene zum Griffelkopf. Bei Secamone und Tylophora ist ein gemeinsamer Anfang der Griffelkanle (Compitum) im Griffelkopf vorhanden, die Pollenschluche werden hier auf beide Ovarien verteilt, auch wenn sie nur von einem einzigen eingefhrten Pollinium stammen. Bei den brigen fnf Arten sind beide Griffelkanle isoliert voneinander, eine direkte Zuweisung der Pollenschluche eines Polliniums zu nur einem Ovar ist hier die Regel. Damit verfolgen diese hher evolvierten Asclepiadaceae eher die Strategie der resource allocation, indem sie bei der vorherrschenden Belegung mit nur einem Pollinium durch die strukturell gelenkte Zuweisung der Pollenschluche auch nur ein Fruchtblatt zur Reife bringen mssen.
23673857|The problem of taxa equivalency in phylogenetically distant groups can hardly be solved by comparing morphological differences alone. An attempt is made to approach the problem by means of DNA comparisons, e.g., DNA hybridization. Data obtained for Compositae, Umbelliferae and Iridaceae indicate that both unique and repetitive DNA sequence comparisons lead to the conclusions that genera within these families are not equivalent, e.g., the differences in the DNA among the species of Iris are much more pronounced than among those of Achillea; some genera of Umbelliferae occupy an intermediate position.
23674603|Comparative studies in the Physciaceae revealed that characters of the apical apparatus of asci differ between the various genera. Two major ascus types are observable in this family. They are found to correspond with certain ascospore types.
23656081|The genus Aspidistra with almost 100 species is the most diverse in southern China and northern Vietnam. We describe a new species Aspidistra phanluongii N.Vislobokov from southern Vietnam. Species of Aspidistra are herbs characteristic of Southeast Asian forests. Flowering of these plants can be considered cryptic. There are no recorded field observations on phenology, biology of flowering or pollination of Aspidistra. Previously proposed pollinators of Aspidistra include collembolans, amphipods, fungus gnats (Diptera: Mycetophilidae, Sciaridae) and even slugs. We present observation data on the flowering of A. phanluongii in the wild. Flowers were visited by flies of Megaselia (Phoridae) and ants. Megaselia flies, wellknown pollinators of numerous tropical plant species, are shown to be likely pollinators of Aspidistra phanluongii. The present study does not provide evidence of pollination by fungus gnats.
43496776|A new species, Altingioxylon hainanensis, is described from the Eocene Changchang Formation of the Changchang Basin on Hainan Island, South China. It is the first record of a fossil wood assigned to Altingiaceae found in China, and the most ancient evidence of wood for this family in eastern Asia. The new species is similar to A. rhodoleioides, known since the Miocene in India and Java Island, and to Altingia hisauchii from the Miocene to Pliocene of Japan. The close resemblance between these species and Liquidambar sp., known from the Middle Miocene of western North America, provides additional evidence for the migration of their ancestors from Asia to North America across the Bering land bridge during the Miocene. Distinctions in ray sizes between the eastern Asian specimens and their contemporaries from Europe to Kazakhstan is suggested as a result of the divergence between the large eastern Asian clade and the North American-west Asian clade within Altingiaceae during the Eocene-Oligocene. The presence of crystals in ray cells may be considered an ancestral condition that persists in the eastern Asian lineages up to the extant Altingia and Semiliquidambar, but which was lost in other Altingiaceae in the course of evolution.
23669405|Natural hybridization frequently promotes gene introgression among closely related species in sympatric populations, producing complex patterns of morphological variation. Therefore, a detailed understanding of the dynamics of interspecific gene flow and its morphological patterns is of widespread interest. We tested if introgressive hybridization promotes an increase in transgressive characters in comparison with the parental species. A sunflower species complex occurring in Mexico formed by two native invasive species, Tithonia tubaeformis and Tithonia rotundifolia, was analyzed using 46 morphological characters (leaf, flower and fruit) in five hybrid zones (N = 150 individuals) and two pure sites for each parental species (N = 80 individuals). In general, T. tubaeformis differed significantly from T. rotundifolia in all the examined characters, except six foliar and one inflorescence character. Morphological characters support the hypothesis of hybridization in this complex, even though both species remain morphological distinct in mixed stands. Individual hybrids appear to be a mosaic of parent-like (24.8 % of traits), intermediate (26.1 %) and transgressive (37.8 %) phenotypes (the remaining 11.3 % of the traits did not differ significantly from both parental species). Our results suggest that individuals from the same parental species were more similar among themselves than to putative hybrids, indicating occasional hybridization with segregation in hybrid types or backcrossing to parents. Evidence indicates a unidirectional pattern of gene flow toward T. rotundifolia.
43558609|Flowers of most species in the genus Ceropegia have elaborate adaptations to trap pollinating flies. Flies are trapped within a bulbous base of the flower after moving through an elongated corolla tube that is frequently lined with stiff hairs. When these hairs wilt after several days, insects held in the bulbous chamber at the base of the corolla tube are released. Despite such complex adaptations for trapping pollinators, key aspects of the pollination ecology including the identity of pollinators, presence or absence of nectar rewards, duration of pollinator trapping, and pollination success remain undescribed for most Ceropegia species. Importantly, no studies have empirically tested the role that trapping hairs may have on pollen export and receipt. We documented the pollination biology of Ceropegia ampliata in two natural populations and found that C. ampliata can be regarded as a generalist, being pollinated by flies from at least four families (Tachinidae, Sarcophagidae, Muscidae, and Lauxaniidae). The duration of the trapping phase lasted 2-5 days and flowers produce small quantities of nectar. Pollination success was highly variable but generally low with occasional peaks suggesting that flies are likely to visit this species sporadically. Flowers that had already proceeded beyond the trapping phase generally had a significantly greater number of pollinaria removed than flowers that were still in the trapping phase, probably reflecting the longer exposure to pollinators. In contrast we found no differences in pollinarium removal between flowers with trapping hairs present and flowers with hairs experimentally disabled. The role of trapping hairs in the pollination success of C ampliata therefore remains uncertain although we propose, on the basis of this experiment, that trapping may be an adaptation to enhance female success through pollen deposition rather than pollen export. Given the low rates of natural pollen deposition, an experiment with a large number of replicates is required to test this hypothesis in Ceropegia.
23675269|Cyanocystis violacea isolated from a marine rock sample conforms with the diagnosis of Dermocarpa violacea Crouan in all significant characteristics. The distinct heteropolarity of the cells and simultaneous cell divisions, are stable characters in culture. Development and growth of cells, simultaneous cell division and nanocyte formation have been documented by single-cell slide cultures and fine structural studies. The reddish violet color of the cytoplasm is due to the abundance of phycoerythrin.
23673836|Seven flavonol glycosides were identified from the main taxa of the F. bruguieri complex. Of these, kaempferol 3-rhamno-galactoside, Quercetin 3-rhamnogalactoside and Quercetin 3-galactoside are new records for the genus Fagonia L. and the Zygophyllaceae s. str. The distribution of these flavonoid glycosides is discussed with respect to the morphology, chemosystematics, and possible phylogeny of the complex and the genus.
23673185|In higher plants, synaptic mutation-associated gametic abnormalities are reported mostly in crop plants, but studies have rarely focused on the natural plant populations. This is particularly so in threatened herbaceous perennials, some of which are known to suffer from loss of sexual reproduction driven by the genetic mutations. Cytological investigations of Panax species, viz. P. sikkimensis, P. sokpayensis and P. bipinnatifidus, revealed that all the species were diploid with 2n = 24 chromosomes. Natural occurrence of synaptic mutation was recorded in Panax sikkimensis in the Kalep population of North Sikkim, India. We recorded that 86.03% of pollen mother cells (PMCs) lacked bivalent formation and had 24 distinct univalents at prophase I in the mutant plants of P. sikkimensis. We found a significantly lower mean number of chiasmata per cell (0.31  0.91; t test = 38.24, P < 0.001) in the mutant plants as compared to the normal plants (21.04  4.56). The chromosomal associations in the PMCs of the synaptic mutants ranged from 25% bivalents and 75% univalents to 100% univalents at diplotene/diakinesis. The unequal distribution of chromosomes at anaphase I and II resulted in the formation of microspores and microcytes of differing sizes. The pollen stainability test in the mutant population of P. sikkimensis revealed very low (0.12%) pollen fertility reflecting the consequences of synaptic mutation. Synaptic mutation in the herbaceous perennial P. sikkimensis was considered to be responsible for the male sterility in the species.
23643061|In this paper we present a phylogeny based on a study of the general morphology of 61 of the ca. 80 species of Duguetia. Analyses were performed with PAUP. The resulting phylogeny is compared with the classification of Duguetia as suggested by Fries (1934, 1937, 1939, 1959). The results are partly corresponding with Fries's classification. Section Alcmene including D. rionegrensis, and sects. Geanthemum, Synsepalantha, and Calothrix without D. uniflora, are upheld by this analysis. It is concluded that sect. Xylopipetalum should be united with sect. Duguetia. Before other taxonomic decisions at the section level can be made, more solid data must be available. Most dissimilarities found are considered to be not strong enough to propose alterations.
23655172|Genome sizes for 127 Macaronesian endemic angiosperms from 69 genera and 32 families were estimated using propidium iodide flow cytometry. Only about 30-fold variation in 1C-values was found, ranging from 0.32 pg in Echium bonnetii to 9.52 pg in Scilla dasyantha. Taxa with very small DNA amounts (1C  1.4 pg) were the most dominant group (71.7%), whereas the frequency of other categories was much lower (18.9% and 9.4% in taxa with small (1.413.50 pg) and intermediate 1C-values (3.5114.00 pg), respectively). Comparisons of average C- and Cx-values between Macaronesian endemics and non-Macaronesian representatives always revealed significantly smaller amounts in the former group at various taxonomic levels (genus, family, major phylogenetic lineage). Potential relationship between nuclear DNA content and insular burst of speciation is suggested owing to the marked prevalence of very small genomes among angiosperms that underwent rapid adaptive radiation. Merging all the genome size data on Macaronesian angiosperms available shows that this flora represents the best covered plant assemblage from the phytogeographic point of view.
43558248|Breeding system and pollination biology of an isolated population of Cymbopetalum brasiliense (Annonaceae), a large-flowered understory tree, was studied during two consecutive flowering seasons in October/November 2007 and September/October 2008. Flowers were morphologically comparable to other Cymbopetalum species and generally to other Annonaceae taxa adapted to pollination by large beetles, such as Annona spp. Flowers were thermogenic and emitted a strong scent during the pistillate and staminate flowering phases. Heating of the floral chamber was most intense during the pistillate phase between 1800 and 1900 h (up to 6C difference to air temperature). Floral scent consisted almost entirely of p methylanisole.None of the 133 flowers examined during two seasons received any visitation by dynastid beetles or other potential pollinators. Lycaenid larvae (Oenomaus ortygnus) attacked buds and flowers in both flowering seasons and destroyed about 20% of all buds in the 2007 season. Fruit set was high (72% of nonpredated flowers in 2007), despite the absence of pollinators. Field experiments showed that agamospermic reproduction rather than selfpollination was most likely responsible for fruit production.The study reports a probable case of apomixis, which would be the first in the Annonaceae family.
23642991|The morphology and meiotic behaviour of pollen mother cells were studied in hybrids involving Leymus multicaulis (2n = 28)  Psathyrostachys huashanica (2n = 14), L. multicaulis  P. juncea (2n = 14), and L. secalinus (2n = 28)  L. multicaulis. Chromosome pairing was almost identical in the L. multicaulis  P. huashanica, and L. multicaulis  P. juncea hybrids, in which it averaged 7.30 univalents + 6.69 bivalents + 0.096 trivalents and 7.48 univalents + 6.75 bivalents, respectively. The meiotic pairing in the two hybrids indicated that one L. multicaulis genome was closely homologous with the P. huashanica and P. juncea genomes. Both P. huashanica and P. juncea are possibly donors of one L. multicaulis genome. Chromosome pairing in the L. secalinus  L. multicaulis hybrid averaged 4.49 univalents + 11.71 bivalents + 0.02 trivalents, indicating that the genomes of L. multicaulis and L. secalinus are to some degree homologous. However, they are sufficiently differentiated to insure species distinctness.
23642233|The species- and genus-specific DNA content, average base composition of nuclear DNA, presence or absence of satellite DNA, the percentage of heterochromatin and other characteristics of nuclear DNA and nuclear structure allow to deduce the molecular changes which accompanied, or more probably caused, cladogenesis in the orchids studied. It is suggested that saltatory replication (generative amplification) of certain DNA sequenes, diversification of reiterated DNA sequences, and loss of DNA play an important role in the evolution of orchids.The relationship between changes of genome composition and of nuclear structure and ultrastructure is discussed on the basis of cot curves, heterochromatin staining with Giemsa (C banding), electron microscopy of nuclei, and molecular hybridization in situ.
23642492|Five new species are described: Eremostachys codonocalyx from NE. Iran (related to E. subspicata), E. stenocalycina from NE. Afghanistan (related to E. alberti and E. hissarica), E. salangensis from NE. Afghanistan (close to E. bamianica), E. freitagii from E. Afghanistan (similar but not closely related to E. vulnerans), and E. andersii from E. Afghanistan (similar but not closely related to E. vulnerans), and E. andersii from NE. Afghanistan of isolated systematic position.
23644287|Significant geographic partitioning of genetic variation within Cochlearia bavarica was found within populations from Allgu and SE Bavaria (Germany) exhibiting significant genetic differentiation. It has been demonstrated that allohexaploid C. bavarica evolved via hybridization between diploid C. pyrenaica and tetraploid C. officinalis. Presently, only C. pyrenaica is distributed throughout inland Central Europe. It has been concluded that C. bavarica is of inter- or postglacial origin, and its speciation was not influenced by human activities. Isozyme analysis revealed that there is a correlation between interpopulational genetic distances and geographic distances among C. bavarica populations from both regions, and which is not the case for C. pyrenaica in Germany and Austria. Only high alpine C. excelsa is significantly differentiated among the diploid taxa analysed here. Geographically structured distribution of alleles and their frequencies in C. bavarica populations could not be explained with the distribution of these alleles in C. pyrenaica. The presented findings favour disruption of a former wider distribution area rather than migration of C. bavarica or a polytopic origin of this species.
23643339|The roles of hybridization and of introgression as potential threats to small native populations are current topics of interest both for evolutionary and conservation biologists. Two factors are mainly involved in the threat to natural populations through hybridization: demographic swamping and genetic assimilation. At prealpine locations, two Saxifraga species with very different growth habits, S. aizoides and S. mutata, form a hybrid, S.  hausmannii. Investigation of meiosis and crossing experiments revealed regular pairing of the 26 chromosomes and development of viable seeds in the hybrid. Analysis of hybrid indices, GPI allozymes, germination experiments and seed sizes showed an intermediate position of S.  hausmannii between its parental species. Saxifraga aizoides and S. mutata were separated by only weak hybridization barriers. Introgression occurred mostly in direction of S. aizoides, although to a small amount. There is no actual threat to small, prealpine populations of S. aizoides and S. mutata through interspecific gene flow because hybridization is localized, resulting from different flowering phenologies of the parental species and from the narrow habitat requirements of S.  hausmannii, which are similar to those of S. aizoides. The major threat to local, prealpine populations of S. aizoides and S. mutata is the loss of landscape dynamics. Both species need open erosion slopes for successful recruitment.
23642291|The subdivision of the Anthemideae into two subtribes purely on the grounds of the presence or absence of receptacular paleae can no longer be maintained. Anatomical data may serve as a basis for a more adequate division of the tribe. This survey of the stomatal apparatus types within the Anthemideae is based on the investigation of 29 species from 15 genera and the evaluation of literature data: Anomocytic stomatal apparatus occur in all species examined, anisocytic at least in all genera investigated by us. We even found representatives of some rare types, such as polo-, helico- or hemiparacytic apparatus, in nearly all species. Diacytic types were not found in Otanthus, Artemisia, Tripleurospermum, Tanacetum corymbosum, and they also appear to be lacking in Santolina and Eriocephalus. Paracytic stomatal apparatus and a new type which links paracytic with actinocytic and cyclocytic was discovered in Otanthus maritimus and Artemisia stellerana. Die Untergliederung der Anthemideae in zwei Subtribus einzig auf Grund des Fehlens oder Vorhandenseins von Spreublttern lt sich nicht mehr aufrechterhalten. Wir haben deshalb damit begonnen, anatomische Daten zu erarbeiten, die als Grundlage fr eine adquatere Untergliederung dieser Tribus auf supragenerischer Ebene unter Einbeziehung systematisch-anatomischer Gesichtspunkte dienen knnen. Gegenstand dieser I. Mitteilung ist eine Bestandsaufnahme der bei Anthemideen vorkommenden Typen von Spaltffnungsapparaten. Eigene Untersuchungen an 36 Herknften von 29 Arten sowie die Auswertung von Angaben anderer Autoren in bezug auf 37 Taxa der Anthemideae hatten folgendes Ergebnis: Anomozytische Spaltffnungsapparate gibt es bei allen untersuchten Species, anisozytische wenigstens bei allen von uns bearbeiteten Gattungen. Auch Vertreter einiger seltenerer Typen, und zwar polo-, helikooder hemiparazytische Apparate, haben wir bei fast allen Arten angetroffen. Diazytische Apparate fehlen bei Otanthus maritimus und allen untersuchten Artemisia-Arten sowie bei den Tripleurospermum-Species (nicht aber den Matricaria-Arten sensu stricto), ferner bei Tanacetum corymbosum, vielleicht auch bei den Gattungen Santolina und Eriocephalus. Parazytische Spaltffnungsapparate und ein neuer Typus, der sich vom parazytischen ableiten lt und eine Zwischenstellung zwischen dem aktinozytischen und dem zyklozytischen Typ einnimmt, wurden bei Otanthus maritimus und Artemisia stellerana entdeckt (Abb. 3).
23655572|Species of the E. trachycaulus complex are known for their morphological variability, but little is known about their genetic basis. The delimitation of taxa within the complex has been controversial and difficult. E. trachycaulus is predominantly self-pollinating, and lacks clear morphological boundaries between it and E. alaskanus. Another controversial taxonomic issue of E. trachycaulus is the relationships of this complex species to non-North American E. caninus. The objectives of this study were to examine genetic diversity and the systematic relationships among the species of the E. trachycaulus complex and their relationships with E. caninus, E. alaskanus and E. mutabilis. Random amplified polymorphic DNA method was used to study 35 accessions of E. trachycaulus complex and other Elymus species. Higher genetic variation was detected within species of the E. trachycaulus complex. Eurasian accessions are as variable as the North American ones. Both UPGMA and NJ analyses did not show clearly separation among species of the E. trachycaulus complex. No clear association between geographic origin and genetic grouping among these species was found. Eurasian E. trachycaulus probably originated from multiple North American populations.
23644408|Genetic diversity has been investigated by the application of molecular markers in, for the first time, all the taxa recognised in recent treatises of the genus Hippophae. RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) analyses were conducted with 9 decamer primers, which together yielded 219 polymorphic markers. We found 16 fixed RAPD markers, i.e. markers that either occurred in all plants of a population or were absent from all plants. Several of these markers were useful for analysis of interspecific relationships, whereas others can be considered as taxon-specific markers. Clustering of taxa and populations in our neighbour-joining based dendrogram was in good agreement with some recently suggested taxonomic treatises of Hippophae. Amount and distribution of genetic variability varied considerably between species. Partitioning of molecular variance within H. rhamnoides supported earlier findings that a considerable part of the total variance resides among subspecies (59.6%). Within-population variability also differed considerably. Percentage polymorphic RAPD loci and Lynch and Milligan within-population gene diversity estimates showed relatively high values for some species close to the geographic centre of origin in Central Asia, e.g. H. tibetana and the putatively hybridogenous H. goniocarpa. Spatial autocorrelation analyses performed on 12 populations of H. rhamnoides revealed positive autocorrelation of allele frequencies when geographic distances ranged from 0 to 700 km, and no or negative autocorrelation at higher distances. At distances between 700 and 1900 km, we observed deviations from the expected values with strongly negative autocorrelation of allele frequencies. A corresponding relationship between geographic and genetic distances could not be found when the analysis instead was based on one population from each of 8 species.
23643049|Ten enzyme systems coding for 13 putative loci were studied in 12 European species of Sphagnum sect. Acutifolia (peat mosses). On average seven plants from each of 73 collections made throughout N Europe were analysed. Despite complex morphological variation, all species expressed unique allele combinations. Principal components and cluster analyses based on allele frequencies showed that sect. Acutifolia can be divided into two major groups; one comprising Sphagnum fimbriatum, S. girgensohnii and S. molle; the second comprising S. capillifolium, S. angermanicum, S. fuscum, S. quinquefarium, S. rubellum, S. subfulvum, S. subnitens and S. warnstorfii. These groups are linked by S. russowii, which is shown to be an allopolyploid, with fixed heterozygosity at 6 to 8 of the loci. The presumed progenitors of S. russowii are S. girgensohnii and S. rubellum. Allelic data also indicate that S. teres from sect. Squarrosa is related to S. girgensohnii and S. fimbriatum. The bisexual species tend to be less variable than the unisexual species.
23642580|Biseriate glandular trichomes and uniseriate flagellar covering hairs occur in all or most of the 20 genera examined and thus do not provide important taxonomical hints. In contrast, T- or Y-shaped hairs have been found in Santolina, Anthemis, Leucanthemopsis, Dendranthema, Tanacetum, Balsamita, Sphaeromeria (?), Artemisia, and Achillea clavenae only. Stellate hairs appear to be rare (in Santolina and Artemisia sect. Dracunculus). For details, additional hair types, and relationships see Tab. 1 and Fig. 6. Die Untersuchungen zur Systematischen Anatomie der Asteraceae-Anihemideae werden durch die vorliegende Mitteilung ber die Haar-formen bei 20 Gattungen fortgesetzt. Eigene Untersuchungen an 31 Herknften von 26 Arten und Unterarten sowie die Auswertung von Angaben anderer Autoren in bezug auf 112 weitere Taxa fhren dabeizu folgenden Ergebnissen (vgl. Tab. 14) : In fast allen bercksichtigten Gattungen bzw. Sektionen gibt eszweizellreihige Drsenhaare (Abb. la). Unter den Deckhaaren dominieren (einzellreihige) Geielhaare (Abb. 1 d, 2 g) ; sie kommen gleichfalls fast berall vor, wurden aber u. a. bei Anthmis, Leucanthemopsis, Dendran-thema, Balsamita, Artemisia sect. Dracunculus und bei Achillea clavenae bislang vergeblich gesucht. Bei diesen Verwandtschaftskreisen findensich nur T- und z.T. auch Y-Haare (Abb. le,/). Nebeneinander  zuweilen sogar auf ein und demselben Organ  kommen Geiel- und T- (bzw. auch Y-)Haare bei Santolina, Tanacetum und Artemisia vor. Stern- bzw. Geweihhaare (Abb. 1 g, 2e,f, 3) sind bislang auf Santolina und Artemisia sect. Dracunculus beschrnkt. An die Geielhaare lassen sich Blasen- (Abb. 1 c), Glieder- (Abb. 5) und einzellige Haare (Abb. 1 b), ferner die T- und Y-Haare sowie schlielich noch die Geweih- und die Sternhaare anschlieen (vgl. Abb. 6).
23656048|Phyllostachys pubescens is the most important economic bamboo species in China, which grows widely in the South of China. There are more than ten cultivars in this species but their genetic relationship still remains unknown. We used both amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) techniques to determine genetic similarity among ten cultivars of P. pubescens and two related species. Eight hundred and twenty seven bands, in which 495 are polymorphic, were detected using 15 pairs of AFLP primers whereas total 231 bands, in which 154 bands are polymorphic, were scored using 16 ISSR primers. Statistic analysis showed that the genetic similarity matrices obtained from these two sets of molecular markers had a significant correlation (R = 0.959, P = 0.013). The dendrogram generated with AFLP and ISSR markers could clearly genetically identify ten cultivars of P. pubescens that had high similarity with genetic distances ranging from 0.023 to 0.108, and could be divided into three groups based on their genetic variation and similarity. Our results suggest that these molecular markers are useful to genetically classify cultivars or varieties of a species, particularly a bamboo species.
23674519|Restriction site mutations in the chloroplast (cpDNA) and ribosomal DNA (rDNA) were examined in 41 populations representing five of the seven recognized species of the genus Robinsonia, which is endemic to the Juan Fernandez Islands. No intraspecific variation was detected for cpDNA but one population of one of the species (R. evenia) had a restriction site mutation in rDNA not detected elsewhere. No restriction site mutations were unique to all species of Robinsonia relative to the species of Senecio used as outgroups. All 13 mutations (eight from cpDNA and five from rDNA) are restricted to single species, and thus provide no cladistically useful information within the genus. The distribution of mutations is concordant with the hypothesis of a rapid adaptive radiation of Robinsonia subsequent to the dispersal of its ancestor to Masatierra.
23674937|Simple and gland-tipped trichomes occur in varying proportions in the cosmopolitan weed black medick (Medicago lupulina L.). Densities of both simple and gland-tipped trichomes were separately negatively correlated with the amount of damage to leaves in herbarium collections from throughout the world. This indicates that both types of trichomes are protective against herbivores, but suggests that the two types of hair differ in effectiveness against different species. Since an average of less than 1% herbivore consumption of the foliage of black medick was observed, it is remarkable that adaptive value of the trichomes was demonstrable. In a greenhouse experiment, both gland-tipped and simple hairs provided considerable resistance against whitefly oviposition. For both herbarium collections and the greenhouse experiment, conspicuously fewer gland-tipped hairs than simple hairs were required to achieve a given level of resistance to insects. Low trichome density considerably reduced damage in comparison to the absence of trichomes, while increasing density was progressively less efficient, suggesting that moderate pubescence is the most desirable strategy.
23644071|Macro- and micromorphological analysis of the seed of 50 taxa mainly from the tribe Veroniceae reveals differences in shape and testa sculpturing and allows the recognition of eight types. The combination of available cytogenetic and phytochemical data with those obtained from seed study, demonstrates that the classical sectional treatment is artificial. Suggestions for a new infrageneric classification of the genus and the taxonomic assignment of some taxa are given.
23673732|A simple electrophoretic technique for separating Rubiscoholoenzyme (ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase) from crude extracts is introduced. No preliminary purification steps are required. To prove the validity of the technique we rely on well studied Brassica spp., tobacco and spinach. We recommend this method for studies concerned with intrageneric relationships and for proving the intraspecific constancy of Rubisco.
23674595|The phylogenetic relationships of the angiosperm genera Byblis and Roridula have been the subject of ongoing taxonomic controversy. Twenty-eight taxa of varying degrees of alleged relationship, including 3 members of the Winteraceae (as an outgroup), were investigated using partial sequences of 18S rRNA (small subunit) and also compared against the morphological data set from Hufford's (1992) cladistic treatment of 80 members of the Rosidae-Asteridae. The morphological analysis placed the two genera in a clade with the Sarraceniaceae in the Corniflorae-Asterid group as a sister taxon to an Ericales-Hydrangeales clade. The 18S rRNA analysis supports the recently published rbcL DNA analysis of Albert & al. (1992), with Roridula joined to taxa in the lower Rosidae, but Byblis joining instead to members of the Asteridae near the Solanaceae. Comparisons for congruence between the three analyses place Byblis in the higher Asterid group near the Solanaceae, and Roridula possibly nearer the Sarraceniaceae and Ericales. These results imply that the traditional morphological characters used to relate the two genera are possibly the result of convergence towards similar ecological and life-history strategies rather than synapomorphies.
23674071|The genetic frequencies of 9 isozyme loci have been estimated in 23 samples of 4 species of Secale by means of starch gel electrophoresis. The populations of S. silvestre and S. vavilovii were monomorphic and uniform within each species, those of S. montanum and S. cereale were polymorphic for most of the isozyme loci. On the basis of isozyme patterns as well as allelic and genotypic frequencies of isozyme loci, S. silvestre can be distinguished from S. vavilovii, and both from S. cereale and S. montanum; but there is no clear differentiation between the two latter species. Clusters constructed from genetic distances separate S. silvestre and S. vavilovii, whereas S. cereale and S. montanum were grouped together. The isozymatic data presented here, along with cytogenetic and life habit data, agree with the generally admitted existence of 4 species in Secale, and support the relationships suggested by Khush & Stebbins (1961).
23660150|The Raoulia alliance is remarkable for the occurrence of rare wild hybrids between five of its six genera. In this study, the potential for hybridization beyond the F1 generation between Anaphalioides bellidioides and Ewartia sinclairii was investigated. Three putative hybrids were raised from open-pollinated seeds collected from a site where wild A. bellidioides, E. sinclairii and their intergeneric hybrids occur. Multivariate analysis of morphological data strongly indicated that two of the seed-raised hybrids were backcrosses to A. bellidioides; the paternal parent of the third plant, raised from a seed collected from a wild hybrid, was equivocal. Artificial crosses and evaluation of seed germinability demonstrated that wild A. bellidioides  E. sinclairii are partially fertile and capable of giving rise to viable backcrosses and advanced-generation hybrids. Possible reasons for the apparent rarity of wild hybrids between A. bellidioides and E. sinclairii are discussed briefly.
23642870|Five new species of Anthemis sect. Anthemis from the Flora Iranica region are described: A. gillettii (subsect. Anthemis) from NW. Iraq and adjacent Iran is allied to A. damascena.A. kurdica (subsect. Anthemis) also grows in Iraqi Kurdistan.A. hamrinensis (subsect. Rascheyana; akin to A. plebeia) is distributed in the Jabal Hamrin region at the extreme outer margin of the Zagros chains.A. kandaharica (subsect. Anthemis) and A. freitagii (subsect. Rascheyana) are distributed in Afghanistan.
23643773|The successful production of a large number of artificial hybrids between Dahlia species based on x = 16 has allowed a detailed study of their genomic relationships. Chromosome behaviour in these artificial hybrids was extremely similar to that observed in parental species suggesting that there is a considerable degree of homology between the genomes of these Dahlia species. Using GISH it can be demonstrated that in these hybrids bivalent formation involved pairing only between parental genomes. The ability of GISH to differentiate between parental genomes in artificial hybrids was variable, indicating that molecular divergence of highly repeated sequences has accompanied the evolution of these species. However, the extent of chromosome pairing and chiasma formation in the hybrids does not reflect the differences that can be detected by GISH. Several of the new hybrid combinations have resulted in horticulturally interesting plants.
23643765|There are several well-documented examples of multiple hybrid origins of polyploid species. Herein we report the first, to our knowledge, explicit example of a species that most probably has originated recurrently by diploid hybrid speciation. Genetic relationships and stabilization of two Argyranthemum populations of putative hybrid origin on Tenerife, the Canary Islands, were investigated using chromosomal, morphometric, and fertility analyses of cultivated progeny families and artificial F1 and F2 hybrids. These data were compared to a recently published chloroplast DNA phylogeny of the genus, in which the same populations were included. The results suggest that the two populations must be referred to a single species, A. sundingii, which is diploid, fully fertile, genetically stabilized, and occurs in an ecologically intermediate habitat opened by deforestation, and that this species has originated at least twice following local hybridization in two valleys. The same parental species were involved in each origin; the montane A. broussonetii and the coastal A. frutescens. The montane species was the chloroplast donor in one of the valleys and the coastal species in the other.
23663570|Authors studied the phylogeny of Dipsacaceae using maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses on sequence data from chloroplast (trnL intron, trnLtrnF intergenic spacer, psbBpsbH gene complex) and nuclear genomes (ITS1 and ITS2). Both data partitions as well as their combination show that Dipsacaceae is a monophyletic group. Topology in tribe Scabioseae is similar to those of other recent studies, except for the position of Pycnocomon, which is nested in Lomelosia. Pycnocomon, the pollen and epicalyx morphologies of which closely resemble those of Lomelosia, is interpreted as a psammophilous morphotype of Lomelosia, and its nomenclature has been revised accordingly. Exclusion of Pseudoscabiosa, Pterocephalidium, Pterocephalodes (and probably Bassecoia), Succisa, Succisella from Scabioseae is confirmed. Pterocephalodes hookeri is the sister group to the rest of the family. Its remoteness from Pterocephalus has been confirmed on molecular grounds. Lack of evident synapomorphies for various clades is interpreted as a possible consequence of fast adaptative radiation.
23655635|Our recent study of tetrad pollen formation in Annona (Annonaceae) revealed that after meiosis the callose-cellulose envelope forms a special conjugation with individual microspores and the forthcoming callose digestion is incomplete. The undigested part forms a central binder holding the four microspores of the tetrad together. This process causes the microspores to rotate 180 degrees. In this paper we describe pollen formation in another annonaceous genus, Cymbopetalum, in which the pollen is shed in octads, through use of light microscopy, epifluorescence microscopy, and TEM. In Cymbopetalum, two meiocytes, connected by abundant cytomictic channels, are produced in each sporangium. Octad pollen formation in Cymbopetalum is shown to be comparable to the synchronized formation of two connected Annona tetrads, which then integrate into a single octad. Unique features of Annona polyad formation, e.g. special binding between the callose-cellulose envelopes and microspores, incomplete callose digestion, and microspore rotation, also occur in Cymbopetalum. In addition, formation of the Cymbopetalum octad involves development of a cushion-like structure that binds the distal pronexine of all eight microspores, and there is the production of intine protrusions. The evolutionary origin of the callose-cellulose binding mechanism within the family is discussed.
23669041|The somatic chromosome numbers of the eleven Australian seagrass species belonging to five genera in the Family Cymodoceaceae were determined. The chromosome numbers in Amphibolis and Thalassodendron are reported for the first time. Cymodocea and Halodule species have the following chromosome numbers: Cymodocea angustata Ostenf., 2n = 14, 28; C. rotundata Ehrenb. & Hempr. ex Asch., 2n = 14; C. serrulata (R. Br.) Asch. & Magnus, 2n = 14, 28; Halodule pinifolia (Miki) den Hartog, 2n = 32; H. uninervis (Forsk.) Asch., 2n = 32; H. tridentata (Steinh.) Endl. ex Unger, 2n = 14. Halodule has the highest chromosome numbers among the seagrasses and they are the largest in sizes with a distinct bimodal type in the family. Syringodium isoetifolium (Asch.) Dandy has 2n = 20. Both endemic Amphibolis antarctica (Labill.) Sonder ex Asch. and A. griffithii (J. Black) den Hartog have 2n = ca. 36 and have the smallest chromosomes in the family appearing as small dots. Thalassodendron pachyrhizum den Hartog has 2n = 28. Chromosome numbers appear to be identical or closely related among different species in the same genus but they vary in the five genera in the Cymodoceaceae suggesting that these five genera may have evolved independently in the past.
23659842|Nearly all of the species diversity in Piperaceae is encompassed within Piper and Peperomia. Both genera are pan-tropical with areas of diversification in the Neotropics and Southeast Asia. Piperaceae are less diverse in Africa with only two native species of Piper. This study examines the distribution of both Piper and Peperomia with representative samples from the Neotropics, Asia, Pacific Islands, and Africa. Molecular dating is used to place an age for the crown clades of Piper and Peperomia as well as ages for diversification within the clades. Both genera have origins in the late Cretaceous, but species level diversification occurred much later in the Tertiary. Biogeography of both genera are correlated with paleoclimate evidence to better explain the distribution and diversification of these large genera.
43558391|A comparative palynological study of 22 taxa (9 of which are endemic) of the genus Arabis L. (Brassicaceae), belonging to six sections, was conducted with acetolyzed and non-acetolyzed pollen grains using light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Descriptions of pollen, LM and SEM were provided. All pollen grain shapes of said species were separately calculated. Total pollen shape of Arabis is mostly oblate-spheroidal (43.09 %), but also contains prolate-spheroidal (23.27 %), subprolate (22.04 %), suboblate (6.54 %), prolate (4.04 %) and oblate (0.54 %). All pollen grains are tricolpate, but some of them are 2-and 4-colpate. In this study, there are described three pollen morphotypes of Arabis: Alpina type, Nova type, and Hirsuta type. The systematic potentialities oriented to the pollen data of the taxa studied at various systematic levels are also discussed.
23643333|Among a total of 43 accessions of Alstroemeria aurea, A. ligtu and A. magnifica nuclear DNA amounts (2C-values) showed significant intraspecific variation, 1.09, 1.21 and 1.15 fold, respectively, when determined through flow cytometric measurements of fluorescence of propidium iodide (PI) stained nuclei. After staining with another flurochrome, 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), an intraspecific variation of 1.10, 1.11 and 1.12 fold, respectively, was found. C-band polymorphisms were present among and within the accessions of all three species. In some cases only very small differences in C-banding pattern were observed. In other cases, however, differences were more prominent. Besides C-band polymorphism, there were also instances of chromosome length polymorphism, which concerned the total chromosome complement or single chromosomes. The variation in nuclear DNA amount in A. aurea and A. ligtu was more or less continuous, except for one accession of A. ligtu subsp. simsii. Artificial selection and possibly introgression of chromosomes from other species may have moulded the karyotypes of some of the accessions of A. aurea, a species that has been under cultivation for more than 160 years. The variation as observed in A. magnifica subsp. magnifica was discontinuous and could be due to a broad species concept.
23645207|The reproductive ecology of Medicago citrina was studied in the Columbretes archipelago (Mediterranean Sea), where bees are absent. The flowers were self-compatible, homogamous, nectar producers, depended on large floral visitors for tripping and pollination. Several characteristics of the reproductive biology of M. citrina indicate an adaptation to an isolated environment characterised by scarcity of appropriate pollinators. As a result of this scarcity, fruit and seed set under natural conditions were significantly lower compared to hand-pollination treatments. The main flower visitors were mostly flies and blowflies, with Eristalis tenax (Syrphidae) and Calliphora vicina (Calliphoridae) being the most efficient pollinators. We argue that because M. citrina faces pollen limitation in the small islets of Columbretes, it presents an interesting case study of pollination related to island endemism and diversity.
23657049|A new species of the marattialean fern trunk Psaronius Cotta is described from the Upper Permian Cathaysian flora in the Xuanwei Formation of Guizhou Province, SW China, and named P. panxianensis sp. nov. Stems possess a helically diverging sequence of leaf traces organized in a 2/7 phyllotaxy and are characterized by stages of leaf trace development that include an early ontogenetic stage with a single vascular bundle (Stewartiopteris-type), a middle stage with two vascular bundles (Stipitopteris-type), and a late stage with three vascular bundles. Roots diverge singly or occasionally in pairs, arising alternately from the centrifugal surface of the peripheral cauline bundles (PCB) near the tip, and form both bound and free root mantles. This species is distinguished from all previously recognized species from the Euramerican and Gondwana floras in having an anchor-shaped sclerenchymatous strand internal to the PCB and a large V-shaped strand formed by the connection of two anchor-shaped strands. Psaronius panxianensis sp. nov. is important as its leaf traces show three distinct ontogenetic development stages within the trunk, with this organization interpreted as a derived condition within psaroniaceous marattialean fern evolution. In the stem abundant air space suggests that P. panxianensis lived in waterlogged substrates with aerenchyma facilitating gaseous exchange. However, the presence of marattialean fern dominated communities in the Upper Permian of SW China suggest an overall drying trend with these plants replacing earlier lycopsid and sphenopsid dominated wetland communities.
23642353|Four new species of Jacaranda have been found in the coastal mountain-ranges of SE-Brazil where they occupy characteristic ecological positions. J. montana and J. subalpina are related to J. puberula agg., J. pulcherrima shows affinities to J. ulei but also to J. subalpina. J. crassifolia is very distinct and possibly related to J. obovata.
23674799|Floral nectaries in the Limnanthaceae are established as exoscopic basal bulges of the episepalous stamens. Their nectariferous tissues include the epidermis and hypodermal parenchyma and in Limnanthes are vascularized by phloematic branches of the staminal bundles. Secretion occurs mainly through anomocytic stomata but, in addition, probably through the outer cuticularized thin walls of the epidermal cells. The flower structure is comparatively simple. The nectar is often slightly concealed. A wide range of pollinators can be expected, but bees are observed to be the dominant ones. The systematic position of the family is still obscure. Taxonomic placement near to any other geranialian families or to the Caryophyllaceae is only weakly justified.
43558205|Pollen wall development of Sciadopitys verticillata was observed by transmission electron microscopy. The pollen of S. verticillata is non-saccate and spherical, and the exine consists of the outer thick, sculptured ectexine and the inner lamellated endexine. At the early tetrad stage, the initial ectexine and lamellae of the initial endexine begin to form on the microspore plasma membrane. The ectexine granules gradually swell. Deposition of sporopollenin materials on the ectexine granules then results it their becoming partially connected to each other. Identification of the original small ectexine granules then becomes difficult, and, finally, the ectexine appears as a homogeneous, partially discontinuous layer. The granules of the early ectexine cannot be identified. At maturity, there are four to five endexine lamellae. Recent molecular data have shown that Sciadopitys first branches off from the Cupressaceae plus Taxaceae clade, which is characterized by granular exine. Although the ectexine of Sciadopitys is similar to that of the Cupressaceae during initial development, the morphology of the ectexine is significantly different in the mature pollen. The initial stage of pollen development clearly shows the structural homology of the granular ectexine. Divergence of the exine structure occurs in the later stages.
23654190|The floral development and anatomy of Dirachma has been investigated with SEM and LM to discuss the relationship of Dirachmaceae with putative sister taxa (e.g. Rhamnaceae, Malvaceae, Barbeyaceae, Elaeagnaceae) on the basis of morphological synapomorphies. Flowers are initiated in axillary position on terminal branches. An epicalyx consisting of six to eight bracteoles surrounds the valvate calyx. Petal initiation is strongly retarded and primordia arise independently opposite the stamen primordia. The carpels arise independently and become weakly fused at the base; a single ovule develops in an axile position. A hypanthium develops by interprimordial growth between petals and stamens. Nectaries arise in a pouch and are covered with trichomes positioned on a protuberance at the base of the petal. It is suggested that the solitary flowers are derived from compound cymose inflorescences. Comparison between Dirachma and species of Rhamnaceae demonstrates striking similarities in floral structure and anatomy. However, several characters are unique to Dirachma and support a family Dirachmaceae separate from Rhamnaceae.
23644350|Euphorbia subsect. Pachycladae is a taxon of primarily Macaronesian distribution, defined by morphological and biogeographical criteria. On the basis of morphological data, it is a heterogeneous group within which at least three complexes of species can be distinguished. To ascertain whether it is a natural group and discover its phylogenetic relations, we performed a cladistic analysis of the sequences of ribosomal nuclear DNA and a karyological study. The results of the two studies are concordant and show that the sub-section is polyphyletic and includes three different groups. The first monophyletic group is made up of the Macaronesian endemics E. atropurpurea complex and E. lamarckii complex, which form a polytomy with E. dendroides as the basal species. The lauroid species E. longifolia and E. stygiana represent the second monophyletic group, which derive from Mediterranean forms of E. sect. Helioscopia Dumort. Both species are paleopolyploid (2n = 44) with highly symmetrical karyotypes. Finally, E. balsamifera, with a Canarian, African and Arabian distribution, remains isolated in a basal position. Its karyotype, with 2n = 20 chromosomes, differs from the Macaronesian model and displays analogies with African cactiform spurges. On the basis of the results, some hypotheses are formulated about speciation processes in the three groups.
23673215|With about 350 species, Paspalum is one of the richest genera within the Poaceae. Its species inhabit eco-logically diverse areas along the Americas and they are largely responsible for the biodiversity of grassland eco-systems in South America. Despite its size and relevance, no phylogeny of the genus as a whole is currently available and infrageneric relationships remain uncertain. Many Paspalum species consist of sexual-diploid and apomictic-polyploid cytotypes, and several have arisen through hybridization. In this paper we explore the phylogenetic structure of Paspalum using sequence data of four non-coding cpDNA fragments from a wide array of species which were combined with morphological data for a subset of diploid taxa. Our results confirmed the general monophyly of Paspalum if P. inaequivalve is excluded and the small genus Thrasyopsis is included. Only one of the four currently recognized subgenera was monophyletic but nested within the remainder of the genus. Some informal morphological groups were found to be polyphyletic. The placement of known allopolyploid groups is generally congruent with previously stated hypotheses although some species with shared genomic formulae formed paraphyletic arrangements. Other species formed a basal grade including mostly umbrophilous or hygrophilous species. It is hypothesized that the genus may have diversified as a consequence of the expansion of C4 grass-dominated grasslands in South America.
23642160|The presence of S-type sieve-element plastids and anthocyanins in the Vivianiaceae indicates that it is not a member of Centrospermae (Caryophyllales).
23674796|The central Sierran tetraploid Arctostaphylos mewukka Merriam has been reported to be an allopolyploid originating from the diploid species, A. patula Greene and either A. viscida subsp. viscida Parry or A. viscida subsp. mariposa (Dudley) P. V. Wells, although without conclusive evidence. Morphometrics and the verification and determination of chromosome numbers were used to substantiate the evolutionary relationships among these species. A closely related species, Arctostaphylos truei Knight, was also examined using these methods to determine its separability from A. mewukka. The morphometric analyses support a hypothesis for a polyphyletic origin of A. mewukka from different races of A. viscida and A. patula. The chromosomal data, although inclusive, also support this hypothesis. The data do not support the recognition of A. truei as a taxonomic entity separate from A. mewukka at the species level.
23674699|The variability in chloroplast DNA type of 20 Rubus genotypes was examined by Southern hybridization. DNA extracted from the Rubus accessions was digested with two restriction enzymes (EcoRI and EcoRV) and heterologous chloroplast DNA sequences from barley and pea were used as probes to detect Rubus chloroplast DNA sequences on Southern blots of Rubus total DNA. Restriction fragment length polymorphism was detected and a total of 92 restriction fragments were generated by the probe/enzyme combinations examined. Cladistic principles based on the parsimony assumption were used to assemble a phylogenetic tree based on chloroplast restriction fragment length data. The phylogenetic tree grouped the taxonomically defined species and is in general agreement with information based on morphological criteria. However, the Japanese red raspberry R. illecebrosus was shown to have diverged considerably in terms of evolutionary time from other species in subg. Idaeobatus. Furthermore, the molecular approach provides a quantitative estimate of the relationship between species that is difficult to obtain from morphological data. In order to complement the chloroplast DNA information a ribosomal DNA probe was also included in the analysis and provided further information on the phylogenetic relationships within Rubus.
23643348|An electrophoretic comparison of variation at 28 isozyme loci was performed for 58 Vigna accessions belonging to the V. luteola, V. ambacensis, and V. racemosa groups of species. In all three groups, strong divergence is noted between results and actual nomenclature.
23674044|The exine morphology and pore size of pollen from diverse angiosperm taxa with homomorphic gametophytic, homomorphic sporophytic, and heteromorphic self-incompatibility have been studied. The results indicate that correlations alleged to exist between the type of self-incompatibility system and the nature of the pollen wall morphology should be treated with considerable caution.
23664055|Baptistonia is endemic to the Brazilian Atlantic Forest and is made up of 23 species, the phylogenetic relationships of which are analysed here. Three plastid regions (psbA-trnH, rpoB-trnC and trnS-G) were sequenced. Using seven inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers, we scored 183 loci of ISSR dominant markers. Trees were obtained by successively using (a) maximum parsimony and Bayesian analysis of individual and combined sequence data sets, (b) neighbour joining (NJ) and Dollo parsimony of the ISSR data and (c) NJ analysis of the floral oil composition. These approaches, as well as the results of a previous morphological analysis, were combined using a supertree method, yielding clearer relationships within the genus. Various results of our study indicate that the Baptistonia species are recently radiated. B. colorata and B. venusta (previously known as Oncidium trulliferum) are confirmed as being sister to the remaining species of the genus. Four taxonomic groups are clearly inferred. The evolution of some morphological traits and floral oil composition proved to be strongly linked to the phylogeny.
43558355|In this article, we studied the pollen morphology and wall development, microsporogenesis, male gametophyte development, and anther wall structure changes during pollen development of Cardiocrinum giganteum (Wall.) Makina from the genus Cardiocrinum (Endl.) Lindi. (Liliaceae) using paraffin sections, scanning and transmission electron microscopy, and fluorescence microscopy. The results showed that C. giganteum has oval-shaped pollen with a single sulcus and reticulate ornamentation. The exine is of the semi-tectum type and can be divided into the tectum layer, columellate layer and basal layer. Meiosis in the microsporocyte is accompanied by successive cytokinesis. The mature pollen is three-celled.The anther wall prior to maturity is built by one layer of epidermis, 1-2 layers of endothecium cells, 4-5 middle layers and 2 layers of tapetum, while upon maturity it is only built by one layer of epidermis, one layer of endothecium cells and one middle layer. The tapetal cells are secretory, with two or more nuclei. Ubisch bodies originate from rough endoplasmic reticulum except a few from mitochondria.
23655988|Floral diversification in the genus Pedicularis (Orobanchaceae) is remarkable among flowering plants. In this genus, floral morphology and pollinator behavior are closely co-adaptive. In the current paper, pollen grains of 23 representative species of Pedicularis mainly from North America, with two species from Japan and two species from China, whose pollination ecology was previously studied, were examined using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Two pollen aperture types and three kinds of exine ornamentation were recognized among these species. In addition, pollen data from previous and the current studies of Pedicularis were integrated and analyzed, together with some pollination characters. There was a significant association between pollen aperture types and corolla types, as well as between pollination syndromes and corolla types. However, there was no association of exine ornamentations with corolla types. The relationships and evolution of this genus were discussed with regards to pollen morphology, corolla types and pollination syndromes.
23664387|Sixty-five microsatellite alleles amplified from ancestral citrus accessions classified in three separate genera were evaluated for sequence polymorphism to establish the basis of inter- and intra-allelic genetic variation, evaluate the extent of size homoplasy, and determine an appropriate model (stepwise or infinite allele) for analysis of citrus microsatellite alleles. Sequences for each locus were aligned and subsequently used to determine relationships between alleles of different taxa via parsimony. Interallelic size variation at each SSR locus examined was due to changes in repeat copy number with one exception. Sequencing these alleles uncovered new distinct point mutations in the microsatellite region and the region flanking the microsatellite. Several of the point mutations were found to be genus, species, or allele specific, and some mutations were informative about the inferred evolutionary relationships among alleles. Overall, homoplasy was observed in alleles from all three loci, where the core microsatellite repeat was changed causing alleles of the same size class to be identical in state but not identical by descent. Because nearly all changes in allele size (with one exception) were due to expansion or contraction of the repeat motif, this suggests that a stepwise mutation model, which assumes homoplasy may occur, would be the most appropriate for analyzing Citrus SSR data. The collected data indicate that microsatellites can be a useful tool for evaluating Citrus species and two related genera since repeat motifs were reasonably well retained. However, this work also demonstrated that the number of microsatellite alleles is clearly an underestimate of the number of sequence variants present.
23674864|Five species of Annona and one species from Artabotrys, Cananga, Polyalthia, and Rollinia were investigated in regard to 11 different allozyme loci. Preliminary studies on small population samples of Annona suggest genetic uniformity in three species and variability within and between populations in two other species. The allotetraploid origin of A. glabra is clearly shown by its hybrid enzyme bands. The genetic distance between five Annona species partly corresponds with their morphological relationships; only A. muricata appears more separated than is suggested by morphology. A comparison of the five genera demonstrates close relationship between Annona and Rollinia. Two enzyme loci are identical within all taxa investigated and possibly may serve as a genetic marker for the family.
23643730|Anther form and structure across the taxonomic groups in Verticordia were examined. The three anther types which were recognised  rectangular, oblong and saccate, accord well with the three subgenera into which the genus has been divided. The sporogenous part of the anther has a fairly typical angiosperm anatomy. However in many species there is a small or large gland in the upper filament/connective which contains lipidic contents. The anatomy of this structure is based on that of the oil glands which are ubiquitous in Myrtaceae primary tissues. However the gland is usually much larger than these and is schizolysigenous in origin. Evolutionary development of the anthers in the genus is related to pollination systems and the development of secondary pollen presentation from the upper style in some groups. Anther glands may have originally had a protective function for the sporogenous tissue. However in different groups the function has changed or the gland has disappeared. In some species in subgenus Chrysoma (which does not have secondary pollen presentation) the gland contents seem to be an additional food source for pollinators. In other groups, with the development of secondary pollen presentation the protective function has become redundant and anther glands have either disappeared or produce contents which have become part of the process of pollen dispersal.
23644290|We examined patterns of cpDNA RFLP variability using 21 restriction endonucleases in 21 populations of Androcymbium that represent 12 endemic species distributed in the winter rainfall areas of South Africa to explore the diversification of the genus in its area of maximum species diversity. Our results are supportive of a diversification landscape characterized by continued opportunistic short-range invasion, naturalization, and rapid speciation, in which the selective action of the different environments where Androcymbium species occur determined their colonization success and subsequent short-range geographic expansion. The historical presence of fire, the constraint imposed by the low concentration of nutrients throughout southwestern South Africa and the different reproductive capabilities of Androcymbium species have also likely stimulated species' diversification. Our divergence time estimates bolster the view that speciation of South African Androcymbium initiated in the late Eocene, intensified in the Oligocene and proceeded more sporadically during the Miocene. These chronological estimates also substantiate the previous hypothesis that most lineages of Androcymbium in South Africa are much more ancient than their North African relatives, whose diversification began in the late Miocene-early Pliocene.
23642307|Achnanthes linearis produces two auxospores from one cell pair by allogamic fusion of migratory and stationary gametes. Unusually little copulation jelly is produced. Pairing occurs by chance in regard to the heteropoly of the transapical axis. The orientation of the primary cells in relation to the substratum and to the mother cells is constant and characteristic. Variation of cell size is much larger than hitherto known; correspondingly the diagnosis is to be completed.The position and orientation of vegetative cells and partner cells is strongly determined by the relief of the leaves of Fontinalis on which they are fixed with their raphe valve. The same is true for the cells of A. minutissima which usually are fixed at one cell pole only, but exceptionally at both poles; this means that morphological heteropoly of apical axis is lacking, and that the function of the second holdfast-jelly producing structure usually is suppressed. The cells of both species normally creep by means of the raphe mechanism; the direction is very independent of the relief of the Fontinalis leaves. After cell division the moving down of the upper daughter cell follows a different mechanism. A. linearis is the first to settle on Fontinalis leaves, other epiphytes come much later. Achnanthes linearis bildet allogam aus zwei Mutterzellen zwei Auxosporen. Im Unterschied zu anderen A.-Arten wird nur minimal Kopulationsgallerte gebildet, die aber so fest ist, da sich die Gameten physiologisch anisogam verhalten. Die Paarung erfolgt in bezug auf die heteropole Transapikalachse zufallsgem. Die fixe Lagebeziehung der Achsen von Mutterzellen und Erstlingszellen untereinander und zum Substrat, anscheinend ein Gattungsmerkmal, zeigt sich auch bei dieser Art. Die Grenvariation ist viel betrchtlicher als in der blichen Diagnose angegeben, diese ist entsprechend zu komplettieren. Die Lage und Ausrichtung der vegetativen Zellen und Kopulationspartner wird weitgehend vom Relief der Fontinalis-Bltter, denen sie mit der Rapheschale anliegen, bestimmt. hnlich verhlt sich A. minutissima, obwohl normalerweise die Festheftung nur an einem Zellpol mittels eines Gallertpolsters erfolgt; ausnahmsweise wird an jedem Pol Haftgallerte gebildet; es sind also zwei Gallertporen vorhanden, von denen aber gewhnlich nur die eine in Funktion tritt; eine morphologische Heteropolie der Apikalachse besteht nicht. Die Zellen beider Arten zeigen oft typische Kriechbewegung mittels des Raphemechanismus: Die Richtung wird bei A. linearis fast gar nicht, bei A. minutissima nur wenig vom Relief der Moosbltter beeinflut. Ohne Bettigung des Raphemechanismus erfolgt das Herabgleiten der oberen Tochterzelle von der unteren nach einer vegetativen Teilung. A. linearis ist auf Fontinalis-Blttern der Erstbesiedler und bildet oft Reinbestnde, spter folgen andere Diatomeen.
23674642|Floral morphology and anatomy of 15 genera in the Polygalaceae have been studied. The pentamerous origin of the polygalaceous flower is confirmed and shown to apply to all genera in the family. The keel is interpreted as a single petal, and the androecium as of bimeric origin. Vascular structure in the receptacles of Carpolobia and Monnina subg. Monnina is described in detail, and a compilation of results, focusing on the vascular supply for the androecium and gynoecium, is given for all genera. Based on similarities and differences in vascularization it is concluded that present taxonomy, in particular the tribal system, needs to be reviewed.
23654268|The flower of Nelumbo nucifera displays some highly specialized structural details apparently related to its pollination ecology. The functional significance of these structures, however, is still under debate. This paper presents new anatomical and chemical data that contribute to our knowledge of the floral life of the lotus. Special focus is directed on the source of scent and heat production, the role of the staminal appendages, and stigma characteristics. The receptacle, the staminal appendages and connectives are covered with a papillose, osmogenous epithelium and function as osmophores. A fractioned GC-analysis revealed that mainly 1,4-dimethoxybenzene (1,4-DMB) is emitted by these parts, whereas high amounts of C15  C17-alkanes, n-alkenes, n-alcadienes and n-alkatrienes dominated the volatile blend that was diffusely emitted by the petals. In accordance with the literature, absolute predominance of 1,4-DMB and pentadecane was found, while some differences occurred in minor components. The active source of heat generation, apparently a means to enhance fragrance volatilization, was the receptacle. The compact mesenchyma underlying its upper platform and flanks is glandular and rests on a storage zone replete with starch that becomes exhausted during the metabolic flare-up. Spot measurements confirm the flower's capacity to maintain a temperature level of ca. 31 C by compensating the environmental temperature fluctuations. The staminal appendages warm up because they are close to the receptacle; they are not actively thermogenous, as formerly proposed. Their starch load remains nearly unaffected until defloration. The appendages, besides contributing to olfaction, may represent food bodies. Along with the pollen  shed at the male stage of anthesis  the appendages may function as a primary attractant for coleopteran pollinators, an interpretation corroborated by the remaining floral traits, which suggest the cantharophilous syndrome. Published field data, so far only available for the American subspecies, reveal variable mixed assemblages of insect visitors; no feeding on the staminal appendages is recorded. Possibly, the system once involved a partnership that has not persisted during the long history of the genus, which is nowadays attended by opportunists.
43558620|Anther structure and pollen ontogeny of six species of Hosta Tratt. was studied to provide additional data for its classification. Microscopic observation found that their male gametogenesis has the following structural characteristics: (1) the four microsporangia are linearly arranged on introrse side of anther connective tissue; (2) mature anther wall is composed of an epidermis, endothecium, middle layer(s), and tapetum; (3) microsporogenesis is successive; (4) mature pollen grains are three-celled at anthesis, with a vegetative cell filled with large amounts of starch grains; (5) pollen ontogeny is obviously asynchronous; (6) each tepal has about 9-13 vascular traces in crosssection view. The above observations suggest that genus H Tratt. should be classified as family Hostaceae, in agreement with Dahlgren and Clifford (1982), Takhtajan (1997), and Wu et al. (2003).
23643052|Field observations showed that three South African orchid species, Satyrium carneum, S. coriifolium and S. princeps, are pollinated by sunbirds. Foraging sunbirds insert their bills into the labellum chamber of the flowers and suck nectar from the labellum spurs with their tongues. The column overarches the entrance to the labellum and pollinaria become affixed to the upper mandible of the bill. Birds often attempt to remove pollinaria by rubbing their bills against a branch, but are mostly unsuccessful due to the large plate-like viscidia which attach the pollinaria very firmly to the bill. Other modifications for bird pollination in these Satyrium species may include the red, carmine or orange colour of the flowers, sturdy inflorescence stems used for perching and large amounts of dilute nectar in the spurs. Each Satyrium species was pollinated by several species of sunbird, and despite some differences in flowering time, occasional hybrids occur at a site where S. carneum and S. coriifolium share the same sunbird pollinators.
23643030|Genetic variability in Potamogeton pectinatus and P. filiformis was studied by means of isozymes. The overall levels of variability were similar to some other well studied hydrophilous species, and were shown to be distributed more between than within populations. This partitioning of variability was attributed to three main factors. (1) Clonal growth (as measured by the frequency of multi-enzyme phenotypes) was shown to be a major factor in both species, although more important in P. pectinatus. (2) Low levels of sexual reproduction were shown to be a likely contributor to the partitioning of variability in P. pectinatus; such reproduction is probably limited by seedling recruitment rather than by infrequent flowering. (3) Geographical isolation was indicated as a factor regulating gene flow at distances of more than about 1000 km in both species, with the data suggesting that dispersal between populations is mainly by seed rather than by vegetative means.
23675280|Cells of Micrasterias denticulata Brb. were kept in nutrient solution of high osmolality (salt stress) for four weeks. In a special cell multiplication test it was established that cell division is gradually inhibited at increasing salt concentrations and totally arrested at the highest concentration (26 mosm/kg). "Recovery studies" proved that even cells from the highest concentration range start dividing immediately after being placed in aqua bidest. thus indicating the full reversibility of the inhibiting effect.  Cells of the highest concentration range show marked ultrastructural changes. Besides an enormous accumulation of starch and oil bodies and a condensed appearance of the ground plasma, a reduction of mitochondria, ER and the Golgi-system is found. The most striking effect occurs on the vacuolar system which appears extremely reduced and condensed. The cell wall is thickened by the formation of an additional cell wall layer with a "spongy" electron microscopical appearance. Through the cell wall many droplets of a probably fat-like substance are excreted.  In summary, salt stress induces growth-inhibited "akinete" cells in the sense of Fritsch; these can be reactivated by decreasing the salt concentration. The salt-induced "akinete state" seems to be an ecological adaption to unfavourable conditions rather than a degeneration of the cells.
23643972|The systematics of the yellow-flowered Aconitum lycoctonum species complex (Ranunculaceae) has long been considered difficult because of high morphological variability and hypothesized hybridization. To elucidate the systematic value of these taxa, and to study their phylogeny in a broader context, we studied all species of the subgenus Lycoctonum from Europe and the Caucasus Mountains and the European species of the subgen. Aconitum. We sequenced the ITS region and the chloroplast intergenic spacer psbA-trnH and conducted parsimony analyses. We also measured morphological characters from 19 A. lycoctonum populations. The two subgenera in Europe are clearly separated but hybridization between subgenera might have taken place in the past. Sequence variation within A. lycoctonum and among all taxa of subgenus Lycoctonum was very low and probably the result of recent speciation, leading to one morphologically highly variable species in which color morphs could be seen as subspecies. There was high morphological variability within and among populations and the morphological characters have no value as systematic characters.
43558344|In Gondwanic Discaria, phenotypically intermediate individuals exist between Discaria chacaye (G. Don) Tortosa and Discaria articulata (Phil.) Miers, and between D. chacaye and related Ochetophila trinervis (Gillies ex Hook. & Arn.) Poepp. ex Miers. We studied phenology, pollinators, parental crossability, morphological features, and variation patterns on neutral markers. Intermediates occur wherever parental taxa are sympatric or in close proximity. Flowering was synchronous in D. chacaye and D. articulata for 2 weeks. They also shared three to six pollinator species (depending on site). O. trinervis, which flowered later, occasionally overlapped with D. articulata, with which it shared two pollinators. Germinable seeds were obtained from hand pollinations only from crosses with D. articulata as paternal parent and D. chacaye as maternal parent. Sequencing of chloroplast DNA revealed only two haplotypes. One occurred in D. articulata, D. chacaye, and their intermediates, and the other in O. trinervis and its intermediate with D. chacaye. Only pure parentals had diagnostic alleles by isozymes, whereas intermediates mainly showed those of D. chacaye. Our results confirm intrageneric hybridization between D. chacaye and D. articulata, and intergeneric hybridization between D. chacaye and related O. trinervis.
23673232|To better understand the evolutionary history, intergeneric relationships and circumscription of Chrysanthemum and Ajania and the taxonomic position of some small Asian genera (Anthemideae, Asteraceae), the sequences of the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (nrDNA ITS) and the chloroplast trnL-F intergenic spacer (cpDNA IGS) were newly obtained for 48 taxa and combined with those already deposited in GenBank. Phylogenies with an emphasis on Chrysanthemum, Ajania and its allies, by both maximum parsimony and Bayesian analysis, were constructed using either the ITS sequence alone, the IGS sequence alone or combined sequences. The IGS sequence was low phylogenetically informative, but some deletions and insertions were informative for interspecific and intergeneric delimitations. The ITS and the ITS/IGS phylogenies both suggested the presence of two major clades. The monophyly of subtribe Artemisiinae (clade A) could be retrieved when the phylogenetic positions of some ambiguous taxa were renewedly considered. Subtribe Artemisiinae was chiefly divided into two groups, (1) one corresponding to Chrysanthemum, Arctanthemum, Ajania, Opisthopappus and Elachanthemum (the Chrysanthemum group), (2) another to Artemisia, Crossostephium, Neopallasia and Sphaeromeria (the Artemisia group). Within the Chrysanthemum group, Chrysanthemum Arctanthemum and Ajania were closely related to each other, and the generic circumscription was ambiguous; Phaeostigma was excluded from this group that was also confirmed by the 6-bp insertion in the IGS sequence; radiate or rare discoid Brachanthemum was excluded, and discoid Elachanthemum without ray florets was added to this group; at the same time, Opisthopappus in subtribe Tanacetinae should be transferred to subtribe Artemisiinae and became one of the components of the Chrysanthemum group. Based on the molecular phylogenetic framework, the evolution of pollen and capitulum characters was inferred.
23642840|A new rust fungus, Spumula serispora, is described. The morphology of the teliospores and the telia was studied. In the teliospores of S. serispora and S. quadrifida, the type species of the genus, sterile cells could be found, which are comparable to "apical cells" of other Raveneliaceae. Similar sterile cells were also present in the telial heads of Ravenelia texensis. The ontogeny of the teliospores of S. serispora and the teliospore heads of Ravenelia texensis was studied and compared. In both species the ontogeny of the spores heads was similar. In R. texensis hygroscopic cysts sustaining the spore heads were produced by division and not by conversion of basal sterile cells of the teliospore heads.
43558200|Lythrum salicaria L. (Lythraceae) is tristylous, each plant forming one of three floral morphs that differ in reciprocal placement of the stigma and two sets of anthers. Several reproductive traits were compared quantitatively among these morphs. Although mean pollen viability ( 93%) and total pollen per mature, indhiscent anther within a staminal level (mean CV = 11%) were constant, the patterns of mean pollen production per anther were complex, being significantly lowest in long stamens (1,490 grains) of the short-styled morph, but highest in intermediate stamens (3,590) of the long-styled morph. Overall, pollen production was greatest (38,200) in long-styled flowers and least (22,000) in short-styled ones. On the contrary, ovule quantities per ovary (mean 107) were similar among floral morphs; thus, pollen-to-ovule ratios spanned 192 (short-styled morph) to 364 (long-styled morph), relatively low values for a strictly xenogamous species. Each morph had a recessed annular nectary of similar dimensions encircling the ovary base, with equal numbers of modified stornata distributed uniformly on the nectary surface. Most stornata were solitary (94%), whereas 5% occurred in pairs and 1% of stomatal units had just one guard cell. During nectar secretion, about 16% of pores were closed plus 28% of pores were fully occluded. Similarly, nectar volumes and solute concentrations, peak rates of nectar secretion (mean 72-79 g sugar h) at early afternoon, and the nectar's sucrose prevalence [S/(G + F) 4.3] were not significantly different among morphs. Based on these similarities in nectary structure and nectar-secretion dynamics, traits rarely studied in tristylous species, the preferential visitation of any particular floral morph of L. salicaria during nectar foraging by insects is unlikely. Indeed, lack of discrimination among morphs by potential pollinators may be a key tenet of successful sexual reproduction in tristylous species.
23644275|Genetic diversity in a natural Elymus caninus population from Denmark was assessed using isozyme and microsatellite markers. A total of 119 individuals from 46 maternal plants were assayed. Microsatellite loci are shown to display higher levels of variation than isozyme loci. The mean number of alleles per locus was 1.04 for isozymes and 1.38 for microsatellites. The percentage of polymorphic loci for isozymes and microsatellites was 4.7% and 23.6% across the maternal plant, respectively. The genetic diversity at population level was 0.1 for isozymes, and 0.63 for microsatellites. The mean genetic diversity at maternal plant level was 0.027 for isozyme loci and 0.117 for microsatellite loci. The average of total allozyme diversity (HT) was 0.22. The average of total microsatellite diversity was 0.56. Isozyme and microsatellite variation showed the same pattern of differentiation between maternal plants. More than 75% total genetic diversity was found among maternal plants. About 25% total genetic diversity was detected within maternal plants. Ten (22.7%) maternal plants produced heterozygous offspring at allozyme loci, and 30 (68.2%) maternal plants gave heterozygous offspring at microsatellite loci. Both types of markers revealed a relatively high genetic diversity in this population.
23674043|A comparison of karyotypes of Brachyscome breviscapis (2n = 8), B. lineariloba cytodemes E (2n = 10), B (2n = 12) and C (2n = 16) suggests that these species have a homoelogous basic set of four chromosome pairs, two large pairs and two small, and that the B. lineariloba cytodemes E, B and C are related to B. breviscapis by successive additions of small chromosomes. A pronounced asynchrony of chromosome condensation between these large and small chromosomes has been observed. In the artificial hybrids between B. dichromosomatica (2n = 4)  B. breviscapis, and the B. lineariloba cytodemes, the B. dichromosomatica chromosomes are similar in size and condensation behaviour to the small chromosomes of B. breviscapis and of B. lineariloba cytodemes E, B and C. Meiotic pairing in these hybrids also demonstrates the strong affinities between these chromosomes. It is suggested that B. breviscapis may be of amphidiploid origin between a species with two large early condensing chromosome pairs and another, B. dichromosomatica-like species with two small late condensing pairs. It seems most likely that the additional small and late condensing chromosomes in B. lineariloba cytodemes E, B and C are derived from the B. dichromosomatica-like parent, and that each addition increases vigour, fecundity and drought tolerance, allowing these cytodemes to colonize more open and arid environments. Transmission of the univalents in the quasidiploid B. lineariloba cytodeme E was verified as being via the pollen, and not via the embryo sacs.
23643385|Electrophoresis was used to compare variation in hordein polypeptide patterns and isozymes in five marginal populations of Hordeum secalinum (four Swedish and one Danish population) and four populations along the Atlantic coast from Denmark to Spain. Hordein patterns were uniform within and among Swedish and Danish populations whereas the materials from France and Spain were divergent. The banding patterns for nine isozymes (AAT, IDH, MDH, PGD, GPI, ME, ACP, EST, and PRX) agreed with those reported for other Hordeum species. All putative loci were monomorphic with the exception of PRX, which showed three different phenotypes. The five marginal populations varied in seed set and cultivated plants differed in phenological traits.
23674556|Allozymic variation at 30 isozyme loci was examined electrophoretically in nine annual and one perennial species of Cicer. While most of the accessions examined were monomorphic, species can be differentiated on the basis of their enzyme phenotypes. Several groups of species were identified based upon genetic distance values. For example, C. arietinum, C. reticulatum, and C. echinospermum shared the same alleles for most of the loci exmained. Perennial C. anatolicum is also closely related to this group. Similarly, C. judaicum, C. bijugum, and C. pinnatifidum formed another group. Two annual species, C. chorassanicum and C. yamashitae clustered together, whereas C. cuneatum was the most distantly related species. Correlations were found between genetic distances and geographic distribution. Results from enzyme electrophoresis tend to support the previously reported taxonomic treatments based upon crossability and morphological similarity. However, C. yamashitae, which has been classified in the second crossability group, is quite distinct genetically and morphologically from the remaining species of the group. An isozyme gene duplication observed in the genus suggested the monophyletic origin of the species examined in the present study.
23656066|Hybridization is particularly likely to occur in initial and young polyploid complexes, and interspecies hybridization between diverged species usually leads to a complicated reticulate evolution. The Ranunculus cantoniensis complex and its allied species include R. chinensis (2x), R. silerifolius var. silerifolius (2x), R. cantoniensis (4x), R. trigonus (2x), R. shuichengensis (2x), R. diffusus (4x), R. repens (4x), R. vaginatus (5x) and R. sieboldii (6x, 8x). Many morphological intermediates can be found between the members of this complex, and the relationship among members is complicated. By analyzing internal transcribed spacers and nrDNA FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization) signals, we unraveled the phylogenetic and genetic constitution of the various taxonomic units of this complex. Haplotypes were highly separated by median-joining network analysis and at least four haplogroups emerged in which there were 11 primary haplotypes; six out of ten taxa shared haplotype 1, suggesting that haplotype 1, a variation of the primary haplotype R. chinensis, served as the pivotal genome in the complex. The pollen characteristics and electrophoretic patterns of R. vaginatus (5x) showed it to be an intermediate between R. diffusus (4x) and R. sieboldii (6x). The distribution of R. vaginatus (5x) was located at the junction of the distributions of R. diffusus (4x) and R. sieboldii (6x). Ranunculus vaginatus (5x) shared haplotypes 7 and 8 with R. diffusus (4x), and haplotypes 8 and 9 with R. sieboldii (6x). This proved that R. vaginatus (5x) emerged from hybridization between R. diffusus (4x) and R. sieboldii (6x). The results of FISH also support a hybrid origin of R. vaginatus (5x). The findings of this study clearly show that there are only eight taxa in this polyploid complex including R. chinensis (2x), R. silerifolius var. silerifolius (2x), R. trigonus (2x), R. silerifolius var. dolicanthus(2x), R. cantoniensis (4x), R. diffusus (2x), R. vaginatus (5x) and R. sieboldii (6x, 8x). These taxa associated with each other by hybridizing with the pivotal genome. Ranunculus cantoniensis (4x) and R. vaginatus (5x) arose from hybridization events between diverged species in the polyploid complex, leading to a complicated reticulate evolution.
23675270|At least two plausible but very different mechanisms may underlie the de novo development of the pattern of spaced heterocysts in Anabaena. An experimental strategy is presented that should be able to determine whether one or the other of these mechanisms is incorrect.
23644100|The chromosomes of 31 species of Passiflora, distributed throughout the subgenera Astrophea, Calopathanthus, Distephana, Dysosmia, Passiflora, Plectostemma and Tacsonia were analysed. Three different karyotypes were observed: 2n = 12, 24, 36; 2n = 18, 72 and 2n = 20. The karyotype of these species was almost always constituted of metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes with variable karyotype symmetry. In the group with x = 6, represented by the subgenus Plectostemma, six diploid species with 2n = 12, one tetraploid with 2n = 24 (P. suberosa) and an intraspecific polyploid with 2n = 12, 36 (P. misera) were analysed. P. pentagona (subgenus Astrophea) may also be included in this karyological group since it presents 2n = 24 and may be of polyploid origin, with x = 6. The interphase nuclei in this group were areticulate, except those of P. morifolia and P. pentagona with semi-reticulate characteristics. Two small terminal heterochromatic blocks, positive for chromomycin A3, were identified in the largest chromosome pair of P. capsularis and P. rubra, species very closely related, while P. tricuspis displayed four chromosomes with proximal blocks. In the group with x = 9, represented mainly by subgenus Passiflora, 20 species with 2n = 18 and one with 2n = 72 were studied. They presented chromosomes larger than those species with x = 6 and interphase nuclei of semi-reticulate type, except for P. mixta with areticulate nuclei. Four terminal CMA+ blocks were observed in P. edulis, six blocks in P. caerulea and P. racemosa, while five blocks were observed in the single P. amethystina plant analysed. P. foetida (subgenus Dysosmia), the only species with 2n = 20, exhibited six chromosomes with CMA+ blocks and interphase nuclei of the areticulate type. The meiotic analysis of representatives of the three groups (P. foetida, P. suberosa, P. cincinnata and P. racemosa) always presented regular pairing and regular chromosome segregation, except in P. jilekii where a tetravalent was observed. The analysis of the chromosome variation within the genus and the family suggests that the base number of Passiflora may be x1 = 6 or x1 = 12, whereas x2 = 9 is only an important secondary base number.
43558152|The genus Butia Becc. (Arecaceae) comprises 18 species distributed exclusively in South America, four of them in Uruguay: Butia lallemantii, B. paraguayensis, B. yatay and B. capitata. All species show serious regeneration problems which jeopardise their continuity in the near future. Butia lallemantii and B. paraguayensis are in the most critical situation, with restricted distributions (fragmented and reduced by cattle grazing and forestation) and populations with few individuals. Taxonomy in the genus is complex, and species delimitation remains unclear. The aim of this study was to examine the genetic variability of natural populations of B. paraguayensis, B. lallemantii and B. yatay, based on inter-simple sequence repeat markers, in view of long term conservation plans and to assist the taxonomic resolution of these closely related species. Twenty individuals from each population were sampled including four populations of B. lallemantii, three of B. yatay and the only B. paraguayensis population reported for Uruguay. Syagrus romanzoffiana was used as outgroup. Five primers were selected based on amplification profiles. Relationships among species were evaluated by constructing dendrograms and principal coordinates analysis. Genetic distance analyses indicate the existence of low variability among Butia species. Variability within populations was high, possibly due to gene flow, past hybridisation or life history traits. This variability provides great potential for recovery. Results do not allow us to suggest changes to the present taxonomic status of these species. We propose management recommendations involving restoration of recruitment and augmentation via stocks from within populations.
23642822|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of 18S-25S nuclear ribosomal DNA from representatives of 23 species of the subtribe Gentianinae and one outgroup species (Centaurium capitatum) were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction amplification and direct DNA sequencing. Within the taxa analyzed, the length of the ITS1 region varied from 221 to 233 bp, ITS2 from 226 to 234 bp. Of the aligned sequences of 497 positions, 151 sites involved gaps or nucleotide ambiguity, 133 were invariable and 213 showed divergence. In pairwise comparisons among the taxa of the subtribe Gentianinae and the outgroup, sequence divergence ranged from 1.3% to 34.1% in ITS1, from 0 to 28.1% in ITS2 and from 0.6% to 27.5% in combined ITS1 and ITS2. Phylogenetic trees generated from ITS sequences were highly resolutive and principally concordant with morphological classifications for the major phylogenetic divisions in the subtribe. An ancient divergence leading to two evolutionary lines was suggested in the subtribe by both DNA sequence and morphological data. One line encompasses the genera Gentiana, Crawfurdia and Tripterospermum, morphologically characterized by their glands on the base of ovary and their plicate corolla, while the other line involves all other members of the subcribe surveyed, characterized by their epipetalous glands and simple corolla without plicae. Megacodon, with glands on the base of ovary but without plicae on its corolla, was revealed to be more related to the latter group than to the former. Comastoma, Gentianella and Gentianopsis were shown to be well-defined monophyletic genera. Pterygocalyx showed much closer affinity to Gentianopsis than to any other genus. Some conflictions were detected in the genus Swertia.
23673208|The genus Dasypyrum (or Haynaldia) consists of two species, D. villosum and D. breviaristatum. However, the genomic relationships between these two species remain unclear. The objective of this study was to provide molecular phylogenic and cytological evidence on the evolutionary relationships of the genus Dasypyrum. Sequences of Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) and -gliadin genes both support the hypothesis that diploid D. breviaristatum is the progenitor of tetraploid D. breviaristatum, and the diploid D. villosum and D. breviaristatum evolved parallel from an ancestral species. Genomic and fluorescence in situ hybridization using ribosomal DNA and rye repetitive DNA sequence as probes also indicated that tetraploid D. breviaristatum originated from diploid D. breviaristatum.
23673201|Morphological characters of Chara baltica, C. hispida, C. horrida, and C. rudis from different localities in Central Europe and Scandinavia were analyzed. The plants were preliminarily classified using specific qualitative features into four species: C. baltica, C. hispida, C. horrida, and C. rudis. Of the 14 characters, all were used in principal-component and cluster analyses, and 12 were applied in a discriminant analysis. In the discriminant analysis, the most useful characters for distinguishing particular species were selected. The methods (canonical discriminant and canonical analyses) used herein offered good differentiation between brackish water species C. horrida and C. baltica and fresh water species C. hispida and C. rudis. The analysis showed that the two morphologically very similar species C. hispida and C. rudis are only partially distinguished.
23654182|The styles of four species within Astragalus subgenus Pogonophace (Leguminosae) were investigated under the scanning electron microscope (SEM): A. hoantchy Franch., A. complanatus Bunge, A. flavovirens K. T. Fu and A. dolichochaete Diels. The first species has a penicillate stigma, while the others possess a pollen brush. The two types of styles are not homologous. The results support the exclusion of sect. Sesbanella from subg. Pogonophace and the treatment of the other three sections of the subgenus as a distinct genus (Phyllolobium) in subtribe Coluteinae (tribe Galegeae), which is consistent with previous morphological and molecular studies.
23643641|Some aspects of pollen cytology at dispersal were studied in 12 species of gymnosperms. The pollen grains differed in: 1. volume and cell number; 2. polarization of external structure and internal cell components; 3. wall thickness, especially of the intine, and the resulting percentage of cell volume with respect to total pollen grain volume; 4. stratification and chemical nature of the various intine layers; 5. nature and location of polysaccharide reserves; 6. morphological differences between the dry and hydrated states and phenomena related to hydration; 7. presence and site of orbicles. The various characters are compared and discussed in relation to the length of the reproductive cycle and the relations between the male gametophyte and its female counterpart.
23671529|The Omphalotaceae fam. nov., which include the genera Omphalotus and Lampteromyces, are defined on the basis of characteristic sesquiterpenes and of their ability to cause white-rot. Anatomical and morphological features of the representatives of these genera support the creation of this new family. The occurrence of pigments, typical of the Boletales, and of cyanophilous spores, indicate membership of the Omphalotaceae in the order Boletales. Relationships to the other families of this order  especially to the Paxillaceae  are discussed. The possible functional significance of fungal metabolites is considered.
23673923|Individual flowers of Moraea inclinata are nectariferous and last about six hours. They appear to be pollinated largely by bees in the family Halictidae (Lasioglossum spp., Nomia spp., Zonalictus) and to a lesser extent by bees in the family Anthophoridae (Amegilla). The mechanism of bee-pollination in M. inclinata is the "Iris type"; i.e., each flower consists of three pollination units (an outer tepal, a partly exserted anther, and the opposed style branch which terminates in a pair of petal-like crests). Bees rarely visit more than one pollination unit per flower. Transferral of pollen to the bee is passive and nototribic although all bees collected on the flowers were female and 55% of the bees carried pollen loads with 2  5 pollen taxa in their scopae. Moraea brevistyla flowers are nectariferous but lack scent and last two days. They are visited infrequently by bees and only one female Lasioglossum spec. carried the pollen of M. brevistyla. Unlike flowers of M. inclinata those of M. brevistyla deposit pollen only on the head and thorax. Bee-mediated autogamy in both species is avoided due to the erratic foraging patterns of the bees and the flexibility of each stigma lobe as the bee backs out of the flower. Approximately 2  4 flowers in the inflorescences of both species (6  8 flowers/infloresence) develop into capsules.
23643108|Complete sequences for the 18S-rRNA gene of 22 bryophytes (12 completely new) were determined and used to construct phylogenetic trees. The evaluation of sequence data according to the maximum parsimony principle (PAUP 3.1.1) and the neighbor-joining method (MEGA) results in similar phylogenetic trees in which the Bryopsida appear as a sister group to the Jungermanniopsida, and both together as a sister group to the Marchantiopsida. Among the Marchantiopsida, the Sphaerocarpales diverge early as a separate clade. The Metzgeriales and Jungermanniales are monophyletic. They belong to one clade and cannot be separated by either method of evaluation.
23674504|Sequence variation in chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) as measured by DNA reassociation was examined in 12 grass species to address systematic problems in the Poaceae at the subfamilial and tribal levels. Two species, Petunia (Solanaceae) and Glycine (Leguminosae), were included to determine degrees of sequence divergence in cpDNA between monocots and dicots. The data were analyzed phenetically and phylogenetically. Species were segregated into four major groups that corresponded to the subfamilies Pooideae, Oryzoideae, Chloridoideae, and Panicoideae. Representatives of the Pooideae and Oryzoideae grouped together as did members of the Chloridoideae and Panicoideae. The Pooideae split into two major groups corresponding to the recently recognized supertribes Triticanae and Poanae. Internodes between subfamily branches were short which might indicate a burst of divergence in the family early in its evolution. Sequence similarity values between the monocot grass species and the two dicot taxa ranged from 0.15 to 0.27, representing the highly conserved sequences of the chloroplast genome.
23645063|Phylogenetic relationships in Primulaceae were investigated by analysis of nuclear rDNA ITS sequences. Thirty-four species of Primulaceae, two of Myrsinaceae and four out-group taxa were analyzed. In accordance to the results of recently published papers on the phylogeny of Primulaceae we found the family to be paraphyletic and resolved the positions of some genera. Our results show (a) the rather basal position of Centunculus within Lysimachieae, the genus thus being rather distantly related to Anagallis, (b) the close relationship between Lysimachia sect. Lerouxia, Anagallis, Asterolinon, and Pelletiera, (c) the well-supported monophyly of a group consisting of the four genera Hottonia, Omphalogramma, Bryocarpum, and Soldanella, and (d) the affinity of Stimpsonia to the Myrsinaceae-LysimachieaeArdisiandra clade. The ITS sequence data do not provide sufficient information to resolve basal relationships within the Primulaceae s.l. There is evidence against the monophyly of the large genera Primula, Androsace, and Lysimachia. In contrast to the phylogenetic reconstructions based on plastid gene sequences, Cyclamen does not appear as a member of the Myrsinaceae-Lysimachieae clade, but its position remains unclear.
23660114|Cunila species are among the commonly used South Brazilian plants in popular medicine. This genus presents two centers of distribution in North and South America; the latter being classified into three sections: Incanae, Incisae and Spicatae. Based on the prospective utility as aromatic and medicinal plants, the aim of this work was to examine the genetic diversity among the South American species to contribute to the knowledge of their botanical sections. In this context, 11 Cunila species were analyzed by ISSR using seven primers that generated a total of 107 bands. The relationship was evaluated by constructing dendrograms using the UPGMA algorithm and analysis of principal components. The cluster analysis places the species C. origanoides with the South American species, but forming an independent cluster. Remarkably, among South American species two clusters emerge, one consisting of shrubs and the second by subshrubs species, which refines the botanical taxonomy for several species of the genus.
23655640|The fossil record of Araceae pollen beginning in the late Early Cretaceous and peaking in the Paleocene/Eocene is very sparse up to now, consisting of three highly distinctive types: zonaaperturate pollen of the Monstera or Gonatopus type (very similar to Proxapertites operculatus), an ulcerate-spiny type typical for Limnobiophyllum, and a polyplicate, omniaperturate pollen type (an ephedroid pollen with non-gnetalean affinities) which was recently reported from the late Early Cretaceous (Mayoa portugallica). An extensive literature search has shown that some distinctive Ephedripites forms (the Paleogene Ephedripites vanegensis, and the Late Cretaceous Ephedripites elsikii) are very similar to pollen of Spathiphyllum and both species are here transferred from Ephedripites to Spathiphyllum (as comb. nov.). We also add new fossil findings to the Araceae record. The new findings include a zona-aperturate, microperforate to microreticulate pollen type from the Palaeocene of Colombia, highly similar to extant Gonatopus or Zamioculcas or Monstera pollen (Araceae) and to fossil Proxapertites operculatus, which is currently seen as a fossil equivalent; and, an ulcerate, spiny pollen from the Eocene of Stolzenbach, Germany, extending the range of Limnobiophyllum (Pandaniidites), which is thought to be an extinct member of extant Araceae. The three pollen types add considerably to the reliable fossil record of the family that now contains more than 20 records of these three pollen types: with the zona-aperturate type recorded from the tropical or subtropical regions of Northern and Southern America, Central Africa, Southern and Central Europe, from the Indian subcontinent and the Malayan Archipelago; the ulcerate type occurring in North American and Europe; and the polyplicate type mainly occurring in South American and South-West Europe. Now we have good evidence that some of the aroid subfamilies were already in existence in the Cretaceous, increasing in diversity and worldwide distribution in the Paleogene.
23673124|Pollination in the genus Arum appears to be in general a complex deceptive pollination process. The genus Arum is composed of 28 species, all belonging to the subgenus Arum, except A. pictum, the only species of the subgenus Gymnomesium, which is basal and sister to all other Arum species. The aim of this paper is to document the pollination ecology of the insular Arum pictum, the only Arum species to flower in autumn, on the island of Corsica (France). The anthesis cycle of A. pictum occurs during the day, attracting sphaerocerid flies and staphylinid beetles early in the morning and late in the afternoon of the first day. The pollen is released from the anthers early in the morning of the second day before the departure of the insects. Its thermogenic cycle matches the anthesis cycle with an original and unique, bimodal temperature pattern of the appendix (morning and afternoon), contrary to the unimodal pattern found in all other studied Arum species. Data from reproductive success and seed sets suggest that sexual reproduction in this species is limited by pollen (e.g. attracting lured insects) rather than by resources. The biology of this Western Mediterranean species appears to be different from other Western European Arum and close to some Eastern Mediterranean species. Further studies are needed to establish whether Arum pictum represents some ancestral stage or whether its peculiar biological traits are adapted to its insular distribution.
23674661|Most members of the Ochnaceae possess poricidal anthers that are emptied by pollen collecting bees performing vibrational foraging. In several genera, such as Tyleria, Adenarake, and various species of Sauvagesia, however, pollen is released by vibration from the anthers through the porus of a novel structure formed by staminodia. These envelop the androecium and gynoecium. Anthers enclosed in this envelope are often longicidal.
23674712|Meiotic pairing in Tradescantia soconuscana 2n = 26 (6M+ 16 A + 4T) suggests that it has a tetraploid constitution which is not apparent in its chromosome number. Its "nombre fondamental" of 32 indicates that it could have evolved from an ancestor with x = 8 by a combination of Robertsonian fusion, hybridization and polyploidy. The 2n = 16 (8 A + 8 T) karyotype of a closely related diploid supports this. The allied genus Zebrina may have followed a similar method of chromosome evolution.
23673838|Pelargonium caroli-henrici spec. nova (sect. Hoarea) is described. The new species is apparently endemic to quartzite areas of Vanrhynsdorp Division in the western Cape Province (South Africa). The chromosome number 2 n = 22 was counted on specimens in cultivation.
23643988|Sequences of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA were determined for 15 species of Illicium (Illiciaceae) to examine phylogenetic relationships. The ITS trees show a major dichotomy between the two North American species (I. floridanum and I. parviflorum) and the remaining east Asian species. This suggests that the existing division between two sections (sect. Illicium and sect. Cymbostemon) of Illicium based on tepal characters is unnatural. The ITS phylogeny shows congruence with palynology: of the species examined, the three species (I. angustisepalum, I. anisatum and I. fargesii) from sect. Illicium that possess trizonocolpate pollen consistently form a clade, although nesting within a clade consisting of the species of sect. Cymbostemon, which generally have trisyncolpate pollen. The low ITS sequence divergence and the close relationship among east Asian species suggest a recent diversification of this group of species or an unusual slowdown of sequence mutations.
23644346|HPLC-UV and HPLC-MS investigations of phenolic acids and flavonoids in flowerheads of 84 samples of 76 taxa belonging to 66 species of Hieracium resulted in the identification of three phenolic acids (chlorogenic acid, 3,5-dicaffeoyl quinic acid, 4,5-dicaffeoyl quinic acid) and six flavonoids (apigenin 4-O--glucuronide, isoetin 4-O--D-glucuronide, luteolin, luteolin 7-O--D-glucoside, luteolin 7-O--D-glucuronide, luteolin 4-O--D-glucoside). The contents of these secondary metabolites were quantified by HPLC using quercetin and cynarin as internal standards. In contrast to the previously investigated genera Leontodon and Crepis, cichoric acid and caffeoyl tartaric acid were not found in any of the investigated Hieracium taxa. Results of HPLC analyses revealed only a limited degree of qualitative variation between the different taxa, and luteolin 7-O--D-glucuronide and isoetin 4-O--D-glucuronide were the only compounds, which were not detectable in some of the investigated taxa. Quantitative patterns of phenolics differed markedly between particular taxa and Principal Component Analysis of the quantification results yielded separate clusters for the members of the subgenera Hieracium and Pilosella.
23673885|An attempt is made to elucidate some of the more pronounced departures from traditional classifications in the book "The families of the monocotyledons" by Dahlgren and collaborators, which embodies the latest opinions of the late Rolf Dahlgren on the subject. Consideration is given to the treatment of the Liliiflorae (especially Liliales and Asparagales) and Bromeliiflorae, and to the theory offered for the origin of the monocots which identifies the Dioscoreales as the most primitive order of the subclass. Dahlgren aimed at an "eclectic classification" (one based on a combination of similarity criteria and phylogenetic criteria) and the results of his use of cladistic methods (in association with F. N. Rasumssen) to supply the phylogenetic input are assessed. The resulting system itself is considered in the light of the distinction drawn by J. S. L. Gilmour between natural and artificial classifications and their respective uses.
23655911|Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) showed a high degree of polymorphism in nine species of bamboo, Dendrocalamus giganteus Wall ex Munro, D. asper Becker ex K. Heyn, D. longispathus (Kurz) Kurz, Bambusa vulgaris 'Striata', B. ventricosa, B. bambos (L.) A. Voss, B. atra Lindley, Gigantochloa atroviolacea Wdjaja and Arundinaria hindsii, in Sri Lanka. The lowest mean genetic distance of 0.143 was between B. vulgaris and B. ventricosa. They could however be distinguished morphologically. The genetic distances separating D. longispathus from D. giganteus and D. asper were both greater than that between the latter two species, which had a value of 0.313. Although the genetic distances between Bambusa vulgaris, B. ventricosa and B. bambos were relatively small, B. atra separated from them at greater distances. The smaller genetic distances between G. atroviolacea and B. vulgaris, B. ventricosa and B. bambos indicated that G. atroviolacea had a closer affinity to these three Bambusa species than B. atra. A. hindsii with the greatest genetic distances from all other species in the study, was not related to any of them. RAPD analysis was useful in determining the genetic diversity and relationships and in detecting problematic generic assignments.
23642243|3H-RNA, complementary to repetitive DNA of wheat, rye, barley, and oat, was hybridized in situ to root tip or pollen mother cells of the species mentioned. The cRNAs hybridized best with the DNA in cell nuclei of the species from which they were prepared. Cross hybridization with cells of the other related species resulted in a significant but diminished labelling. Wheat, rye, and barley hybridized better to each other than to oat, and vice versa, in agreement with the usual taxonomical classification. Over the interphase nuclei the label was distributed unevenly; not all regions of dense chromatin were labelled, and little label was found over the nucleoli. On chromosomes, the repetitive DNA was located somewhere along the chromosome arms or near the centromers in wheat, barley, and oat. Only in rye, most of the label was located near the telomers, probably over the large heterochromatin areas.
23654212|After a biometric study the taxon Asyneuma pichleri (Vis.) D. Lakui & F. Conti comb. nova is re-evaluated. This taxon, endemic to the Balkan Peninsula, has been confused in the past with A. trichocalycinum (Ten.) K. Mal. Lectotypes are designated for both taxa. Statistically significant differences were found between A. pichleri (from Balkan peninsula) and A. trichocalycinum (from Apennines) based on multivariate analysis and discriminant analysis of morphometric data. A. pichleri is morphologically well differentiated from the A. trichocalycinum by its longer corolla lobes and style. These differences are particularly pronounced when considering the ratios between corolla length/width and style length/stigma length.
23664384|The holoparasitic angiosperm Orobanche minor parasitizes a diverse range of flowering plants from at least 16 orders in both the monocots and eudicots. However, populations of O. minor show host specificity at a local level. Our previous work identified the potential for host specificity to act as a catalyst for genetic divergence among populations of O. minor. Here we have extended this investigation by sampling populations from multiple hosts, across a broad geographic range. Sequence characterised amplified region (SCAR) data identified an exotic host-generalist lineage and a native host-specialist lineage of O. minor, suggesting genetic structure in this species is defined by both host specificity and geography. In addition, host-range overlap, discordant tree topologies, and cryptic morphology indicate the presence of gene flow between alien races and endemic populations. Therefore, repeated introductions of alien races of O. minor from disparate sources leading to introgression with native populations, and cryptic race formation, seem to have contributed to the taxonomic confusion associated with this species. We speculate that radiations associated with broad host range and divergent host ecologies may have promoted the unusually wide geographic distribution and diversification of this species. Finally, evidence of multiple shifts to exotic hosts, coupled with the predicted northward shift in climatic suitability, identify the potential for range expansion in alien races of O. minor, which may threaten nationally scarce native taxa with genetic assimilation. Our phylogenetic analysis provides a framework for identifying host races in Orobanche with a view to setting conservation priorities.
23644095|A characteristic xeromorphic foliage occurring in the European Tertiary was originally identified as a Proteaceae according to gross morphology, and compared with Grevillea L. and Lomatia L. (Grevillea kymeana Unger, Lomatites aquensis Saporta). On the basis of venation patterns and phyllotaxy, these elements are now reinterpreted as extinct species of Berberis L. (Berberidaceae): Berberis andreanszkyi spec. nov. occurring in the Upper Oligocene (Eger  Wind brickyard), and the Middle Miocene (Erdbnye) of Hungary, and Berberis kymeana (Unger) comb. nov. (syn. Lomatites aquensis Saporta) known from the Lower Miocene of Greece (Kymi) and the Oligocene of France (Aix-en-Provence, Manosque/Bois d'Asson, Crestre, Bonieux). The associated vegetation reflects warm-temperate to subtropical subhumid climatic conditions. Extant barberries with similar foliage occur in the Himalayas and China today.
23673145|The Late Oligocene Mutisiapollis telleriae, which is the oldest echinate fossil pollen of Asteraceae from Patagonia, was tentatively related to the subfamily Mutisioideae. A detailed comparison of M. telleriae with extant asteraceous pollen indicates strong similarities with both Mutisioideae (in particular the Gongylolepis type) and Carduoideae (some genera of Carduinae) subfamilies. This morphotype, as an example of the exceptional diversity of fossil pollen of Asteraceae found in Patagonia, contributes to the knowledge of the early history of the family.
23644998|We investigated differences in floral odor between two sympatric, closely related sexually deceptive orchid species, Ophrys fusca and O. bilunulata, which are specifically pollinated by Andrena nigroaenea and A. flavipes, respectively. We identified biologically active compounds by gas chromatography with electroantennographic detection using antennae of the pollinator bees. Alkanes, alkenes, aldehydes, and farnesyl hexanoate released electroantennographic reactions. The relative amounts of alkanes were mostly the same between the two orchid species, whereas the relative amounts of most alkenes were significantly different. On the grounds of these findings and behavioral experiments conducted in earlier studies, we suggest that the difference in relative amounts of alkenes is responsible for the selective attraction of pollinators in the two orchids. Speciation in this group of Ophrys orchids may be brought about by changes in pattern of alkenes, which lead to attraction of a different pollinator species and therefore reproductive isolation.
23645114|Phylogenetic analyses of a well supported clade within the acrocarpous moss family Bryaceae were performed using information from chloroplast DNA sequences and morphology. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analyses all support two major clades within the ingroup. The first clade includes members of Bryum sections Apalodictyon, Caespiticia, Capillaria, and Leucodontium, and Plagiobryum zieri, and we suggest that the species composing this clade should be accommodated in Plagiobryum. The second clade contains representatives from all the included Bryum sections (except Capillaria) plus Acidodontium, Anomobryum, Brachymenium section Dicranobryum, and Haplodontium. Within this clade, Brachymenium section Dicranobryum is closely related to Bryum section Bryum. This suggests that the representatives of section Brachymenium included in this study should be accommodated in Bryum. Finally, the strong support for a clade with B. alpinum and B. coronatum indicates that these taxa should be separated from Bryum at the genus level.
23657059|Embryological characters of Handeliodendron bodinieri (Sapindaceae) are reported for the first time. Anthers are tetrasporangiate. Cytokinesis in microsporocyte meiosis is of the simultaneous type and the microspore tetrads are tetrahedral. The tapetum is secretory and parietal. Mature pollen is bicellular. The ovary is trilocular. There are two ovules in each locule. The placenta is axile. The ovule is crassinucellate, bitegmic and hemitropous, without hypostase when mature. The development of the embryo sac is of the Polygonum type. The systematic significance of the embryological characters of Handeliodendron bodinieri is discussed.
23674635|Fragments of several lichens were grown in the laboratory and developmental steps of growth and regeneration could be described. Different degrees of determination could be observed. The stages of podetial development in Cladonia are easily distinguished and are reached after comparably short time. As they occur highly synchronized the results encourage further morphogenetic experiments.
23642510|The albumin proteins from seed of Sophora microphylla Ait. and from cotyledons of Pisum sativum L. (cv. "Greenfeast") have been analysed electrophoretically using a range of gels of varied pore size. Plots of mobility [as 100 log10 (Rf  100)] vs.acrylamide content of gel indicate that very few of the albumins from S. microphylla are homologous with albumins from P. sativum. Despite the diverse compositions of the two fractions, their amino acid analyses were surprisingly similar.
23642113|The order Caryophyllales (Centrospermae) was found to contain specific P-type sieve-element plastids which are characterized by protein inclusions composed of ring-shaped bundles of filaments and of central crystalloids. The sieve-element plastids of 14 families (140 species investigated) fit into this overall characterization, and more specific details are used to delimit the families and arrange them within the order. Phytolaccaceae, the basic family of the order display much diversity: the crystalloids inside their plastids are either globular (most genera) or polygonal (Stegnosperma), starch may also be present (Phytolacca). Nyctaginaceae, with starch in Bougainvillea sieve-element plastids, can be derived directly from Phytolacca. Globular crystalloids are present in most of the families, as in Didiereaceae, Cactaceae, Aizoaceae-Tetragoniaceae, Portulacaceae-Basellaceae-Halophytaceae-Hectorellaceae. Caryophyllaceae and Limeum of Molluginaceae contain polygonal crystalloids (other Molluginaceae with globular crystalloids). Crystalloids are entirely absent from Chenopodiaceae (incl. Dysphaniaceae) and Amaranthaceae. The probable relationships between these families are presented diagrammatically in Fig. 13. Bataceae, Gyrostemonaceae, Vivianiaceae, Theligonaceae, Polygonaceae, Plumbaginaceae, Fouquieriaceae, Frankeniaceae, and Rhabdodendraceaeall at some time included into the Caryophyllales (Centrospermae) or doubtfully referred to themdevelop S-type (or different P-type) sieve-element plastids. Their direct connection to the Caryophyllales therefore is excluded. Finally, evolutionary trends of the Caryophyllales are discussed.
23674538|Each fig tree species (Ficus) is totally dependent on a specific species of wasp for pollination and the larvae of these wasps only develop in the ovules of their specific Ficus host. Because the fig crop on any particular tree is generally highly synchronized, the short-lived female wasps must leave their natal tree in order to find figs which are suitable for oviposition. Chemical volatiles produced by figs when they are ready for pollination are thought to be the means by which the wasps detect a suitable host. Gas chromatograms of the fig volatiles of 7 species of Ficus showed them to be species specific. Age related changes in the volatile profiles were noted as extra volatiles are produced when the figs were ready for pollination.
23654223|Allozyme variation in 83 European populations of the Melica ciliata/ transsilvanica species complex has been investigated. In spite of a diploid chromosome number, most loci were duplicated and patterns of within-population variation were not explainable unless apomixis or uncommon patterns of chromosomal segregation were assumed. Allelic richness and genetic diversity were very high but most of the variation (55-98%) was due to population differentiation. Geographic patterns were analysed both using phenetic, based on allele frequencies within populations, and cladistic, based on multi-locus genotypes, methods. Both methods congruently recognised three large groups of populations with discrete geographic distributions, in addition to a number of smaller groups. Of the three main groups, one was distributed in eastern and central Europe, one was restricted to western Europe north of the Alps and one was distributed in Iberia, Brittany and along the western shores of the Mediterranean. These groups are likely to have had separate histories but there appears to have been significant gene-flow among them. Among the less distinct groups, it was suggestive that some, e.g. the group containing all populations from the disjunct distribution in the Baltic basin, have been formed by introgression between the three major groups, whereas other deviating populations may represent additional distinct entities.
23674905|The new monotypic genus Triuridopsis from Peru is described. A key to the genera of Triuridaceae worldwide is given.
43558302|We investigated the phylogeny and phylogeography of four closely related Ainsliaea species (Asteraceae) on the continental Ryukyu Islands of eastern Asia, which consist of two flood-adapted "rheophyte" and two nonrheophyte (inland) species, based on 12 nuclear microsatellite loci. Phylogenetic analyses using 420 individuals from 26 populations showed that rheophytic A. linearis and A. oblonga are genetically distinct. Each species was clustered with the inland species that occur on the same islands, suggesting a different ancestry for the two rheophytes that evolved independently by local adaptation to flooded habitats. The results from the neighbor-joining clustering and principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) indicate that the southern populations of A. macroclinidioides are distinct lineages and ancestral to the northern populations as well as the other diverse species complex in the Ryukyus. These results suggest a pattern of colonization initially from the Asian mainland to the southern islands, followed by the northern islands via land bridges generated during the Quaternary glaciations. After isolation from southern populations, species radiation and regional differentiation within the northern clade occurred possibly via local adaptation and/or geographic isolation of the subdivided island bridge.
23674235|Nuclear DNAs extracted from individuals of the kelp Costaria costata (Phaeophyta) were studied using a small-subunit ribosomal DNA probe (pCc 18). On the basis of annealing analysis of rDNA variation within and among individuals and between populations, polymorphisms detected by pCc 18 appeared to indicate population identity. These rDNA polymorphisms were used to chart the distribution of Costaria breeding groups in the northeast Pacific. 20 sites were sampled and eight distinct populations resolved. One variant (Variant A) identified a southern group with plants from 13, loosely clustered sites sharing this banding pattern. The other seven variants, found in the northern portion of the study area, were unique and population-specific.
23642740|The use of the central raphe endings as a key character in the classification of Nitzschia is argued to be of doubtful validity. Some aspects of the evolution of the raphe are discussed in relation to variation in raphe structure within fibulate genera.
23643718|Morphometric, cytogenetic, geographical and ecological evidence for hybridization between Parkinsonia aculeata and Cercidium praecox is presented. Morphometric investigation using the character count procedure and cytogenetic observations confirm hybrid status. All diagnostic morphometric characters were intermediate in the hybrid. Both parents (2n = 28) show regular tetrad formation and pollen fertility greater than 94%. Hybrids have a chromosome number of 2n = 28 or 2n = 30, and display meiotic abnormalities including lagging chromosomes and micronucleus formation; less than 21% of hybrid pollen was fertile. Ecological and geographical information suggests that hybridization is occurring at increasing frequency due to the expanding range of P. aculeata associated with cultivation as an ornamental, coupled with ecological disturbance and weediness, and the cultivation of C. praecox and hybrids as fodder, ornamental and shade trees. Hybrid fertility and phenological observations, in conjunction with F-weighted principal component analysis, suggest that the progeny of F, hybrids are established. The hybrid is formally described as P.  carterae.
43558591|Despite the taxonomic value of pollen morphology within the tribe Vernonieae, a detailed study of the pollen of the subtribe Elephantopinae is still lacking. The pollen morphology of ten species, representing three of the four genera of the subtribe, Elephantopus, Pseudoelephantopus and Orthopappus, was studied with LM, SEM, and TEM. The pollen of all the species studied was found to be echinolophate, although the differences in aperture features and both sculpture and exine structure allowed recognizing two pollen types. The species of Elephantopus (except for E. elongatus) and Pseudoelephantopus share the regular or more or less regular ridges pattern, the colporate condition but with the ectoapertures little developed, and the acaveate exine structure. From the sculpture and the apertures, the pollen of Caatinganthus harleyi was found to be similar to that of Elephantopus and Pseudoelephantopus.The pollen morphology of the monotypic Orthopappus, which is shared with that of E. elongatus, was further investigated for the first time. We found that it differs from that of the other species in having an irregular pattern of ridges, colporate condition but with a well-developed ectoapertures, and caveate exine. Additional studies of the exine structure and apertures features, coupled with molecular phylogeny, are needed to understand the evolution of pollen characters and re-evaluate the intergeneric relationships within the tribe.
23674833|The reproductive system of Prosopis chilensis, P. pugionata, P. flexuosa, and P. torquata is described. Observations were made of floral morphology, stigmatic receptivity, pollen grain viability, and the nature of pollen reserves. Scanning electrone microscopy and statistical analysis were carried out. The results allow us to conclude that: 1) The studied species have three distinct floral morphs characterized by significantly different style lengths and, to a lesser extent, different stamen lengths; 2) style precocity found in all species does not indicate protogyny; 3) flowers with shortest styles are not receptive; 4) the pollen grains of all floral morphs showed high viability; 5) peroxidase is present in both the pollen and pistil; 6) viable pollen grains invariably have both starch and pollenkitt; 7) the studied species are andromonoecious.
23642490|In at least 4 genera of the Monimiaceae (Tambourissa, Wilkiea, Kibara, Hennecartia) extremely specialized flowers with a hyperstigma occur, i.e. a secretory zone in the narrow entrance of the floral cup. The mucilaginous secretion of the hyperstigma and of the carpels produces a transmitting medium for pollen tubes continuous from the mouth of the floral cup to the ovules. As to their floral morphology, the two extreme types, Hortonia and Tambourissa, are connected gradually by various other genera. Possible evolutionary trends and systematic problems are outlined. 1) FAA-fixed flowers of 13 species from 8 genera of the Monimiaceae s. str. and two additional species (and genera) of Monimiaceae s. l. have been studied as to their morphology, anatomy, and (in part) ontogeny. Additional information on the floral anatomy of other species and genera was obtained from herbarium material. 2) There is a general trend towards reductio of tepals, massive development of a floral cup, narrowing of the pore at the upper end of the cup, and inclusion of the inner tepals and the stamens or carpels within the cup. 3) The most striking specialization is the formation of a "hyperstigma", i.e. an extracarpellary stigmatic (secretory) zone. It has been found in 4 genera: Wilkiea (Australia), Kibara (New Guinea), Hennecartia (South America), and Tambourissa (Madagascar). The hyperstigma is differentiated in the pore and the inner surface of the roof of the floral cup. Morphologically, this region is constituted by the inner tepals, which are included in the floral pore or channel. A mucilaginous film is produced by the hyperstigma and by the stigmas and ventral slits of the carpels, forming a continuous transmitting medium for the pollen tubes from the hyperstigma down to the ovules. Pollen grains may stick and germinate on the hyperstigmatic mucilage. 4) Within the 4 genera with a hyperstigma, Tambourissa exhibits the most derived flowers. The hyperstigma is not only formed by the secretory epidermis of the floral channel, but also by degenerating tissue round the floral pore which produces a mass of mucilage. Furthermore, the ovaries are syncarpous and inferior; the styles are very short and a relatively long distance from the pore. The flower resembles the inflorescence of Ficus. 5) Possible preadaptations for this extreme floral construction with a hyperstigma are demonstrated in various other genera (massive stigmatic mucilage secretion : Hedycarya; stigmatic mucilage secretion combined with a narrow floral pore : Steganthera; colleters at the tepals : Siparuna). The possible function of an "extracarpellary compitum" in apocarpous flowers is discussed. 6) The male flowers have a wider opening in most of these cases (partly only secondarily by fissures at anthesis). No mucilage secretion has been observed. Apparently small insects may creep into and out of the male flowers but not into the females of the most advanced genera. 7) The evolutionary step from the floral type of Hortonia to the type of Tambourissa represents an extraordinary morphological grade comparable to the step from gymnospermy to angiospermy. However, this step from angiospermy to "angiocarpy" has apparently not undergone subsequent successful adaptive radiation. 8) Wilkiea-Kibara, Steganthera-Tetrasynandra (p.p.), and Austromatthaea-Mollinedia represent closely related pairs of genera. Palmeria and Siparuna share some specialized characteristics, but they are probably due to convergent evolution.
23642602|The pollen grains of Lauraceae and Hernandiaceae are characteristic in having a tubular exine of  microfibrillar structure. This is coated with a layer of medium electron-dense globules and very peculiar spines, made up of a substance differing from that of the exine. Such a pollen wall structure is otherwise unknown in seed plants and thus adds to the list of odd features erratically present in various taxa of the Ranalean complex.
23673715|Leaves of the monotypic angiosperm family Lactoridaceae exhibit flavonoid constituents consisting of six 3-0-diglycosides of the flavonols kaempferol and isorhamnetin. The presence of flavonols is concordant with the placement of Lactoridaceae among the "archaic" or "primitive" flowering plants. Flavonoid chemistry is less informative on the relationships of the family within the primitive dicots. The presence of isorhamnetin suggests closer affinities with families in the Laurales, particularly the Gomortegaceae and Monimiaceae. Phenetic and cladistic analyses of morphological features place the Lactoridaceae near several families in the Magnoliales.
23672717|This paper presents a cladistic analysis and classification of the green plants (Viridiplantae). It is intended to be more balanced than previous treatments because more attention is paid to the lower green plants, or green algae. A major dichotomy is reflected by the structure of the flagellar root system of motile cells. Taxonomically, this justifies recognition of two divisions of green plants, viz. Chlorophyta sensu stricto, and Anthocerotophyta. The latter embraces a portion of the green algae plus all embryophytes. From a cladistic viewpoint it is doubtful whether land plants are strictly monophyletic.
23645096|Serpentine (ophiolithic) substrate covers large areas in the Balkans, more so than in any other part of Europe. These areas extend from north to south mainly in the mountainous central regions and represent specialized habitats for basiphilous-calcifugal plants. Biodiversity in the area is high, with a great number of interesting local and regional endemics. The high number of endemics indicates the importance of serpentine habitats as centres for floristic differentiation and speciation. The number of Balkan endemics growing on serpentine is c. 335 taxa (species and subspecies) of which 123 are obligate. Their distribution is presented in 50  50 km UTM squares as adopted in the Atlas Florae Europaeae project coordinated at Helsinki. The richest (in number of taxa) squares are situated in NW Greece (Epirus), the island of Evvia, N Albania together with SW Serbia, and N Greece (Vourinos). They indicate important centres of plant diversity in the Balkans, areas to be noted for conservation strategy. Features responsible for the distribution and abundance of these obligate serpentine endemics include: 1) edaphic isolation in relation to type of bedrock (lime, dolomite, marble, schist, etc.), 2) mountain island isolation (Smolikas, Vourinos, Ostrovica, etc.), 3) island isolation (Evvia) and 4) continuous long-term isolation without interruption or disturbance of speciation.
43558300|To complement our knowledge about the karyotypes of the genus Vernonia Schreb., different techniques of chromosome banding, including AgNOR, triple staining with fluorochromes CMA/DA/DAPI (CDD), and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for the 45S rDNA probe, were applied to three species of subsection Macrocephalae-Vernonia bardanoides was collected from an area of cerrado (savanna) vegetation in Itirapina, So Paulo State, Brazil, and V. linearifolia and V. tomentella were collected from areas of rocky, open altitudinal vegetation in Joaquim Felicio and Diamantina, respectively, in Minas Gerais State. All species showed two terminal CMA and NOR bands. FISH indicated two terminal 45S rDNA sites in V. linearifolia and V. tomentella, and six in V. bardanoides.
23656021|I examine data and review information in the literature to test hypotheses proposed by Delpino and Darwin to explain the source of nutrients utilized by pollen tubes. In 1867, Delpino, in his discussion of distyly, suggested that the positive relationship between pollen grain size and style length was based on the pollen grains containing sufficient nutrients to sustain the growth of their pollen tubes through their respective styles. Darwin (The different forms of flowers on plants of the same species, 2nd edn. J. Murray, London, 1884) rejected Delpino's suggestion based on his examination of distylous species whose morphs produced pollen grains whose sizes were not proportionate to the lengths of their respective styles. Darwin then proposed that pollen tubes first grow autotrophically, i.e., through the stigma, then heterotrophically in the style. This should result in a positive relationship between pollen grain size and stigma depth, if pollen tubes grow autotrophically through the stigma. I examined 15 species in Fabaceae and 20 species in Proteaceae to test the two hypotheses. Pollen grain size was correlated with stigma depth among the Fabaceae, i.e., consistent with Darwin's hypothesis, and was not correlated with style length in either family, i.e., inconsistent with Delpino's proposal. Comparisons of related species, in general, were consistent with Darwin's hypothesis. In addition, information in the literature provided no evidence that pollen tubes obtain resources on or in the stigma, i.e., pollen tube growth from the stigmatic surface to the style was autotrophic. In contrast, pollen tubes obtain an array of resources from the transmission tissue, thus there is little reason for pollen grains to contain those resources. In addition, I suggest that positive correlations between pollen grain size and style/pistil length may be a result of both being correlated with stigma depth.
23675274|Gymnodinium aeruginosum has the usual fine structure of a dinoflagellate but does not seem to contain a well elaborated peduncle or a microtubular basket. Naked cells are surrounded by a single large amphiesmal vesicle. It houses an endosymbiont with typical blue-green cryptophycean chloroplasts (generally only one), cryptophycean starch grains in the periplastidal cytoplasm without a nucleomorph, and two membranes separating the periplastidal cytoplasm from the cryptophycean cytoplasm which contains mitochondria, ER, vesicles and ribosomes, but no eukaryotic nucleus. The endosymbiont is surrounded by a single membrane. Possible ways of the acquisition of the endosymbiont and the problem of the existence of ribosomes within a compartment without nucleus are discussed.
23674707|A series of chloroplast and nuclear probes were used to examine restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) in kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa) and three of its closest relatives. The four species fell into two pairs, with A. chinensis and A. deliciosa closely related but some distance away from the other two species, A. latifolia and A. eriantha. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the diploid species, A. chinensis, is a precursor of A. deliciosa, which is hexaploid.
23644963|We investigated patterns of isozyme variation and the hierarchic structure of genetic diversity in 25 Scandinavian populations of the lilioid herb, Anthericum liliago. Isozyme data suggest that tetraploid A. liliago has an allopolyploid origin and that A. ramosum may be one of its diploid progenitors. Two populations contained known or suspected hybrids between A. liliago and A. ramosum. Isozymes show that one population from S Sweden contains both triploid (hybrid) and tetraploid individuals whereas a putatively hybrid Danish population represents diploid A. liliago. There is an overall northward and eastward decline in allelic richness in the tetraploid populations, with the highest numbers of alleles in Denmark and SW Sweden. This pattern is consistent with a progressive loss of allelic variation during the species' postglacial colonization of Scandinavia. The between-population component of genetic diversity is 4% (compared with 12% in diploid A. ramosum), the between-region diversity component is 7% and 89% of the total diversity is stored within populations.
23674072|Intraspecific variation has been found for several pollination-related characteristics in two isolated populations of the self-incompatible tree Acacia terminalis: floral characteristics including colour and flowering time; style length; size and colour of extrafloral nectaries on the leaf petioles; chemical components of the extrafloral nectar; different taxa of bee pollinators; and frequency differences in bird pollinators. These differences possibly reflect the evolution of two different pollination syndromes within this species.
23645065|Aquatic plants are well known for their high degree of phenotypic plasticity in vegetative structures, particularly leaves. Less well understood is the extent to which their sexuality can be modified by environmental conditions. Here we investigate gender plasticity in the European clonal monoecious aquatic Sagittaria sagittifolia (Alismataceae) to determine how floral sex ratios may vary with plant size and inflorescence order. We sampled two populations from aquatic habitats in East Anglia, U.K. and measured a range of plant attributes including ramet size and the number of female and male flowers per inflorescence. The two populations exhibited similar patterns of phenotypic gender, despite contrasting patterns of total allocation to female and male flower number. Plants produced male-biased floral sex ratios but female flower number increased from the first to the second inflorescence whereas male flower number decreased. Size-dependent gender modification occurred in both populations, but the patterns of allocation to female flower production differed between the two populations. Our results are consistent with the view that monoecy is a sexual strategy that enables plants to adjust female and male allocation in response to changing environmental conditions.
43558290|Most lineages in the African genus Protea consist of species with large unscented flowers pollinated principally by birds, and several of these lineages also show evidence of shifts to rodent pollination, associated with concealed yeasty-scented flowerheads. In this study we investigated the hypothesis that brightly coloured and fruity-scented flowerheads of four Protea species (P. caffra, P. simplex, P. dracomontana and P. welwitschii) represent a novel shift from bird to insect pollination in a grassland lineage in the genus. These species are visited by a wide range of insects, but cetoniine beetles were found to be the most important pollinators because of their abundance, size and relatively pure pollen loads. Three of the four putatively insect-pollinated Protea species have flowers presented at ground level, and experiments showed that cetoniine beetles preferred inflorescences at ground level to those artificially elevated to the height of shrubs and small trees. Relative to insects, birds were infrequent visitors to all of the study species. The nectar of all the study species contained xylose, as documented previously in bird- and rodent-pollinated Protea species, suggesting that this is a phylogenetically conserved trait. However, the very low concentration of nectar (ca. 8%), short nectarstigma distance and the fruity scent of florets appear to be traits that are associated with specialisation for pollination by cetoniine beetles.
23655914|Festuca L. has an important diversification centre in the Iberian Peninsula. We used chromosome counting, fluorescence (FISH) and genomic in situ hybridization (GISH), and DNA flow cytometry (FCM) to clarify the taxonomic position of several taxa, to search for phylogenetic relationships and to assess the extent and pattern of genome variation in fescues. The chromosome number of Festuca duriotagana var. barbata is determined for the first time and new ploidy level estimations are given for F. rothmaleri and F. summilusitana. In the latter species, besides the reported decaploid level, dodecaploidy was found in some populations, which points to the existence of an unrecognized taxon. Moreover, these differences were confirmed by FCM and a high positive correlation was found with the type of substrate where F. summilusitana was growing. For each section, a decrease of genome size with increase of polyploidy was observed. In general, in situ hybridization techniques failed to reveal phylogenetic relationships among the selected species. In FISH, a variation in the number of rDNA sites was observed in some species. GISH results indicate that diploid F. henriquesii is not a progenitor of the studied polyploid species.
23673787|The phytogeographical territories of Israel and Sinai are revised using a large mass of species distribution data. With the help of chorotype frequencies for 25 km2 individual squares in Israel, territories were defined on the basis of the first two most frequent chorotypes. The similarity of boundaries in the resulting phytogeographical map with a physiognomic map suggests that the latter may be used in preliminary stages of the preparation of plant geographical maps.
23644418|The recent development of molecular marker technology is revolutionising the study of plant populations, providing opportunities to address questions requiring a precise knowledge of pedigrees. We applied Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR) PCR to several Brassica oleracea accessions and to Brassica napus. Four microsatellite-primers were screened and, among the 136 reproducible fragments recorded, 25 (18.4%) fragments were common for all Brassica, 27 (19.9%) were unique and 84 (61.7%) were phylogenetically informative. Each individual test sample exhibited a unique molecular genotype. ISSR markers provided a rapid approach to analyse genetic diversity and reflected the known genetic relationships among selected entries. ISSR markers appeared of great value in gene bank management and the establishment of genetic similarity, and can be applied to allogamous (autumn and winter cauliflower) crops.
23674839|Representatives of seven genera from five tribes of Rubiaceae have been compared in respect to a non-coding intergene cpDNA region of about 1000 bp, situated between the atpB and the rbcL genes. The resulting most parsimonious PAUP cladogram corresponds very well with one based on total cpDNA restriction site data obtained by Bremer & Jansen (1991). The two different molecular analyses thus corroborate each other and contribute to an improved systematic arrangement of the large family, e.g., in respect to placing the tribe Hedyotideae clearly into the subfamily Rubioideae, closer to Rubieae than to Psychotrieae.
23671741|Samples from 11 populations of wild barley, Hordeum spontaneum, from Israel, were examined for morphological variation in a "common garden" plot design. Earliness traits had the highest between population variation of all traits studied. No relationship was found between dimensions of leaves and size of seeds.Using numerical taxonomy methods, four races were found, which correspond to the geographical and environmental range of the species in Israel. It is concluded that H. spontaneum shows a well developed tendency toward formation of highly adaptive races rather than exhibiting clinical variation.
23674848|Hordeum caespitosum Scribner, H. jubatum L., and H. lechleri (Steudel) Schenck are very similar in appearance and therefore until recently were mostly not recognized as separate entities. The first two are tetraploid and natives to North America, but the second occurs naturally in eastern Siberia and has been introduced in Europe and South America and may become a cosmopolitan weed. The third is hexaploid and South American. This study analyses their morphological diversity by means of selected multivariate techniques in order to determine if there is justification to recognize them as three separate morphological species. Logistic discrimination, although based on a reduced set of characters, yielded the highest percent of correct assignments. A linear discriminant function is provided and validated by 100 bootstrap repeats. Canonical discriminant analysis indicated three groups. It is subsequently concluded that the three are separate morphological species. Although a linear discriminant function is given, a traditional identification key is provided based on the palea length and triad (the group of three spikelets at each rachis node) length.
23669047|Somatic chromosome numbers of 47 accessions representing 28 Artemisia species are provided from Iran. Two basic chromosome numbers, x = 8, 9, each with diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid levels, were found. Different chromosome numbers, 2n = 16, 16 + 1B, 16 + 5B, 32, 48, and 2n = 18, 18 + 1B, 19, 36, 36 + 1B, 36 + 2B, 37, 49 + 2B, 49 + 3B, 51 + 6B, 54, 54 + 1B, 54 + 3B, 54 + 5B, in studied accessions were identified. Chromosome numbers are reported for the first time in three species, counts in four species are new for Iran, and other counts have been thoroughly compared to previous data. Forty percent of the studied accessions are polyploid and B-chromosome(s) are reported in 17 % of accessions. Aneuploidy and aneusomy are other relevant cytological phenomena. Some karyological parameters, total karyotype length, karyotype formula, mean value of centromeric indices, mean arm ratio, A 1 and A 2 indices, were estimated to characterize the karyotypes numerically. A 1 and A 2 indices showed that karyotypes tend to be asymmetric in polyploid and dysploid taxa. PCA analysis of all karyological parameters has shown some systematic and evolutionary implications. The consideration of all these chromosome numbers and cytogenetic mechanisms has led us to infer the different patterns of chromosomal evolution in the genus.
23642318|The chromosomes of Adoxa moschatellina (2 n = 36, paleo-4x) contain mostly terminal, occasionally intercalary, negatively heteropycnotic cold-induced regions which correspond to all major C-bands including the satellites, as revealed by sequential analysis. Positively C-stained are also centromeres, the dotlike arms of the 7 telocentric chromosome pairs, and some very narrow intercalary bands; their cold-sensitivity is hardly traceable. There exists a fraction of condensed interphase chromatin, at least after chilling, which is virtually not C-banded (possibly condensed euchromatin). The DNA amount is 14.3 pg (1 C). The heterochromatin content is 13.0%. The thermal melting profile (Tm corresponding to 38.6% GC) does not reveal a particular AT- or GC-rich fraction. Significantly, the heterochromatin respond to the Hy-banding procedure is neutral. The distribution of cold-sensitive regions in plants was analysed with the "arm-frame method": Intercalary positions, clearly, are not especially favoured regions. The obvious deficiency at centromeric positions may depend on the action of natural selection against mechanically labile centromeric regions.
23673721|Genetic diversity and structure of populations of the wild progenitor of barley Hordeum spontaneum in Iran was studied by electrophoretically discernible allozymic variation in proteins encoded by 30 gene loci in 509 individuals representing 13 populations of wild barley. The results indicate that: a) Hordeum spontaneum in Iran is extremely rich genetically but, because of predominant self-pollination, the variation is carried primarily by different homozygotes in the population. Thus, genetic indices of polymorphism P-1% = 0.375, range = 0.267-0.500, and of genetic diversity, He = 0.134, range = 0.069-0.198, are very high. b) Genetic differentiation of populations includes clinal, regional and local patterns, sometimes displaying sharp geographic differentiation over short distances. The average relative differentiation among populations is Gst = 0.28, range = 0.02-0.61. c) A substantial portion of the patterns of allozyme variation in the wild gene pool is significantly correlated with the environment and is predictable ecologically, chiefly by combinations of temperature and humidity variables. d) The natural populations studied, on the average, are more variable than two composite crosses, and more variable than indigenous land races of cultivated barely, Hordeum vulgare, in Iran.  The spatial patterns and environmental correlates and predictors of genetic variation of H. spontaneum in Iran indicate that genetic variation in wild barley populations is not only rich but also at least partly adaptive. Therefore, a much fuller exploitation of these genetic resources by breeding for disease resistance and economically important agronomic traits is warranted.
23643691|Cladistic relationships of epacrids and vaccinioids (Ericaceae) are investigated using nucleotide sequence data from the chloroplast encoded matK gene. Sequences of 56 taxa were aligned and analyzed using parsimony methods. Results show that Vaccinioideae as currently recognized are not monophyletic. The epacrids are sister to a clade that includes the Lyonia group, the Gaultheria group, and the Vaccinieae. Arbutus and Pyrola branch early in Ericaceae, before the rhododendroid group. Enkianthus is sister to the remaining Ericaceae (including Epacridaceae). Vaccinieae are strongly supported as monophyletic, but Vaccinium and Agapetes are polyphyletic.
23645283|Females of Thalictrum pubescens produce stamens containing sterile pollen. Earlier studies have shown the presence of stamens does not increase seed set through increased visitation by insects. Insects may, however, increase pollen deposition on stigmas and increase pollen competition. This paper examines: 1) pollen deposition levels in natural populations and 2) whether larger pollen loads lead to higher quality offspring. The majority of stigmas in two populations received less than 15 grains, but a small proportion had large loads. The latter may represent the occasional insect visit. These visits may provide the opportunity for pollen tube competition. In the greenhouse, flowers receiving heavy-pollen loads had higher seed set than flowers receiving light-pollen loads. Seeds from the two treatments were the same mass, had similar germination times, and seedlings had the same mass. In conclusion, it does not appear that pollen tube competition can account for the maintenance of stamens in females of T. pubescens.
23672627|Verrucaria schaereri (Fr.) Nyl. is accorded generic status as Placocarpus Trev. emend. O. Breuss. The main differences between the two genera concern the thallus anatomy and the spores which are halonate in Placocarpus. The following new combinations are proposed: Placocarpus schaereri (Fr.) O. Breuss and Placidiopsis cinerascens (Nyl.) O. Breuss.
23642365|The Mediterranean distylous Linum suffruticosum has dimorphic pollen. That from short-styled plants has sub-monomorphic surface excrescences with minute papillae; that from long-styled plants has strongly dimorphic excrescences with conspicuous papillae. The differences are much like those described in species of other sections of the genus. Pollen of the related homostylous L. tenuifolium has monomorphic pollen. It combines characteristics of both L. suffruticosum types but resembles that of the long-styled plants somewhat more closely. Ribbonlike styles of long-styled plants of L. suffruticosum provide another feature which seems to be controlled by the S supergene thought to be associated with distylic incompatibility. The pollen of L. suffruticosum and L. tenuifolium is very similar to that of some species of section Linastrum and would support their placement in that section.
23642863|The ovules of Cocculus hirsutus are anatropous, bitegmic and, crassinucellate. The fruit is drupaceous, black purple, and laterally compressed and has a pericarp demarcated into exocarp and endocarp. The seeds are curved around the basal bodies. Testa and tegmen cells are thin-walled and unspecialized. In the ripe seed the inner epidermis of the tegmen persists, whereas the entire testa and the outer layer of the tegmen degenerate. Relationships of the Menispermaceae to Ranunculaceae, Berberidaceae, and Lardizabalaceae are supported.
23674498|Myrosmodes cochleare is a terrestrial orchid restricted to high elevations of the northern Andes. It is self-compatible but not autogamous. Flowering begins at the apex of the inflorescence, but flower size increases steadily towards the base. Fruit set of selfed flowers was found to increase significantly from the apex to the base of the inflorescence. Open-pollinated fruit set was significantly lower than hand-pollinated fruit set overall, but the highest levels occurred in the middle of the inflorescence. Eumenid wasps and a calliphorid fly were observed to pollinate the flowers, but visits were rare and occurred only during infrequent warm periods.
23674107|Based on pollen and floral morphology, Blechum grandiflorum is transferred to Ruellia, and the name R. mirandana is proposed for this species. A new species, Ruellia tuxtlensis, is described which is distinguishable from R. mirandana by its longer spike and elliptic bracts. It is presently known only from the lowlands of Veracruz, Mexico.
23645304|Nineteen from the ca. 30 Diplotaxis species including all known haploid chromosome numbers have been analysed for isoelectric focusing patterns of Rubisco, allozymes and RAPDs. D. erucoides (n = 7) was clearly separated from all other species as were D. harra and D. crassifolia (n = 13 each). Taxa with n = 8 had different IEF patterns, but allozyme data grouped D. siettiana, D. ibicensis and D. brevisiliqua together. Species with n = 9 were characterised by different IEF patterns, and their position was neither resolved in the allozyme nor in the RAPD tree. Only the D. catholica accessions were strongly clustered together. D. viminea and D. siifolia (both n = 10) were kept separate, whereas the n = 11 taxa D. tenuifolia, D. cretacea and D. simplex grouped together. Data confirm D. viminea as maternal parent of the allotetraploid D. muralis, and D. tenuifolia as the likely parent.
23664352|The Podostemaceae are highly enigmatic plants which are restricted to submerged river-rock habitats. The availability of new material of nine taxa from continental Africa prompted this new study. Five species belonging to the genera Dicraeanthus, Leiothylax, Letestuella, Macropodiella, and Stonesia and another four species of the large genera Inversodicraea sensu stricto and Ledermanniella sensu stricto have been analysed for the first time. New anatomical and developmental data are described and illustrated by use of microtome sections and scanning electron microscopy. In parallel, phylogenetic analyses of all available sequence data of African Podostemaceae have been conducted using three plastid markers (matK, trnD-trnT, rpoB-trnC). Inversodicraea cf. bosii appears basal within the continental African clade. The remaining taxa are distributed in three, rather poorly supported, major clades which are consistent with their morphology: (1) the Inversodicraea clade is characterised by stem scales and contains members of the former Ledermanniella subg. Phyllosoma with either pollen-monads or dyads; (2) the Ledermanniella-Monad group consisting of Leiothylax, Letestuella, Macropodiella, Stonesia, and Ledermanniella speciesall taxa without stem scales but showing pollen as single grains, with Monandriella linearifolia being basal to this clade; (3) the Ledermanniella-Dyad clade including Djinga, Dicraeanthus, and Ledermanniella species without stem scales but with pollen dyads. To reduce the polyphyly of Ledermanniella sensu lato (i.e. sensu C. Cusset) we propose restricting Ledermanniella to the species of the former subgenus Ledermanniella, resurrecting Monandriella as monotypic genus, and accepting the genus name Inversodicraea for members of Ledermanniella subg. Phyllosoma.
23644983|Cytiseae have been reported to be mostly nectar-lacking, yet some taxa secrete nectar from extrastaminal nectaries. We studied the pollination biology of four shrubby species of Cytiseae (Cytisophyllum sessilifolium (L.) Lang, Spartium junceum L., Genista radiata (L.) Scop., Genista cilentina Valsecchi) which differ for ecology, distribution and population size. All species resulted obliged xenogamous, insect visits being necessary for successful pollination. Bumblebees and solitary bees are the principal pollinators, but also many beetles, some hover-flies, and few bugs visit flowers. Pollinator specificity is low, and this may be the reason of the scarce seed set compared to the number of ovules. Pollen is the main reward, but traces of glucose were detected in all species, at the base of vexillum or on the reproductive column. Nectar production is irregular in time, and apparently unpredictable. We suppose that nectar may play a role in attracting pollinators determining their right position for a successful pollination.
43496729|Fagus (beech) is among the most abundant and economically important genera of broadleaved trees in northern hemisphere temperate forests. The number of modern taxa present in Europe and Asia Minor has long been a matter of debate and up to five species have been recognised. To resolve taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships we conducted morphological and molecular genetic analyses in western Eurasiatic taxa and evaluated palaeontological evidence. To place our findings from western Eurasiatic populations in a broader context additional East Asiatic and North American species of the same subgenus Fagus as well as two species of the subgenus Engleriana were included in our study. The morphological features exhibited in western Eurasiatic populations of Fagus show a westeast gradient that is characterised by strongly overlapping variability between geographical races. Fagus populations from Asia Minor exhibit an even higher variability that is also reflected in their genetic variability of nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences. The intraspecific genetic variability recorded here is in conflict with previous ITS studies in Fagus. The high amount of ITS polymorphism within Fagus from western Eurasia along with the clinal variation observed for morphological characters suggest the presence of only a single species, Fagus syhatica L., in Europe and Asia Minor. Previously recognised taxa such as F. orientalis Lipsky and Fagus moesiaca (Mal) Czeczott should therefore be treated as synonyms of Fagus sylvatica. Although species belonging to the subgenus Engleriana were genetically distinct from species of the subgenus Fagus, relationships within the subgenus Fagus could not be clearly resolved. A reason for this could be the low rate of diversification in Fagus during the early phase of range expansion of the genus in the Oligocene period as indicated by the uniformity of leaf and cupule/nut fossils. This may account for the low overall ITS divergence and the high degree of polymorphism encountered in the subgenus Fagus and points to a late differentiation of western Eurasiatic and eastern Asiatic species. Area disruptions during the Pleistocene and the post-glacial recolonisation of western Europe appear to have caused the west-east gradient that is apparent in modern Fagus of western Eurasia but absent in Late Tertiary ancestors of Fagus sylvatica.
23642336|One plant from a population of Briza spicata (Poaceae) was found to have highly irregular meiotic behaviour. It is characterized by having a reduced chiasma frequency, a large between cell variance in chiasma frequency and the formation of multivalents involving pairs of A chromosomes. The B chromosome present in this plant also forms multivalents with a pair of A chromosomes. It is suggested that the normal control of strict bivalent pairing has broken down and homoeologous chromosomes are associating as multivalents. Furthermore, the partial homology of the B chromosome with a pair of A chromosomes is revealed.
23673790|Stems, incl. rhizomes, and roots of 42 species of Valerianaceae were investigated in order to reveal the occurrence, structure and distribution of xylem transfer cells. Within nodes and internodes their frequency, distribution and gradients of development are similar to other families.  Within the secondary xylem of some species transfer cells can develop from cambial derivates, in Valeriana tuberosa and Patrinia villosa even from pith cells. Within the turnip of V. tuberosa transfer cells are very frequent and well developed. Here, after degradation of the cell-wall ingrowths they can be redifferentiated into storage cells which usually contain starch grains ("Hllenstrkekrner"). In the transitional zone between stem and root of some predominantly herbaceous taxa transfer cells are often very frequent and form large protuberances before they degrade and lignify. SEM observations in Valeriana decussata show that the cell-wall ingrowths are degradated at the beginning of lignification with the exception of brush-like protuberances remaining in the half-bordered pit-pairs. During the subsequent process of lignification the simple pits of a wall adjacent to a vessel can be transformed into corresponding pit-pairs. In this case the residues of the protuberances within the pit chamber can be transformed into incrustations similar to the vestures of bordered pits described by Bailey (1933). Structural similarities between the brush-like protuberances in the half-bordered pits of the Valeriana transfer cells and the ingrowths found in Lauraceae (Castro 1982, 1985) are evident. Supposedly, all the cambial derivatives in Valerianaceae can develop protuberances at least within their pits. Thus, it appears possible to interpret the vestures of the bordered pits as rudimentary protuberances, and to suggest that they have a specific function in the selective transport of solutes.
23642951|The data derived from a chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis of subtribe Dendrobiinae (Orchidaceae) indicate that extreme vegetative diversification is concentrated in two limited parts of this group. Overlaying the vegetative character states onto the chloroplast DNA cladogram suggests that several xeromorphic, vegetative characters evolved in the lines leading to the above-mentioned clades. Several anatomical characters are also associated with xeromorphy. These vegetative and anatomical characters facilitated the establishment of this group in various dry habitats. On the other hand, the modifications of size and number of parenchymatous cells substantially contributed to the vegetative diversification. This fact implies that a simple structural adjustment can result in a major modification of growth habits in the Dendrobiinae.
23657047|To date, empirical studies on levels of genetic diversity in highly isolated populations of lithophytic orchids are few. We investigated levels of allozyme diversity and spatial distribution of genotypes in small, isolated populations of the endangered, self-compatible lithophyte Amitostigma gracile from southern Korea. At the regional level, genetic diversity was extremely low within nine populations (mean expected heterozygosity, He = 0.005); among 20 putative loci screened, only one locus (Dia-1) was polymorphic. At this locus Dia-1a was fixed in two populations, whereas Dia-1b was in four populations, which as well as the scarcity of genetic variation might be indicative of random genetic drift. Similarly, at the landscape level, Dia-1a was fixed in a population, whereas Dia-1b with a high frequency (0.917) was detected in another population (two populations were separated by only 150 m). Analysis of fine-scale genetic structure within populations revealed significant declines in kinship with distance, suggesting that most seeds fall around maternal plants. Furthermore, a significantly high degree of population differentiation and a considerable deficit of heterozygosity were found among and within populations (FST = 0.857; FIS = 0.940). These results suggest that genetic drift as a consequence of a small effective population size (genetic bottleneck), coupled with a limited gene flow would be major factors in harboring extremely low levels of genetic variation and in the shaping of population genetic structure of A. gracile in South Korea.
23642141|Eusynaptomyces benjaminii is described as a new species of the ectoparasitic Laboulbeniales (Ascomycetes). It exists only on two very restricted areas of the body (= position specifity) of its host Enochrus testaceus (F.) (Coleoptera, Hydrophilidae): on the claws of the right fore-leg and on the lower side of the frontal border of the pronotum. In these two habitats Eu. benjaminii develops two extremely different growth-forms. Male and female hosts are parasitized on somewhat different parts of their body. This can be explained by their mating behaviour. The growth-forms of Eu. benjaminii are so different that one ignorant of the biology of hosts and parasites, might regard them as members of different species or even genera. They are to be interpreted as adaptations of one species to growth positions and mating behaviour of the host. There is no "sex-of-host specifity" as assumed by certain authors for several species of the Laboulbeniales. Eusynaptomyces benjaminii Scheloske (Ascomycetes, Laboulbeniales) wird als neue Art beschrieben und mit den anderen drei Arten der Gat-tung verglichen. Eu. benjaminii ist streng krperteilspezifisch und parasitiert nur an den Vorderbeinklauen bzw. auf der Unterseite des Hals schildvorderrandes seines Wirtes, Enochrus testaceus (Fabricius) (Goleoptera, Hydrophilidae). Je nach Wuchsort bildet Eu. benjaminii zwei extrem unterschiedliche Wuchsformen aus.  und  der Wirte werden an verschiedenen Krperteilen befallen:  nur am Halsschild,  vor allem an den Vorderbeinklauen, vereinzelt auch am Halsschild. Der unterschiedliche Befall von  und  sowie die Krperteilspezifitt erklren sich aus dem Fortpflanzungsverhalten der Wirte : die befallenen Krperteile kommen bei jeder Prkopula der Wirte in engsten Kontakt miteinander. Das Fortpflanzungsverhalten der Wirte wird beschrieben. Aus dem Vorkommen von Eu. benjaminii auf seinen Wirten lassen sich Rckschlsse auf deren Biologie ziehen. Die morphologisch sich sehr stark unterscheidenden Wuchsformen von Eu. benjaminii, die bei Unkenntnis der Biologie der Wirte wie des bertragungsmechanismus der Parasiten u. U. als Angehrige verschiedener Arten oder Gattungen angesehen werden knnten, sind als Anpassungen einer Art an den Wuchsort sowie das Fortpflanzungsverhalten der Wirte aufzufassen. Viele der bisher beschriebenen Laboulbeniales- Arten stellen sicher ebenfalls nur Wuchsformen anderer schon bekannter Arten dar. Eine von mehreren Autoren fr manche Laboulbeniales angenommene Geschlechtsspezifitt ist nicht vorhanden.
23642965|Relationships between microgametophyte numbers per flower and fruit-set were sought in Phlox drummondii Hook. This was accomplished by counting fluorescentstained pollen tubes in flowers with and without fruits in 21 populations, and in flowers subject to either supplemental or sparse pollination, and then determining whether the flowers initiate fruits. There was a conspicuous variation in mean pollen tubes per flower (338) and in percent fruit-set (17%92%) among populations. Neighboring populations often differed strikingly in these respects. Flowers with fruits had an average of 15.2 pollen tubes per stigma whereas those without had an average of 3.7 tubes. Over all flowers, there was a mean of 3.7 tubes per ovule. There was a strong correlation between mean tube number within populations and their percent fruit-set (r = 0.86). Supplemental pollination significantly enhanced fruit-set, thereby supporting the notion that fruit-set was pollen-limited in most populations. In both natural and artificial pollinations a portion of flowers without fruits still had several pollen tubes. The occurrence of fruitless flowers containing tubes is explained by attrition factors, like late-acting pollen-pistil incompatibility, and resource limitation. Fruit-set could be initiated with one pollen tube, but this rarely occurred in nature. Higher pollen loads were accompanied by higher percents of fruit-set and number of seeds per flower.
23642942|The amphi-pacific genus Abrotanella (Gaudich.) Cass. of the southern hemisphere in the Asteraceae (Senecioneae, Blennospermatinae) is revised and 18 species are recognized. Three new species are described: A. fertilis Swenson from New Zealand, A. purpurea Swenson and A. trilobata Swenson from southern South America. The sexual function of central florets, perfect or functionally male, floret vascular pattern, and internal secretory spaces in the phyllaries are shown to be taxonomically informative for the circumscription of the species. Central without marginal vascular tissue in the lobes of florets, a unique pattern for Asteraceae, is reported. A diagnostic key, line drawings, descriptions, and distribution maps are supplied for all species.
23673191|Carthamus (Asteraceae) includes both crop (Carthamus tinctorius, safflower) and weedy species. Despite previous studies, many outstanding questions remain regarding the phylogenetic surroundings of safflower, especially in relation to weedy species. Here we investigated relationships within Carthamus using a tiered approach examining sequence and microsatellite data. First, nuclear and chloroplast sequences were analyzed from 37 accessions of 16 species. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference confirm two well supported clades, corresponding to sect. Atractlyis and sect. Carthamus, the latter of which includes safflower. Because sequence data provided limited resolution within the clades, microsatellite markers were used to investigate relationships within sect. Carthamus. Both sequence and microsatellite data reveal that most traditionally recognized species are not monophyletic. Microsatellite data indicate that Carthamus palaestinus is the closest relative of cultivated safflower.
23642491|The female gametophyte ontogeny in Podostemum subulatus is of the Apinagia type and not the Podostemum type as reported earlier. The independent existence of the Podostemum type in the family is questioned.
23673130|Curvature of un-pollinated styles towards the anthers in the Malvaceae has been interpreted as different adaptive mechanisms, presenting a challenging problem for evolutionary biologists. We have surveyed different species of this family to determine in which style curvature occurs, and to determine its possible functional roles. Two distinct types of style curvature occur in 18 species distributed in eight genera of four tribes: Type I, before pollen shedding, occurs in species of the Malvavisceae, Ureneae, and Hibisceae tribes, which have highly receptive stigmas and viable pollen when curvature brings stigmas into contact with anthers; and Type II, after pollen shedding, only appears in the protandrous species of the Malveae tribe. Curvature is often associated with annual and perennial herbs. We conclude that the adaptive significance of style curvature in the Malvaceae includes delayed selling, promotion of outcrossing, and reduction in intrafloral malefemale interference, even if the frequency of two or three of these occurs in one species only. This diversity provides model plants and the opportunity for determining the evolution, relative importance, and harmony mechanism of different adaptive significance, especially when two or three functions occur simultaneously in one floral movement of one species (e.g., Kosteletzkya virginica).
23674872|Paulownia taiwaniana, the widely cultivated, commercially important tree, has been suspected of being of hybrid origin at least since its original publication in 1975. Evidence in support of this thesis, derived from a number of different investigations, is presented in this paper.  Strong evidence comes from a controlled pollination study of the two supposed parental species, P. kawakamii and P. fortunei. F1 seedlings, derived from reciprocal crosses between the suspected parents, exhibited identical banding patterns for a number of enzymes (such as SKDH, GOT, and IDH) with P. taiwaniana, when separated by electrophoresis. Furthermore, comparative morphological studies of trichomes and wood parenchyma patterns between the purported parents and P. taiwaniana reveal that this latter qualitatively exhibits characteristics that combine features of both of the suspected parental types. Biochemically, eight enzyme systems were compared in the three species here under discussion, and, without exception, the electrophoretic banding patterns exhibited by P. taiwaniana represented a combination of the alleles of the other two species. Perhaps the most convincing evidence comes from a genetic analysis of the progeny obtained by selfing P. taiwaniana. Genotypic segregation of the offspring based on a single locus each of SKDH and PGI fit the 1 : 2 : 1 hypothesis. Genotypic segregation of the offspring based on two loci each of SP and GOT fit the ratio of 3 : 6 : 3 : 1 : 2 : 1. This, taken in conjunction with the other data presented, clearly suggests that P. taiwaniana is a hybrid involving P. kawakamii and P. fortunei.
23656046|Our study (survey, atlas of 136 microphotographs and 67 drawings) points out the actual chromosome numbers of 82 taxa of the genus Pinguicula L. They were gathered from literature and critically examined. In addition, numerous counts are published for the first time. They represent about 80% of all the taxa known. The basic chromosome numbers are x = 6, 8, 9, 11, and 14; the ploidy levels are 2n (diploid), 4n (tetraploid), 8n (octoploid) and 16n (hexadecaploid). The basic number x = 6 is a one-off, x = 8 and 11 are the most frequent in the genus; x = 14 indicates a hybridogenous differentiation process in the past. The caryological differentiationchromosome numbers and ploidy levelis discussed with regard to distribution pattern, growth type, and infrageneric classification (at the level of sections).
23674967|Twenty-one flavonoid glycosides were isolated from the leaves of 22 North American Vitis L. taxa, representing two subgenera and five series. Three chemical groups were evident: one producing flavonols, flavones, and C-glycosylflavones, a second producing flavonols and flavones, and a third producing only flavonols. These three chemical groups did not correspond to any of the subgeneric groupings based on morphology. However, flavonoid distributions within series in each subgenus correlate well with morphological data. Parallel flavonoid evolution within each series is thought to account for this lack of subgeneric and interserial flavonoid distinction. The flavonoid data indicate that series Cordifoliae of subgenus Vitis, particularly V. vulpina L., is the most closely related group to subgenus Muscadinia (Planch.) Rehder, and represents an evolutionary link between the two subgenera.
23644291|Campanula spatulata is represented on Mt Olympos (2917 m) by two subspecies: the lowland spruneriana, from 400 to 1100 m, and the upland spatulata, from 1700 m to 2500 m. Spatulata populations significantly differed from those of spruneriana in the following features: (i) they consisted of shorter individuals with smaller flowers and lower flower production, (ii) they allocated more energy and resources below ground, (iii) they flowered much later in the year, had longer duration of flowering, and longer flower life span, (iv) they produced smaller fruits with fewer but heavier seeds, (v) they received lower numbers of insect visits for fewer hours per day, and (iv) they were pollinated by smaller insects. Between and within subspecies comparisons showed that in most cases the patterns of character change were neither gradual nor monotonous all along the elevation gradient. The differences in phenological characters are in agreement with patterns associated so far with elevation change. The taxonomic and biometric differences of the insect pollinators as well as the temporal separation of the flowering periods provide substantial evidence of reproductive isolation of the two C. spatulata subspecies on Mt Olympos.
23655512|Changnienia amoena is a diploid and self-compatible orchid endemic to China. This species is in great danger of extinction with its current distribution being highly fragmented and discontinuous. This study investigated the level and apportionment of genetic diversity of this species using RAPD technique. Based on 119 discernible DNA fragments generated by 16 primers, an intermediate level of genetic diversity was found at the species level with the percentage of polymorphic bands (P) of 76.5%, expected heterozygosity (He) of 0.194. However, the genetic diversity at the population level was significantly lower (P = 37.2%, He = 0.120) compared with the average of other species with similar life history characteristics. A high level of population differentiation was detected with 43.8% variation resided among populations as measured by AMOVA. It is noteworthy that as much as 49.2% of the total diversity could be attributed to difference among populations when five populations from an area of approximately 60  25 km in the Xinning County were considered. These results, in conjunction with other evidence from pollination and ecological studies, suggest that the low within-population but high among-population variation in C. amoena is likely due to the small population sizes and local extinction because of habitat destruction and loss. The restricted gene flow is probably another factor contributing to the genetic structure found in C. amoena. Based on these findings, we proposed conservation managements for this endangered species, including habitat protection along with the protection of their pollinators, artificial pollination as well as ex situ conservation.
23674971|The principal landraces of the pearl millet, Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R. Br., from Niger have been analysed for their genetic structure at eight enzyme systems coded by 12 loci and 46 alleles. Three groups have been identified: (1) early-maturing pearl millets, cultivated between 8 and 13E longitude, including the oases from Ar mountains; (2) early-maturing millets situated more to the west (1 and 8 E longitude), and (3) late-maturing millets. Group 1 shows the highest isozyme diversity. The differences between the accessions represent 8.8% of the total diversity and the differences between the three groups 4.5%. The accessions from groups 1 and 3 are the least distant. When considering pearl millets from areas outside Niger, the chadian and sudanese millets are enzymatically close to the Niger group 1. The pearl millets from Niger group 2 are close to millets from east Mali, northern Burkina Faso and Senegal, and the Niger group 3 to the late-maturing millets group from West Africa. This study should help breeders to select the landraces for improvement and parents for crosses from cultivars of Niger and introduced germ plasm.
23673225|Colour polymorphism has often been described among individuals of deceptive orchid species, and several studies have investigated reproductive success variations among colour morphs. However, whether colour morphs differed in other traits has received little attention in previous studies. Here, we report the case of a tropical deceptive orchid in Reunion Island that exhibits three different colour varieties. We investigated patterns of trait variation among colour varieties and found significant differences in floral and inflorescence morphology. Interestingly, we found that most populations included only individuals of a single variety, and that strong differences exist among varieties in spatial distribution and flowering phenology. This situation differs from previously reported cases of floral polymorphism in deceptive orchids where colour morphs co-occur and flower in the same populations. The spatio-temporal variation in flowering suggests that colour varieties have independent reproductive ecologies and are adapted to local conditions. We propose that potential variations in pollinator species abundance or diversity and the co-occurrence of nectar-producing species in the community may have driven the adaptation of each variety to its current pollination niche.
23642801|Transfer of fresh pollen either by wind or by insects is strongly related to the degree of its stickiness. The sticky substances involved should be understood as "pollenkitt". Ultrastructural investigations indicate that the sticky pollen of entomophilous angiosperms (in this publication Hamamelis vernalis and H. virginiana, Corylopsis platypetala) results from the deposition of usually electron-dense, homogeneous pollenkitt mainly on the outside layer of the exine. In contrast, the pollen of anemophilous angiosperms (in this publication Parrotia persica, Platanus orientalis, Thalictrum flavum and Quercus robur), but also of some entomophilous angiosperms with special pollination ecology (e.g. Aquilegia vulgaris) is rather dry and powdery. In these cases the pollenkitt often is electron-transparent and inhomogeneous and is mainly removed into the cavities of the exine. Ultrastructure and deposition of pollen and pollenkitt in ambophilous angiosperms (in this publication Thalictrum minus, Castanea sativa) are  intermediate. Im Hinblick auf die jeweilige Bestubungsart wurden Menge, Ultrastruktur und Verteilung des Pollenkitts bzw. die Ultrastruktur der Exine bei Thalictrum flavum, Th. minus, Aquilegia vulgaris (Ranunculaceae), Hamamelis vernalis, H. virginiana, Corylopsis platypetala, Parrotia persica (Hamamelidaceae), Platanus orientalis (Platanaceae), Castanea sativa und Quercus robur (Fagaceae) vergleichend untersucht. Die unterschiedliche Klebrigkeit des Pollens entomophiler und anemophiler Sippen wurde durch einfache Objekttrgerversuche bestimmt. Dabei wurden relative Haftwerte beim Einwirken von Schwerkraft, Erschtterungen und Luftstrmungen sowie beim Austrocknen gewonnen und mit den ultrastrukturellen Merkmalen der Pollenver-kittung in Beziehung gesetzt. Die untersuchten Beispiele zeigen Gesetzmigkeiten im Verhalten des Pollenkitts (in erster Linie seine Anordnung auf dem Sporoderm, sodann seine Elektronendichte und Homogenitt, jedoch berraschenderweise kaum seine Menge) und in der Ultrastruktur der Exine (besonders hinsichtlich der infrasexinsen Hohlraumsysteme und der Oberflchengestaltung) beim bergang von der Insekten- zur Windbltigkeit: [Table: see text] Mit abnehmender Eignung des Pollens fr die Insektenbestubung und zunehmender Windbestubung treten vielfach folgende Vernderungen auf: 1. Die Menge des vom Tapetum produzierten Klebstoffs nimmt ab. 2. Der Pollenkitt verliert seine Homogenitt, seine Elektronendichte und im Zusammenhang damit seine gute Klebrigkeit. 3. Der Pollenkitt wird nicht mehr bevorzugt an der Oberflche des Sporoderms (etwa auf dem Tectum oder auf den Baculaspitzen) abgesetzt, sondern verliert sich mehr und mehr in den vergrerten Hohlraumsystemen der Exine (beispielsweise zwischen den Bacula) und wird damit immer mehr inaktiviert". Die erhaltenen Ergebnisse werden mit der bisherigen Einstufung der Bestubungsart verglichen. Es zeigte sich, da eine Untersuchung der Merkmale der Pollenverkittung in manchen Fllen zu einer Neueinstufung der Bestubungsart fhrt. Zur Vermeidung von Fehlschlssen mssen jedoch dabei alle bekannten Kriterien der Bestubungsbiologie herangezogen werden. Die einwandfrei insektenbltige Aquilegia vulgaris schttelt den Pollen auf ihre Bltenbesucher aus. Dieser Pollen verhlt sich in bezug auf Klebrigkeit, Verteilung des Pollenkitts und Volumen infrasexinser Rume wie extremer Windpollen". Dagegen ist Thalictrum flavum weitgehend anemophil, Th. minus dagegen ambophil; Parrotia persica ist als berwiegend anemophil, Castanea sativa dagegen als ambophil zu bezeichnen. In allen brigen Fllen wird die bisherige Einstufung durch die Untersuchungsergebnisse untersttzt.
23642681|Filaments of Phymatodocis nordstedtiana Wolle were isolated from a sample of a Texan lake. Cultures were established and examined by light and scanning electron (SEM) as well as transmission electron microscopy (TEM). It is shown that the pores apparent on light microscopical examination are not of the cosmaroid type as expected. TEM examination disclosed that they are similar to those found in the genera Closterium Ralfs and Penium Brb. Furthermore, it could be demonstrated by light and SEM microscopy that the primary cell wall is shed during cell division. The remaining secondary cell wall of the mature cell consists of interwoven bands of parallel microfibrils. A conspicuous overlap of the semicell walls clearly denotes the isthmus region. The significance of these deviations unusual for desmids is discussed. Suggestions are made that the taxonomic position of Ph. nordstedtiana should be re-evaluated.
23673221|Asplenium auritum Sw. is a sexual fern that produces 64 spores per sporangium, while A. monodon Liebm. is an apogamous species that produces 32 spores. The hybrid between them, A.  lellingerianum Snchez & Regalado, also shows an apogamous life cycle, with mainly abortive spores. The scope of this work was to study the sexual and apogamous behavior in these taxa. We studied spore germination and gametophyte development of the three species, a process that followed the Adiantum type. Afterward, we observed morphological apogamous characters in A. monodon and A.  lellingerianum. Apogamous sporophytes arose from apical and basal regions of gametophytes, lacking feet and roots in the first instance, but developing other normal sporophytic structures, such as tracheids, stomata, glandular hairs, and scales. Finally, we studied the gametangia production in all three taxa, finding that the scarce production of antheridia in A. monodon is indicative of the Braithwaite apogamous life cycle scheme, and this scheme has probably been inherited by A.  lellingerianum.
23674306|The revision of the Rutaceae into 17 provisional tribes, based primarily on the distribution of secondary metabolites (da Silva & al. 1988) is critically reviewed. In three areas where sufficient phytochemical data is available, i.e. the "proto-Rutaceae", (provisional tribes Zanthoxylum, Phellodendron, Toddalia, and Enodia pro parte), the African Toddalioideae sensu Engler, (provisional tribes Euodia pro parte, Acronychia), and Clauseneae sensu Swingle, (provisional tribes Clausena, Glycosmis, Micromelum, Merrillia), it is shown that the proposals made by da Silva & al. are seriously flawed. It is suggested that for other areas of the family insufficient phytochemical information is available to justify these proposals. In a wider context it is suggested that this approach, based on only one set of characters and on a wholly insufficient data base, is unhelpful to the task of producing a new classification of the family.
23654165|The Caesalpinia hintonii complex is formed by five endemic species (C. hintonii, C. laxa, C. macvaughii, C. melanadenia and C. epifanioi) occurring in central Mexico. This species complex is under incipient genetic divergence as by-product of local adaptations in reproductive and morphological traits to different habitats. We estimate the genetic variation and structure of populations of this species complex to assess the extent of genetic differentiation among populations and related species along its geographic distribution. Estimations of genetic diversity and structure were done based on ten enzymes and 18 loci. Mean number of alleles per locus ranged from 1.5 to 1.9. Polymorphic loci ranged from 42.1 to 68.4. Observed (Ho: range 0.191-0.275) and expected (He: range 0.205-0.317) heterozygosities in this complex were higher compared with other endemic and legume species. Nei's genetic diversity estimates showed that most genetic variation was found within (HS = 0.325) rather than among populations (DST = 0.085). Populations of the species C. hintonii showed a considerable genetic differentiation (FST = 0.207). The results of genetic diversity and structure within and among populations are in accord with the great morphological differentiation described for this species complex.
43496727|In gynodioecious species, females contribute genes to future generations only through ovules, and to persist in populations they must have a compensatory advantage compared with hermaphrodites that reproduce via ovules and pollen. This compensation can result from greater fecundity and/or superior success of progeny from females. We examined differences in seed production and progeny success between females and hermaphrodites in the geophyte Wurmbea biglandulosa to explain the maintenance of females. Females produced more ovuliferous flowers and had more ovules per flower than did hermaphrodites but this did not necessarily result in greater fecundity, in part because seed production of females was pollen-limited. Over four years in one population, open-pollinated females produced 1.32 more seeds than open-pollinated hermaphrodites (range 1.09-1.63). In two other populations examined for one year only females produced 1.07 and 0.79 as many seeds as hermaphrodites. Seed production of open-pollinated females and hermaphrodites was only 55% and 73% that of cross-pollinated plants, respectively, indicating that both genders were pollen-limited but females more so than hermaphrodites. Open-pollinated seeds from females were 1.18-1.27 times more likely to germinate than seeds from hermaphrodites. No gender differences existed in seedling growth or survival. Hermaphrodites were self-compatible, but selfed seed set was only 80% that of crossed seed set. Crossed seed set of females and hermaphrodites did not differ. Assuming nuclear control of male sterility, relative female fitness is insufficient to maintain females at their current frequencies of 17%, and substantial female fitness advantages at later life-cycle stages are required.
43558340|The genes encoding the nucleotide-binding site (NBS) and leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motifs constitute a large gene family in plants and have attracted much interest, because most of the plant disease-resistance genes that have been cloned are from this gene family. In this study, degenerate oligonucleotide primers, designed on the basis of conserved regions of the NBS domains from known plant resistance genes, were used to isolate resistance gene analogs (RGAs) from cultivated and wild eggplants, i.e., S. melongena, S. aethiopicum gr. Gilo, S. linnaeanum, S. integrifolium, S. sisymbriifolium, and S. khasianum. Sequence analysis indicated that the cloned eggplant RGAs belong to the non-TIR-NBS-LRR type, which are very similar to the R genes or the RGAs identified in other plant species, especially Solanaceae plants, suggesting the existence of common ancestors. Wide genetic diversity of eggplant RGAs was observed both in interspecific and intraspecific sequences, and eight distinct families of eggplant RGAs were identified. Further studies revealed a high average ratio of synonymous to non-synonymous substitution and a low level of recombination. These results suggest that NBS-encoding sequences of RGAs in cultivated and wild eggplants are subject to gradual accumulation of mutations leading to purifying selection. This is the first report of NBS-LRR class RGAs in eggplants.
23642709|A cytological survey of Leucanthemum species in North Africa has shown that they are all diploid with a somatic chromosome number of 2 n = 18. New counts are reported for 8 species and 1 subspecies. 11 taxa were used in a crossing programme and the results show a good agreement between phenetic distance based on morphological characters and genetic differentiation as expressed in the ability of the species to hybridize. A strong barrier to gene exchange exists between European and North African species. Bagging experiments showed that the North African species comprise a self-incompatible group of cytogenetically related species.
23656131|A population of Luisia curtisii (Orchidaceae: Aeridinae) in northern Thailand was studied with regard to pollination biology. Although a high level of self-compatibility was demonstrated experimentally, the very low natural fruit set (1.41.9 %) clearly indicated that the species depends on external agents for pollination. Our observations suggest that L. curtisii is pollinated by beetles, as Lema unicolor (Chrysomelidae) and Clinteria ducalis (Scarabaeidae) were the only flower visitors observed to carry pollinaria of this species. The hypothesis of specialised cantharophily is further supported by 2-methylbutyric acid and caproic acid being striking components of the floral scent. Judging from the lack of nectar and the behaviour of visiting beetles, the pollination system seems to rely on food or brood site deception. Retention of the anther on the pollinarium for some time after pollinarium removal probably reduces the frequency of insect-mediated autogamy and geitonogamy in Luisia curtisiia possibility that was supported by comparative data on (1) the anther retention time and inflorescence visitation time of Lema unicolor and (2) stigma and anther length in the orchid. Existing reports of specialised beetle pollination in orchids are reviewed, and we conclude that there is accumulating evidence that specialised cantharophily is more common in the Orchidaceae than previously assumed.
23642838|Two species of Pinguicula (P. submediterranea and P. mundi) are newly described from the south and east of the Iberian Peninsula. We analysed morphometry, cytogenetic, RAPD, ecological, and breeding system data to support the distinctness of these taxa. Pinguicula submediterranea and P. mundi are both hexaploid (2n = 48), a chromosome number previously not reported for the genus. Biometric, cytogenetical and molecular results distinguish P. submediterranea and P. mundi from other Pinguicula species, and from each other. Pinguicula mundi is predominantly outbreeding, whereas P. submediterranea both inbreeds and outbreeds. Pinguicula submediterranea and P. mundi appear to be isolated reproductively, although gene flow between the allopatric P. submediterranea and P. mundi is unlikely. Both P. submediterranea and P. mundi are threatened with extinction because suitable habitats are diminishing in size, or even disappearing, due to current aridity in the region.
23669400|A predominant theme in the study of orchid evolution has been the importance of floral traits contributing to pollinator-mediated isolating barriers (i.e., floral isolation). However, few studies have quantified the contribution of floral isolation in sympatric orchid populations. Cypripedium parviflorum vars. makasin and pubescens are excellent taxa to test the strength of floral isolation because of their recent phylogenetic separation, overlapping flowering phenologies, and sympatric populations that can lack intermediate morphologies. In this paper, we use sympatric populations to (1) test for pre-mating and early-acting postmating reproductive isolating barriers, (2) quantify genetic differentiation among populations using allozyme loci, and (3) document floral size differences between varieties. Pollen tracking experiments using fluorescent powders revealed minimal inter-varietal pollen movement. Across two sympatric sites, only 4 inter-varietal pollinations were observed among 52 var. makasin pollinations and 40 var. pubescens pollinations. All of these inter-varietal pollinations had var. makasin as the pollen donor. In contrast, artificial crosses within and between the varieties revealed no statistically significant differences in fruit set, seed weight, or embryo morphology. Allozyme data are consistent with restricted inter-varietal gene flow, showing strong allele frequency differences between the varieties across multiple loci. In a clustering analysis, these differences caused the varieties to group taxonomically and not by their geographic location. These data along with statistically significant morphological differences between the varieties strongly suggest the existence of a pollinator-mediated isolating barrier. The possible nature of the isolating barrier is discussed as well as the likelihood of other late acting post-zygotic barriers.
23673746|A total of 25 items are listed. 16 are new taxa described from South and East Anatolia: Papaver (1), Heldreichia (1), Astragalus (1), Lotus (1), Onobrychis (3), Sempervivum (2), Hellenocarum (1), Cirsium (2), Campanula (1), Omphalodes (1), Allium (1) and Puccinellia (1). Nine other species belonging to the genera Diplotaxis, Beta, Acacia, Lupinus, Cirsium, Limonium, Calamagrostis and Puccinellia, are new records for the Flora of Turkey area. Two combinations are made, one in Papaver (p. 113), the other in Hellenocarum (p. 122).
23663567|Daphne gnidium is a circum-Mediterranean evergreen shrub. Flower and pollen features related to pollination mechanism were analyzed, and the seasonal presence of insects visiting the plant was monitored. The morphology and functionality of flowers are compatible with entomophily, as are pollen viability, which is maintained for a few hours only after anthesis, and the very short stigmatic receptivity. The reproductive fitness of the species is low and the ripening process often fails (35% collapsed embryos). While male organ functionality is fairly regular, the female organ often shows developmental arrest. The complex or transient evolutionary traits displayed by D. gnidium are comparable to those of Thymelaea hirsuta and other members of the Thymelaeaceae.
23654224|We examined the reproductive biology of Melocactus curvispinus Pfeiffer (Cereeae, Cactoideae) in xeric areas of northern Venezuela. Floral traits correspond to a classic hummingbird-pollination syndrome; however, pollination is shared between hummingbirds, Leucippus fallax (Bourcier 1843), and anthophorid bees, Ceratina sp. Reproduction occurs during most of the year. Anthesis and nectar secretion occur between noon and sunset. Average daily nectar production per flower was 163.1 l, nectar sugar concentration between 29.1 and 30.2% (w/w). Hummingbirds promoted inter-plant pollen movement and were relatively more reliable floral visitors than anthophorid bees, but these insects had a higher frequency of floral visits (28.75/day) than hummingbirds (4.96/day). M. curvispinus is self-compatible and autogamous. By combining extended reproductive activity, frequent animal-mediated pollination, and selfing capabilities, this cactus possesses a mating strategy that guarantees reproduction under variable environmental conditions. We argue that based on its reproductive biology, M. curvispinus should be considered an example of evolutionary transition towards selfing within tribe Cereeae.
43558272|The classification of Eriosyce subgenus Neoporteria ("subsection" in the sense of Kattermann) and the role of allopatry/sympatry in the diversification of the group were studied by use of cladistic and predictive distribution modeling methods. We reconstructed the phylogenetic relationships of subgenus Neoporteria by analyzing 38 morphological characters and DNA sequences from two chloroplast regions of 21 taxa from the Chilean subsections of Eriosyce using a Bayesian and maximum likelihood phylogenetic framework. Also, we attempted to find out if the divergence between the sister taxa in the Neoporteria group had been caused by allopatric or sympatric mechanisms. The morphology-based analysis placed E. chilensis basal within the Neoporteria clade and suggested a further broadening of the group by including E. taltalensis var. taltalensis, formerly considered a member of subsection Horridocactus. However, the combined DNA data placed E. sociabilis and E. taltalensis var. taltalensis within the Horridocactus clade, and placed E. chilensis with E. subgibbosa var. litoralis. The broad concept of E. subgibbosa sensu Kattermann (comprising seven infraspecific taxa), was rejected by our combined molecular results. Finally, our results corroborated changes in subsection Neoporteria proposed by various authors and suggested further modifications within Neoporteria. The analyses of the degree of geographic overlap of the predicted distributions indicated null overlap between the sister taxa, and one probable hybrid origin of E. chilensis, indicating that evolutionary divergence is mainly caused by an allopatric process associated with climatic tolerance.
23674544|The sieve-element plastids of 69 species of the Caryophyllales were investigated by transmission electron microscopy. All contained the specific subtype-P 3 plastids characterized by a peripheral ring of protein filaments. The presence or absence of an additional central protein crystal and their shape being either polygonal or globular as well as the average sizes of the sieve-element plastids are useful features in the characterization of some families.  Barbeuia contains sieve-element plastids that confirm its placement within the Phytolaccaceae. Lyallia differs from Hectorella by including small starch grains in their sieve-element plastids, which otherwise by their globular crystals negate a closer connection to the Caryophyllaceae. The lack of a central protein crystal in its form-P3fs plastids places Microtea best within the Chenopodiaceae. Sarcobatus, a so far uncontested member of the Chenopodiaceae, contains form-P3cf plastids, i.e., including a central crystal not found elsewhere in this family. Telephium and Corrigiola, shifted back and forth between Molluginaceae and Caryophyllaceae, have form-P3cf(s) plastids with a polygonal crystal which favor their placement within the Caryophyllaceae.
23642475|Based on light and electron microscopical studies of Pyramimonas reticulata the genus Pyramimonas is shown to contain a number of unrelated flagellates. P. reticulata and P. montana are transferred to the new genus Hafniomonas, cells of which differ from Pyramimonas in shape, in the absence of scales and hairs on the body and flagellar surfaces, in details of the chloroplast, the position of the nucleus, the Golgi apparatus, the internal structure of the flagellar apparatus, and in cell division. The prasinophyte Pyramimonas contains a characteristic association of a large microbody and a rhizoplast, situated on the nuclear surface. A similar association is being found in an increasing number of prasinophycean flagellates, but is absent in Hafniomonas, which is considered related to chlorophycean rather than prasinophycean flagellates. The phylogenetic position of Hafniomonas is discussed, based in particular on details of the unique flagellar apparatus.
23645300|Comparative studies on floral morphology, anatomy, and histology were performed to identify shared features of the genera of Apodanthaceae (Rafflesiales): Apodanthes, Pilostyles, and Berlinianche. Berlinianche was studied for the first time in detail and its affinity to Apodanthaceae was confirmed. It has a previously undescribed hair cushion on the inner perianth organs and inaperturate pollen. Shared features of members of Apodanthaceae are: unisexual flowers; three (or four) alternating di-/tetra- or tri-/hexamerous whorls of scales of which the inner one or two correspond to a perianth; a synandrium with pollen sacs typically arranged in two rings; opening by a dehiscence line between the two rings of pollen sacs; large vesicular hairs above the synandrium; a gynoecium with four united carpels; inferior and unilocular ovaries with four parietal placentae, ovules tenuinucellate, anatropous with two well developed integuments, oriented in various directions; a nectary disk. Apodanthaceae share some special structural features with Malvales.
23645158|Artificial F1 hybrids within dog-roses (Rosa section Caninae (DC.) Ser.) have been assessed for expression of morphological characters with regards to the actual taxonomy applied. In the mostly pentaploid members of the section the unique heterogamous Canina-meiosis leads to matroclinal inheritance of characters by transmitting 4/5 of the genetic information via seed donor whereas 1/5 is provided by the pollen donor. Evaluation of phenotypic variability revealed that the two taxonomically relevant characters "widening of the orifice" and "persistence of the sepals" are statistically significant controlled by the pollen donor. Reciprocal crossings confirmed the same pattern. One possible explanation is that this phenomenon might be subject to genomic imprinting mechanisms. The morphological analysis gives clear evidence that conventional taxonomical concept is artificial and does not reflect the evolutionary patterns among dog-roses.
23643677|The subfamily Phytelephantoideae comprises three genera (Ammandra, Aphandra, and Phytelephas) and seven species of dioecious palms. The floral scents of Ammandra dasyneura, A. decasperma, Aphandra natalia, Phytelephas aequatorialis, P. macrocarpa, and P. seemannii were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. We studied the pollination biology of A. natalia, P. aequatorialis, and P. macrocarpa, and tested how the synthetically produced main constituents of the floral scents of Aphandra and Phytelephas attracted insects in two natural populations of Phytelephas. The genera are distinct in terms of floral scents. Ammandra has sesquiterpenes, Aphandra (+)-2-methoxy-3-sec-butylpyrazine, and Phytelephas p-methyl anisol. These constituents dominated the scents quantitatively and qualitatively. The similarity between scents of male and female inflorescences was 76.5% in Ammandra, 84.2% in Aphandra, and >99% in Phytelephas. Different species of Aleocharinae (Staphylinidae) pollinate Aphandra natalia and Phytelephas species and reproduce in their male inflorescences. Derelomini (Curculinoidae) and Mystrops (Nitidulidae) only visit and pollinate Phytelephas in which male inflorescences they reproduce. A species of Baridinae (Curculionidae) only visits and pollinates Aphandra natalia, and reproduces in its female inflorescence. The apparent reliance on one or a few floral scent constituents as attractants and few and specific pollinators may indicate co-evolution. Sympatric species of Phytelephantoideae have different scents. We suggest that species with similar scents have allopatric distributions due to the absence of a pollinator isolation mechanism.
23674729|A new section in Mexican Ruellia, R. sect. Urceolata comprising three species (including R. cedilloi, spec. nova), endemic to Mexico, is described and illustrated. The taxonomic relationship and differentiation of the species are discussed. Evolution in Mexican Ruellas seems to be occurring at the diploid level.
23642890|A detailed analysis of chloroplast DNA restriction fragment length variation was undertaken to reconstruct the maternal phylogeny of 18 taxa from both sections of the papilionoid tropical forage legume genus Stylosanthes. Data were analysed by means of the computer program PAUP, using an heuristic search with Wagner parsimony. The resulting cladogram divided Stylosanthes into four separate clades, which comprised: (i) the S. guianensis complex and related species (i.e. S. gracilis, S. grandifolia and S. montevidensis); (ii) S. hispida, tetraploid S. hamata s. l., S. sympodialis, S. humilis, S. leiocarpa, S. angustifolia and certain accesions of S. scabra; (iii) S. calcicola, S. viscosa, diploid S. hamata s. str., and S. fruticosa, plus accessions of S. scabra, S. capitata and one accession of S. grandifolia; and (iv) S. macrocephala and other accessions of S. capitata not included within clade 3. Results are generally congruent with previously established interspecific relationships and, moreover, enabled identification of putative maternal progenitors for four tetraploid taxa: S. humilis was identified as a likely maternal parent of both S. sympodialis and S. hamata s. l., S. viscosa as a maternal parent of S. scabra, and S. macrocephala as a maternal parent of S. capitata.
23643253|The fine structure of the type species of the genus Cyanothece Komrek 1976, C. aeruginosa, is described and compared with the main cytological characteristics of morphologically related members of the genera Cyanobium, Cyanobacterium and Synechococcus. Several morphological features, such as cell walls with thick outer layers containing a special type of vesicles, position of thylakoids, "keritomy" (net-like appearance of protoplast caused by arrangement of thylakoids, net-like nucleoids and/or by tendency to form intrathylakoidal spaces) and a special structure of mucilaginous envelopes were found to be characteristic of this genus, supporting its separate position among coccal cyanoprokaryotes (cyanobacteria, cyanophytes). The taxonomic significance of ultrastructural features in all mentioned genera is discussed.
23644073|The pollination biology of Mystacidium venosum Harv. ex Rolfe, an epiphytic orchid endemic to southern Africa, was investigated. The white flowers of this orchid have long spurs (c 4.5 cm) and contain dilute sucrose-dominated nectar which is secreted during the afternoon and early evening. Scent, dominated by Jasmine lactone and (E, E)-Farnesol, is emitted in the evening. A breeding system experiment established that self pollination results in inferior quality fruits. Field observations at three sites in Kwa-Zulu Natal, South Africa, in 1998 and 1999 showed that hawkmoths were frequent visitors to the orchid shortly after dusk, and carry pollinaria along the length of their tongues. No evidence for directional selection on spur length was found at any of the three sites. Results showed that flower longevity is strongly reduced by pollination, while pollinaria removal had only a small effect. Pollinia removed from flowers remained viable for up to 20 days under outdoor conditions.
23664162|A fossil leaf compression from the Late Oligocene (2827 Ma) of northwestern Ethiopia is the earliest record of the African endemic moist tropical forest genus Cola (Malvaceae sensu lato: Sterculioideae). Based on leaf and epidermal morphology, the fossil is considered to be very similar to two extant Guineo-Congolian species but differences warrant designation of a new species. This study also includes a review of the fossil record of Cola, a comprehensive summary of leaf characteristics within several extant species of Cola, Octolobus, and Pterygota, and a brief discussion of the paleogeographic implications of the fossil species affinity and occurrence in Ethiopia.
23644325|Qualities of the stratified pollen walls were evaluated for their possible role in pollination (pollination modes, and pollen tube formation). The importance of studying pollen grains in their respective natural state is noted. Examples of pollen morphological features specific to pollination vectors are rare and difficult to demonstrate. However, some complex, but significant correlations are reported.
23656078|Parodiodoxa is a monotypic genus of Brassicaceae endemic to northwestern Argentina. It is poorly known and until now remained the only South American genus of the family that had not been assigned to a particular tribe. Sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal ITS region and the chloroplast trnL intron/trnL-F spacer region were used in this study to determine the systematic position of Parodiodoxa. For this purpose, taxa were sampled both at the tribal and generic levels. Results from tribal-level sampling support the inclusion of Parodiodoxa in the tribe Thelypodieae, whereas those at the generic level reveal a relationship to Weberbauera (W. rosulans and W. herzogii). Topologies within the Thelypodieae were poorly resolved, in agreement with previous studies. Morphological characteristics of Parodiodoxa are also discussed in relation to other genera of the tribe.
23642457|This paper presents an overview of pollination systems in Opuntia sens. lat. in the southwestern United States. The floral syndrome of large, colorful, bowl-shaped, diurnal flowers is present in all of the prickly-pear species and most of the cholla (Cylindropuntia) species in this area. Pollination by medium-sized and large bees is established for some of the species with this floral syndrome and is predicted for the others. The same floral syndrome is widespread in Opuntia in other geographical areas.Deviations from this floral syndrome occur in certain species of southwestern chollas, one of which has nocturnal disc-shaped flowers, and in several tropical American species groups or segregate genera with red hummingbird flowers. But such cases are relatively infrequent. Divergence between species with respect to floral syndrome and pollination system is not a common feature in the evolutionary pattern of Opuntia.
43558144|Mericarp morphology of 15 taxa of Salvia L.section Hymenosphace Benth. in Turkey were investigated by light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to evaluate the utility of mericarp characters in systematic studies. Mericarps ranged from 2.50 to 5.38 mm in length and 2.04 to 4.70 mm in width. Mericarp shape was prolate-spheroid or near spherical with a lengthto-width ratio of 1.02-1.48. Transverse sections of the mericarps were rounded or rounded-trigonous. Mericarp surfaces presented colliculate, reticulate, verrucate or foveate sculpturing patterns, mostly as a result of the sculpturing of the exocarp cell walls with the pattern determined by whether the periclinal walls were concave or convex and whether the anticlinal walls were raised or sunken. Colliculate surface sculpturing (periclinal walls convex) was the most common among the taxa examined.The variation in the nature of surface sculpturing, mericarp shape and size, exocarp cell shape, nature of transverse sections and abscission scar diameter proved useful diagnostic characters. Variation was sufficient to distinguish taxa at species level, including morphologically similar species. Data provided here are also relevant to phylogenetic questions at higher levels within Salvia.
23674792|Phylogenetic relationships among 30 species of the genus Pinus were studied using restriction site polymorphism in the large subunit of nuclear rDNA. Of the 58 restriction sites scored, 48 were phylogenetically informative, and the 30 species reduced to ten taxa when species with identical restriction site patterns were combined. These ten taxa corresponded to the currently recognized subsections of the genus, with the sole exception of P. leiophylla, which was identical in its pattern of restriction sites to all three species included from subsect. Oocarpae despite its being in a different section of subg. Pinus (Pinea instead of Pinus). A measure of the proportion of phylogenetic information contained within the data set (Homoplasy Excess Ratio, or HER) revealed that the character states were significantly non-randomly distributed among the ten taxa (HER = 0.71, p < 0.01). Branch-and-bound searches using either Wagner or Dollo parsimony as the optimization criterion were carried out using PAUP in order to estimate phylogenetic relationships among the ten taxa. Three taxa (Picea pungens, Tsuga canadensis, and Larix decidua) were used independently as outgroups for purposes of rooting the trees. Despite the extreme differences in the assumptions underlying the Wagner and Dollo parsimony, the two gave surprisingly similar estimates of phylogeny, with both analyses supporting the monophyly of the two major subgenera Pinus and Strobus and differing in topology only in the placement of subsect. Ponderosae within subg. Pinus. The likelihood for the Wagner tree was only slightly higher than that computed for the Dollo tree.
23645246|A molecular phylogeny of Larix comprising 12 species was constructed from the sequence analysis of the paternally inherited cpDNA trnT-trnF region of 46 individuals. The most parsimonious tree split Larix into three sister clades: one clade was composed of two North American species, the other two were short-bracted and long-bracted species of Eurasia respectively except that L. sibirica was clustered in the long-bracted clade. The difference between the present cpDNA phylogeny and previous nrDNA ITS phylogeny in the position of L. sibirica seems to suggest that ancient cytoplasmic gene flow might exist between sections Larix and Multiserialis. The short-bracted L. laricina and long-bracted L. occidentalis have an identical sequence of the trnT-trnF region, which implies that the bract length divergence among North American larches might have occurred recently or chloroplast capture happened during the early differentiation of the two species. The cpDNA results also shed some light on the biogeography of Larix.
23644353|The phylogenetic distribution of two deletions, of about 350 and 250 bp respectively, within the chloroplast trnTtrnL intergenic spacer was examined. One deletion was found in all members of Cactaceae subfamily Cactoideae sampled, totaling 37 species, but not in taxa from other subfamilies or closely related families. The second was shared by a subset of Cactoideae comprising members of tribes Cereeae, Trichocereeae, and Browningieae (in part), as well as Harrisia. Close links among the former three South American tribes have been previously hypothesized. This distribution suggested that Browningieae, a tribe defined largely by shared primitive features, were not monophyletic, and that Harrisia may have been incorrectly placed outside the BrowningieaeCereeaeTrichocereeae group.
43496750|The orophilous plant, Ranunculus parnassiifolius L., is a polyploid complex that is widespread throughout the southern European mountains, where at least five taxa have traditionally been recognized. The aim of this study was to test whether R. parnassiifolius subsp. cabrerensis should be treated as an independent species of the R. parnassiifolius polyploid complex and constitutes, therefore, an evolutionary line in itself. To disentangle its evolutionary history and taxonomy, we used genome size estimation based on flow cytometric measurements (FCM), multivariate morphometric analyses, polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphisms (PCR-RFLPs) and subsequent sequencing of cpDNA regions (trnS, trnR-atpA, atpR-atpI). This study provides molecular and morphological evidence for the recognition of R. cabrerensis at the species level, rather than as an intraspecific taxon of R. parnassiifolius. Furthermore, it is concluded that those plants previously known as R. parnassiifolius subsp. muniellensis should be systematized at the subspecies level as R. cabrerensis subsp. muniellensis. This contribution highlights the benefit of combining diverse approaches to obtain knowledge about relict populations and for the implementation of suitable conservation measures.
23642321|Intraspecific hybrids are always fertile. In interspecific crosses total or nearly total seed sterility regularly occurs in F1 or F2 individuals or even in the involved pods of P generations: Sterility barriers range from F1 failure to moderate reduction of average hybrid fertility, and are reflected by the taxonomy of the group. Diploid F1 hybrids are able to produce triploid descendants, triploid F1 plants however pentaploid to hexaploid ones. Intermediary and dominant inheritance of indument characters and new character combinations in F2 generations are observed. Die Fertilittsuntersuchungen ergaben, da die Samenfertilitt ihre hchsten Werte bei den intraspezifischen Hybriden erreicht, und zwar meist bereits in der F1, zumindest aber in den darauffolgenden Generationen. Bei interspezifischen Kreuzungen hingegen treten in der F2- oder schon F1-Generation  soferne diese berhaupt gebildet werden  sterile oder fast sterile Individuen auf. Es werden sechs Stufen von Sterilittsbarrieren zwischen Arabis-Aiten unterschieden, die strkste (Stufe 1) ist durch das Nichtzustandekommen einer F1 gekennzeichnet, bei der schwchsten Stufe (6) zeigt sich blo eine schwache Fertilittsminderung in der F1, die F2 umfat sterile ebenso wie fertile Individuen. Die Strke der Barrieren zwischen den einzelnen Sippen ist im Kreuzungspolygon (Abb. 1) dargestellt. Daran fllt die phylogenetisch wie taxonomisch zu interpretierende abseitige Stellung von Arabis ciliata auf, weiters aber auch die vollstndigen Sterilittsbarrieren zwischen A. sudetica einerseits und A. nemorensis bzw. auch A. planisiliqua andererseits, wogegen all diese drei Arten fertil mit A.sagittata kreuzbar sind. A. hirsuta s. str. ist durch gut ausgebildete Sterilittsbarrieren von allen anderen Tetraploiden und den Diploiden geschieden ; von den letzteren zeigt A. sagittata die grte Affinitt zu A. hirsuta s. str. Obgleich die Fertilitt und die Hufigkeit natrlicher Hybriden deutlich eingeschrnkt sind, mu mit introgressiver Hybridisation gerechnet werden. In der F2-Nachkommenschaft einer spontanen diploiden Hybride A. sagittata A. nemorensis (2 n = 16) fanden sich neben diploiden auch triploide Individuen (2n = 24); in der F2 und F3 artifizieller triploider F1-Hybriden (2 n = 24) von A. hirsuta s. str.  A. sagittata traten pentaploide, hypohexaploide und hexaploide Pflanzen auf (2 n = 40, 46, 47, 48). Intermedire morphologische Ausprgung, insbesondere was die Behaarung betrifft, findet sich hufig, beispielsweise bei experimenteller A. sagittata  A. planisiliqua s. str. ebenso wie bei natrlichen hybridogenen(?) Zwischenformen dieser beiden Arten. Dominant ist etwa die Kahlheit von A. allionii, aber auch die Behaartheit von A. hirsuta s. str. in deren Kreuzung mit kahler A. ciliata. In den aufspaltenden F2-Generationen finden sich neue, in den Elternsippen nicht realisierte Merkmalskombinationen. Die Chromosomenzahl 2 n = 16 wird fr A. sagittata und A. planisiliqua s. str. sowie deren Hybriden besttigt (Tab. 1).
23642952|In a medium-sized population of Arnica montana, a threatened species in The Netherlands, the breeding system, reproductive success and genetic clonal structure were studied. Pollination experiments suggested that A. montana is largely self-incompatible. Inbreeding depression was observed for seedling weight but not for fruit weight and germination rate. Although genetic variation is rather low in this population, the data suggest an outcrossing mating system. Analysis of the genotype of all mapped rosettes in a plot of 100 m2 indicated that dense clusters often consist of identical genotypes, suggesting a clonal structure. Open clusters frequently contained several different genotypes. This may be caused by limited fruit dispersal, since seedlings were found mainly within or in the near surroundings of the clusters.
23673894|Haustoria of several Urocystis spp. have been investigated by transmission electron microscopy. The haustoria are botryose and have an extrahaustorial matrix with vesicle-like bodies. The extrahaustorial membrane shows high ATPase activity in contrast to the haustorial plasmalemma. In walled off haustoria the haustorial plasmalemma stains more intensely than the extrahaustorial membrane. The vesicle-like bodies are ATPase negative. The role of the vesicle-like bodies is discussed.
23642496|New constructions of a vertical and a horizontal wind tunnel are described. Their function is demonstrated by comparative and quantitative analyses of anemochorous dispersal units. The results for 6 Angiosperm genera with pogonochorous, lophochorous and pterochorous dispersal units, and for 2 species of Tragopogon indicate remarkable differences and a broad range of dispersal effectiveness.
23655682|Anthesis in individual flowers of Nuphar pumila (Timm) DC. occurs for four consecutive days. First-day flowers are protogynous and functionally female. Flowers can open completely on the first day of anthesis. This contrasts with all previous reports, which state that first-day flowers of Nuphar are characterized by partial expansion of the calyx, leaving a distal small triangular opening just above the stigmatic disc. Flowers close completely on the first night of anthesis and remain partially open on the subsequent three nights. During the entire anthesis period the stigmas emit a sweet, fruity odor and the petal nectaries produce visible nectar drops. The stigma of N. pumila is secretory and unicellular-papillate. Pollen grains are monosulcate with long spines. Our observations on the mating system of N. pumila indicate that neither asexual seed production nor spontaneous self-pollination occurs. Cross-pollination of second-, third- and fourth-day flowers produced few seeds. Flowers of N. pumila were mainly pollinated by sweat bees, with flies playing a minor pollination role. No beetle visits were observed. Our insect-pollination observations substantiate the view that the relative contribution of flies, bees, and beetles to pollination in a single Nuphar population depends on two factors: the relative abundance of the insects, and presence of alternative food sources.
23642244|Cytotaxonomical investigations on 11 species from the Western Himalayas show that 8 are diploid and the remaining tetraploid. The numbers for three species are new. P. prescottianum (2) and P. thomsoni (4), and P. stimulans (2) and P. acanthophyllum (4) are closely related but distinct species pairs.
23674598|Vegetative growth patterns of Rumex acetosella L. were investigated both in experimental conditions and in the field. Plants originating from geographically and ecologically contrasting areas expressed significant differentiation in height, weight, and leaf production, even at early stages. The plants belonging to subsp. angiocarpus grew thaller than other plants. The differences among populations grown in a uniform environment provide evidence for genetic differentiation in morphology. Plants in natural populations were considerably lighter than experimental plants, which intensively produced a large number of rosette leaves. These differences can be attributed to substantial phenotypic plasticity. When the correlation structure among the growth traits was analyzed, seed weight and early plant size appeared to influence future plant size.
43558615|Genome sizes of 12 pines that produce edible nuts were investigated by flow cytometry with propidium iodide. Results were compared with the genome size and taste of 11 commercial samples of pine nuts to determine which species is the cause of a lingering bitter aftertaste ("pine nut syndrome"). Each nut sample was visually separated into two to six subsets. From a single nut, the embryo and the endosperm were measured. On the basis of nuclear DNA content, pine species could be matched with their nuts. Seven out of the 11 commercial samples contained only a single pine species: P. koraiensis Sieb.& Zucc, P. pinea L., P. armandii Zuce, ex Endl., or P. gerardiana Wall, ex Don, but the other four samples were a mix of two species. Tasting showed definitively that P. armandii is the origin of the bitter aftertaste. Nuclear DNA content can be measured using flow cytometry in less than 5 min, including the calculations. This makes it easy to identify the problem-causing nuts. With hindsight, it is now also possible to identify the species of four common edible pine nuts.
43558044|Various aspects of the reproductive biology of Atamisquea emarginata Miers ex Hook. et Arn. were studied in a population from Tucumn, northern Argentina. Flowering took place in late (austral) spring to early summer. The creamy white, entomophilous flowers were protandrous and lasted 3.5-4.5 days. A pleasant odor along with nectar and pollen attracted 36 mostly diurnal insect species of which 41.7% were Hymenoptera, 38.9% Lepidoptera and 19.4% Diptera. However, 75% from all recorded species were infrequent, and domestic bees made ca. 94% of all visits. One halictid bee, one sphecid wasp, one myzinid wasp, four small-to medium-sized butterflies and a hawkmoth completed the set of relatively frequent insect visitors. Pollen and stigma were presented in the same place within the flower, but interference was prevented by a movement-assisted, complete dichogamy mechanism in which the bending ability of the gynophore played a fundamental role. This form of dichogamy was previously unknown in the Capparaceae. In comparison with the known species of the closely allied genus Capparis L., A. emarginata has diurnal, smaller, longer-lasting flowers, that offer much smaller nectar amounts, and that attract a rather generalized array of nonhovering visitors, while Capparis behaves as a more crepuscular-biased sphingophile or ornithophile or chiropterophile. Low levels of seed set under bagging indicates dependence on insect visits and are partly congruent with an earlier report of selfincompatibility in A. emarginata. Pollen tubes arrived to ovules in 90.6% of the inspected flowers. Fruit set of open-pollinated flowers was 43.6%-53.7%. Ninety-five percent of all ovules were regularly aborted in each fruiting ovary; thus, each fruit contained 1.2 developed seeds. Full-sized individuals were expected to produce ca. 10,700 potential offspring per year.
23674484|The morphological and leaf anatomical differentiation of Vellozia hirsuta is analysed and classified into several types (A1, A2, A4, B3, B5, C3). The species has a relatively wide distribution in the campos rupestres of Minas Gerais in Brazil. The variation of the isolated populations on different mountain ranges is complex, does not follow a clear geographical pattern, and defies taxonomic classification.
23669038|Almonds and peaches are among the most economically important fruit crops in subtropical and temperate regions. Questions regarding the origin and domestication of the crop species, interspecific relationships, and evolutionary patterns of fruits have remained unanswered due to the lack of phylogenetic data of Prunus subgenus Amygdalus, in which both almond and peach are classified. Twenty-two species of subg. Amygdalus were included in phylogenetic analyses of plastid ndhF-rpl32, rpL16, trnH-psbA, trnL-trnF, trnQ-5 rps16, and trnS-trnG and nuclear s6pdh genes to investigate the circumscription of subg. Amygdalus, phylogenetic relationships among the species, and implication for mesocarp and endocarp evolution. Prunus subg. Amygdalus is best circumscribed to include both almonds and peaches, comprising two sections, Amygdalus and Persica. Species traditionally placed close to almonds, such as P. tenella, P. petunnikowii, P. triloba, and P. pedunculata, should be excluded from subg. Amygdalus. Characteristics used to diagnose subg. Amygdalus, such as dry, splitting mesocarp and the ornamentation of endocarp evolved multiple times in Prunus; thus classification based solely on these morphological characters produces a taxonomic scheme that might not represent common ancestry. A dry, splitting mesocarp is likely to be ancestral for the common ancestor of subg. Amygdalus, and the fleshy, non-splitting mesocarp found in peaches was derived from the dry, splitting mesocarp, presumably by domestication and selection for a fleshy fruit in China. Very low genetic divergence among cultivated almond and its close relatives might be associated with gene flow and/or rapid speciation within the group.
23674272|Vernal grass fires may encourage profuse flowering in clonal, colonies of Oxalis violacea. Long-styled colonies appear to be more floriferous than short-styled colonies and set a greater number of capsules. Individual flowers of both morphs live one or two days, change position on their respective pedicels and advertise nectar concealed at the base of the floral throat. Although Diptera, Hymenoptera, and Lepidoptera forage for nectar, bees (Andrenidae,Anthophoridae, Halictidae, and Megachilidae) probably make the only effective pollen transfers between the two morphs. Both male and female bees may transport pollen of both morphs and short-tongued bees (e.g., Augochlorella spp., Dialictus spp.) may be more common but as effective as pollinators as long-tongued bees (e.g., Calliopsis andreniformis and Hoplitis spp.). The conversion rate of flowers into capsules is only 13  17%. The spreading style in the short-styled morph is interpreted as an adaptation restricting insect-mediated, self-pollination but encouraging bee-stigma contact during nectar foraging.
23664053|Two new species of Polystachya Hook. are described and illustrated: Polystachya rydingii Baranow & Mytnik occurring from the Democratic Republic of Congo and P. sosefii Baranow & Mytnik from Cameroon. The species belong to the section Polystachya Kraenzl., which is the only pantropical section in the genus. Maps of the distribution for the new species and their closest relatives and a brief discussion with notes on their habitat, ecology, and altitude are provided.
23642209|Crocus sativus is an autumn-flowering species, unknown as a wild plant but long-cultivated for its scarlet style branches which yield Saffron, the dye and flavouring agent. There are several naturally-occurring related species from southern Europe and south western Asia which form a natural group within the genus. C. niveus from Greece is similar to these morphologically and is included here but is less closely related. The characters of the group are defined, a key to the taxa is provided and their relationships discussed. Studies of wild populations and of extensive herbarium material have given a clearer view of the range of variation of the taxa within the "C. sativus group", as defined here. However, in certain areas such as Jordan, Syria, Iraq, and Iran, the group is very under-collected and decisions have had to be based on an unsatisfactorily small sample of specimens, as in the case of C. moabiticus and C. pallasii subsp. haussknechtii which has not been gathered since the type collection. This former is the only species in the group which has not been studied in the living state at all, the rest being available in the very extensive collections of the author and at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
23642509|Length measurements of seeds belonging to 12 taxa of the Campanula rotundifolia group, including six Pyrenean endemics, prove a certain relation between seed length and ploidy level (246).
23655166|Flower colour is a major advertisement signal of zoophilous plants for pollinators. Bees, the main pollinators, exhibit innate colour preferences, which have often been attributed to only one single floral colour, though most flowers display a pattern of two or several colours. The existing studies of floral colour patterns are mostly qualitative studies. Using a model of bee colour vision we quantitatively investigate two questions: whether or not component colours of floral colour patterns may mimic pollen signals, and whether or not bumblebees exhibit innate preferences for distinct parameters of naturally existing floral colour patterns. We analysed the spectral reflectances of 162 plant species with multicoloured flowers and inflorescences, distiniguishing between inner and outer colours of floral colour patterns irrespective of the particular structures so coloured. We found that:  The inner colour of radially symmetrical flowers and inflorescences and of zygomorphic flowers appears less diverse to bees than the peripheral colour.  The inner colour of most radial flowers and inflorescences as well as the inner colour of a large number of non-related zygomorphic flowers appears to bees to be very similar to that of pollen.  Bumblebees (Bombus terrestris) exhibit innate preferences for two-coloured over single-coloured dummy flowers in a spontaneous choice test.  Bumblebees exhibit innate preferences for dummy flowers with a large over those with a small centre area.  Bumblebees exhibit innate preferences for dummy flowers with a centre colour similar to that of pollen over those with another centre colour. Our findings support the hypotheses that the inner component of floral colour patterns could be interpreted as a generalised and little recognised form of mimicry of the colour of visually displayed pollen, that bumblebees exhibit innate preferences regarding colour and size parameters of floral colour patterns, and that these correspond to visually displayed pollen. These findings together suggest a prominent role of floral colour patterns in advertisement to and guidance of naive flower visitors.
23674308|Circumscription of the Arundinoideae and the taxonomic treatments of its tribes have long been disputed. In the present study, 21 species representing the tribes Arundineae, Danthonieae, Cortaderieae, and Aristideae were examined for prolamin size heterogeneity and immunological cross-reactivities. The immunmological data were analyzed phenetically and cladistically. Prolamins of species examined were similar in size and size diversity except for Phragmites. Structural similarities as measured by ELISA and immunoblotting were very high among all genera except Aristida and Phragmites. Based on prolamin structure, Aristida is not similar to the core genera of the Arundinoideae, the remaining genera could not be distinguished as distinct tribes, and the Arundinoideae as represented by the taxa tested appeared monophyletic.
23642715|The paper presents a comparative account of embryo development in Pycreus pumilus Nees., Cyperus alternifolius Willd., Mariscus paniceus Vahl. and Remirea maritima Abul., belonging to the tribe Cypereae. Embryogeny follows the Juncus variation of the Onagrad type or conforms to Period I, Series A2, Megarchetype IV. In Pycreus and Remirea the precocious differentiation of dermatogen initials is followed by that of plerome and periblem elements. Mature embryos of Pycreus, Mariscus, and Remirea are identical with Cyperus. Embryogeny and structure of mature embryo support the fusion of these taxa with Cyperus.
23673865|The influence of different pollen donors on seed formation was investigated in three populations of Espeletia schultzii that differ in environmental conditions and life history characteristics. Self pollen and pollen from different donors (< 15 m apart) within each population was used in a diallel design in order to test the genetic base of seed set variation. Three measures of seed formation were used: (1) achene number; (2) proportion of filled achenes (fruits) that distinguishes between achenes with seeds and empty achenes; (3) proportion of aborted seeds that distinguishes between viable and aborted seeds. Self-pollinations resulted in empty achenes. Achene number did not vary between the different pollen donors. A bimodal pattern of filled achenes was found in two populations in two consecutive years. On the other hand, a unimodal pattern was found in crosses between more distant donors (> 30 m). These patterns seems to be the results of a sporophytic incompatibility system. Seed abortion was highest at the higher elevations and seems to be correlated with elevation rather than with any genetic effect.
23673826|The morphology, altitudinal distribution and phytocoenology of Hypericum empetrifolium Willd., var. oliganthum Rech. fil. and var. tortuosum Rech. fil. are reassessed and as a result, the taxa are treated at subspecific rank. Essential characters proved to be growth form, number of flowers, foliage and epidermal surface characters, shape of seeds and testa sculpturing. The different growth forms can be interpreted as adaptations to the local habitats. Hypericum empetrifolium Willd. subsp. empetrifolium is a low subshrub of various vegetation types known as phrygana whereas Hypericum empetrifolium Willd. subsp. oliganthum (Rech. f.) Hagemann grows as a cushion-like dwarf shrub in chasmophyte associations rich in relic species. Hypericum empetrifolium Willd. subsp. tortuosum (Rech. f.) Hagemann is confined in the high mountain regions and grows as a true dwarf espalier shrub with low spreading shoots.
23675284|The rare unicellular rhodophyte Porphyridium griseum has been collected and isolated from basins, fed with thermal water, in Pieany, Czechoslovakia. This is the first report of P. griseum since Geitler's find in the Neusiedler See, Austria. Ultrastructural investigations of the new strain demonstrate that P. griseum belongs to the closely related genus Rhodella. Comparison with current species of Rhodella and pigment analyses show that P. griseum is identical to the marine R. reticulata and a new combination, Rhodella grisea (Geitler) comb. nov., is proposed to include both organisms.
23673114|Campanumoea is a small genus in the family Campanulaceae, with species divided into sections Campanumoea and Cyclocodon. Sixteen accessions from Campanumoea and related genera native to China were used to study their karyotype. The results showed that chromosome characteristics were different between the two sections. For Campanumoea, the karyotypic formula was 2n = 2X = 2m + 12sm + 2st = 16,3A and for Cyclocodon it was 2n = 2X = 6m + 12sm = 18,3B. These data, combined with chromosomal length characteristics, support the restoration of section Cyclocodon as a genus. However, the incorporation of section Campanumoea into Codonopsis requires more evidence. Comparison of chromosomal length and haploid set length revealed that chromosomal segment rearrangements occurred within sections of Campanumoea and between genera, with the difference within sections being greater than that between genera. Therefore, chromosomal segment rearrangements are present in Campanulaceae, implying that chromosomal segment rearrangement plays an important role in the evolution of diversity in Campanulaceae. By comparing the chromosomal characteristic in section Campanumoea and the genus Adenophora, we concluded that the secondary chromosome type such as n = 17, 18 would be derived by autopolyploidization of n = 9, and by chromosome fusion.
23673668|Eight flavonoids, four 6-oxygenated flavones, two methyl ethers of luteolin, apigenin 6,8-C-diglucoside and quercetin 3-O-glucoside, were isolated from Nama lobbii and N. rothrockii, sole members of sects. Arachnoidea and Cinerascentia, respectively. Both taxa diverge markedly from other namas in morphology and chromosome number and their placement in Nama has been questioned. The occurrence of 6-oxygenated flavones in these taxa adds to their already distinctive nature. Flavonoid evidence argues that both are more closely allied to Eriodictyon than either is to Nama.
23671500|Electrophoretic and morphological variation was studied in 13 cultivars of C. lanatus and 31 accessions of C. colocynthis from Israel. Twelve enzyme systems were assayed, representing 19 loci. We found 12 commercially grown cultivars to be monomorphic at all loci. One C. lanatus accession collected from Israel is highly polymorphic and carries alleles of C. colocynthis; this accession is probably a representative of a locally cultivated land race grown by Bedouins for animal feed. Over a range of 500 km two forms of C. colocynthis were identified: one which grows along the coastal plains of the Mediterranean and the other in the arid Negev and Sinal deserts. A high level of electrophoretic and morphological divergence was found between plants of the two regions, whereas within the ecotypes little variation was observed.
23674094|As an exception among diatoms, dictyosomes in Coscinodiscus wailesii and C. centralis form throughout the vegetative cell cycle a complex functional unit with a mitochondrium via an ER-cisterna. Ultrathin sections of spermatogonangia of C. wailesii revealed that these G-ER-M (Golgi-ER-Mitochondrium) associations are maintained also during spermatogenesis. A dissociation of the G-ER-M-unit occurred however, when C. wailesii cells formed protoplasts under the influence of the antimicrotubular herbicide APM, leading also to the dissociation of the Golgi stack itself. Lamellar membrane profiles, resembling Golgi membranes were seen to align with the plasmalemma of the protoplasts. These observations are discussed in comparison to the G-ER-M-units found in the xanthophyte alga Vaucheria and the oomycete Saprolegnia.
23662398|Previously unknown leaf anatomy and foliar crystal macropattern are described for Ticodendron incognitum Gmez-Laurito and Gmez P. (monotypic eudicot family Ticodendraceae of a Fagales subclade with Betulaceae and Casuarinaceae). Leaf samples of five herbarium specimens were rehydrated, bleached, dehydrated to 100% ethanol, then xylol, mounted in Permount and viewed using polarizing microscopy. Large adaxial and abaxial hypodermal idioblasts occur. Numerous small druses populate palisade mesophyll, and fewer, larger druses populate the spongy mesophyll; this is the opposite of druse distribution in Fagaceae. Druses dominate major veins, many with visible cores, and some prisms occur. Minor veins exhibit isolated groups of 18 druses and rare prisms, but most terminal veins lack crystals. Many druses are misshapen or with epitactic crystals; several unusual variants of druses and prisms are common. Hypodermal idioblasts are an apomorphy for Ticodendraceae, but oil and resin cells occur in Myricaceae and Rhoipteleaceae of Fagales. Crystal forms and distribution differ from known Fagalean macropatterns.
23642087|Among the approximately 130 species of Hibbertia found in Australia, there are tall shrubs, low or trailing shrubs and vines bearing a diversity of leaves as to shape and venation pattern. Flowers are solitary, in leafy cymes or in false spikes, and display various gradual and abrupt transitions from vegetative to reproductive appendages. In the androecium, stamen number is highly variable both between and within species. Some sections have radial symmetry, others bilateral symmetry of the androecium and gynoecium. Follicle number varies from 10 to 1. Basic chromosome numbers of n = 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 12 and 13 have been found in various sections, and occasional higher numbers, up to n = 64, indicate the presence of polyploidy. Habitats vary from tropical savanna through rain forest margins, wet and dry sclerophyll forests, heaths, sphagnum swamps, and mallee scrub to desert margins. The principal center of diversity is southwestern Australia, less diverse centers are in southeastern and northern Australia. With respect to leaf size, structure and venation; floral symmetry; and chromosome numbers; the diversity found among the species of Hibbertia exceeds that found in all but a few genera of Angiosperms, and is greater than that in any other exclusively woody genus. Nevertheless, individual species are relatively constant with respect to both morphology and ecological preferences.
23673135|Withania somnifera (L.) Dunal is a promising herb with many pharmaceutical and therapeutic uses ranging from immunomodulation to anticarcinogenicity. It is commonly known as Indian ginseng, as it is comparable to Panax ginseng, which is a widely studied and utilized herb. There are limited studies on the genetic diversity of W. somnifera from the northeastern region of the Indian Subcontinent. This paper describes the characterization of wild accessions collected from Tamil Nadu State. A total of 15 accessions collected from wild populations were studied for their physical leaf traits such as leaf fresh weight (g), dry weight (mg), leaf dry matter content (mg g1), specific leaf area (mm2 mg1), leaf size (mm2), total carbon and nitrogen, and total withaferin-A content in leaves. An attempt was made to correlate physical leaf traits with withaferin-A content. The molecular traits, which were treated in a presenceabsence matrix, failed to group the hyper-withaferin-A accessions. The quantified physical leaf traits were converted into a presenceabsence matrix using a novel method of class-based stratification. The phenetic relations inferred from the FitchMargoliash algorithm applied to physical leaf trait data resulted in grouping of accessions with high withaferin-A content. These traits were used in the selection of promising accessions which can be further used for breeding programmes.
23645061|Axial and apical flowers of Cryptantha capituliflora were analyzed with regard to morphology and pollen tube growth to assess the occurrence of cleistogamy. Although intermediate floral forms do occur, cleistogamous flowers were significantly smaller than chasmogamous flowers, had fewer anthers, and showed a distinctive stigmatic surface. Chasmogamous flowers can be cross-pollinated. Nevertheless, the growth of self-pollen tubes in few chasmogamous buds jointly with flower characters suggests that these flowers can probably produce fruits through autonomous selfing. The mean seed number per fruit did not differ between fruits from chasmogamous and cleistogamous flowers. Cleistogamous flowers were only observed in axial inflorescences, which are completely covered by the leaf. Other species of section Cryptantha also show the same trend, with cleistogamous flowers located in the lower half of the stems. This pattern is discussed in relation to dissimilarities in the outcrossing opportunities between flower types within the plant.
23660153|Anatomical changes occurring during the microsporogenic development of P. salicina Lindl. were studied in male fertile and male sterile genotypes. Male fertile pollen grains showed three well determined pore regions, without ektexine. Intine was thick and surrounded the vegetative cell. Vegetative cells enclosed the generative cells; their cytoplasm was rich in plastids, abundant RER and active mitochondria. Development of sterile pollen was different from the meiosis step. Microspores did not show germination pores and ektexine was continuous around the whole grain. Pollen grains showed an atypical shape. The tapetum persisted after the tetrad stage and showed hypertrophy and vacuole development, resulting in abnormal microspore development. Only a few pollen grains and rudiments of collapsed microspores close to the anther wall were formed at anthesis.
23655120|In this study we present a survey on vegetative anatomy in species of Actinocephalus, Blastocaulon, Eriocaulon, Leiothrix, Paepalanthus, Philodice, Syngonanthus, and Tonina (Eriocaulaceae). Multivariate analyses were used to correlate anatomical characters to taxa and the habitats where the species occur. Root and stem anatomical characters seem to be more affected by environmental factors where these species occur, and seem of little value for delimiting major taxonomic groups within the family. Other characters in the leaves, such as epidermis with thickened wall cells, compartmented substomatal chambers, mesophyll with hypodermis, compact chlorenchyma, collenchymatous bundle sheath extensions, and numerous vascular bundles, were shown to be important for defining species clusters in Leiothrix, Syngonanthus, and Paepalanthus subg. Platycaulon. Similarly, loosely aggregated chlorenchyma caused Blastocaulon, Eriocaulon, Philodice, Syngonanthus sect. Carpocephalus, S. sect. Syngonanthus, and Tonina, genera from humid environments, to cluster. Scape characters appear to be more informative in discriminating groups. This situation probably reflects lower selection pressures determining anatomical characters of this organ.
43558273|Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is thought to have been involved in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic evolution. However, the extent to which it shapes eukaryotic genomes is still questionable. The ability to detect and study horizontal gene transfer events is of significant importance to our understanding of its effect on the evolution of eukaryotic genes and genomes. We performed phylogenetic analysis of a published anti-bacterial protein AP1 from potato (Solanum tuberosum). One domain encodes a phosphoesterase with high similarity to an acid phosphatase of Ralstonia solanacearum and closely related Betaproteobacteria. The second domain encodes an UspA-like domain similar to those present in plants. Our phylogenetic analyses suggest that both domains evolved along different evolutionary pathways until they merged into a single gene. We propose that the phosphoesterase domain was acquired by HGT. Our results support claims in favor of HGT detection at the protein domain level. The case of antibacterial protein AP1 in potato highlights the significance of gene fusion/protein domain fusion as an important feature of horizontal gene transfer which may contribute substantially to the adaptive abilities of eukaryotic organisms.
23674242|Seeds of the root parasites Striga (several spp.) and Buchnera americana were examined by means of SEM. The surface patterns of the seeds in both genera resemble each other closely, especially those of S. angustifolia and B. americana. Some Striga spp. can be clearly distinguished by their surface characteristics, while this is quite difficult in others. The taxonomic value of the seed surface features of Striga and Buchnera is discussed.
23644171|Applying current data on cell differentiation and meiosis control to the early sporangial development in angiosperms, a strict relationship between cell lineage and its differentiation fate is rejected. An evaluation of cytological features indicative of a meiotic (sporogenous) fate discards the sterilization phenomenon and introduces the premeiotic cellular differentiation (PCD) concept. The early sporangial development comprises 5 basic steps and 4 cellular stages, where PCD and meiosis extension and gradient are related to mechanisms of spore mother cell selection. Concepts here discussed explain the exceptions to the normal early sporangial development and allow a precise definition of archesporium and archespore. PCD and meiotic extension and gradient recover more information of the early sporangial development, distinguishing different developmental patterns leading to the same final result and retaining slight developmental differences. However, there are no early developmental characteristics distinctive of andro- or gynosporangia. Therefore, the heterosporic condition is not related to early developmental changes.
43558668|We analyzed anaphase I configurations and pollen viability in aposporous and sexual tetraploid (2n = 4x = 40) cytotypes of Paspalum notatum. Five natural aposporous accessions and three experimentally obtained sexual individuals were used. In addition, 16 (8 aposporous and 8 sexual) F hybrids, previously classified by their mode of reproduction, were analyzed. Cytogenetic observations revealed normal and abnormal anaphase I configurations in both aposporous and sexual genotypes. Anaphase I abnormalities were mainly laggard chromosomes, chromatin bridges, and micronuclei. On average, 44.36 % of aposporous meiocytes and 29.66 % of sexual ones showed abnormal anaphase I configurations. The total numbers of normal and abnormal anaphase I were highly significantly different between aposporous and sexual strains. The pollen viability test indicated that aposporous individuals had significantly more non-viable pollen than sexual ones; a positive correlation (r = 0.71; r = 0.50) between the variables was detected. Analysis of aposporous and sexual hybrids confirmed differences in the numbers of normal and abnormal anaphase I patterns in the aposporous and sexual parents. However, similar proportions of viable pollen were produced by both groups of hybrids. In this case, the variables were not correlated (r = 0.23; r = 0.05). Data from this study indicated that aposporous strains had a genetic rearrangement affecting meiosis that was absent in the experimentally obtained sexual individuals and that it was transmitted to the progeny. The possible association between meiotic abnormalities and the inheritance of apospory is discussed.
23673243|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) fingerprinting was used to study species boundaries in six closely related NE Turkish Lilium (Liliaceae) taxa of the section Liriotypus. The investigated taxa were L. ciliatum, L. akkusianum, L. ponticum, L. kesselringianum, L. armenum, and L. szovitsianum. Of the 108 primers screened, 11 provided polymorphic and reproducible bands. A total of 93 polymorphic bands were scored for 122 individuals from 18 populations of the six Lilium taxa and principle coordinate analysis and neighbour-joining cluster analysis based on these RAPD profiles were performed. The results demonstrate a clear distinction between the two species L. ciliatum and L. akkusianum, and the other four species. While populations of the two species groups are found to be allopatrically distributed, the two species groups overlap in their geographical ranges. Analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) indicated that nearly half of the total molecular variance is found within the individual populations and that the molecular variance among species is as high as the variance within the individual species, indicating that genetic differentiation of the species is rather weak.
23674419|Both adaxial and abaxial leaf surfaces were searched for stomata in Balanophora elongata, B. fungosa, Hachettea austro-caledonica, Langsdorffia hypogaea, Lophophytum mirabile subsp. mirabile, Scybalium jamaicense, and Thonningia sanguinea (Balanophoraceae). Neither stomata nor guard cells were observed. The epidermal surfaces of these species are extremely diverse with respect to cell shape, cell size, and surface ornamentation, these features providing valuable systematic criteria.
23673957|The bean weevil Bruchidius bimaculatus was found in fruits of 68 of 217 populations of the Medicago truncatula  M. littoralis complex of Israel, Greece, Italy and Spain. Infestation was higher in fruits of somewhat larger than mean size, and in the more pubescent and tightly coiled fruits. Bean weevil size proved to be independent of fruit size, so that the "preference" for larger fruits does not seem due to adaptation to a larger food source or a larger domicile. Fruit size has been used to delimit the host "species" M. truncatula and M. littoralis, but the character proved to be unimodal, and it is apparent that the taxonomy of the plant complex requires further clarification. Of the 11 472 fruits examined, less than 4% were infested. Given that the plants have evolved indehiscent legumes in which typically only one of the approximately six seeds survives to reproduce, and that very few seeds of a fruit are destroyed, the bruchid's infestation appears to be non-harmful, and indeed the association may be mutualistic.
23671729|The kinetics with which DNA reassociates and the thermal stability of rapidly reassociating (repetitive) DNA sequences have been monitored for six species in the genus Equisetum. Using the kinetic complexity for each of two repeated DNA sequence components as the basis for comparison, species in the subgenus Equisetum (E. arvense, E. fluviatile and E. telmateia) form one group and species in the subgenus Hippochaete (E. hyemale, E. laevigatum and E. scirpoides) form another group. Using the difference in thermal stability between native and reassociated repetitive DNA for comparison, the same grouping of species is obtained.
43558681|In order to investigate the genetic diversity and influence of climate oscillations on evolutionary processes of organisms in Northwest China, we selected Hexinia polydichotoma, a species endemic to China, and examined the phylogeographic structure and historical factors that influenced the evolutionary history of this species in its entire cover range, Tarim Basin and adjacent areas. In the study, 17 haplotypes were identified in H. polydichotoma on the basis of two chloroplast DNA sequences (trnH-psbA and ycf6-psbM). Shown in the network, the two common haplotypes, A and D, respectively, mainly distribute along the northern and southern rims of the basin. The analyses of molecular variance analysis suggest that genetic variation primarily occurs among populations, and all populations were subdivided into five groups by SAMOVA. Geographic range expansion along the southern and northern rims of the basin was supported by the significant value for Tajima's D and by the unimodal mismatch distribution. It is possible that during the interglacial period of the middle Pleistocene, a large amount of snow and glacial ice melted from the mountains surrounding Tarim Basin. This increased water, the expanding desert, and the dispersal ability of H. polydichotoma were important factors driving not only geographic range expansion, but also the current phylogeographic structure of this species. It is possible that during the middle Pleistocene, the climatic fluctuations resulted in expansion and contraction cycles of river systems and oases, and may consequently have caused population fragmentation.
23673769|The somatic chromosomes of Triticum timopheevi and those of two varieties of T. aestivum, "Chinese Spring" and "Bezostaya-1", have been identified by a Giemsa staining technique. The data suggest that T. timopheevi and tetraploid wheats had a common ancestor from which their genomes differentiated due to chromosomal aberrations and the increase of heterochromatin in the chromosomes of the T. timopheevi G-genome. The differences between the chromosomes of the AB and AG genomes result in substitutions and large translocations between these chromosomes in interspecific hybrids.
23656651|Ten of the 17 species of the taxonomically difficult Andean mint genus Minthostachys (Lamiaceae) were submitted to flow cytometric measurements of nuclear DNA content to test the hypothesis of the occurrence of different ploidy levels within the genus. Nuclear DNA content was found to vary from 1.643 to 1.775 pg, i.e by only ca. 8% between individual accessions, thus providing no evidence for polyploidy in Minthostachys. While these results do not preclude the possibility that the genus contains polyploid species nor the occurrence of heteroploidy with nearly identical nuclear DNA contents, they suggest that polyploidy did not play a major role in its diversification.
23642497|Statistical population analyses have been carried out on so-called Ophrys "arachnitiformis", partly sympatric O. sphecodes s. l. as well as on other species of Ophrys (O. holosericea, O. exaltata, O. apulica, O. cornuta, O. biscutella, O. bertolonii, O. bertoloniiformis.). Altogether 63 populations with 521 individuals were studied in regard to 54 morphological parameters.  It can be shown that O. arachnitiformis is an extremely heterogeneous assemblage which includes taxa of most diverse origin, different degrees of stability and nomenclatorial rank. Only common trait is their very diverse relationships with O. specodes s.l.The basionym O. arachnitiformis Gren. & Phil. refers to a colour variant of O. sphecodes Mill. subsp. sphecodes only, and is not applicable to other segments of the assemblage. A late flowering, morphologically and biologically well isolated group of populations from southern France without any perceptible hybrid influence is established as a new species: Ophrys splendida Glz & Reinhard. Populations from north and central Italy with distinct characters but hybrid influences from O. holosericea/O. exaltata are called O. tyrrhena Glz & Reinhard. O. morisii, an endemic to Sardinia, represents an independent species of still obscure evolution. The hybrid interpretation of O. catalaunica is statistically corroborated, but somewhat modified. For the remaining segments of O. "arachnitiformis" investigated (from Castilia, Dalmatia, and the Monte Gargano) no formal taxonomic proposals are made, but some suggestions about their genesis are possible.
23643699|We studied seed germination and the growth and survivorship of seedlings of females and hermaphrodites of Pachycereus pringlei (cardon), a Mexican columnar cactus whose geographically variable breeding system includes trioecy and gynodioecy. Results of a two-year field experiment conducted near Bahia Kino, Sonora, Mexico and a ten-month laboratory experiment were similar and did not support the hypothesis that seedlings of females outperform those of hermaphrodites. In the field, percent seed germination and 2-yr seedling survivorship averaged 66% and 95%, respectively and did not differ among six treatment classes. Seedlings of hermaphrodites generally were larger than those of females at the end of both experiments. Selfed seedlings of hermaphrodites did not grow more slowly than outcrossed seedlings of hermaphrodites or females. Hermaphrodite seedlings performed best when pollinated with hermaphrodite pollen; female seedlings performed best with male pollen. We conclude that superior seedling performance cannot explain why females are able to coexist with hermaphrodites in populations of this cactus. Instead, we postulate that greater annual seed production, which averaged 1.6 times higher in females than in hermaphrodites in two years, may be sufficient to allow females to co-occur with hermaphrodites in this large, long-lived plant, especially if sex determination involves cytoplasmic-nuclear inheritance.
23645298|The endemic elaphoglossoid ferns, Elaphoglossum dimorphum, E. nervosum and Microstaphyla furcata of St Helena, form a closely related group within section Lepidoglossa when analysed phylogenetically using sequences from the chloroplast trnL intron (partial) and trnL-F intergenic spacer. Microstaphyla furcata, traditionally placed in its own genus, is clearly shown to belong to Elaphoglossum confirming the previous transfer of this species to Elaphoglossum as E. bifurcatum. There is hardly any trnL-F sequence divergence between the species, in fact sequences of E. nervosum and E. dimorphum are identical. These results are consistent with the possible origin of E. dimorphum as a hybrid between E. bifurcatum and E. nervosum or with the view that the three species are the result of a recent radiation. The potential conflict between phylogenetic and morphological distinctness in determining species conservation priorities is discussed.
43558596|Flow cytometry (FCM) has been used to estimate the nuclear DNA content of Bromeliaceae species, which constitutes relevant information for studies of taxonomy, evolution, genetic diversity, and reproductive biology in bromeliads. Nevertheless, C values have only been estimated for 58 out of the 3,140 existing Bromeliaceae species. Aiming to contribute to the genome database of Bromeliaceae, the current study was carried out to measure the nuclear DNA content and base composition of Bromelioideae and Tillandsioideae species occurring in the Atlantic Rainforest. The most adequate FCM procedure provided histograms exhibiting G/G peaks with coefficients of variation below 5%, so that these histograms were used to measure the mean 2C and AT% values for all collected Bromelioideae and Tillandsioideae species. These values were statistically compared, and dendrograms were plotted. A second comparison was performed among all mean 2C values reported for Pitcairnioideae, Tillandsioideae, and Bromelioideae species. In accordance with previous statistical comparisons, two groups were formed: cluster 1, composed by Tillandsia loliacea, Tillandsia usneoides, and Tillandsia cyanea, and cluster 2, gathering other 69 species. Based on these results, we concluded that FCM was a rapid, accurate, and reliable technique to assess genome size and base composition. Furthermore, the FCM data reported here will contribute to the Monocot and Bromeliaceae database, which still displays several ongoing gaps, especially for endemic species.
23655699|Female cone morphology in Ephedra, including the number of initiated ovules and mature seeds per cone, provides important taxonomic characters used in sectional or species delimitation within Ephedra. Recent molecular phylogenies have indicated, however, that seed number per cone has changed repeatedly during the evolution of the genus. This study reports on the development of the female cone of E. rhytidosperma, based on a large sample of dissected cones studied under SEM. All cones were initially biovulate, and in the majority of cases, both female reproductive units (FRUs) developed a micropylar tube and formed mature seeds. In a few cases, the FRU pair developed asymmetrically in a cone, with one of them eventually aborting. There was no evidence of fusion of the FRU pair. Phylogenetically, E. rhytidosperma is in a clade with E. equisetina, which has uniovulate cones, and E. gerardiana and E. minuta, which have biovulate cones that also become unispermous via abortion. The biovulate condition may thus be ancestral in this clade.
23672628|Rumex bithynicus sp. n. (sect. Rumex) with two new hybrids from NW Turkey is close to R. alveolatus (from NE Iran, Afghanistan, NW Pakistan and Turkmenistan).
23674886|Allozyme variation was studied in all nine diploid Erigeron species known from the Alps: E. alpinus, E. neglectus, E. polymorphus, E. candidus, E. uniflorus, E. atticus, E. gaudinii, E. acer, and E. angulosus. A total of 248 individuals from 24 natural populations was investigated using starch gel electrophoresis. Seven enzymes and 13 loci were assessed. Genetic variation within populations was low with the proportion of polymorphic loci ranging from 0.00.385, and average number of alleles per polymorphic locus from 2.02.5. In general, 70100% of the genetic variation was attributed to between population differences. Mean genetic identities for pair-wise comparisons of populations averaged 0.893 within species, and 0.890 among species. Interspecific genetic variation of populations usually did not exceed intraspecific variation. It was concluded that the Erigeron species from the Alps may have arisen by recent speciation probably during the epoches of glaciation. Morphological and ecological differences between species seem to be based on few gene loci.
23643233|A cladistic analysis of phylogenetic relationships in the Primulales has been conducted, based on nucleotide sequence data from the chloroplast DNA gene rbcL. The analysis included 16 taxa representing all three families in the order, and also six genera from other orders, viz. Magnolia (Magnoliaceae), Caltha (Ranunculaceae), Geranium (Geraniaceae), Nicotiana (Solanaceae), Diospyros (Ebenaceae), and Manilkara (Sapotaceae). Previous cladistic analyses of morphological data have indicated that the Theophrastaceae are monophyletic, and that the Myrsinaceae are paraphyletic if including the genus Maesa. The results of the present work corroborate this conclusion, but also indicate that the Primulaceae are paraphyletic. Maesa is part of an unresolved clade that also include the Theophrastaceae and the Primulaceae, and the Myrsinaceae s. str. The latter is part of a monophyletic group also comprising the Primulaceae-Lysimachiinae and Cyclamen. It is concluded that dramatic changes in family circumscriptions are needed in order for taxonomy to reflect strictly monophyletic groups in the Primulales.
23655506|In the protogynous species H. foetidus, I investigated if investment in sexual structures and seed set shows any trend with position in the flower-opening sequence. In four-flower inflorescences, stamen number decreased with flower position i.e. was highest for the earliest flower and lowest for the latest flower. Ovule number was significantly higher in the latest flower. Stamen and ovule number did not covary, indicating that there is no structural gender trade-off in this species. Seed set (i.e. percentage of ovules producing seed) did not differ between control plants and pollen-supplemented plants and the effect of pollen supplementation did not vary among positions. Seed set showed marginally significant differences between control plants and simulated-herbivory plants, but the effects of this treatment varied significantly among positions. Significant among-position variation in seed set was observed in the control plants but not the simulated-herbivory plants. Seed set of latest-opening flowers of simulated-herbivory plants was significantly higher than that of latest-opening flowers of control plants. H. foetidus support Brunet and Charlesworth's (1995) prediction that in plants with protogynous flowers, later-opening flowers should specialize as female flowers, at least under conditions of high resource availability.
23642864|The leaf base vascularization in most of the Rubiaceae corresponds to the unilacunar pattern with one complex trace. Only some species are known to have a trilacunar nodal pattern with three traces. In the unilacunar type one pair of smaller bundles separates from the complex lacunary leaf trace laterally, each soon forking into two arms: One arm becomes a marginal vein of the petiole, the other, besides supplying the stipules, forms a  distinct vascular "bridge" within the cortex of the nodal flanks. In the Rubieae this flank bridge develops as a very distinct vascular "ring" commissure out of which the whorled leaf-like appendages are vascularized; only the opposite true leaves receive their complex trace out of the lacunes directly. Axillary branches originate only from these true leaves.
23657058|In this study, we infer the phylogeny of the recently described epiphytic fern genus Serpocaulon. Four regions of the plastid genome were sequenced for 68 samples, representing 31 of ca. 40 currently accepted species of this genus. The reconstructed phylogeny supports most of the previously proposed clades, but more exhaustive studies are needed to improve species delimitation in several terminal clades. A further objective of this study was to determine the utility of amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) data to study the diversification of species complexes. Independent analyses of data sets based on chloroplast DNA sequences or AFLPs resulted in phylogenetic trees with similar topologies, but showed also some notable differences. We present an explicit hypothesis of the biogeographic history of Serpocaulon. All reconstructed phylogenies suggest an origin of this genus in the BolivianBrazilian region and indicate a major role of the Bolivian Andes as a stepping-stone in the colonization of northern regions of the Andes. The majority of the extant species diversity of this almost exclusively epiphytic fern clade is likely the result of an adaptive radiation that was triggered by the colonization of Andean mountain forest habitats (above 2,000 m). This is the first report of a Bolivian origin of fern diversification in Andean mountain habitats using phylogenetic evidence.
43496772|In family Rubiaceae distyly is very common, and large variation in heterostyly characteristics has been previously documented. Analysis of these variations, even within a species, is very useful to our understanding of the evolutionary process that caused this polymorphism. For this reason, the goal of this study is to investigate the floral morphology and diallelic incompatibility system of three populations of Psychotria carthagenensis. The three studied populations of P. carthagenensis occur in forest fragments in protected areas in an urban matrix in the Municipality of Campo Grande, Mato Grosso do Sul State, Brazil. Reciprocal position of style length and stamen height was found in populations, and in general short-styled flowers were larger than long-styled flowers. All populations presented 1:1 morph ratio between short-styled and long-styled flowers. Regarding breeding system, flowers of P. carthagenensis were self-compatible and compatible within plants of the same morph, and there was no pollen limitation in the populations in any case. In only one of the populations were there differences in the extent of compatibility between morphs, with the long-styled morph being more self-compatible than the short-styled morph. The reproductive strategy of these populations can be advantageous in case of fluctuation of pollinator activity.
23674899|Biometrical variability of foliage, cones, and seeds were analyzed in 8 native populations (throughout the range) of a relictual species, Cupressus bakeri Jeps. (Cupressaceae) from California and Oregon. The partition of variation within and among populations for this rare plant was investigated and the justification for subspecies status was reviewed. Morphological characters varied significantly, with more of the variation among populations than at the population level. Multivariate analyses indicated close affinities among populations on serpentine sites suggesting the presence of a serpentine race. However, the high degree of variation among populations did not permit their clear separation into the two subspecies described by Wolf (1948). We conclude that C. bakeri should be treated as a monotypic species.
23642894|The utility of chloroplast DNA variation for checking a recently proposed infrageneric classification of the genus Allium was tested. cpDNA restriction patterns of 49 species representing the main subgenera, sections, and subsections of the existing classification were compared. 363 different fragments generated by 4 restriction enzymes were identified and analysed by UPGMA clustering. The resulting phenogram largely confirms the subgeneric classification based on an integration of morphological and other methods.
23642366|The open dichotomous pattern of venation in the leaves of Utricularia striatula is described in detail and compared with Circaeaster and Kingdonia. Similar traits of dichotomous venation occur in other species of Utricularia and may be due to reduction.
23655996|Crop characteristics involving cone size, average number of seeds per cone, and seed germinability have been studied for three hybrid swarm populations of Pinus mugo and P. sylvestris, two pure P. mugo populations and one pure P. sylvestris population, in northern Slovakia. Generally, reproduction capability characteristics were significantly reduced in hybrid swarms in relation to the control populations. Although there were no consistent differences between hybrid swarms and control populations in the average number of seeds per cone or cone size, seed germination rates and full seed production in hybrid swarms were lower than for the control population of P. sylvestris and one of the pure populations of P. mugo. Based on these data a conclusion has been drawn postulating partial rather than full fertility of the hybrid swarm populations of P. mugo and P. sylvestris.
23674883|A relatively large proportion of the flax genome ( 3%) is comprised of 5S rRNA genes. This study focuses on the intraspecific sequence variation among five distinct groups of 5S rRNA genes. The results indicate that group 1 and 2 5S rRNA genes most closely resemble other angiosperm 5S genes, while groups 35 are highly divergent. Sequence variation is higher in the spacer region compared to the transcribed region for all pairwise comparisons. The large degree of sequence variation observed in this study is discussed with respect to genome organization and proposed models for repetitive sequence maintenance.
23645060|Vicia ser. Vicia, which includes the Vicia sativa aggregate, was studied by observing morphological variation. The study is an attempt to resolve the taxonomic relationships within the Vicia sativa aggregate by novel investigations along with a synthesis of the results obtained by previous researchers. The study has included some accessions and characters used previously, but has drawn accessions from a wider geographical range than has been attempted previously. Cluster analysis on the basis of 53 morphological characters justified the delimitation of four species within the series and six subspecies within the Vicia sativa aggregate. Accessions from South Asia could easily be incorporated in the classification, but some of the accessions from North Africa showed morphological differences. The morphometric data were coded using the gap weighting method of Thiele (1993) and used in a phylogenetic analysis to study the relationships between the taxa. The phylogenetic analysis, using 33 variables, showed Vicia pyrenaica closely related to Vicia sativa subsp. amphicarpa. A dichotomous key and a multi-access key to aid the identification of the taxa in the series are presented.
23642934|Phylogenetic analysis of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site variation supports a close genetic relationship between the Southwest Asian Senecio flavus subsp. breviflorus and the North American S. mohavensis. The intercontinental disjunct distribution of these two desert annuals may have originated via long distance dispersal. The chloroplast genomes of the Southern and North African S. flavus subsp. flavus and subsp. breviflorus differ by at least ten restriction sites, while at most two restriction sites differentiate the cpDNA genomes of subsp. breviflorus and the outgroup S. squalidus. This suggests that the cpDNA genome of S. flavus subsp. breviflorus may have resulted from introgression and chloroplast capture with a Mediterranean species related to S. squalidus. This hypothesized introgression could account for the morphological distinctiveness and duplicated isozyme loci of S. flavus subsp. breviflorus relative to subsp. flavus.
43496747|Zonneveld (Pl Syst Evol 281:217-245, 2009) proposed an infrageneric classification of Tulipa (Liliaceae) based on the nuclear content determined by flow cytometry and available morphological data. The nomenclatural consequences of this are discussed here, involving the typification of generic and infrageneric names. Additional notes on some species are given. Four subgenera are distinguished, of which two are new; ten sections are proposed, four new; three new combinations are made, and seven lectotypes are designated. Tulipa praecox Ten. is a later homonym of T. praecox Cav. (Descripcin de las plantas. 2: 448, 625, 1803); its correct name is Tulipa agenensis DC. Tulipa lemmersii Zonn., A. Peterse, J. de Groot is validated here by giving the type citation.
23674542|Hybridizations of Elymus nutans and E. jacquemontii were carried out with one species of Pseudoroegneria ("S" genome), and 20 Elymus species, each containing either of the "SH", "SY", "SYH", or "SYW" genomes. Chromosome configurations were analysed at metaphase I of the two target taxa and their interspecific hybrids. It is concluded that (i) E. nutans is an allohexaploid containing the "SYH" genomes, and E. jacquemontii is an allotetraploid having the "SY" genomes; (ii) the genomic affinity is associated with the geographic distance between the species studied; (iii) minor genomic structural rearrangements have occurred within the hexaploid taxon of E. nutans.
43558041|Picea mariana (black spruce) and P. rubens (red spruce) are closely related species which are difficult to differentiate morphologically. RAPD markers differentiating black and red spruces have been previously identified. In the present study, genetic validity of these markers was determined using samples representing range-wide provenances. Their applicability for certifying genetic identity of individual black, red trees and their hybrids from several sympatric and allopatric locations was demonstrated. These diagnostic fragments of both red and black spruce were present at a frequency of over 0.95 in allopatric provenances, but at a lower frequency in some sympatric provenances (0.43-1.00). Natural populations of red spruce exhibiting typical red spruce phenotype contained black spruce diagnostic RAPD fragments and black spruces growing in bogs with typical bog black spruce morphology, contained red spruce-specific RAPD markers. Some major RAPD markers were cloned and sequenced. The results reveal an extremely high degree of identity between the random primer and the primer binding sites on the genome. Amplification of black and red spruce genomic DNA with designed primers flanking the species-diagnostic RAPD markers indicates that most of RAPD markers used to differentiate black spruce from red spruce are not species specific since these sequences were detected in several spruce species using a more sensitive detection method.
43558349|In 188 bulbs from five populations of Lycoris chinensis from Anhui province, China, several chromosomal variations have been discovered. Although their frequencies are low, some rearranged chromosomes which are aberrant have been found. The aberrants are: (1) small metacentrics (m'); (2) submetacentrics (sm); (3) subtelocentrics (st); (4) acrocentrics (t); and (5) satellite chromosomes (SAT). All can be easily suspected as being derived from telocentric chromosomes (T type chromosomes). Some individuals having one or more B chromosomes have been found, and intrapopulational variation of B chromosomes in number has also been observed. Because of having B chromosome, L. chinensis has some different chromosome complement numbers: 2n = 16, 2n = 16 + 1B, 2n = 16 + 2B, 2n = 16 + 3B, and 2n = 16 + 5B. In addition, a new triploid karyotype composed of 3n = 24 = 9m + 11t(2SAT) + 4T chromosomes has been found. Vegetative propagation is an efficient means of perpetuating the aberrant chromosomes and the triploids.
23674479|Genetic variation within and the relationship between Stellaria longipes Goldie and S. longifolia Muhl. were studied. Ten enzyme systems were assessed in eight natural populations of S. longipes (25 loci) and three of S. longifolia (20 loci) using starch and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Patterns of population differentiation corresponded to geographic distance. There was no evidence that polyploid S. longipes had greater electrophoretic variability than diploid S. longipes. The isozyme data confirmed extensive population differentiation in these species and, within that context, a relatively close relationship between S. longipes and S. longifolia. It was postulated that diploids of these two species might be the progenitors of tetraploid S. longipes.
23674422|Herbarium specimens (c. 1000) and population samples (76) have been screened for the occurrence of diploid representatives of Taraxacum sect. Ruderalia (T. sect. Vulgaria, nom. illeg.). The area studied comprises German Democratic Republic, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and parts of Austria, Yugoslavia, and Rumania. Diploids are common from the Valley of the Moravia river on southwards. Isolated outpost localities are found in S. Poland and extend far to the north: neighbourhood of Berlin. Based on the pattern of distribution in Czechoslovakia, the Pannonian (thermophilous) phytogeographical character of the diploids is discussed. Special attention has been paid to morphological differences between di- and triploids in Czechoslovakia. The study provides a basis for further biosystematical and taxonomic studies in the relationships between diploids and polyploids as well as in the stability of agamospecies.
23655689|Typical angiosperm dicot leaves are discovered closely associated with reproductive organs of Sinocarpus decussatus from the Yixian Formation, NE China. Leaves are of first rank, small, with fine texture, and with distinct petiole and lamina. Venation pattern is craspedodromous, of at least three discrete orders of veins irregularly arranged. Leaf margin is serrate, with glandular teeth of chloranthoid type. The new Sinocarpus material is better preserved and more complete than the type specimen. It yields support for previous interpretations of reproductive characters and shows that the inflorescences were compound, perhaps combining alternate and opposite phyllotaxis, and that seeds were arranged in two rows, each row with about ten seeds. While these new reproductive characters do not provide further resolution to the systematic assignment of Sinocarpus, the associated leaves, believed to be from the same plant, support previous interpretation of Sinocarpus as a basal eudicot, and particularly close to Ranunculales.
23664059|Based on morphology, the species status and taxonomic affinities of three species of Tinospora (T. cordifolia, T. sinensis, and T. crispa) with ranges in India, have been questioned. To evaluate species delimitation and population structure among 40 accessions of the three species, a relatively new marker, cytochrome P450, was used. Five out of nine primers generated polymorphisms with 39 out of 47 bands polymorphic. The P450 binary data, when analyzed using distance methods, strongly supported the monophyly of each Indian species and were congruent with previous RAPD work. To further investigate the status of these species, we combined P450 and RAPD data. The resulting unrooted phylogram highly supports the monophyly of each species but with little population structure within each species. To understand the phylogenetic placement of the three Indian Tinospora species within Menispermaceae, chloroplast atpB and rbcL sequence data for a large sampling of the family were analyzed using likelihood and parsimony methods. The resulting phylogenies highly support the Indian Tinospora species as part of a clade (expanded Tinosporeae), consisting of diverse Menispermaceae from around the world. The three Indian species are monophyletic and are most closely related to Tinospora species from Australia (T. esiangkara and T. smilacina).
23654161|A phylogenetic study of selected fleshyfruited genera of the Myrtaceae was conducted using sequences from the ITS region of nuclear DNA and the psbA-trnH region of plastid DNA. Studies to date have suggested that the fleshyfruited state has arisen on several occasions in the Myrtaceae. The previously accepted and predominantly Neotropical tribe Myrteae has traditionally been divided into three groups, the subtribes Myrtinae, Eugeniinae and Myrciinae. This subtribal arrangement is analysed in detail here for the first time. The monophyly of the tribe and subtribes are tested and relationships of the genera within them, in particular those of the Myrciinae and anomalous genera sometimes associated with it, are discussed. Combined analyses of these two DNA regions revealed 40 shortest trees, all of which resolve Myrteae (excluding the Acmena group) as monophyletic. Myrciinae appears to be monophyletic whereas Myrtinae and Eugeniinae appear polyphyletic. The phylogenetic positions and relationships of the anomalous genera Myrceugenia, Luma and Blepharocalyx are unclear, but Myrceugenia is never included within the Myrciinae s.str. A Myrciinae s.str. clade emerges within which Myrcia, Calyptranthes and Marlierea appear polyphyletic. Clades emerge, however, that may reflect some natural groupings within the subtribe.
43558213|Rhamnus glaucophylla Sommier is an endemic small tree or shrub belonging to sect. Eurhamnus. It grows on cliffs of the Apuan Alps and of the Lucca Apennine in Tuscany (Italy). ISSRs were used to detect the genetic diversity within and among five populations representative of the species distribution range. Moderate levels of genetic diversity were revealed as percentage of polymorphic band (PPB) both at the population (PPB = 22.63%, Hs = 0.0801, Sh = 0.1193) and species level (PPB = 48.68%, Ht = 0.1155, Sh = 0.1837). The correlation between genetic and geographic distances was not significant (Mantel test, r = 0.17; P < 0.26). The information on the pattern of genetic variation obtained in this work bears important implications for conservation management, and in particular for ex situ conservation programmes involving long-term seed storage in seed banks.
23642508|The two characters used by Burtt (1974) to segregate the genus Schizoboea from Didymocarpus, viz. "terminal inflorescence" and "fruit splitting into 4 valves", have been studied in detail: (a) The "terminal inflorescence" represents a bracteate florescence (sensu Troll), that is an open thyrse, peculiar because of its only two extremely condensed internodes ("basic internode" + 1 following internode). Correspondingly, there are only two pairs of bracts from which the lower one only is capable to develop axillary partial florescences, i.e. pair-flowered cymes. Thus, the number of cymes is restricted to 2. Because of the condensed internodes, the inconspicuous bracts, and the densely aggregated flowers the two cymes simulate a unitary, terminal structure. By sympodial ( asymmetrically dichasial) linkage of shoot units, composed of an extended internode, a foliage leaf pair (from the axils of which the consecutive units arise) and the florescence, Schizoboea forms (polytelic) anthocladial shoot systems like some genera of the tribe Klugieae (incl. Loxonieae). (b) The fruit dehisces first loculicidally, then each valve splits into three portions (lateral rib and 2 semivalves). Moreover, the 4 placentae become isolated, thus the old fruit comprises 10 elements forming a loose fascicle.The segregation of Schizoboea from Didymocarpus is supported. Whether the affinity is closer to Saintpaulia (as suspected by Burtt) ot to Didymocarpus, remains undecided: In regard to its shoot and inflorescence organization a morphological derivation is possible from both genera.
23673835|A new species, Lotus digii, has been found in Morocco growing on the coastal sandy soils. Further localities are from Algeria and Egypt. It should be expected also in Libya.
23642917|Two viviparous strains of common onion (Allium cepa) denoted as Allium cepa var. viviparum (syn. Allium  proliferum), traditionally cultivated in the seaside regions of Croatia were found to be diploid (2n = 2x = 16) and triploid (2n = 3x = 24), respectively. The triploid cultivated onion 'Ljutika' has not been previously reported in Europe. Using Feulgen and Giemsa C-banding methods both karyotypes were shown to be of hybrid constitution. Results obtained in this work indicate that Dalmatian viviparous onions arose from spontaneous hybridization of A. cepa with A. fistulosum.
23643008|The Tertiary vegetation of Europe evolved from paratropical to warm-temperate and temperate forms in response to a progressive, non-linear, climatic cooling. Its vegetational forms are composed mainly of two separate ecological units: the evergreen, laurophyll "paleotropical geoflora" and the deciduous, broad-leaved "Arctotertiary geoflora". The development of the Tertiary climate and its interaction with the vegetation are convincingly indicated by the geoflora's migration; the changes in its composition; and the development of the Tertiary forest, swamp, and aquatic plant communities. The "paleotropical geoflora" is characterized in the upper Cretaceous to the upper Miocene by paratropical rain forest, subtropical rain and laurel forests, temperate laurel forests and edaphically-mediated formation of laurel-conifer forests. The "Arctotertiary geoflora" advanced into Europe in waves since the Paleocene and formed the basis for the Tertiary mixed mesophytic forests. These can be divided into warm-temperate rain forests, oak-hornbeam-chestnut or mixed beech-oak-hornbeam forests, and edaphic formations such as bottomland and swamp forests. Beginning in the lower Cretaceous, the hydrophytic vegetation developed independently of the forest vegetation and formed very diverse herbaceous fresh water, swamp, salt water, and coastal formations. Considerable differences in composition allow to separate floral regions and provinces in Eurosiberia. Instead of three ill-defined floral regions in the Paleocene, there are four well-defined floral regions in the Pliocene. A Mediterranean region cannot be recognized, although Mediterranean (eumesogeic) floral elements appear in the Eocene/Oligocene and thereafter. The Mediterranean sclerophyll forests probably arose after the destruction of the laurophyll forests during the Pleistocene.
23673111|The section Heteranthae of Arachis is endemic to Brazil, occurring mainly in the semi-arid northeastern region. The section is considered derived within the genus and includes only annual herbs. Most previous cytological evaluations were restricted to chromosome numbers and morphology. The present approach comprised karyomorphological evaluation in 10 accessions from five species of this section, including standard staining and fluorochrome banding [chromomycin A3 (CMA)/4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)]. All accessions presented diploid chromosome numbers (2n = 20) with a prevalence of metacentric to submetacentric chromosome morphology. Arachis dardani, Arachis pusilla, and Arachis interrupta presented karyotypic formula 18m + 4sm and satellite type 2, while Arachis sylvestris and Arachis giacomettii presented 16m + 4sm and satellite type 10. Despite the conserved morphological features, higher diversity was detected in terms of size and number of GC-rich (CMA+) heterochromatic blocks among the species; however, all of them were located in the pericentromeric regions. The species A. pusilla presented the highest number of GC-rich blocks, present in all chromosomes of the complement. Based on the data obtained and considering literature data, we suggest that A. dardani and A. interrupta occupy a basal position in the group due to their moderate asymmetry and satellite type. At least in A. pusilla, the constitutive heterochromatin seems to have suffered recent modifications of its constitution, in contrast to other species that present pericentromeric CMA+ blocks in all chromosomes. A. giacomettii and A. sylvestris are closely related to each other and also similar to the previously studied Arachis seridoensis, revealing two clear-cut subgroups within the section from the karyological point of view.
23642908|Genetic divergence between population samples of Orchis laxiflora and of O. palustris from various European locations was studied by electrophoretic analysis of 25 enzyme loci. An average genetic distance of DNei = 1.24 was found between the two taxa, with 12 out of 25 loci showing alternative alleles (diagnostic loci). Genetic heterogeneity was observed within both O. laxiflora and O. palustris, when northern and southeastern populations were compared, being lower in the former taxon (D = 0.06), than in the latter (D = 0.16). Karyologically, 2n = 36 was found for both O. laxiflora and O. palustris. O. laxiflora and O. palustris produce hybrids, described as O.  intermedia. Genotype analysis of several sympatric samples showed the presence of hybrid zones, including F1 hybrids and, in low proportions, recombinant classes, putatively assigned to Fn and back-crosses, as well as a few introgressed individuals of both taxa. These data indicate that hybrids are only partially fertile, with a very limited mixing up of the two parental gene pools; this is also shown by the lack of significant lowering of genetic distances when sympatric and allopatric heterospecific samples are compared. Accordingly, O. laxiflora and O. palustris form a syngameon; nevertheless they can be considered as good taxonomic species, with virtually distinct gene pools, which evolve independently. The genetic variability in O. laxiflora and O. palustris is remarkably low (He = 0.05 and He = 0.02, respectively). In particular, nearly complete absence of polymorphic loci was found in O. palustris from northcentral Europe. Two hypotheses are considered to explain the low genetic variability of this endangered species.
23642989|Clarkia breweri (Onagraceae) is the only species known in its genus to produce strong floral fragrance and to be pollinated by moths. We used gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to identify 12 abundant compounds in the floral headspace from two inbred lines of C. breweri. These volatiles are derived from two biochemical pathways, one producing acyclic monoterpenes and their oxides, the other leading from phenylalanine to benzoate and its derivatives. Linalool and linalool oxide (pyran form) were the most abundant monoterpenoids, while linalool oxide (furan form) was present at lower concentrations. Of the aromatic compounds detected, benzyl acetate was most abundant, whereas benzyl benzoate, eugenol, methyl salicylate, and vanillin were present as minor constituents in all floral samples. The two inbred C. breweri lines differed for the presence of the additional benzenoid compounds isoeugenol, methyleugenol, methylisoeugenol, and veratraldehyde. We also analyzed floral headspace from C. concinna, the likely progenitor of C. breweri, whose flowers are odorless to the human nose. Ten volatiles (mostly terpenoids) were detected at low concentrations, but only when headspace was collected from 20 or more flowers at a time. Trans--ocimene was the most abundant floral compound identified from this species. Our data are consistent with the hypothesized recent evolution of floral scent production and moth pollination in C. breweri.
23655886|Conandron ramondioides with actinomorphic flower in Gesneriaceae is an endemic species distributed in Taiwan, Southeast of China and Japan. Populations are usually small and isolated in typically fragmented habitat. Based on SNPs of Gcyc1 (Cycloidea), a TCP gene known in patterning the floral dorsoventral asymmetry, we have explored the molecular evolution and genetic differentiation of Gcyc1 at population level, and the population history of C. ramondioides populations distributed in SE China. Eighteen SNPs are detected in 774-bp of the gene, of which eleven are non-synonymous. However, morphological observation of flowers shows that there is no visible differentiation in shape and size across the dorsoventral axis within each whorl. None of the eighteen SNPs is by all shared the eleven populations. Population differentiation is significant. These results reveal that evolution of Gcyc1 at population level is well in accord with the neutral theory. Our study indicates that the SNPs of developmental genes are also useful molecular markers for exploring the genetic differentiation and population history in nonmodel organisms.
23674605|Gossypium mustelinum, one of five tetraploid species in the cotton genus, is geographically restricted to a few states in NE Brazil. Allozyme analysis was used to assess levels and patterns of genetic diversity in G. mustelinum and its relationship to the other tetraploid species. Genetic variation was low, with only 6 of 50 loci examined being polymorphic, a mean of 1.14 alleles per locus and a mean panmictic heterozygosity of 0.08. These estimates are low relative to other tetraploid cotton species, but are typical of island endemics. Interpopulational genetic identities were uniformly high, lending support to the concept of there being only one wild species of Brazilian cotton. The limited allelic diversity observed was correlated with geographical distribution, although variability is so limited in the species that geographically marginal populations are electrophoretically ordinary. Phylogenetic and phenetic analyses demonstrate that G. mustelinum is isolated among polyploid cotton species, occupying one of the three basal clades resulting from an early radiation of polyploid taxa subsequent to polyploid formation. We suggest that G. mustelinum represents a paleoendemic that presently exists as a series of widely scattered, relictual populations. Despite several centuries of sympatric cultivation of G. barbadense and G. hirsutum, there was little evidence of interspecific introgression of alleles from cultivated cottons into G. mustelinum.
23674818|Recent systematic studies of Bartsia and Odontites showed the necessity to exclude the closely related perennial species Bartsia aspera (Portugal and northern Morocco) and Bartsia spicata (Central Pyrenees) from the genus Bartsia as a segregate genus named Nothobartsia. Morphologically this new genus combines characteristic features of Bartsia and of Odontites. Its autonomous systematic position is supported by the cladistic analysis, showing that Nothobartsia represents a relatively primitive genus standing close to the common ancestral root of Bartsia, Euphrasia, and Odontites.
23674637|Genomic relationships of 13 tetraploid species within the Asiatic Elymus parviglumis group containing the SY genomes were assessed by analysing chromosome pairing at metaphase I of the parental species and their interspecific hybrids. Two major genomic subgroups among the tetraploids were identified from the cluster analysis of the averaged c-values, namely, the E. caucasicus subgroup (two species) and the E. parviglumis subgroup (11 species). The genomic affinity of the Elymus species is associated with the interspecific geographic distance.
23672713|It appears that the tapetum is universally present in land plants, even though it is sometimes difficult to recognize, because it serves mostly as a tissue for meiocyte/spore nutrition. In addition to this main function, the tapetum has other functions, namely the production of the locular fluid, the production and release of callase, the conveying of P.A.S. positive material towards the loculus, the formation of exine precursors, viscin threads and orbicules ( = Ubisch bodies), the production of sporophytic proteins and enzymes, and of pollenkitt/tryphine. Not all these functions are present in all land plants: Embryophyta. Two main tapetal types are usually distinguished in the Spermatophyta: the secretory or parietal type and the amoeboid or periplasmodial type; in lower groups, however, other types may be recognized, with greater or lesser differences. A hypothetical phylogenesis of the tapetum is proposed on the basis of its morphological appearance and of the nutritional relations with meiocytes/spores. The evolutionary trends of the tapeta tend towards a more and more intimate and increasingly greater contact with the spores/pollen grains. Three evolutionary trends can be recognized: 1) an intrusion of the tapetal cells between the spores, 2) a loss of tapetal cell walls, and 3) increasing nutrition through direct contact in narrow anthers.
23656036|Insertions and deletions (indels) are common in intergenic spacer regions of plastid DNA and can provide important phylogenetic characters for closely related species. For example, a 241-bp plastid DNA deletion in the trnV-UAC/ndhC intergenic spacer region has been shown to have major phylogenetic importance in determining the origin of the cultivated potato. As part of a phylogenetic study of the wild potato Solanum series Piurana group we screened 199 accessions of 38 wild potato species in nine of the 19 tuber-bearing (Solanum section Petota) series that have not been examined before for indels in the trnV-UAC/ndhC intergenic spacer region. A novel 41 bp deletion (but no 241 bp deletion) was discovered for 30 accessions of three species: S. chiquidenum (5 of 10 accessions), S. chomatophilum (19 of 28), and S. jalcae (6 of 6). Accessions with and without this deletion are found throughout much of the north-south range of all three species in northern and central Peru, but not east of the Maran River. Multivariate morphological analyses of these 44 accessions showed no morphological associations to the deletion. The results suggest extensive interspecific gene flow among these three species, or a common evolutionary history among species that have never been suggested to be interrelated.
43558040|The enigmatic fossil taxon Ceratostratiotes sinjanus (Kerner) Buek has been considered as either a Hydrocharitaceae seed (monocot) or a Ceratophyllaceae fruit (dicot). The co-occurrence of seeds of Stratiotes kaltennordheimensis (Zenker) Keilhack (Hydrocharitaceae) and Ceratostratiotes in Early Miocene sediments in Langau (Lower Austria) enabled comparisons of morphologicalanatomical features and lignin compositions, independent of diagenetic biases. The biochemistry of the Ceratostratiotes seed coat wall is not monocotyledon-like and is dissimilar to that of the co-occurring Stratiotes testae. In contrast, the Ceratostratiotes seed coat anatomy resembles that of Hydrocharitaceae genera with the micropyle and raphe being very similar to those in seeds of Stratiotes. Although the horizontal arrangement of the Ceratostratiotes spines is different from the longitudinal arrangement of the surface ridges in Stratiotes kaltennordheimensis and the spines in Blyxa (Hydrocharitaceae), the spine structures are very similar. A mixture of similarities and differences characterizes the morphologicalanatomical features. Thus the systematic affinity of Ceratostratiotes still remains enigmatic.
43558159|Comparison of leaf morphometric variation and phylogenetic analyses based on nrITS and partial trnC-D cpDNA sequences were conducted for samples of Lysion-otus pauciflorus sensu lato collected from China, Japan and Taiwan. In the morphometric comparison, leaves of plants from Japan proper and those from Taiwan proper were not significantly distinguishable by their leaf length to width ratio. In phylogenetic analyses, monophyly of L. pauciflorus s. l. samples was strongly supported, and Japanese and Taiwanese samples fell into a clade separate from Chinese samples. In the Japan-Taiwan clade, plants from Japan proper formed a sister clade to those from Okinawa Island (Japan) and Taiwan. The present results suggest that (1) the L. pauciflorus s. l. samples from China, Japan and Taiwan must be treated as a single species; (2) L. pauciflorus s. l. originated in China; (3) a single dispersal event, dispersal via a land-bridge during low sea levels in a Pleistocene glacial maximum, from China to Taiwan and Japan is proposed; (4) three oversea dispersal events, probably through anemochory, to Japan proper, across the Tokara Gap, to Okinawa islands crossing the Kerama Gap, and from Taiwan to Lanyu Island are proposed. The study gives further insight into the biogeographical dynamics between the Ryukyus and surrounding areas.
23655987|The potatoes, Solanum L. section Petota Dumortier, are a group of species that possess a very broad range of biological diversity, and a wide geographical distribution in the Americas. These species constitute euploid series with somatic chromosome numbers ranging from 2n = 2x = 24 to 2n = 6x = 72. Although special attention has been given to the origin of polyploid potato species, principally the cultivated forms, that are major food crops, and hybridization has been accepted as an important evolutionary force in the section, the mechanisms involved in the origin and evolution of the diploid species have not been elucidated. Herein, we propose that homoploid hybridization is the main mechanism involved in the origin and evolution of the diploid potato species, and discuss the evidences that support our proposal.
23674727|Important characters in the classification of the lichenized family Alectoriaceae (Lecanorales) are discussed and evaluated. A few associated genera presently accommodated in the family Parmeliaceae (Lecanorales) are also discussed. Characters in the asci and hamathecium are of major importance, but structural characters such as general thallus organization and anatomy of cortical layers must also be considered. Secondary chemical products, however, were not found to be decisive for the circumscription of this family. Only three genera, Alectoria, Oropogon, and Sulcaria, can be included, based mainly on the structure of the large, strongly amyloid asci; the rather large and darkly pigmented, thick-walled spores, usually few per ascus; and the structure of the anastomosing paraphysoids. Arguments are also given as to why the other alectorioid genera, i.e. Bryocaulon, Bryoria and Pseudephebe must be excluded from this family. Similarly developed ascus and hamathecial structures are also discussed in a few unrelated parmelioid genera: Cetrelia, Menegazzia, Parmelaria, and Parmelia.
23645335|The genus Veronica s. lat. comprises about 450 species (including about 180 species from the southern hemisphere Hebe-complex), many of which grow in the Mediterranean area. Their extreme variability in morphology, life form and habitats has led to many suggestions regarding evolution and biogeography. Difficulties arise from parallel syndromes, widespread among alpine species and lowland perennials, and particularly among annual species of the genus. We have used sequences of the plastid trnL-F region and nuclear ribosomal ITS sequences to differentiate between different clades of Veronica and reveal cases of parallel evolution. Based on this data, cases of parallel evolution have been found in biogeographical patterns among the alpine species of Veroniceae, in which species from European mountains have affinities to those in the Central Asian/Himalayan region whereas alpine species from Turkey are probably more recently derived from lowland southwestern Asian taxa. Different subspecies of Veronica bombycina gained their characteristic morphology independently and parallel in adaptation to their alpine environment. Pinnatifid leaves have been gained parallel in perennial grassland species of Veronica. Finally, parallel evolutionary trends in many characters, not only morphological but also molecular characters, are common among annual species of Veronica.
23643234|Variation in chloroplast rbcL sequences was studied in representative species of four different lineages: the tribe Rubieae (Rubiaceae), and the genera Drosera (Droseraceae), Nothofagus (Nothofagaceae) and Ilex (Aquifoliaceae). Each lineage has its particular non-overlapping set of rbcL polymorphic sites, indicating that common unconstrained rbcL sites are not shared. Large differences in the rate and pattern of nucleotide substitution are observed among the four lineages. The genus Ilex has the lowest rate of substitution, the lowest transition/transversion ratio, the lowest synonymous/replacement ratio and the lowest number of substitutions at the third codon position. An apparent relationship of these measures to the age of the lineages is observed. The A + T content and codon use among the four lineages are very similar and, apparently, cannot account for the observed differences in patterns of nucleotide substitution. However, the A + T content of the two bases immediately flanking the polymorphic sites is higher in Ilex than in the other lineages. This could be correlated with the transversion/transition bias observed in Ilex. The particularly low synonymous/replacement ratio found in Ilex could also be explained by the small population sizes of species in this genus.
43558324|Most plants activate the developmental transition from the vegetative to the reproductive phase in response to photoperiod length, temperature, and other environmental stimuli. Successful identification of major genes underlying flowering time and maturity in soybean is a prerequisite for understanding of the regulation of flowering time. Recent progress has been made toward molecular bases of soybean maturity loci by using both candidate gene and positional cloning approaches. In particular, successful identification of the molecular identity of the soybean maturity locus E1 is a remarkable achievement, because this gene is essential for understanding the regulation of flowering time and maturity in soybean. The E1 gene has a putative bipartite nuclear localization signal, and a domain distantly related to B3. Transcriptional profiling showed the E1 gene is under photoperiodic regulation. The E2 gene in soybean encodes GmGIa, a homolog of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA that has multiple functions involved in the circadian clock and flowering. Both of the E3 and E4 genes encode copies of PHYTOCHROME A proteins, and both genes response differentially to light with different red to far-red quantum (R:FR) ratios. In addition, two homologs (GmFT2a and GmFT5a) of FLOWERING LOCUS T coordinately promote photoperiodic flowering in soybean.Public availability of the soybean genome sequence to the research community will greatly facilitate fine mapping and cloning of more genes underlying flowering time and photoperiodic response. Further research on identified genes will help us to understand the exquisite regulatory network of parallel and intertwining pathways controlling flowering time and photoperiodic response in soybean.
23673777|The view put forward by some authors that flowering plant selfincompatibility mechanisms of the homomorphic sporophytic and heteromorphic sporophytic types have a close evolutionary relationship, with one form being evolved from the other, or both forms directly evolved from ancestors with homomorphic garnetophytic incompatibility, is challenged. A review is provided of the various facets of each of the three main self-incompatibility systems, including a detailed summary of our current knowledge of the rejection mechanism, to demonstrate that the implicit assumption that these systems have a common S locus, and also evolutionary theories linking the systems, need to be treated with considerable caution.
23656082|This study presents the results of the identification and quantification of 12 isoflavones (prunetin, irilone, pseudobaptigenin, glycitein, daidzin, genistin, daidzein, pratensein, puerarin, biochanin A, formononetin and genistein) in 23 species of Trifolium (T. arvense, T. pratense, T. ligusticum, T. striatum, T. lappaceum, T. angustifolium, T. hirtum, T. subterraneum, T. isthmocarpum, T. stellatum, T. mutabile, T. strictum, T. fragiferum, T. alexandrinum, T. tomentosum. T. nigrescens subsp. petrisavii, T. nigrescens, T. glomeratum, T. subterraneum subsp. brachycalycinum, T. cherleri, T. resupinatum, T. campestre and T. repens). Isoflavones were extracted by an MSPD method and analyzed with HPLC coupled with a diode-array detector. The evaluation of molecular phylogeny of the IFS gene and the relation with isoflavone content was also performed. Five species (T. subterraneum subsp. brachycalycinum, T. alexandrinum, T. pratense, T. subterraneum and T. lappaceum) were identified with high levels of biochanin A (43183 mg/kg), formononetin (72365 mg/kg) and genistein (9509 mg/kg), which could be utilized as alternative sources for the nutraceutical industry. Genetic phylogeny for the IFS gene was found in the species studied, with 20 out of 23 species having been divided into two clades, while the remaining three were genetically distant. Based on our results, we confirm the direct correlation between IFS gene polymorphism and isoflavones content in species of Trifolium particularly noted for formononetin. Therefore, the IFS gene can be utilized for screening Trifolium genotypes for formononetin. The relation of the three isoflavones' contents and the molecular phylogeny of plants determined by the IFS sequences, as a screening marker for plants with high isoflavone contents in Trifolium species, are to the best of our knowledge described for the first time.
23642099|Endopolyploidy has been detected in some varieties of Helianthus annuus L. (Asteraceae/Compositae) by means of scanning photometry of Feulgen-stained nuclei and analysis of nuclear structure. In the hypocotyl cells of seedlings, ploidy levels reach respectively 8 C and 16 C in different varieties, in the root cells 8 C and 16 C; in the cotyledons of ripening seeds 4 C to 8 C values have been found, while all nuclei of the inflorescence axis of one variety exhibit a DNA content of 4 C.This is the first report of endopolyploidy in a non-succulent Asteraceae species. The characteristic distribution of the endopolyploidy levels in different varieties suggests a strong genetic and/or hormonal control of the final nuclear DNA content in differentiated cells.
43558353|Hybridization is considered to play an important role in speciation and evolution. Given the predicted northward tree migration in the eastern USA due to the impact of climate change, hybridization between related species is expected to become more frequent due to overlapping distribution ranges in the future. Oak species are "hot spots" of contemporary hybridization, serving as model organisms in the development of ecological species concepts. Q. rubra L. and Q. ellipsoidalis E.J. Hill were selected as study species, since they show different ecological requirements but hybridize with each other where both species co-occur. To identify morphological species and differentiation patterns in this species pair in ten populations on the Upper Peninsula of Michigan we investigated both leaf morphological variation, and genetic variation at highly variable microsatellite markers. Cluster analyses using leaf morphological characters revealed two distinct clusters for directly measured leaf characters and three clusters when additionally leaf shape characters were considered. Two populations growing on dry and sandy sites and identified as Q. ellipsoidalis in the field and by genetic assignment analyses were differentiated from the other eight populations at leaf morphological characters.Strong and significant correlations of leaf morphological differences with genetic distances at microsatellite markers but not with geographic distances are consistent with a pattern of isolation by adaptation. Differentiation at genetic and leaf morphological characters between neighboring populations in contrasting environments suggested reproductive isolation between populations of different species, possibly as the result of divergent selection. More extensive sampling along the distribution range of both species and reciprocal transplant experiments between parental environments are necessary to better understand the role of interspecific gene flow and selection in the maintenance of species identity in red oak species (Quercus section Lobatae).
23643265|The peacock moraeas are South African geophytes with Iris-like flowers that are characterized by broad outer tepals with iridescent spots. Three of the seven species were studied and found to be exclusively visited and pollinated by beetles. The primary pollinators were hopliine (Scarabaeidae) beetles in the genera Peritrichia, Monochelus, Anisonyx and Anisochelus. These beetles visit flowers for nectar, pollen and mating. Peritrichia rufotibialis was the primary pollinator of Moraea villosa, P. abdominalis was the primary pollinator of M. tulbaghensis, while Monochelus sp. nov. was the primary pollinator of the third species, M. neopavonia. High levels of fruit set attest to the effectiveness of these beetles as pollinators. Average fruit set ranged from 83.5  34.8% (M. villosa) to 97.2  11.6% (M. tulbaghensis). Average seed set in the various populations was more variable, but was also quite high, ranging from 77.3  40.8 (M. villosa) to 342.2  115.0 (M. neopavonia) seeds per capsule. Although hopliine beetles are abundant and diverse in southern Africa and commonly visit flowers, this is the first well-documented report of pollination by these beetles.
43496783|The organogenesis of staminate and carpellate flowers of Schisandra chinensis (Schisandraceae) was investigated with scanning electron microscopy, with observations on the development of tepals reported for the first time. The results showed that there is no interval between the initiation of the last tepal and that of the first stamen or carpel, and that the shapes of tepal, stamen, and carpel primordia are similar. The tepals and stamens of staminate flowers are initiated acropetally in a continuous spiral Fibonacci phyllotaxis, with no carpel structures observed; the filaments are not connate. The organogenesis of the carpellate flowers is similar to that of the staminate flowers, but with no evidence of stamen development. The carpels are ascidiate without postgenital fusion. Three androecial characters of Schisandra and Kadsura are discussed in a phylogenetic context. The subglobose or obovoid androecium of Schisandra propinqua and Schisandra plena may be homologous with that in sections Kadsura and Sarcocarpon. The plesiomorphic form of the androecium within the two genera is likely to be elongate with more than ten free stamens.
23655483|In literature seven different methods of evaluating karyotype asymmetry  the TF%, the As K%, Stebbins' classification, the Rec and the Syi, the A1 and the A2, the DI, and the A  are used for the elucidation of phylogenetic relationships and taxonomic treatments within a particular group or taxon. The investigation of these seven methods reveals that the intervals used by Stebbins to separate the different types of karyotype asymmetry are very broad and only one quantitative parameter, the A2 index, correctly describes the variation in chromosome length in a complement. A new asymmetry index (AI) is proposed to measure karyotype asymmetry and a new parameter, the CVCI, is offered, that precisely assesses the relative variation in centromere position in a complement. The AI index, the CVCI and the CVCL (= A2  100) have the potential to display even minor karyotypic variations. Thus, these three indices together increase the precision of results in comparison with other existing methods. All this has important consequences as regards the interpretation of the results of karyological studies.
23643709|We have used polymorphic chloroplast simple sequence repeats (cpSSRs) to analyse levels of diversity and relationships within the genus Zea. Between two and nine alleles were found at 15 polymorphic loci and combining the data from these loci gave 32 haplotypes in the 37 accessions studied. Genetic differentiation between the two sections within the genus was calculated using the ST statistic which showed that 70% of the total variation was found to exist between the sections. A phylogenetic analysis based on the 2 distance metric showed a large split between the two sections and suggested multiple origins of modern cultivated maize Zea mays subsp. mays. The agreement of the phylogenetic tree with other molecular, morphological and karyological studies suggests that cpSSRs may have value in phylogenetic studies in plants.
23643328|A study of the phenolic compounds of the closely related papilionoid tribes, Podalyrieae and Liparieae, proved that the flavonoid patterns of hydrolysed seed extracts are remarkably conservative. Butin (7, 3, 4-trihydroxyflavanone), 3-hydroxydaidzein (7, 3, 4-trihydroxyisoflavone), vicenin-2 (6, 8-di--D-glucopyranosyl-5, 7, 4-trihydroxyflavone) and orobol (5, 7, 3, 4-tetrahydroxyisoflavone) were isolated and identified as the major flavonoids. The seeds of Amphithalea, Coelidium, Liparia, Xiphotheca, Calpurnia, Stirtonanthus and Podalyria accumulated three isoflavone O-glycosides that yielded 3-hydroxydaidzein on hydrolysis. In contrast, Virgilia contained a unique combination of vicenin-2 and orobol. Vicenin-2 was also present in Calpurnia as a major compound, but Stirtonanthus insignis was the only other species studied that contained orobol (in trace amounts only). Butein, a chalcone, was reported by Harborne from the seed of Cyclopia subternata. This compound's flavanone analog, butin, was the principal component in Cyclopia. A cladistic analysis, using flavonoid, alkaloid and morphological data, showed that the seed flavonoids of the Podalyrieae and Liparieae behave rather poorly as cladistic characters. They are, however, of considerable taxonomic value at the tribal level favouring the opinion that the two tribes should be combined. The apparent absence of flavonoids in the seed of Hypocalyptus supports the suggestion that it should be excluded from the Liparieae. Flavonoids also show that the Argyrolobium-group is very different from the tribe Crotalarieae and support the recent transfer of this group to the tribe Genisteae.
23642899|The geographical distribution of the grass genus Helictotrichon in the Mediterranean Region is analysed and mapped for 33 taxa. Based on only a single life form (perennial herb), a variety of edaphically, climatically and altitudinally differently adapted species complexes has evolved in the area. Most of these complexes show west-east disjunctions and contain geographically, sometimes even edaphically vicarious taxa with complementary distribution. A transition from mesomorphic to xeromorphic habit occurred independently in different species groups and led to the establishment of the "modern" Mediterranean taxa which are in part highly polyploid derivatives of more mesophilic diploids. The significance of polyploidy, patterns of parapatric and sympatric distribution, biogeographical borders, and centres of species diversity are discussed in context with the history of the Mediterranean vegetation. New combinations are: Helictotrichon setaceum subsp. petzense, H. pratense subsp. lusitanicum, H. praetutianum.
23643640|Three new species of Colchicum (Colchicaceae) are described (C. chimonanthum, C. rausii, C. confusum), all confined to Greece. The first one flowers in very early spring, the other two are autumn-flowering with hysteranthous leaves appearing in the spring. Revisions are included of two other autumn-flowering species (C. haynaldii and C. autumnale) which are geographically over-lapping with and may be confused with C. confusum. Synonym lists, typifications, chromosome numbers, and notes on differences from other species, phenology, vegetative reproduction, phytogeography and ecology are provided for all.
23655622|The correlation between pollen-ovule (P/O) ratio and breeding system has generally been analysed with respect either to pollination efficiency, or in terms of sex allocation theory. Pollen/ovule ratios were measured in nine species of Araceae belonging to two genera with bisexual flowers (Anaphyllopsis, Monstera) and three genera with unisexual flowers (Dieffenbachia, Philodendron, Montrichardia). The family Araceae with its unique inflorescence morphology allows the analysis of variations of the P/O ratio with respect to two basal morpho-functional pollination units: the flower or the inflorescence. We found a relationship between the value of the P/O ratio and the breeding system that is partially different from Cruden's results (1977). Some facultative xenogamous species have a higher P/O than the obligatory xenogamous species. A link was found between the P/O and the type of inflorescence, the floral cycle, and the mode of growth.
23656077|The floral anatomy of Cephalostemon, Monotrema, Rapatea, Spathanthus, and Stegolepis was studied for taxonomic purposes. All species studied share colleters between the floral parts; sepals, petals, anthers, and style covered by an ornamented cuticle; short epidermal cells with sinuous walls on the abaxial surface of the petals; tetrasporangiate anthers with phenolic idioblasts in the epidermis; endothecium with spiral thickenings; incompletely septate ovary; and anatropous, bitegmic ovules. The floral anatomy is useful not only for characterizing the family, but also for delimiting the subfamilies and genera. Sepals with silica bodies in the epidermal cells; mature anther wall composed of epidermis, endothecium, and middle layer; absence of phenolic idioblasts in the sepals, filaments, and ovary; and stylar epidermal cells with thickened external periclinal wall support Rapateoideae. Cephalostemon and Rapatea show a great number of similarities, corroborating their close relationship indicated in the phylogenetic analyses of the family. Monotrema shares few characters with the genera of Rapateoideae, corroborating its placement in Monotremoideae. Stegolepis shows several distinctive characters, probably related to the greater diversity found in this genus.
23674049|Five species are recognized in Hieracium subgen. Pilosella sect. Pilosellina Fries. Four are diploid (2 x, 2 n = 18), one (H. pilosella L.) is highly variable morphologically and cytologically (from 2 x 10 x), in its mode of reproduction (self-incompatibility, agamospermy, amphimixis, apo-amphimixis) and in its hybridization pattern. A part of this huge agamic complex was analysed by comparing sexual 4 x and apomictic 5 x plants (crossing and germination experiments, measurements of vegetative reproduction by stolons etc.). In the experimental garden apomictic 5 x produced more stolons than the sexual 4 x plants and the total length of the stolons per rosette was greater. However, in nature, the competitive potential of the sexual plants seems to be higher, presumably as a result of the higher mortality of ramets in 5 x. Sexual 4 x plants often grow in dense and grazed grass vegetation, whereas 5 x apomicts often occur in dunes with patchy vegetation. Apomicts produce more capitula per rosette, and sexual rosettes form only about 60% of the number of viable achenes as compared to apomictic ones. Therefore, apomicts appear to be characterized by a greater colonizing ability than sexual plants. Apomictic plants produce equal numbers of viable achenes under conditions of both open pollination and isolation. Sexual plants do not form any viable achenes after isolation and produce a somewhat lower percentage of achenes after open pollination than do apomictics. 5xreproduce exclusively apomictically. Apo-amphimixis was never observed in pentaploids and only very rarely in tetraploids. Addition hybrids are very rare. The cross sexual 4 x  apomictic 5 x failed in 70% of the attempts, but the recombination of genomes carrying genes for apomixis is possible and results in apomictic 4 x and sexual 5 x, both with a reduced number of viable achenes. In nature sexual and apomictic plants may occur in close proximity. In such cases the germination rate of the achenes of 4 x and 5 x is lower; this may indicate that apomictic plants fertilize sexual plants in nature (unidirectional gene-flow). 5 x plants form euploid gametes carrying two or three genomes. The results of the crossing experiments can be explained in terms of Nogler's theory of monogenic inheritance of apospory.
43558382|Delimitation of sections is controversial within the genus Cytisus L. (Fabaceae, Genisteae). A morphological study has been conducted on 19 taxa from sections Alburnoides, Spartopsis and Verzinum to clarify their discrimination. Thirty-five quantitative and qualitative characters were recorded on a maximum of 15 dry or living flowers per taxon. Three multiple correspondence factor analyses (MCFA) were performed on a matrix based on 22 of the 35 recorded morphological characters to (1) compare the variability within and between individuals and (2) distinguish groups among the studied taxa. MCFA showed that both flowers sampled from the same plant or different individuals could represent the morphological variability of a taxon. MCFA also clustered the 19 taxa into three groups corresponding to sections Alburnoides, Spartopsis and Verzinum as defined by Cristofolini and Troia (Taxon 44:733-746, 2006). However, floral morphology has not been sufficient to discriminate taxa within sections. A key of the three studied sections based on floral characters is given.
43558163|Based on a considerably enlarged sampling, a phylogenetic analysis of the largest group of didymocarpoid Gesneriaceae, the "advanced Asiatic and Malesian genera", was performed, covering all but 3 of the 60 genera presently recognised in this group (20 of these, mostly from China, are monotypic). The results suggest that no fewer than 17 out of the 57 genera examined are poly- (or rarely para-)phyletic. Highly polyphyletic are Briggsia, Chirita, Henckelia and Raphiocarpus. Only a dozen of the nonmonotypic genera (including the three species-richest genera, Cyrtandra, Aeschynanthus and Agalmyla) are confirmed as monophyletic entities, though some exhibit considerable genetic variation. For eight genera, no statement can be made, as only one (of two or several) species was included in the analysis. For a dozen of the (particularly Chinese) monotypic genera a close relationship (or possible congenerity) with other genera was found. In China, only Allostigma, Cathayanthe, Conandron and Metapetrocosmea seem to have no strong affinities to other genera, indicating that they represent phylogenetically isolated lineages or represent remnants of previously larger and earlier diversified groups. The present study forms the foundation for targeted molecular, morphological and phytogeographic studies of the polyphyletic and monotypic genera and particular of clades of genera with interrelations uncovered here for the first time.
23642180|Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was used to investigate the seed proteins of 36 accessions belonging to Solanum sect. Solanum (Solanaceae). These accessions represented 20 species, of four differing ploidy levels, and included infraspecific morphological variants. The resultant band patterns tended to reflect the morphological differences and genetical isolation displayed by many of the species. The most variable band patterns were encountered in the taxa with the greatest infraspecific variation, while many of the more morpho-genetically distinct taxa seemed to have species-specific band patterns. Good matches were found between the band patterns of artificial hybrids, those of their known parents, and mixtures of the parental protein extracts. This illustrates the potential use of such a technique for pinpointing possible genome donors of natural hybrids, and especially of polyploids. These comparative band patterns confirmed experimental work on the origin of the hexaploid S. nigrum from the diploid S. americanum and the tetraploid S. villosum, and also supported the suggestion that S. nigrum contains two genomes from the diploid S. sarrachoides, but not four genomes of the diploid S. americanum.
23642962|An experimental crossing program was carried out in order to test the hypothesis that Armeria villosa subsp. carratracensis, a serpentine endemic from Southern Spain, is of hybrid origin. Fruit-set and mainly pollen stainability data in artificial hybrids demonstrate that internal interspecific barriers are weak. Two generations of backcrossing with the two putative parents A. colorata and A. villosa subsp. longiaristata can restore pollen stainability to an average of 83.2 and 68.7, respectively. A morphometric analysis of 148 specimens belonging to parental species, different artificial hybrid generations and wild putative hybrid race shows that (1) morphological characters have a strong genetic basis and thus are good markers in identifying hybrids and introgression in Armeria; (2) artificial backcrossing produces in morphometrical characters a variation which conforms in both trend and magnitude to what is commonly attributed in the wild to introgression; (3) the position of the putative hybrid race is intermediate between the two parental species used in the program. These results are in accordance with the hypothesis of hybrid origin of A. villosa subsp. carratracensis.
23663581|The genealogical and geographic structure of variation in spikelet morphology was analyzed for central Eurasian wild wheat Aegilops tauschii Coss. using a diverse array of 203 sample accessions that represented the entire species range. In this sample set, two subspecies were identified on the basis of sensu-stricto criteria: only the accessions having markedly moniliform spikes were assigned to Ae. tauschii Coss. subspecies strangulata (Eig) Tzvel., whereas those having mildly moniliform and cylindrical spikes to Ae. tauschii Coss. subspecies tauschii. In a graph of the first two axes from a principal component analysis based on nine spikelet traits, the plots of the two subspecies formed separate clusters, indicating that subspecies strangulata sens. str. is a practically usable taxon. Chloroplast-DNA-based genealogical analyses suggested that subspecies strangulata diverged from an ancestor that carried a specific chloroplast DNA type, whereas, after divergence, this subspecies became polyphyletic, likely through hybridization. Geographically, significant longitudinal and latitudinal clines were detected for spikelet size, with spikelets tending to be small in the eastern and southern regions. These results shed some light on the patterns of subspecies divergence and spikelet-shape diversification in the course of Ae. tauschii's long-distance dispersal from the Transcaucasus to China.
23672637|Chromosome numbers for 81 different taxa of Rubiaceae from Africa, Madagascar and Mauritius are presented. 52 taxa, including 11 genera, have been counted for the first time. The results are listed, compared with available literature data and discussed in regard to their systematic significance.
23655899|Morphometric studies were conducted using 25 quantitative characters in 14 populations of the Raddia brasiliensis complex, occurring from Cear to Rio de Janeiro States, Brazil, in order to identify how many entities exist in this group and how they can be distinguished morphologically. Results of the discriminant and cluster analyses show that we are dealing with five distinct taxa, four of them here described as new species. A group of populations from northern Esprito Santo and southern Bahia showed high differentiation in relation to other areas. They are here considered as the new species R. megaphylla. Two other distinct populations also showed significant differentiation, described as R. lancifolia and R. stolonifera. Raddia brasiliensis s.s. turned out to be polymorphic and closely related to another new species, R. soderstromii. They present some ecological preferences related to soil and water conditions. These conclusions were supported by genetic data based on allozymes analysis.
23674269|The life cycle and autoecology of three Mediterranean thorny species, Onopordum nervosum (Iberian endemic), Cirsium scabrum (Western Mediterranean) and Carthamus arborescens (Iberian-North African), of potential use in agriculture as bioenergetic, forage or oil producing plants were studied. These three Cardueae spp. are good examples of ways in which Mediterranean plants adapt their typical annual cycle to avoid summer droughts. O. nervosum is a perennial, monocarpic, heliophilous species which flowers in early summer and grows even under the extreme xeric conditions of the Mediterranean summers. It is a basiphilous plant usually found in sandy-loamy and sandy-clayey-loamy soils with a marked geographical variability in its seed germination. C. scabrum is a perennial, monocarpic species which has a long life cycle, flowering in summer and growing only during the wet months. It is not well-adapted to droughts and is usually restricted to acid soils. C. arborescens is a perennial, polycarpic species which flowers in spring and dries up in summer. It is usually found in basic loamy-sandy or sandy-loamy soils poor in organic matter.
23674842|Evolutionary relationships within the comparium Sedum series Rupestria (Crassulaceae) were investigated by phylogenetic analyses of restriction site variation of the chloroplast genome and morphological variation. DNAs were digested with 21 restriction enzymes and hybridized with S. album cpDNA probes covering the entire genome. A total of 141 ingroup variable restriction sites was identified. Morphological variation was observed in a total of 66 characters. Both datasets were analysed using parsimony methods and compared with evidence from cytology, artificial hybridization and biogeography to infer evolutionary relationships. The results 1) indicate a relatively high level of nucleotide sequence divergence within S. ser. Rupestria; 2) indicate three main lines of plastome differentiation, which are in agreement with morphology, basic chromosome numbers, and centres of diversity; 3) do not provide a compelling solution for basal relationships; 4) support an earlier hypothesis on reticulation and provide evidence for a third case of allopolyploidy in the series; 5) suggest that interspecific gene flow in S. ser. Rupestria is funnelled through the presumably allopolyploid S. rupestre subsp. erectum.
23673801|A review of the literature, compiled over the past 40 years suggests new directions for theories discussing the evolution of reproductive isolation and entomophily in angiosperms. Data on breeding systems suggests that the protoangiosperms may have developed gametophytic self-incompatibility. Protogyny is probably ancestral to protandry and herkogamy. Although the proto-flowers were bisexual wide variation in the number of sexual organs within proto-flowers probably led to labile sexuality and early trends towards dicliny. Beetle-pollination in extant relicts appears too specialized to represent an ancestral condition. Rather, the proto-flowers may have been generalist entomophiles incorporating some beetles, Plecoptera, thrips, micropterigid moths and proto-dipterans into their fluctuating spectra of opportunistic pollinators. Bee-pollination is probably polyphyletic in origin evolving repeatedly from angiosperms showing these generalist syndromes. There is still no correlation between primitive bees (especially Colletidae) and the relictual angiosperms. Pollen that is usually retained within the anthers following dehiscence and the presence of staminal filaments and styles characterizes most of the flowers of those relictual angiosperms pollinated by specialized, modern Apoidea.
23674683|The floral anatomy of three Hypseocharis spp. has been studied. The genus resembles Oxalidaceae as well as Monsonia and Sarcocaulon of the Geraniaceae. As it is closer to Geraniaceae than to Oxalidaceae, it perhaps serves as a connecting link between them.
23673934|Field collections and 296 herbarium sheets were examined for 27 morphometric variables. A priori species identifcation was based on geographical distribution except for H. californicum, a diploid species primarily occurring in California and differing from the much more widespread tetraploid H. brachyantherum that thrives in N. America and N.E. Asia; H. capense grows in S. Africa and H. secalinum mainly in Europe. Various cluster analyses were used followed by cluster recovery verification. Classificatory discriminant analysis and validation by the bootstrap yielded 85  90% overall total correct classification of the four species. Canonical analysis revealed that H. californicum occupies an intermediate phenetic position among the other three distinct species. Factors of shape differences were unravelled and portrayed by shearing. A revised key to species was drawn up.
23673893|Ducellieria chodati forms colourless, evidently plastid-lacking aggregates. For the first time, details of the reproduction cycle are reported: Biflagellate zoospores, released from the aggregates, infest coniferous pollen grains drifting on lake surfaces. The unicellular thallus growing inside the pollen grain develops into a sporangium. 10 to c. 60 spores are discharged, gather at the mouth of the discharge tube, and form new aggregates. After more than 30 cycles, the formation of aggregates ceases in favour of the direct production of zoospores which again infest pollen grains. If several zoospores infest the same grain, a resting spore can be produced, probably by a sexual process. It is evident from this complex life cycle that Ducellieria chodati is misplaced in Chlorophyceae or Xanthophyceae and needs to be grouped within the Oomycetes.
23673754|Seed protein electrophoresis of four chromosomes races of Festuca arundinacea, F. mairei and their progenitors showed variation in banding patterns. High protein similarities between F. arundinacea, F. mairei, F. scariosa, and F. pratensis indicate close phylogenetic relationships of these species. The ancestry of F. arundinacea cytotypes could be narrowed to three diploid species: F. scariosa, F. pratensis, and F. rubra or to their close relatives.
23673666|The karyotypes of P. juncea (Elymus junceus) and P. huashanica (both outbreeders) were investigated by Feulgen-staining and by C-, N-, and Agbanding, based on a single plant in each case. Both species have 2 n = 2 x = 14 and large chromosomes, possibly a generic character. The karyotype of P. juncea has 8 metacentrics and 6 SAT-chromosomes with minute, heterochromatic satellites while that of P. huashanica has 9 metacentrics and 5 SAT-chromosomes only, 2 of which with small, heterochromatic satellites. The C-banding patterns of P. juncea chromosomes comprise from one to five, mostly small, bands at distal, and terminal positions, while those of P. huashanica chromosomes are characterized by large telomeric bands in most arms. Banding patterns and chromosome morphology allow identification of the homologues of the seven chromosome pairs in P. juncea, but of two pairs in P. huashanica only. The patterns of both taxa are polymorphic, supporting that both taxa are outbreeders. The karyotypic characters suggest that P. juncea is more closely related to P. fragilis than either is to P. huashanica. N-banding stains weakly. Silver nitrate staining demonstrates that nucleolus organizers of both species have different nucleolus forming capacities. The presence of micronucleoli suggests that both species have an extra unidentified chromosome with nucleolus forming capacity.
23655892|This study investigates the genetic differentiation within the Central European Armeria maritima (Mill.) Willd. complex with special reference to the metallicolous populations using AFLP markers. Our sampling comprised all metallicolous (ssp. halleri, hornburgensis, bottendorfensis, eifeliaca, calaminaria), and non-metallicolous taxa (ssp. maritima, elongata, alpina). Geographical and genetic distances between populations were moderately positively correlated. Genetic variability of metallicolous and non-metallicolous populations was not significantly different. Lowland populations were clearly differentiated from the alpine populations. Within the lowland group metallicolous and non-metallicolous populations were not genetically differentiated. All lowland populations show a regional differentiation and close relationships to ssp. elongata. Thus, the metallicolous taxa should not be maintained as subspecies. Likewise, their treatment as varieties of a ssp. halleri s.l. is critical because this taxon cannot be consistently characterized throughout its geographical range and may be an artifact itself. If a taxonomical recognition should be considered necessary it is advisable to treat the microendemics as varieties of ssp. elongata.
43558134|Dendrocalamus is an economically important woody bamboo genus from the Old World tropics. The traditional circumscription of the genus is not satisfactory owing to overlapping limits between Bambusa and Dendrocalamus. Limited earlier studies in the genus, using molecular techniques, have reported wide genetic variation, and there is disagreement among published infrageneric classifications in the genus. Thus, lack of sound taxonomy is hindering scientific conservation and management of the woody bamboos belonging to this genus. In the present study, amplified fragment length polymorphism markers (AFLPs), generated using five primer combinations, were used to investigate relationships among ten Dendrocalamus (D. strictus, D. hamiltonii, D. membranaceus, D. brandisii, D. sikkimensis, D. asper, D. giganteus, D. calostachyus, D. sahnii and D. somdevai) and five outgroup species (Bambusa balcooa, Dinochloa macclellandii, Melocalamus compactiflorus, Oxytenanthera abyssinica and Thyrsostachys siamensis) from subtribe Bambusinae. Neighbour-joining and maximum-parsimony analyses of AFLP dataset provided evidence for polyphyly in the current circumscription of Dendrocalamus. All Dendrocalamus taxa, except D. strictus, clustered into three monophyletic groups. The type species Dendrocalamus strictus was found to be genetically distant from the rest of the Dendrocalamus and did not cluster into any of these groups. Furthermore, Bambusa balcooa was recovered in a cluster containing D. hamiltonii and D. sikkimensis. The study did not find support for the various earlier infrageneric classifications within Dendrocalamus. The implications of the findings are discussed.
23642760|A distinct group of triploid, apomictic Taraxacum species, recognized by blackish green, pruinose involucres and  hamate lateral lobes, is newly described as section Hamata. Cytological and morphological investigations have shown a distinctive uniformity among these species which supports this classification. A key to all known Hamata species, illustrations and notes about critical species are given. A new species of the section, T. fusciflorum, is described.
23643383|Enzyme data from 35 populations or regional samples of Abies alba were obtained from different regions of Austria and Bavaria. The genetic analysis revealed a clear differentiation between the western and the north/eastern populations. A rather narrow transition zone (the river valleys of Salzach and Traun) with genetically intermediate populations connects these two regions. This west-east differentiation can be interpreted as the result of distinct migration routes from a glacial refuge in Central Italy. The transition zone is assumed to be the contact area of two routes north of the Alps. Each migration route of silver fir parallels the distribution range of Cardamine trifolia (east) and Aposeris foetida (west) respectively. It is supposed that these two species were already associated with silver fir during colonization.
23660103|Hybridization and introgression in the European species of Euphrasia depend on the relationships between the species, on flower size and habitat. Hybridization between Euphrasia minima and Euphrasia salisburgensis was investigated in their natural habitat using artificial sympatric populations of both species in the Swiss Alps. The insect behavior in the populations suggests, that cross-pollination is likely to occur. A number of putative hybrids were detected by morphological characteristics, and their hybrid origin was verified using RAPD analysis. The predominance of RAPD bands in one of the species and the occurrence of these bands in some plants of the second species point to earlier introgression events. The number of hybrids found in the artificial populations together with results of earlier studies indicate that insect visits and cross-pollination in small-flowered Euphrasia species in lower alpine regions may be more common than has been suggested in the past.
23644274|Variation in isozyme patterns from ten populations of the Korean endemic Lycoris species was used to test the hypothesis that L. flavescens originated from natural hybridization between diploid L. chinensis and L. sanguinea var. koreana. Lycoris sanguinea var. koreana shows fixed heterozygosity at four of nine loci assayed, suggesting that this species is an allotetraploid instead of a diploid. Electrophoretic data suggest that Lycoris flavescens is an allotriploid species derived from the hybridization between diploid L. chinensis and tetraploid L. sanguinea var. koreana. The patterns of allelic distribution in populations of L. flavescens suggest multiple origins of the allotriploid. Within the L. flavescens complex, our isozyme data support the recognition of two taxa, L. flavescens and a recently recognized species, L. uydoensis.
23643656|The flavonoid profiles of seven species of Abrotanella and one species of Ischnea have been shown to be based upon kaempferol 3- and quercetin 3-O-glycosides and a delphinidin glycoside. Glucosides, glucuronides, arabinosides, diglucosides, and rutinosides of the flavonols were identified. The profile of Ischnea consisted solely of quercetin 3-O-glucoside and 3-O-arabinoside whereas the profiles of the Abrotanella species were more varied. Although infraspecific variation was not investigated in this study, the flavonoid chemistry of the two genera is in accordance with the flavonoid variation described for other members of Senecioneae which are primarily flavonol producers. Based on the known phylogeny and biogeography, the flavonoid distribution from the perspective of long-distance dispersals across the Pacific is discussed. Such events should lead to genetic bottle-neck situations and depauperate flavonoid profiles. A summary of current flavonoid knowledge in the Senecioneae is supplied.
23675276|Three new coccoid zoospore-producing green algae including Axilococcus clingmanii gen. & spec. nov., Lautosphaeria monsfumosa gen. & spec. nov., and Dictylochloris pulchra spec. nova (Chlorococcales, Chlorophyceae) are described.
23654229|To investigate phylogenetic and biogeographic relationships all species of Digitalis and Isoplexis and one species of the outgroup genera Antirrhinum and Globularia each were analyzed using nuclear ITS and plastid trnL-F sequences. Phylogenetic trees resulting from separate analyses were highly congruent. Combined analysis revealed two major lineages, which mark an early split in the genus Digitalis. While sections Digitalis, Frutescentes and Globiflorae appear monophyletic, sect. Tubiflorae is polyphyletic and sect. Macranthae should be expanded due to paraphyly. Our results provide evidence that all species of the genus Isoplexis have a common origin and are embedded in Digitalis. Isoplexis therefore should be reduced to sectional rank. The phylogenetic placement combined with ecomorphological characters indicates that Isoplexis may be a bird-pollinated Tertiary relict. Results are discussed in the context of biogeography, chemotaxonomy and morphology.
23656647|The progesterone 5-reductase (5-POR), a key enzyme in the cardenolide biosynthesis, was sequenced for 21 species of Digitalis and Isoplexis to infer phylogenetic and biogeographic relationships. This new secondary metabolism molecular marker was compared to the previously applied nuclear ITS and plastid trnL-F sequences. The results from separate analyses show high congruence within the genus Digitalis and support the conclusion that all species of Isoplexis have a common origin and are embedded in Digitalis. The genus Isoplexis therefore should be reduced to sectional rank within the genus Digitalis. The sequence analyses give further evidence that additional sequence data increase support for relationships. It demonstrates that poorly supported relationships in smaller data sets may lead to erroneous conclusions about the evolution of the investigated taxa.
23643400|Pollen grain polarity, aperture condition and pollen tube formation were examined in Ephedra americana, E. foliata, E. rupestris, E. distachya, and E. fragilis using LM, SEM and TEM. In the characteristic oblate pollen, as seen in situ in the tetrad configuration, the polar axis is the minor one and the equatorial plane runs between the two narrow ends of the microspore. The intine is thick in fresh fixed mature pollen but we have seen no indication of regions having an exceptionally thick intine that could be considered associated with an aperture or apertures. About three minutes after transferring fresh pollen to the germinating medium the ridged exine splits and twists away from the intine and its enclosed protoplast. The shed exine spreads out and curls into a scroll-like configuration that is as distinctive as that of the pollen shape had been but now having the ridges and valleys perpendicular to the long axis. The pollen tube develops, in our experience with more than a hundred germinating pollen grains, near one of the narrow tips of the pollen grain's equatorial plane. The location of the pollen tube initiation probably is related to the position of the tube cell nucleus. The pollen tube starts to grow about one hour after the exine was shed. The pollen tube emerges close to the narrow end (equator) of the gametophyte. This end emerged first as the exine is shed and is opposite to the prothallial cells. The stout pollen tube is c. 10 m in diameter grown in vitro on agar. In our germination medium the stout tube continued to elongate for about 24 hours reaching a length of c. 100 m. With respect to exine morphology the aperture condition could be considered as inaperturate. The pollen tube, however, is formed in a germination area near one end of the exineless gametophyte.
23643089|Seed albumins and 2S proteins isolated from the albumin fraction of 36 accessions representing 10 Old-World Lupinus species (5 smooth- and 5 rough-seeded) were studied using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. In addition, the globulin fraction was analyzed to determine its 2S protein content. The performed separations showed the suitability of RP-HPLC technique in the analysis of variation of the seed albumin composition in lupins. In the group of rough-seeded lupins, 3 types of RP-HPLC elution profiles of albumins were distinguished: (1) L. atlanticus, (2) L. cosentinii and L. digitatus, (3) L. palaestinus and L. pilosus. All the species of this group were found to have proteins not observed in smooth-seeded species. Smooth-seeded species exhibited more abundant protein spectra, each species distinguishing by its specific RP-HPLC elution profile. It was found that 2S proteins classified as 2S albumins were responsible for the observed variation. Depending on Lupinus species, the 2S albumin class consists of two to six proteins.
23642925|Morphology suggests that the Californian annual Microseris douglasii is a monophyletic sister group to the other three diploid annuals of Microseris. Phylogenetic analysis of 44 inbred strains of M. douglasii derived from 23 populations with 72 RAPD markers in the nuclear DNA strongly supports this phylogeny. However, 13 chloroplast RFLPs divide M. douglasii into four distinct groups. Two of these each share one or more cpRFLPs with M. bigelovii and M. pygmaea. Several hypotheses can explain the incongruence between nuclear and chloroplast phylogeny: (1) random sorting out of chloroplasts during phylogeny from a polymorphic pool, (2) cytoplasmic introgression from the related annual M. bigelovii into M. douglasii after hybridization followed by elimination of the M. bigelovii nuclear genome. We suggest cytoplasmic introgression as the most likely origin. Possible remnants of nuclear introgression have been found in two populations of M. douglasii that are polymorphic for chloroplast types. In these populations M. bigelovii type chloroplast DNA seems to be accompanied by nuclear genes for flower color and leaf shape.
23642095|Two new types of haustoria have been found in many representatives of Rhinanthoideae. Metahaustoria are stimulated by host roots but lack contact with them. They develop a massive haustorial core with a large- and a smalled-celled portion, but little vascular core. In very old metahaustoria the vascular core is much enlarged and numerous tracheal elements develop in the reduced haustorial core and cortex. Wart-haustoria are very small, occur only in the upper portions of the root system, and have host contacts. Vascular and haustorial core, and the endophyte are lacking, the intrusive cells are usually not endogenous, but rather roothair-like. Wart-haustoria may represent reduced and partly inhibited "normal" haustoria. 1. Fr zahlreiche Vertreter der Gattungen Rhinanthus, Pedicularis, Odontites und Melampyrum sowie fr Bartsia alpina L. und Lathraea squamaria L. konnten zwei bisher unbekannte Haustorien-Typen nachgewiesen werden, Metahaustorien und Warzenhaustorien. 2. Metahaustorien haben keinen Kontakt mit der Wirtspflanze. Sie entstehen entweder durch Nichtzustandekommen oder nach Abbruch des Kontaktes zur Wirtswurzel. Whrend die Form von Metahaustorien fr bestimmte Rhinanthoideae recht charakteristisch sein kann, ist ihre anatomische Struktur von der Verwandtschaft unabhngig. Bei den jngeren Metahaustorien perennierender und allen Metahaustorien annueller Rhinanthoideae wird ein mchtiger, zweiteiliger Haustorialkern ausgebildet, whrend der Gefkern schwach entwickelt bleibt. Bei lteren Metahaustorien perennierender Rhinanthoideae ist der Gefkern stark vergrert. Zahlreiche Xylem-Elemente sind hier zustzlich im Cortex-Bereich und einem sehr stark reduzierten Haustorialkern entwickelt. 3. Warzenhaustorien sind uerst kleine Organe. Sie kommen nur im oberen Bereich des Wurzelsystems vor und haben Kontakte mit Wirtswurzeln oder kleinen vegetabilischen Resten im Boden. Ihre Form ist bei den Rhinanthoideae einheitlich. Eine Differenzierung in Gefkern, Haustorialkern und Endophyt erfolgt nicht. Die intrusiven Zellen der Warzenhaustorien sind meist wurzelhaar-hnliche Epidermiszellen. Man kann von stark vereinfachten Haustorien sprechen, deren Entstehung vermutlich auf eine unvollstndige Unterdrckung in der Ausbildung normaler Haustorien zurckzufhren ist.
23642229|Five new subspecies of four Veronica species are described from Turkey; one varietal name is validated by a latin description; and one species hitherto known under a wrongly applied name is re-described and provided with a correct name, the wrongly applied name is proposed to be rejected according to the recent version of the Code.
23655915|During the last 15 years enormous progress had been made in understanding the genetic and molecular regulation of flower development. The classical A-B-C model, which describes how the activities of three classes of genes coding for transcription factors (A, B, C) alone or coordinately specify the different floral organs, has been expanded by class D genes involved in ovule development and class E genes required for the identities of all floral organs. The molecular quartet model advances the genetic A-B-C-D-E model by describing the presumed interactions between floral MADS-domain proteins. Although the basic developmental program appears to be quite conserved, in non-core eudicots modifications such as "sliding-boundary" and "fading borders" models had to be established. Since the identity of floral organs is strictly dependent on the activity of the MADS-box genes, duplication and diversification within these genes must have been key processes in flower evolution. Hence, insights into the phylogeny of the floral homeotic genes may help to better understand the evolution of flowers ("evo-devo").
23673140|Twenty-eight basil accessions including six Ocimum species and six botanical varieties or cultivars of O. basilicum were studied using molecular markers, nuclear DNA content, and chromosome counting. This is the first study reporting the nuclear DNA content in the genus Ocimum. The results supported the existence of more infrageneric groups within the genus. The section Ocimum was further divided into two separate clades. The first clade contained the accessions belonging to different botanical varieties and cultivars of O. basilicum as well as O. minimum, indicating that the separate species rank of O. minimum was not justified. The second clade, comprising O. americanum, O. africanum, and two O. basilicum var. purpurascens accessions, could represent a set of allopolyploid species sharing some common parental genomes. O. tenuiflorum was the most divergent species according to genetic distance; it had the smallest genome size, organized in small chromosomes, and the lowest chromosome number. Chromosome data obtained in our research could indicate that the basic chromosome number for species belonging to section Ocimum is x = 12. This suggestion implies that species belonging to O. basilicum clade are tetraploids, while species belonging to O. americanum clade are hexaploids. It seems that the basic chromosome number for O. gratissimum could be x = 10 and for O. tenuiflorum x = 9. The differences in genome size and chromosome number among Ocimum species indicate that evolution of their genomes was accompanied by both sequence deletion/amplification and chromosome rearrangements and polyploidization.
23644160|The circumscription and phylogenetic position of the tribe Durioneae (Bombacaceae or /Malvaceae/Helicteroideae) was investigated by supplementing a previously published ndhF data set. The present analysis supports a narrow conception of Durioneae (excluding Camptostemon and Papuodendron) and confirms a close relationship with Helicteres, Reevesia, Ungeria, and Triplochiton (all of traditional Sterculiaceae). Phylogenetic relationships within Durioneae were inferred from a combined analysis of ndhF and ITS sequences. These data suggest that Neesia is sister to a clade comprising all other five genera of core Durioneae, and that Coelostegia + Kostermansia form a clade that is sister to Cullenia + Boschia + Durio. Various morphological features support these relationships. However, characters usually considered diagnostic for the entirety of Durioneae, such as a densely lepidote lower leaf surface and uni- or polylocular anthers, appear to be apomorphic within this clade. Likewise, spiny fruits and large arils covering the seeds are not plesiomorphic for Durioneae, in contradiction to Corner's classic Durian Theory. The phylogeny suggests that bat- and bird-pollination evolved from beetle-pollination and that this transition was coincident with extensive androecial modification. Similarities due to convergent evolution of floral traits in relation to pollination by birds and mammals probably account for the erroneous, traditional placement of Durioneae in Bombacaceae.
23655550|Former controlled crosses between twelve Pinus montana var. rostrata (Pinus mugo complex) and eight P. sylvestris clones revealed that only two P. sylvestris had efficiently fertilised P. montana. Two species-diagnostic chloroplast DNA markers were applied to verify the species purity of the parental clones. All maternal P. montana were unambiguously confirmed to belong to the P. mugo complex at both chloroplast DNA marker loci. Six P. sylvestris clones carried the 'sylvestris' haplotypes. However, the same two P. sylvestris clones that had efficiently fertilised P. montana displayed the chloroplast haplotypes diagnostic to the P. mugo complex. The patterns of highly polymorphic cpDNA microsatellite markers in parents and offspring ruled out contamination by foreign pollen. We concluded that the two clones successful in the crosses represent fertile hybrids between the two species with P. mugo as the pollen donor. Consequently, DNA markers are proposed for verifying or falsifying the success of artificial fertilisation in general. The existence of crossing barriers between the two Pinus species, meaningful to the postulated natural hybridisation and the evolution of their populations in sympatric stands, was indicated and is newly discussed.
23669983|Bucephalandra gigantea Bogner, spec nova, is characterized by its large habit, the relatively small inflorescences and the very slender thecae. Hottarum kinabaluense Bogner, spec nova, is differentiated by its ellipsoid ovaries, the smooth petioles and the absence of staminodes.
43558192|The genus Alyssum is one of the largest, yet least known genera of the Brassicaceae family. The present study focusses on the Central European populations of A. montanum, a species that is highly variable with respect to its morphology, ploidy levels and ecological requirements. This variation is naturally reflected in a number of recognised infraspecific taxa, and diverse opinions exist with regards to their value and circumscriptions. Based on amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), as well as morphometric and flow-cytometric evidence, we demonstrate here that the variation patterns contradict the current taxonomic concepts held for this species. Our data support the division of the analysed populations into the following groupings: (i) the 'core' group that includes most of the Central European diploid and tetraploid populations; (ii) the diploid 'SwissSW German' group, also including the population from the type locality of A. montanum; (iii) the hexaploid A. montanum subsp. pluscanescens, a Slovenian and Croatian endemic suggested to be of hybrid origin; and (iv) the diploid 'Serbian' group from the sand dunes of Deliblatska Peara. A. repens, represented by a diploid population from Austria and tetraploid populations from Romania, is confirmed to be distinct from A. montanum. On the other hand, we suggest rejecting the recognition of A. montanum subsp. brymii, an assumed endemic of Slovakia and Hungary, and A. montanum subsp. montanum and subsp. gmelinii in their traditional circumscriptions.
23655186|The genera Grindelia Willd. and Haplopappus Cass. belong to the family Asteraceae - Astereae and are distributed in America and South America, respectively. Previous cytotaxonomic studies showed for South American species of Grindelia 2n = 12 and for Haplopappus 2n = 10 and 2n = 12. Both Grindelia species (G. anethifolia, G. prunelloides), newly analyzed with molecular-cytological methods, exhibited symmetric karyotypes (AsI % = 55.46 and 55.95) with metacentric chromosome sets (5m + 1m-sat) and 2n = 12 chromosomes. The NOR was detected after fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with 18/25S rDNA in the satellite chromosome 2. In contrast Happlopappus glutinosus, H. grindeloides and H. stolpii showed exclusively a higher asymmetric index (66.83%, 67.01% and 68.87%, respectively) with submetacentric chromosome sets (4sm + 1smsat). The sat-chromosomes 3 of H. glutinosus and H. grindelioides were both significantly different in their length from chromosomes 2 and 4. Furthermore in Grindelia the FISH with 5S rDNA could estimate signals in the short arms of chromosomes 3 or 4, that were not significantly differentiated in their length. Contrary to these findings in Grindelia, the position of 5S rDNA in Haplopappus was detected in the long arms of chromosome 1 (H. grindelioides and H. stolpii) and chromosome 2 (with two different loci) and chromosome 4 of H. glutinosus. The lengths of all measured chromosome arms with 5S rDNA were significantly different to those of the neighbours in the karyotypes. The two-color FISH of 5S and 18/25S rDNA had provided clear karyotypic markers for three (Haplopappus glutinosus) and two (H. grindelioides and H. stolpii) chromosomes. The number and position of rDNA signals were relatively highly conserved in the investigated five species without the double marked chromosome 2 of H. glutinosus, which shows an evolutionary dynamic of this 5S rRNA specific gene cluster. This investigation supports the assumption that the evolution of New World members of Grindelia and Haplopappus has not been accompanied by large karyotypic changes, but small chromosomal rearrangements have undoubtedly occurred (e.g. 5S rDNA localizations).
23643172|Flavones and glycosides of flavones and flavonols were obtained from leaves of five species of Bignoniaceae from the "cerrado", a savanna ecosystem of Central and Southeast Brazil. A predominance of flavonol glycosides was observed in all samples investigated. Flavones were often found in species of tribe Tecomeae and rarely in Bignonieae. The species of the former yielded derivatives of 6-hydroxyluteolin. No 6-oxygenated compounds were found in species of Bignonieae. The results point to the flavonoid chemistry evolution of Bignoniaceae following a path of simplification. More complex chemical profiles characterize the more woody Tecomeae rather than the more advanced Bignonieae.
23642298|Trapelia coarctata is lichenized with Chlorella saccharophila var. ellipsoidea; this is in accordance with one of two former statements. The cells of the isolated alga may be covered individually by a gelatinous envelope; they also can be embedded in confluent mucilage. The course of succedanous divisions leading to the formation of autospores starts with the appearance of a second, new pyrenoid and goes on with bipartioning of the chloroplast, nuclear division and cytokinesis. Starch grains identical to those in the stroma surround the pyrenoid more or less loosely and not in the form of saucer-shaped parts constituting a coherent shell. An eindeutig identifizierten Belegen von Trapelia coarctata wurde nunmehr in bereinstimmung mit einem frheren Befund und im Gegensatz zu einem anderen Chlorella saccharophila var. ellipsoidea als Phycobiont festgestellt. Die Alge bildet unter gewissen Kulturbedingungen Gallerthllen und auch zusammenflieenden Schleim aus. In den untersuchten Flechtenlagern fehlen diese. Es handelt sich um einen Stamm, der 211-1a und 211-1f nahesteht, sich aber in einigen Merkmalen von ihnen unterscheidet. Bei allen drei Stmmen folgen in jedem Teilungsschritt der sukzedanen Autosporenbildung Neubildung eines Pyrenoids, Teilung des Chloroplasten, Kernteilung und Cytokinese aufeinander. Strke umgibt die Pyrenoide in Form mehr oder weniger locker verteilter Krnchen und nicht als geschlossene Schale.
23674860|Most species of the neotropical genus Siphocampylus are believed to be bird-pollinated. The pollination biology of Siphocampylus sulfureus was studied in a montane region in SE Brazil. This species has features intermediate between ornithophilous and chiropterophilous syndromes: it presents a striking combination of yellowish flowers with strong odour (chiropterophilous features), and diurnal anthesis and sucrose-dominated nectar (ornithophilous features). Major pollinators were hummingbirds by day, and a phyllostomid bat by night. Siphocampylus sulfureus may be viewed as a recent derivate from the presumed ornithophilous stock within sect. Macrosiphon, and thus benefits from the activity of both diurnal and nocturnal vertebrate pollinators.
23643196|Total DNA was extracted from 55 species of the Leguminosae (including 29 species of Lupinus). The chloroplast gene rbcL and the ITS 1 + 2 regions of nuclear RNA genes were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequenced directly. The sequences obtained were evaluated with character state (Maximum Parsimony) and distance methods (Neighbour Joining). Phylogenetic trees obtained with both data sets and methods are mostly congruent. Genisteae and Crotalarieae are sister groups and share ancestry with the Thermopsideae/Podalyrieae. The genus Lupinus, which forms a monophyletic clade within the Genisteae, shows a distinct Old-New World disjunction and appears to be divided into several more or less distinct groups: (1) The species from the eastern part of South America. (2) The homogeneous rough-seeded group (Scabrispermae) of the Old World species which is well distinguished from the smooth-seeded group (Malacospermae). (3) Within the rather heterogeneous smooth-seeded lupins a smaller subgroup with L. angustifolius, L. hispanicus and L. luteus is recognized. (4) Also separated are North American lupins and South American species with a western distribution. Genetic distances imply that the genus Lupinus evolved during the last 1214 million years, ruling out the hypothesis that the present Old-New World disjunction can be interpreted as a result of the continental drift. The genetic data suggest an origin in the Old World and an independant colonisation of the Eastern parts of South America as opposed to North America and the Western parts of South America.
23674709|The hypothesis of Henriques and Fernandes that several Iberian species of Narcissus (Amaryllidaceae) are tristylous is reconsidered. Contrary to the opinion of Bateman and most subsequent authors, we believe that the available evidence indicates that some populations of N. triandrus and N. fernandesii, at least, are tristylous; other populations of N. triandrus are distylous. Hugonia cf. penicillanthemum (Linaceae) from new Caledonia is distylous, but it remains possible that other species of Hugonia are tristylous. The disputed occurrence of heterostyly in S. African species of Bauhinia (Leguminosae), Cleome (Capparaceae) and Aneilema (Commelinaceae), and in Agelaea (Connaraceae) is discussed.
23645045|Many plant species exhibit inflorescence morphologies intermediate between pollination syndromes and may therefore employ generalist pollination strategies. We studied how wind and insect pollination are related to inflorescence morphology in the floodplain species Salix alba, S. elaeagnos, S. daphnoides and S. triandra. Insect exclusion experiments showed that all four species were primarily pollinated by insects, but were capable of some seed set when wind was the only pollen vector. Such a generalist pollination system may provide reproductive assurance in these pioneer species. High wind pollination success was associated with slender and divided stigmatic lobes and low ovule number per catkin, which may enhance filtering capacity for airborne pollen. In contrast, species that relied more on insect pollination had robust stigmata and many ovules per catkin, which may reduce the number of insect visits necessary for pollination.
23674586|A general system for description of the corona in the Asclepiadaceae is introduced. It is based on the identification of the components constituting the corona, the relationships among those components, and the relationships among those components and other floral features. The components can be placed in both an evolutionary and ontogenetic context, the latter allowing the identification of homology problems. This approach to corona description reveals certain evolutionary constraints in that some possible combinations of components are not realized.
23643711|Various aspects of the reproductive biology of the Andean-disjunct genus Retanilla (DC.) Brongn. were studied in populations of R. trinervia and R. ephedra located in central Chile and of R. patagonica in southern Argentina. Flowering extends from -austral- winter (early spring in R. patagonica) to early summer. The small, white, entomophilous flowers are incompletely protandrous and last four to five days. A weak pleasant odor along with nectar and pollen attract thirty-seven diurnal insect species, ten of which are probable pollinators: these include the honey bee, eight species of solitary bees pertaining to Anthophoridae (1 sp.), Colletidae (3 spp.) and Halictidae (4 spp.), and a nemestrinid fly. Although flower morphology and individual flower phenology do not fully prevent self-pollination (and geitonogamy can easily take place), the level of autogamy is low. Therefore, some self-incompatibility mechanism seems operative in Retanilla. Fruit set of openpollinated flowers is extremely low, with a maximal value of c. 3% in R. patagonica. In this species, ripe fruits contain on average 1.37 viable seeds. Predispersal (maternal) reproductive success (percent ovules becoming viable seeds) is 2.3%. For medium to full-sized individuals this corresponds to c. 4600 potential offspring per year. As presently known, Retanilla is a reproductively uniform group, in which the Andean disjunction seems to have exerted no particular impact, which is consistent with the view that pollination generalization exerts some stabilizing influence on floral morphology and other reproductive traits. Retanilla expresses a basic rhamnacean set of traits (including protandry and self-incompatibility) showing also high pollen production and secondary pollen presentation. The latter two traits seem characteristic of the RetanillaTrevoa clade, suggesting that a trend to increased male effort and, perhaps, dependence upon polleneating has evolved within the tribe Colletieae.
23670120|The ultrastructure of the type species of the genus Dunaliella, D. salina, has been reinvestigated in an attempt to clarify the relationships between Dunaliella and Spermatozopsis. Dunaliella salina differs in the following ultrastructural characters from Spermatozopsis (as exemplified by S. similis Preisig et Melkonian): presence of a distinctive surface coat covering the plasmalemma; presence of a prominent pyrenoid (with pairs of thylakoids partially entering the pyrenoid matrix); dictyosomes parabasal; endoplasmic reticulum closely underlying the plasmalemma around most of the cell; contractile vacuoles absent; cell form ovoid to elongated and not spirally twisted; mitochondrial profiles near the flagellar apparatus. Differences in the ultrastructure of the flagellar apparatus: basal body angle more or less fixed; distal connecting fibre cross-striated; system II fibre (rhizoplast) present, associated with mitochondrial profile; system I fibre underlying two-stranded microtubular root; mating structure present. These ultrastructural differences justify distinction between the two taxa at generic level. The problematical status of "freshwater" species of Dunaliella is briefly discussed.
23664943|The genus Edraianthus A.DC. has a center of distribution in the Balkans and it is one of the most prominent groups of endemic plants in this region. During our recent fieldtrip to Mt. Loven (Montenegro), putative hybrid individuals were encountered, morphologically intermediate between two sympatric taxa, E. tenuifolius (E. sect. Edraianthus) and E. wettsteinii subsp. lovcenicus (E. sect. Uniflori). Multivariate morphometric and molecular analyses were carried out to investigate the occurrence of hybridization between these two species. As a result, a new nothospecies is described here, Edraianthus  lakusicii V. Stevanovi & D. Lakui, a natural hybrid between E. tenuifolius and E. wettsteinii subsp. lovcenicus. At present, this hybrid is known only from the single locality of Mt. Loven. Its population size is estimated to be <50 mature individuals and the estimated "area of occupancy" is smaller than 1 km2.
23674695|Striga hermonthica is a root hemiparasite that attacks only Gramineae, including Sorghum and millet for which it is a principal cause of lowered yield. Enzyme electrophoresis was used to investigate genetic diversity in Striga hermonthica and to determine the level of differentiation between host-specialized populations. Nine genetic loci coding eight enzymes were interpreted and data obtained from three populations: one Sorghum-adapted population from Sudan and two populations from Burkina Faso, one Sorghum-adapted and the other millet-adapted. Levels of polymorphism were similarly high in all three populations (P = 0.625, A = 2.6  2.8, H = 0.293  0.401). Genotypic frequencies at most loci conformed to Hardy-Weinberg expectations in each population, consistent with outcrossing as predicted from previous studies of floral biology. Occasional heterozygote deficiencies were probably the result of Wahlund effect. The mean value of FST over the three populations was 0.068, indicating a slight to moderate level of genetic differentiation among the populations. The two Burkina Faso populations were more closely related (S = 0.940, D = 0.006) than either was to the Sudan population, suggesting that geographic separation is more important than host specialization in contributing to population differentiation. The Sorghum-adapted population was slightly closer to the Burkina Faso Sorghum-adapted population (S = 0.873, D = 0.047) than to Burkina Faso millet-adapted population (S = 0.851, D = 0.074). The absence of substantial genetic divergence between host-specific populations of Striga could result either from recent evolution of host-specialized strains or from strong selection for physiological specialization in the face of substantial gene flow between the populations.
23643065|The relationship of Ambrosia (ragweed) and Franseria has long been debated. Their treatment as separate genera has been repeatedly challenged. In this study, chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was examined for species from both Ambrosia and Franseria as well as taxa from the closely related genus Hymenoclea. The chloroplast genomes of members of these three genera were examined using 21 restriction endonucleases and the restriction mutations were used to construct phylogenetic trees. Wagner and Dollo parsimony as well as weighted parsimony were employed to compare the different phylogenies. The results support a close relationship between Ambrosia and Franseria, but indicate that the two groups are well separated. Compared to Franseria, Ambrosia is a much more strongly supported group, and the results indicate that Hymenoclea is closer to Franseria than to Ambrosia. The cpDNA phylogeny was used as a framework to examine evolutionary trends in morphology and secondary chemistry.
23656038|Gossypium species represent a vast resource of genetic multiplicity for the improvement of cultivated cotton. To determine genetic diversity and relationships within a diverse collection of Gossypium, we employed 120 SSR primers on 20 diploid species representing seven basic genome groups of the genus Gossypium, five AD allotetraploid cotton accessions while T. populnea served as an outgroup species. Out of 120 SSR primers, 49 pairs are polymorphic, which produced a total of 99 distinct alleles with an average of 2.0 alleles per primer pair. A total of 1139 major SSR bands were observed. Genetic similarities among all the diploid species ranged from 0.582 (between G. herbaceum and G. trilobum) up to 0.969 (between G. arboreum and G. herbaceum). Phylogenetic trees based on genetic similarities were consistent with known taxonomic relationships. The results also indicated that G. raimondii is the closest living relative of the ancestral D-genome donor of tetraploid species and the A-genome donor is much similar to the present-day G. herbaceum and G. arboreum. Ancient tetraploid cotton species were formed by hybridizing and chromosome doubling between them, then different tetraploid cotton species appeared by further geographical and genetic isolation and separating differentiation. The results showed that SSRs could be an ideal means for the identification of the genetic diversity and relationship of cotton resources at the genomic level.
23654202|Armeria pseudoarmeria and A. welwitschii, two endemics from the atlantic coast in the centre of Portugal, are shown to be quite distinct by multivariate morphological analyses. In their contact zone around Cabo da Roca, hybrid populations comprising parental morphs and intermediates occur in abandoned agricultural fields. A proportion of intermediates is partially male sterile while others are fully fertile, indicating a rapid recovering of total fertility by some hybrids. The reproductive fitness traits we investigated do not suggest that the hybrids are inferior to the parents but rather that they could be adapted to the hybrid zone environment. Although being a very distinct species among the Iberian Armeria, A. pseudoarmeria is able to cross successfully with A. welwitschii in natural conditions.
23674113|The somatic chromosomes of Triticum turgicum var. durum cv. Langdon and T. dicoccoides (AABB tetraploids), T. timopheevii, and T. araraticum (AAGG tetraploids) were assayed for distribution patterns of a highly repeated 120bp DNA sequence by in situ hybridization. The repeated sequence appears to be an ancient sequence shared with Secale and Aegilops. The distribution patterns of the chromosomes were compared to the patterns of the A and B genome chromosomes of T. aestivum cv. Chinese Spring (AABBDD hexaploid). T. turgidum and T. dicoccoides were observed to have identical in situ hybridization patterns. In both species, nine chromosomes with a total of 21 sites of hybridization were observed. The pattern, with few exceptions, was identical to that of Chinese Spring. T. araraticum and T. timopheevii were observed to have different patterns. In T. araraticum, six chromosomes with 21 total hybridization sites are present while in T. timopheevii nine chromosomes with 19 total sites exist. Major differences in hybridization patterns were observed between the B and G genomes. The divergence of the tetraploid wheats in this study appears to have resulted in changes in location, not in amount, of the ancient repeated sequence.
43558387|The morphoanatomy of mature seeds of 14 species, representing Vriesea and Tillandsia genera, was investigated in light and scanning electron microscopy to establish structural patterns of the seed coat, endosperm and embryo, allowing the distinction between both genera and contributing to the systematic of Tillandsioideae. All species studied have basal plumose appendages in a parachute-like arrangement. In Vriesea, the embryo occupies about 1/3 of the seed, and the rest is filled by the endosperm. In Tillandsia, the area occupied by the embryo within the seed varies according to the species analyzed. The reserves stored in the endosperm and in the embryo differ considerably: both between Vriesea and Tillandsia genera and among Tillandsia species. In the median region of the hypocotyl-radicle axis of Tillandsia embryo, there is a constriction zone that separates the root portion from the rest of the embryo. This feature was not observed in Vriesea species. Our results indicate that few morphoanatomical features of the mature seed coat are good for use in phylogenetic analysis, without considering the ontogenetic study of these structures. On the other hand, characteristics of the embryo and endosperm are very informative. They are useful to separate Vriesea and Tillandsia and also to distinguish groups of species within Tillandsia genus.
43498293|Asian rice, Oryza sativa L., is one of the most important crop species. Genetic analysis has established that rice consists of several genetically differentiated variety groups, with two main groups, namely, O. sativa ssp. japonica kata and ssp. indica kata. To determine the genetic diversity of indica and japonica rice, 45 rice varieties, including domesticated rice and Asia common wild rice (O. rufipogon Griff.), were analyzed using sequence-related amplified polymorphism, target region amplified polymorphism, simple sequence repeat, and intersimple sequence repeat marker systems. A total of 90 indica- and japonica-specific bands between typical indica and japonica subspecies were identified, which greatly helped in determining whether domesticated rice is of the indica or japonica type, and in analyzing the consanguinity of hybrid rice with japonica, which were bred from indica and japonica crossed offspring. These specific bands were both located in the coding and non-encoding region, and usually connected with quantitative trait loci. Utilizing the indica-japonica-specific markers, japnica consanguinity was detected in sterile hybrid rice lines. Many indica-japonica-spccic bands were found in O. rufipogon. This result supports the multiple-origin model for domesticated rice. Javanica exhibited a greater number of indica-japonica-specific bands, which indicates that it is a subspecies of O. sativa L.
23642317|In the nuclei of Lupinus polyphyllus strongly marked chromocentres occur. In electron micrographs of anther cell nuclei these chromocentres appear either as a homogeneous network or subdivided into two distinct regions, a network-like (NR) and a banded one (GR). In both a 100  fiber is the basic unit. The GR is composed of 4 to 6 parallely arranged electron dense bands (240280  wide) and interbands (260300  wide) of low electron density. They appear to correspond to a cylindrical structure with disc-like components and connective sections. These observations are discussed in relation to chromosome structure during interphase and mitosis.
23673709|During microsporogenesis sporopollenin becomes accumulated independently by the only two sporopollenin-producing cell types in the higher plants  the anther tapetum and the microspores  not only within the exine, but also within the orbicules. In Spermatophytes usually only a single orbicule type is found, but sometimes, e.g., in Euphorbia palustris, two different types exist within a single species. Very interestingly, most orbicules are strikingly similar in their structure, sculpture, shape and dimension to the respective ektexine: e.g., smooth sporopollenin globules are found near the totally smooth exines of Eupomatia laurina and Pentaphragma sinense respectively, while in Delonix elata and Euphorbia palustris the orbicules often look like some "incomplete" tectum pieces. All these parallelisms can be attributed to the homologous and therefore highly similar genetic information to form sporopollenin in the sporogeneous tissue and the anther tapetum. The orbicules should be seen neither as sporopollenin storage, as sporopollenin transfer vehicle, nor as sporopollenin surplus.
23643793|The breakdown of species integrity was studied in three sympatric Satyrium (Orchidaceae) species at a site in the Western Cape province of South Africa. Hybrids with intermediate morphology were identified using multivariate analysis. Satyrium erectum  S. bicorne and S. erectum  S. coriifolium hybrids were common, while only one S. bicorne  S. coriifolium hybrid was found (a new record). Reciprocal artificial crossing experiments confirmed that genetic compatibility exists between all three species. However, the species have different pollinators: moths in S. bicorne, bees in S. erectum and sunbirds in S. coriifolium. Pollinators, rather than genetic factors, therefore, appear to be responsible for reproductive isolation between these species. Breakdown in pollinator specificity results in interspecific pollen transfer and the formation of hybrids. Overlap in floral signals, including nocturnal scent in both S. erectum and S. bicorne, and bright coloration in both S. erectum and S. coriifolium, facilitates the formation of hybrids between these species pairs. The brown, scented flowers of S. bicorne, on the other hand, share no obvious floral signals with the bright orange, unscented flowers of S. coriifolium, accounting for the rarity of hybrids between this species pair. Differences in floral morphology also result in mechanical isolation between these two species. Since the three species are sympatric in a very small part of their geographic ranges, it is unlikely that avoidance of hybridization has been an important selective factor in the evolution of specialized pollination systems.
43558351|Molecular characterization of Tulipa L. species can elucidate the relationships among the species and provide more information about the taxonomy of this valuable genus. In this study, the genetic relationship among 39 Tulipa accessions from Khorassan and Yazd Provinces, located in east and northeast Iran, were analyzed using inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) primers. Ten selected ISSR primers from 20 screened primers generated a total of 97 polymorphic DNA bands. Unweighted pairgroup method of cluster analysis based on Dice similarity values separated the accessions into nine groups. Seven species were recognized within these groups, and T. micheliana Hoog was the most frequently encountered species. The subgroups formed within both T. micheliana and T. lehmanniana Merckl. revealed a low level of diversity within these species. T. biebersteiniana Schultes & Schultes fil. and T. biflora Pallas accessions made a separate clusters. The grouping of accessions was generally consistent with principal coordinate analysis (PCA) and clearly showed the position of species in the subgenera and sections of Tulipa. These results clearly showed the usefulness of DNA fingerprinting for identification of Tulipa accessions, and it is imperative to collect and characterize more genetic variability from the other distribution areas of this genus.
23655975|Peperomia is with approximately 1,600 species one of the species rich angiosperm genera. Several characters on which current infrageneric classifications are based are influenced by parallel evolution. A well-resolved molecular backbone phylogeny of the genus is needed to address evolutionary questions about morphological traits. Based on separate and combined analyses of a morphological data set and three molecular data sets, phylogenetic relationships within Peperomia are investigated with respect to character evolution. The resulting trees from different datasets are highly congruent. Morphological characters are mapped on a combined molecular tree, visualizing the contrast between previously used homoplastic characters and some newly observed characters, that can be used to delimit monophyletic groups. Length mutational events of the chloroplast dataset are coded and plotted on the respective tree, to test if indels support alternative hypothesis of relationships found in the nuclear datasets as well as the overall performance of indels compared with substitutional mutations. Our findings indicate that length distribution of indels is highest among five and six bp events. Autapomorphic and synapomorphic length mutations are most frequent in both insertions and deletions and are also more frequent independent of the length of the mutation. Concluding, independent of the length, mutations are of phylogenetic importance and should not be disregarded. None of the homoplastic indels turn into synapomorphic indels, supporting the different topology of the nrDNA tree but indicate areas of molecular evolution in favour of length mutations resulting in independent events.
23664054|The chromosome analysis of Santolina rosmarinifolia subsp. rosmarinifolia, S. oblongifolia, S. semidentata subsp. semidentata, S. semidentata subsp. melidensis, S. canescens and the hybrid complex (S. rosmarinifolia subsp. rosmarinifolia, S. oblongifolia and their putative hybrids) shows that all the taxa are diploids (2n = 2x = 18; 18 + 1 or more B chromosomes, with 2n = 19, 20 only in the hybrid complex). The results show a conserved general structure of the karyotype (14m + 2sm + 2st), but in S. semidentata subsp. melidensis it is variable, with 14m + 2sm + 2st in ten individuals, 14m + (1m - 1sm) + (1 m - 1st) in nine individuals and 12m + (1m - 1sm) + (1m - 1st) + 2st + 1B in five individuals. Tetraploid individuals occurred in the diploid populations of S. rosmarinifolia subsp. rosmarinifolia and S. canescens, and their autopolyploid origin is discussed. Multivalent configurations at diakinesis, simple and double chromosome bridges and delayed disjunction of homologous and non-homologous chromosomes at anaphase I have negative effects on pollen stainability. The mean fructification percentage is moderate. The results suggest that the complex is a mosaic of introgressive hybrids.
23674408|We have isolated RNA from nine different grass species and from Psilotum, a modern representative of a primitive land plant lineage. By direct RNA sequencing with reverse transcriptase, we have determined the nucleotide sequence for five regions of the 18 S rRNA molecule and three regions of the 26 S rRNA molecule. Over 1 600 positions have been elucidated for each plant species. These sequences were aligned by computer and the variable positions were identified by inspection. The data from the variable positions were input into phylogenetic inference computer programs to generate an evolutionary relationship among the grass species. This evolutionary tree based on nucleotide sequence data was compared to a recent classification of the Poaceae based on morphological data.
23655719|Through SEM observation, we found that there are vessels as well as tracheids in the secondary wood of Tetracentron sinense Oliv. The vessel elements are as narrow and as long as or slightly shorter than the tracheids and generally have 1 to 3 very long, or sometimes relatively short and oblique end-wall perforation plates; such perforation plates are also present on the lateralwalls. The perforation plates of the vessels include scalariform and reticulate-scalariform types, with various degrees of membrane remnants present in the end walls.
23672618|Morphological analysis and electrophoresis of seed proteins of five Lolium species disclosed that they form two distinct groups corresponding to those recognized from compatibility data. Lolium temulentum and L. remotum of the self-pollinated group were shown to be distinct but closely related species. Morphological intergradation and high similarities between protein profiles of L. perenne, L. multiflorum and L. rigidum (cross-pollinated species) suggest little genetic differentiation between these taxa. This implies that treatment at the infraspecific level might better accomodate the data.
23674385|Six flavonoid glycosides: quercetin 3-glucoside, quercetin-3-rutinoside; 3-glucoside, 3-rutinoside, 3-7-diglucoside and 3-rhamnogalactoside of isorhamnetin were extracted and identified from the leaves and branches of Egyptian material of Balanites aegyptiaca. Only isorhamnetin: 3-rutinoside and 3-rhamnogalactoside were recorded from the fruits of the same plant.  Phytochemical aspects of Balanites aegyptiaca and some genera of Zygophylaceae s. l. viz. Nitraria, Fagonia, Zygophyllum, Seetzenia and Tribulus support its affinities with that family.
23671501|Double restitution has been observed cytologically for the first time in microsporogenesis of a F1 hybrid Fragaria virginiana [symbol]  F. chiloensis . Restitution is probably due to irregularities affecting the spindle mechanism. Single or double restitution may depend upon the duration of the effect or upon the stage of meiosis affected. The occurrence of triades is indicative of a possible intracellular diversity. Although the reason which may cause restitution remains to be ascertained, maternal inheritance indicates an extrachromosomal cause.
23673824|No less than 3 different parasitical lichens were found on the corticolous lichen Caloplaca polycarpoides in Afghanistan. Partly, they also grow on closely allied species of the sect. Xanthoriella. Lecania triseptata begins and ends as a typical parasite, and does not form a thallus outside of its host. L. diplococca and Rinodina afghanica, both described as new species, have a similar appearance; they are parasitic in the beginning, but form their own thalli outside the host later on. The 3 species are members of the small group of parasitical lichens growing on corticolous hosts. Possibly, the slow degeneration of cortices under the arid climatical conditions, has allowed the evolution of parasitic lichens of this rare type in Central Asia.
23642217|Indications are presented that the heterocysts of a member of the Rivulariaceae germinate in NO3 free medium containing low concentrations of NH4Cl and glucose. Growth occurred regularly in the absence of combined nitrogen sources (NH4, NO3), suggesting N2 fixation. Phosphate regulates hormogonia release, perhaps indirectly via an influence on differentiation of heterocysts.
23642173|Quantitatively evaluated C-banded and conventional karyograms are presented for the related species Scilla bifolia subsp. danubialis Speta, S. drunensis (Speta) Speta, and S. vindobonensis Speta. On the basis of banding patterns and karyotype structure S. bifolia subsp. danubialis (2 n = 18, 2) and S. drunensis (2 n = 36, 4) are quite similar, while S. vindobonensis (2 n = 18, 2) is entirely different. There is a moderate degree of karyotypic variation within S. bifolia subsp. danubialis and S. drunensis. However, in S. vindobonensis karyotypes and banding patterns are almost completely stable over a geographical range of about 500 km. The present results confirm the recent taxonomic separation of S. vindobonensis from S. bifolia, and suggest a considerable phylogenetic distance between these two diploid species. The results are discussed with reference to the morphological characters of the species and their geographical distribution.
23669031|Abstract The Bromeliaceae family has been traditionally distributed in the subfamilies Bromelioideae, Tillandsioideae and Pitcairnioideae. However, phylogenetic studies have provided other classifications, highlighting the need for analyses in order to characterize the genome of different species from this family. In this sense, the present work aimed to determine nuclear 2C-value and base composition, characterize the chromosomes and establish the karyogram of Pitcairnia flammea. Flow cytometry yielded 2C = 1.44 pg, AT = 64.28 % and GC = 35.72 % for this species, indicating its relatively small genome size. Despite reduced length and morphological similarity of the chromosomes, P. flammea metaphases presented well-spread chromosomes, with well-defined primary constriction, without chromatin damage and cytoplasmic background. These aspects allowed morphometric chromosomal characterization and assembly of the first karyogram of a Bromeliaceae species. The karyogram displayed 2n = 50 chromosomes, of which all were submetacentric. Karyomorphological analysis revealed grouped pairs of cytogenetically identical chromosomes (23, 45, 69, 1017, 1819, 2023 and 2425), plus one isolated chromosome (1), not identical to any other. This result suggests an allopolyploid origin for the P. flammea genome. Thus, the present investigation contributed with karyotype data for taxonomic and evolutionary aspects of this group.
43558586|Prairie cordgrass has been reported as a multipolyploidy species having three cytotypes: tetra- (2n = 4x = 40), hexa- (2n = 6x = 60), and octoploid (2n = 8x = 80). A mixed-ploidy population comprising tetraploids and hexaploids was recently found at a single location in Illinois. However, adaptation and morphological differences between tetra- and hexaploids occurring in natural conditions as well as the contact zones of these cytotypes have yet to be determined. In this study, the cytotypes of 147 individuals of prairie cordgrass collected across the contact zone (4x + 6x) were determined by flow cytometry using somatic G1 nuclei, and the results were confirmed by chromosome counts. Nineteen morphological characteristics were compared between the cytotypes. Tetra- and hexaploid plants have 2C genome sizes of 1.57 and 2.36 pg with chromosome counts of 40 and 60, respectively. This increase in polyploidy resulted in a greater variability of morphological expression in Illinois prairie cordgrass. Substantial differences in the flowering time, stomatal size, and plant morphological characteristics were observed between tetraand hexaploids. The results indicate that the increasing of ploidy level in prairie cordgrass resulted in increased plant size in ploidy mixtures. The recent event of ploidy mixtures in prairie cordgrass natural populations offers unique opportunities for studying the formation and establishment of neopolyploidy.
23643184|The genome size and base composition of the triploid Crocus sativus and its two diploid most probable ancestors, C. cartwrightianus and C. thomasii, was investigated and compared inter- and intra-specifically by means of flow cytometry. There was little variation in C. sativus and little difference from C. cartwrightianus. Crocus thomasii was significantly different from the others. Crocus cartwrightianus is the most probable diploid ancestor of C. sativus.
43558176|In most pollination systems, animals transfer pollen among plants of a given species. Pollinator visitations do not come without cost, so plants usually offer a reward. However, the flowers of some plant species, mostly orchids, lack rewards and deceive animals into visiting their flowers. Deceptive species are thought to have high levels of variation in traits associated with advertisement and pollinator attraction, which have been attributed to genetic drift, or disruptive selection due to pollinator behavior. Rewarding species are assumed to have less variation due to stabilizing selection. We compared variability in floral morphology and fragrance composition between deceptive and rewarding species. Because both suites of traits are often linked with floral advertisement and pollinator attraction, we expected variation to be greater in species with deceptive pollination systems than in those offering rewards. We obtained floral morphology metrics for 20 deceptive species and 41 rewarding species native or naturalized in Puerto Rico, Venezuela, and Ecuador. Floral fragrances were sampled from eight deceptive species and four rewarding species. We found that the amplitude of variation in floral morphology and fragrance composition covaries significantly. Comparison of coefficients of variation for morphology indicated that, overall, deceptive species show significantly higher variation than rewarding species, and this pattern was also found among just orchids or just nonorchids. There were no statistical differences in morphological variation between orchids and nonorchids within a functional pollination group. Fragrance variation, measured by Jaccard distance, tended to be greater for deceptive species than for rewarding species. Although overlap in measures of variation occurs between the two groups, the data support the hypothesis that populations of deception-pollinated species are more variable than rewarding species in traits associated with pollinator attraction.
23674786|Stigmatic exudate-eating chironomid flies (Smittia) and pollen-eating halodid beetles are the most common visitors to flowers of Pseudowintera colorata. Plants are self-incompatible. After selfing pollen tubes penetrate the nucellus; chase pollination experiments show that the incompatibility reaction occurs before fertilization. When pollen is applied to stigmas, the exudate dries rapidly and does not usually reappear. A review of anthophytes suggests that their common ancestor around 200 mya was bisexual and pollinated at least in part by nectar-seeking insects, possibly including flies. The angiosperm stigma appears to have evolved from a pollination drop mechanism via an adaxial stigmatic surface.
23642499|Some abnormalities in the androecial structure and behaviour within Vulpia sect. Vulpia are described. These features help to trace the evolutionary history of cleistogamous taxa with a single micranthous stamen from chasmogamous taxa with three macranthous stamens.
23655637|Pollen grains of Montrichardia are inaperturate with psilate ornamentation. The pollen wall is formed by a thin ectexine and an extraordinarily thick intine. In living as well as in dead pollen grains contact with water leads to a rapid swelling of the intine followed by an explosive opening of the exine. Within a few seconds a thick tube is formed, which is not the pollen tube. The pollen protoplast is situated at the tip of the tube. These intine tubes are interpreted as pollen connecting tools to keep pollen grains together and adhere them to the cuticle of the hairless pollinators.
23655723|Mechanisms of two F1 hybrids (D46A  DTP-4 and D46A  Dminghui63) of autotetraploid rice (2n = 4x = 48) showing extremely high pollen fertility 87.40% and 85.97%, respectively, seed set 82.00% and 79.00%, respectively and extremely high level of heterosis were analyzed cytologically. The chromosome pairing of D46A  DTP-4 and D46A  Dminghui63 was normal at metaphase I(MI), and had almost no I or III, with an average of 0.020I + 14.36 II 6.44rod + 7.91ring) + 0.01III + 4.80 IV + 0.01VIII and 0.06 I + 17.67 II (11.01rod + 6.67ring)] + 0.06 III + 3.10IV + 0.01VI, respectively. The most frequent chromosome configurations were 10II + 7IV and 12II + 6IV. The bivalent frequency was less frequent in hybrids than that in restoring parents, and the same results were gained from univalents, trivalent and multivalents. However, the quadrivalent frequency was significantly higher in hybrids than that in restoring parents at MI. The other meiotic phases progressed normally, except for low percentages of PMCs with lagging chromosomes at AI and low percentages of PMCs with micronuclei at telophaseI (TI) and telophaseII (TII). PMCs with lagging chromosomes at AI and PMCs with micronuclei at TI and TII showed negative correlation between pollen fertility and seed set. Above 90% of the PMCs could form normal microspores, which resulted in the production of viable pollen grains, abnormal microspores were observed including penta-fission and hexa-fission. Based on these results we suggest that the two F1 hybrids had better behaviors of chromosome pairing and genetic stability than autotetraploid rice and other autotetraploid plants ever studied.
23642851|Comparative cultivation experiments were made with 14 populations of the annual, hemiparasitic species Rhinanthus glacialis from seven different habitat types. Phenological data were recorded and plants from field samples and from corresponding experimental samples were morphologically analysed. There are up to ten weeks difference in the start of flowering between means of the extreme experimental populations. Flowering time variation correlates with the number of internodes and also with most of the other morphological characters. Flowering time also shows close relationships to different grassland types and the examined populations appear to be well-adapted to the environmental conditions in natural or man-influenced grassland types as far as flowering time is concerned. The number of internodes is mostly insensitive to the applied experimental influences. The rate of internode production is constant. Trade-offs are suggested for some morphological traits (i.e., few internodes with few branches and thus few flowers as trade-off for early flowering).  Previous studies of life history variation based on population data have not been incorporated into the theory of heterochrony. The pattern of life history variation of populations of R. glacialis together with information about morphology, ecology, and phylogeny suggests that some variants have evolved from ancestors via heterochronic processes. Earlier flowering populations from montane hay meadows, litter meadows, and dry meadows belong to paedomorphic variants. These have fewer internodes and branches as well as reduced height in comparison with the suggested ancestor. Later flowering populations from subalpine limestone grassland belong to a peramorphic variant with more internodes, more branches, and taller stems in comparison with the suggested ancestor.
23669040|Plantpollinator interactions provide highly important ecological functions, and are influenced by floral nectar characteristics. The night blooming Datura ferox is an excellent model to test general hypotheses on the relationship between nectar traits (e.g., nectar secretion patterns, nectar chemical composition), pollinators and reproductive success for invasive, weedy species in highly modified ecosystems as crop fields. We hypothesized an adjustment between nectar composition and secretion dynamics through flower anthesis and the activity and requirements of nocturnal pollinators. Nectar chemical analyses showed low quantities of amino acids and lipids, phenolics, and alkaloids were not detected. D. ferox showed sucrose-dominant nectar with comparable amount of hexoses. Sugar proportions did not vary between populations or during flowering season. Most nectar is secreted before flower opening. Nectar resorption was detected at the end of anthesis. Experimentally drained flowers of both populations increased nectar production up to 50 % in the total amount of sugar per flower compared to control flowers. Nectar standing crop was relatively constant during the flowering season, but differences were detected between populations. Nectar traits of D. ferox would be favoring cross-pollination and maintaining seed production of this weed, since recently open flowers display a higher amount of nectar and they can renew nectar after a pollinator visit or reabsorb it at the end of anthesis. This nectar source may be important for native pollinators considering that human-induced forest fragmentation is related with the impoverishment of native flora from agro-ecosystems.
23643269|Daviesia ulicifolia is a widespread species that exhibits complex variation throughout its range. Using ordination and cluster analysis of morphometric characters we resolved ten terminal taxa for phylogenetic analysis. A data set including these and five closely related species was coded for a combination of morphometric and qualitative characters and analysed using parsimony. This revealed that D. ulicifolia is paraphyletic by inclusion of D. acicularis, D. arenaria and D. microcarpa. One terminal cluster is more similar to an outgroup species (D. arthropoda) than to D. ulicifolia and should be treated as a new species. Given recent theoretical and empirical studies showing paraphyly to be both expected and observed at species level, we propose that all existing species in this group continue to be recognised taxonomically. We suggest subdividing D. ulicifolia into several subspecies.
23674684|Ribosomal DNA genes from P. deltoides have been cloned and specific sequences of the 25 S and 18 S rDNA region, labelled by digoxigenin, have been used to determine the rDNA structure of Populus tremula, P. fremontii, P. maximowiczii, P. yunnanensis, P. nigra, P. wislizenii, P. alba. The restriction maps of the coding region appeared to be similar among the examined species and with those of P. deltoides and P. trichocarpa, reported in a previous paper. Inter- and intraspecific variation in rDNA repeat unit length have been revealed after EcoRI digestions. SstI and XbaI restriction sites have been found at different positions in the IGS of some species. The polymorphic fragments generated by SstI digestion allowed the identification of the hybrid origin of some genotypes. The number of rDNA genes in the genome of P. deltoides has been estimated to be about 2 000 copies. Finally, the usefulness of these studies in Populus spp. taxonomy and forestry genetics is discussed.
23655223|Maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses based on partial trnL intron sequences of 60 specimens of the Gondwanan liverwort family Pallaviciniaceae, and 23 representatives of other families of the Metzgeriidae, resolve the Pallaviciniaceae as monophyletic, albeit with low bootstrap support, with the Hymenophytaceae as their sistergroup in the likelihood tree. These data and further analyses of the Pallaviciniacean taxa only, based on the trnTUGU-trnLUAA spacer, trnLUAA 5exon and trnLUAA intron of the chloroplast DNA and the ITS2 of the nuclear ribosomal DNA, support a separation of Moerckia (Moerckioideae) from the remaining genera. An unexpected close relationship between Podomitrium (Podomitrioideae) and the Symphyogynoideae is observed, whereas Pallavicinia and the Pallavicinioideae are polyphyletic. Within Symphyogyna, well-supported clades comprising the species with dendroid and prostrate-lobate thalli on the one hand and species with prostrate-undivided thalli on the other hand (except S. tenuinervis, including Symphyogynopsis) are distinguished. According to the molecular data, evolution of the dendroid life-form occurred three times independently in the Metzgeriidae, in Symphyogyna, Jensenia, and Hymenophyton.
23643268|Nuclei were isolated from leaf tissue of different Capsicum species and the relative fluorescence intensity was measured by flow cytometry after propidium iodide staining. Pisum sativum nuclei with known nuclear genome size (9.07 pg) were used as internal standard to determine nuclear DNA content of the samples in absolute units. The 2C DNA contents ranged between 7.65 pg in C. annuum and 9.72 pg in C. pubescens, and the general mean of the genus was 8.42 pg. These values correspond, respectively, to 1C genome size of 3.691 (C. annuum), 4.690 (C. pubescens) and 4.063 (general mean) Mbp. In general, white-flowered species proved to have less DNA, with the exception of C. praetermissum, which displayed a 2C DNA content of 9.23 pg. It was possible to divide the studied species into three main groups according to their DNA content, and demonstrate differences in DNA content within two of the three species complexes established on the basis of morphological traits.
23642883|In electron micrographs of Lupinus polyphyllus nuclei some of the chromocentres exhibit two distinct regions, a network-like (NR) and a banded one (GR). This heterogeneous type of chromocentres was observed in nearly all cells of vegetative and reproductive tissues (root, leaf primordium of the seedling, young and older foliage leaves, carpel, young and older ovules and pericarp), with the exception of pollen mother cells during the first meiotic division. Results of enzymatic digestion show that GR and NR mainly consist of DNA. These observations suggest that GR and the polycomplexes represent different nuclear phenomena.
23643167|The genus Fedia consists of three species (F. cornucopiae, F. graciliflora and F. pallescens) of winter annual herbs, endemic to the western Mediterranean Basin. The deciduous terminal fruits of these taxa are polymorphic in the development of their pericarp and/or calyx, and each population is dimorphic or more rarely trimorphic. The three main fruit types are dispersed in several manners, and are specialized for either epizoochory or myrmecochory. On the basis of our experimental study of dimorphic and trimorphic populations of F. pallescens subsp. pallescens, a genetic model is presented in order to explain the control of this intrapopulational polymorphism. It is postulated that two diallelic loci are tightly linked on the same chromosome in a functional supergene. One allele of each locus displays a dominance effect in the heterozygous state. Within the four possible homologous allelic segments, only two are present in the dimorphic populations, three in the trimorphic ones, and are otherwise associated in diverse combinations in the remaining taxa of the genus. Similar examples of fruit polymorphism are already documented in the tribe Valerianeae, subtribe Fediinae. The hypothesis is put forward that this fruit polymorphism is a synapomorphy for the subtribe.
23642203|The somatic karyotypes of 10 taxa belonging to Allium subgen. Molium (Liliaceae) from the Mediterranean area have been investigated using Giemsa C-band and fluorochrome (Hoechst, Quinacrine) banding techniques. A wide range of banding patterns has been revealed. In Allium moly (2 n = 14), A. oreophilum (2 n = 16) and A. paradoxum (2 n = 16) C-banding is restricted to a region on each side of the nucleolar organisers and the satellites show reduced fluorescence with fluorochromes. The satellites are also C-banded and with reduced fluorescence in A. triquetrum (2 n = 18), but two other chromosome pairs also have telomeric bands which are not distinguished by fluorochrome treatment. In A. erdelii (2 n = 16) 4 pairs of metacentric chromosomes have telomeric C-bands while 2 pairs of telocentric chromosomes have centromeric C-banding. In A. subhirsutum (2 n = 14), A. neapolitanum (2 n = 28), A. trifoliatum subsp. hirsutum (2 n = 14) and A. trifoliatum subsp. trifoliatum (2 n = 21) chromosomes with long centromeres, consisting of a centromere and nucleolar organiser are positively C-banded on each side of the constriction. In A. subhirsutum banding is confined to the pair of chromosomes with this feature, whereas in A. neapolitanum one additional chromosome pair has telomeric bands and in A. trifoliatum there are varying numbers of chromosomes with centromeric and telomeric bands, depending on the subspecies. A. zebdanense (2 n = 18) shows no C-bands. The banding patterns in this subgenus are compared with those recorded for other Allium species and with the sectional divisions in the genus. Evidence from the banding patterns for allopolyploidy in A. trifoliatum subsp. trifoliatum and A. neapolitanum is discussed.
23674085|The fluorochrome and Giemsa chromosome banding patterns and the Ag-NOR histochemical staining of Sinapis alba are described. Two major types of heterochromatin can be distinguished, one of which contains GC-rich DNA. The observations are discussed as they relate to the known satellite DNAs of S. alba.  A simple air-drying technique for producing spreads of plant mitotic chromosomes is presented. Different materials and staining techniques were tested showing that the method has wide applications.
23642720|The following new hybrids are described: Euphrasia  dilata = E. hirtella Jordan ex Reuter  alpina Lam.; Euphrasia  trikoviana = E. tricuspidata L.  rostkoviana Hayne. The chromosome number of Euphrasia tricuspidata L. has been established for the first time: 2n = 22.
23642506|A new approach to the classification of Pinus based on analyses of umbo and mucro on the cone scales is presented. It matches the basic frame of existing classification systems and allows determination of sections or even species. In particular, the subdivision of Diploxylon pines into groups with centric or excentric mucro separates most Eurasian from American species. Fossils with well preserved mucro now can be grouped better and determined with more accuracy. Furthermore, umbo analyses which consider the ontogeny of the conelets and the shift from primitive to derived character states from the apex to the basis of mature cones lead to an additional evaluation of relationships and evolutionary lines among pines.
23673240|For a long time, systematists have subdivided the genus Pinus into Diploxylon and Haploxylon according to morpho-anatomy and the number of needles. Nevertheless, divergent views remain regarding the structure of these two subgenera, mainly at the section and subsection levels. We propose to clarify some of these uncertainties by studying 45 Pinus taxa of different origins. Our results, based on morphometric and biochemical (flavonoids) parameters, complement those obtained from classical anatomical and morphological studies, and also modern macro-molecular markers (proteins, DNA). We confirm the subdivision of the genus into Pinus = Diploxylon versus Strobus = Haploxylon and the further sectioning of the first subgenus into sections Pinus and Trifoliae. Moreover, we specify the different subsections, whereby the contents of the methylated flavonol isorhamnetin coupled with needle morphometry play a significant role (subsections Pinus vs. Pinaster in section Pinus, Australes + Ponderosae vs. Contortae in section Trifoliae). Given that isorhamnetin proceeds from quercetin by the irreversible action of an O-methyl-transferase, this methylated flavonol becomes a dynamic marker in such way that the taxa rich in isorhamnetin can be considered as more "derived = evolved". In addition, there exists a highly significant negative correlation between methylation index and number of needles. Consequently, the pines from the Holarctic Strobus group (with five needles and low isorhamnetin contents) can be considered as "ancestral", in reference to a Laurasian origin of the genus. In the subgenus Pinus, the Nearctic group (=section Trifoliae) remains near the ancestral base. On the other hand, the Holarctic subset "densiflorae" is connected to the other members (mainly European) of the polyphyletic subsection Pinus, in particular with series "sylvestres". Because of their very high contents of isorhamnetin, the Mediterranean pines result from an accentuation of this evolutionary trend (=subsection Pinaster). In fact, the pines growing under hot and dry climates (Mediterranean region) are highly evolved compared to those from cold and/or wet regions (Eurasia and North America but also, to a lesser extent, the south-eastern USA and East Asia). Our dynamic propositions based on plant phenolics data complete those from more modern macromolecular (DNA, proteins) studies.
23643171|The genetic population structure in Bdallophyton bambusarum, an endoparasite, was studied in ten subpopulations from a subdeciduous tropical forest in Veracruz Mexico. The sample was analyzed using seven polymorphic loci in cellulose acetate electrophoresis. Isozyme data indicated that the subpopulations of B. bambusarum contained high genetic variability (Hep = 0.452  0.045, S.E.). Our analysis suggests that almost each inflorescence of B. bambusarum is an individual. The subpopulations studied were genetically similar (average Nei's genetic identity 0.941  0.051 and FST values 0.097  0.026), suggesting that genetic differentiation among subpopulations was small. Direct estimates of effective population size was derived from observations of three fluorescent dyes, and from the genetic neighborhood area derived from these data. The neighborhood area, multiplied by the total density of individuals, gave an Ne = 124.84 plants, and when corrected to consider the proportion of males and females gave an Ne=118.59 individuals. An indirect estimate of Nm was obtained from the FST values (mean Nm=2.037), giving an indirect estimate of the effective population size Nb = 12.8 individuals. Both values are relatively high when compared to other plant studies. The gene flow and/or effective populations size of the studied subpopulations of B. bambusarum are believed to be large enough to prevent differentiation among subpopulations due to genetic drift.
23664355|Leaves of 41 species of Castanopsis, six species of Castanea, and Chrysolepis chrysophyllum Hjelmq. were examined. In Castanopsis, all species possessed cyclocytic stomata with thickened subsidiary cells; thin-walled peltate trichomes are the most frequent type on the abaxial surface of the leaves of this genus. In Castanea, stomata are transitional between cyclocytic and anomocytic; thin-walled peltate trichomes were recorded for the first time on the abaxial surface of Castanea leaves. In Chrysolepis, cyclocytic stomata with non-thickened subsidiary cells and thick-walled peltate trichomes were observed. The thickened subsidiary cells support the placement of the "fissa-group" in Castanopsis. The results of this study support the idea that Castanopsis and Castanea are sister groups. Thick-walled peltate trichomes were only recorded in Chrysolepis, thus supporting its taxonomic separation from Castanopsis. The phylogenetic distribution of trichome types among genera of Fagaceae is summarized. The evolutionary trends of trichome types in Castanopsis are discussed, as are the implications of stomatal and trichome features on fossil identification and ecology.
23671362|Genetic diversity and population structure were analyzed in 67 diverse finger millet accessions of African and Indian origin. A total of 69 alleles were generated with a mean of 4.0 alleles per locus and with an average gene diversity of 0.471. Molecular diversity parameters showed higher values in African accessions. Nineteen rare and nine unique alleles were observed and the identified accessions can be a potential source for further improvement of finger millet. Clustering of south Indian accessions with African lowland types and north/highland Indian accessions with that of African highlands was also observed. Structure analysis revealed the distinctness of Ugandan accessions compared to other African accessions and five major subpopulations useful for parental selection, conservation, and utilization of finger millet.
43496749|Colonising populations do not always exhibit founder effects. Common explanations are high levels of immigration and/or reproduction, but few empirical tests have been done. We measured genetic diversity of Nassauvia argentea in terms of variation and divergence of plant populations that have colonised Volcn Lonquimay, Chile, following its latest eruption in 1988. Fifteen individuals from each of ten populations were analysed using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers. Genetic variation and divergence were lower in colonising populations than established ones, but not significantly so (ANOVA and Kruskal-Wallis tests, p < 0.05). No consistent or significant trends were obtained from regressions with demographic variables. Bayesian analysis of population structure reveals close relatedness among populations of all ages on the volcano. We concluded that no conspicuous founder effect has occurred in the genetic diversity of populations colonising a newly derived volcanic environment. An important implication of this is the role of proximity to source regions and species vigour in moulding genetic diversity of colonisers from different species.
23642368|The new family Stephanosporaceae (Basidiomycetes, Fungi) is proposed. As far as known, the range of the family covers aphyllophoroid (Lindtneria) and gastroid genera (Stephanospora) which are characterized by strongly sculptured and coloured spores. From the micro- and ultrastructural point of view Lindtneria and Stephanospora are practically undistinguishable. Therefore, the two genera are considered to be closely related, despite their striking differences concerning the macromorphology of their carpophores. 1. Lindtneria trachyspora (Bourd. & Galzin) Pilt und Stephanospora caroticolor (Berk.) Pat. lassen wegen bereinstimmung wesentlicher systematischer Merkmale eine nahe Verwandtschaft erkennen. 2. Die beiden Sippen sind untereinander mikro- und ultrastrukturell auerordentlich hnlich, so da ihre Stellung in einer eigenen, neuen Familie  Stephanosporaceae  gerechtfertigt erscheint.
43558585|The development of inflorescences and flowers of three species of Ranunculus and three allied genera (Ceratocephala, Halerpestes, and Oxygraphis) (Ranunculeae, Ranunculaceae) was studied comparatively using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Our results showed that both the inflorescence branching patterns and the floral morphogenesis in Ranunculeae are extremely labile. Inflorescences range from a thyrsoid to a solitary flower, with intermediate branching patterns in which sometimes only the terminal flower of the inflorescence main axis fully develops, such as in Ceratocephala and Halerpestes. Only in Oxygraphis is the flower truly solitary. In all species, sepal primordia are broad, crescent-shaped, and truncate, and the primordia of petals, stamens, and carpels are rather small and hemispherical, and very similar to each other. The plastochron between the last sepal and the first petal is relatively long. At the onset of androecium or gynoecium development, the regular spiral pattern of the perianth may become irregular in Ceratocephala and Oxygraphis, whereas spiral and whorled patterns may cooccur in Ranunculus and Halerpestes. The development of the petals is delayed with regard to that of the other floral organs in all species studied here, except for Oxygraphis. Our study confirms that, for solitary flowers, increased number of petals and the shape of the ventral nectary may have evolved independently many times, as suggested by earlier molecular phylogenetic studies and ancestral character reconstructions. With respect to the remainder of the tribe, Oxygraphis displays several autapomorphies, such as nondelayed development and increased number of petals, which will be of interest for comparative molecular developmental studies.
23645343|Festuca species form a polyploid series but only two of the diploid species have been firmly proposed as progenitors of any polyploid. The number and distribution of rDNA sites on the chromosomes of F. scariosa (section Scariosae) and the four diploid species that comprise section Montanae are presented with their relative DNA amounts and key morphological features. Comparisons of the results with those of some polyploid Festuca species from section Bovinae published previously indicate that F. scariosa and F. altissima could be diploid progenitors of the polyploids. It is unlikely that any one of the other three Montanae species is a progenitor of these polyploids.
23655500|Several lines of evidence suggest that homeotic changes played a considerable role during the evolution of flowers. This, however, is difficult to reconcile with the predominant evolutionary theory which rejects any drastic, saltational change of the phenotype as reasonable mode of evolution due to its assumed negative impact on the fitness of the affected organims. A better understanding of the evolutionary potential of homeotic transitions requires a study of the performance of respective mutant varieties in the wild. Here we introduce "Stamenoid petals" (Spe), a variety of Capsella bursa-pastoris (shepherd's purse), as a suitable model to study the evolutionary potential of floral homeotic mutants. In the flowers of the Spe variety all petals are transformed into stamens, while all other floral organs are unaffected. In contrast to most other homeotic mutants the Spe variety occurs on several locations in relatively large and stable populations in the wild. Due to its close relationship to the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the Spe variety of C. bursa-pastoris can be rigorously studied, from the molecular genetic basis of the phenotype to its consequences on the fitness in wild habitats. Investigations on Spe may thus help to clarify whether homeotic transformations have the potential to contribute to macroevolution.
23642807|Alchemilla austriaca is a new species which belongs to the group of A. demissa, A. frigens, A. longana, A. longiuscula, A. semisecta, and A. sinuata. The holotype specimen as well as leaf and flower details are illustrated (Figs. 13). A complete character analysis is given, differences and similarities of allied species are presented in two tables, and the position of the group within the genus is discussed. A. austriaca so far is known only from the Austrian Alps and mainly from the central ranges (distribution map: Fig. 4). Its wet subalpine and alpine habitats are characterized by species lists. Als neue Art wird Alchemilla austriaca Frhner et Polatschek aus der Verwandtschaftsgruppe von A. demissa, A. frigens, A. longana, A. longiuscula, A. semisecta und A. sinuata beschrieben, der Holotypus und 8 Detailmerkmale werden abgebildet (Abb. 13). Die bisher bekannten Fundorte sind in einer Verbreitungskarte (Abb. 4) zusammengefat, ihre kologie wird skizziert. Tabellen informieren ber die Differentialmerkmale, die verwandtschaftliche Eingliederung der Gruppe in die Gattung wird ausfhrlich diskutiert. Den Leitern, Kuratoren bzw. Inhabern der aufgezhlten Herbarien mchten wir fr ihr Entgegenkommen danken: DRE, IBF, G, I, KRA (Hb. Kotula), M, W, WU (offizielle Abkrzungen), Forstliche Bundesversuchsanstalt Mariabrunn/Wien (Fba) und folgende Privatherbarien: S. Frhner (DDR: Nossen bei Dresden), W. Maurer (Steiermark: Graz) und H. Schweiger (Steiermark: Mrzzuschlag).
23674983|Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was examined for 35 taxa in the Vernonieae and four outgroup tribes, using 17 restriction enzymes mapped for ca. 900 restriction sites per species; 139 mutations were found to be phylogenetically informative. Phylogenetic trees were constructed using Wagner and weighted parsimony, and evaluated by bootstrap and decay analyses. Relationships of Old and New World taxa indicate complex geographical relationships; there was no clear geographic separation by hemisphere. The relationships between Old and New World Vernonias found here support prior morphological analyses. The sister group to all New and most Old World taxa was composed of a small group of Old World species including yellow-flowered, trinervate-leaved species previously postulated to be basal in the tribe. The majority of both New and Old World taxa are derived from a lineage beginning with the monotypic genus Stokesia, an endemic of the southeastern United States. The genus Vernonia was also found to be paraphyletic within both the New and Old World. Available data do not support either the separation of Vernonia or the tribe Vernonieae into geographically distinct lineages. The pattern of relationships within the Vernonieae for taxa from North America, Asia, Africa, Central and South America is most similar to that of several other groups of both plants and animals with a boreotropical origin, rather than an origin in Gondwanaland. Such a pattern of distribution suggests more ancient vicariant events than are routinely postulated for the Asteraceae.
23669762|25 populations from Turkey and one of Syria belonging to the Sabulina section of the genus Minuartia have been karyologically examined. New chromosome numbers have been recorded for M. mesogitana and M. hybrida subsp. turcica, and a new variety was found in the M. hybrida complex. The origin of the taxa with n = 23 and n = 35 is discussed.
23655536|RAPD markers were used to assess the genetic diversity and inter- and intra-specific relationships of the genus Hippophae L. and to study the correlation between genetic distances and geographic distances among populations of H. rhamnoides ssp. sinensis. The results analyzed by the percentage of polymorphic loci and Shannon information index indicated that a high level of genetic diversity existed both among and within species of the genus Hippophae. In the UPGMA dendrogram, the species or subspecies were clustered into two main groups but not strictly grouped according to sect. Hippophae and sect. Gyantsensis Lian. The multiple regression analysis and Mantel test both indicated a significant correlation between genetic distance and altitude distance among populations of H. rhamnoides ssp. sinensis, and the cluster analysis suggested that the genetic variation among populations of H. rhamnoides ssp. sinensis was linked to their monophyletic origin. Moreover, some degree of genetic differentiation was found among samples collected at different times.
23655993|Delayed selfing is a reproductive strategy that can increase mating opportunities and provide reproductive assurance in the absence of pollinators. When external pollination fails to occur in the herbaceous perennial, Kosteletzkya virginica, the styles curve downward to bring anthers into contact with the stigmal lobes, resulting in delayed selfing. Our goal was to evaluate experimentally the effects of weather conditions on pollinator activity, style curvature, and plant fitness. We discovered that adverse weather conditions significantly reduced pollinator visitation rates, and increased the incidence of style curvature, which resulted in delayed selfing. Furthermore, elimination of delayed selfing by experimental manipulation reduced fruit and seed set compared to non-emasculated flowers, even under adverse weather conditions. Offspring produced through selfing were similar to outcrossed progeny in the majority of fitness traits measured, and inbreeding depression was limited. Our study demonstrates that context-dependent style curvature promotes delayed selfing and provides reproductive assurance in the absence of pollinators, with minimal loss of progeny performance through inbreeding depression.
23674769|This paper reports some experimental results related to the expression of parental genomes during the development of the water fern Marsilea quadrifolia L., a plant with graduated heteroblastic development. We found a non-random segregation of the original chromatids of the paternal genome, as shown by autoradiography of embryo sections after fertilization of eggs with [3H]thymidin-tagged sperm. From the 16-cell stage on, label is mainly concentrated in the sectors where apical cells will differentiate, and later in or near the apical areas of the young organs. Similar results had been found previously in Marsilea vestita. We also observed aberrations in primary organ development after fertilization with sperm treated with actinomycin, ethidium bromide, hydroxyurea, bromodeoxyuridin, or chlorambucil. The growth of the first organs was quite normal, indicating that they develop under the control of the maternal genome. The subsequent organs displayed abnormal development, indicating that they are under the control of both parental genomes.
23644063|Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs) were used to study the taxonomic relationships in Vicia ser. Vicia. 109 accessions representing the taxa and distribution in the series were evaluated using two primer combinations in an attempt to clarify its taxonomy. The study concludes that four species exist in the series. Vicia incisa should be considered as a separate taxon and does not belong to the Vicia sativa aggregate. Within the series Vicia pyrenaica appears to be the most closely related to the Vicia sativa aggregate. Within the aggregate 6 taxa can be recognised. They are very closely related and for none of the taxa in the aggregate is there a taxon-specific absence or presence of AFLP bands. We consider these taxa to be subspecies. Several accessions belonging to the aggregate were found which could not be placed within one of the taxa and are most likely the products of mutations or hybridisation between taxa.
43558239|Bangladesh is home to diverse rice germplasm, including red rice, many of which are preferred for cultivation by farmers over high-yielding rice varieties due to their special characteristics, color, taste, and nutritional value. Red color of seed pericarp is unusual among modern cultivated varieties, though it is a common characteristic in wild relatives of rice, making the trait an important parameter when studying the domestication and evolution of crop plants. Diversity analysis using microsatellite markers and sequence variation of the red rice loci of the indigenous rice population in Bangladesh was therefore performed. Microsatellite fingerprinting could successfully cluster cultivars according to their specific phenotypic characteristics such as stickiness or aroma, irrespective of their pericarp color, and locate a set of unique identifiers. Sequence analysis of a portion of the bHLH transcription factor gene Rc, which controls the red pigment, confirmed the occurrence of the 14-bp deletion in white rice accessions which has been reported previously. The analysis included a group of rice cultivars which are known by the same name but produce two different colored seeds and are indistinguishable morphologically unless dehusked. Statistical and internal transcribed spacer region sequence diversity analyses established that such cultivars, although genetically different, had very low diversity, suggesting a close evolutionary relationship between them. Red and white seeds from cultivars with the same name were planted individually over two generations and dehusked to check for loss/gain of pigmentation. Red-seeded plants produced some dirty-white seeds in addition to red ones in the first generation, the proportion of which increased when planted in the successive generation. This loss in pigment was probably due to faulty transcription, since no deletion in the respective region of the genome of the dirty-white seeds was noted.
23662399|Some species belonging to the genera Galactia, Camptosema and Collaea from southern Brazil, Paraguay, Argentina, and Uruguay are grouped into a complex based on exomorphological affinities. The diagnostic morphological features sometimes overlap among species of different genera and dissimilar criteria have been adopted to delimit them, thus generating great taxonomic uncertainty. The aim of this work was to clarify the genetic relationships of the species within the complex as well as to analyze the infraspecific variability by means of analysing the AFLP band patterns. We examined 378 AFLP markers generated after amplification using six primer combinations. The monophyly of Collaea was supported, corroborating the present morphological classification. On the other hand, the results are not congruent with the current circumscription of Galactia and Camptosema, in agreement with previous phylogenetic hypotheses based on morphological characters and karyological studies, as both genera are polyphyletic.
23642346|Different members of the Angiosperm families Oleaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Plantaginaceae and Asteraceae with variable modes of pollination were studied in relation to ultrastructure of pollenkitt and exine. In entomophilous representatives the mostly electron-dense and homogeneous pollenkitt is located on the outside layer of the exine, making the pollen sticky. In related anemophilous taxa the pollenkitt mostly is electron-transparent and inhomogeneous; it becomes inactive by remaining in the loculus or sinking to the bottom of the exine caves; this makes the pollen powdery. According to such criteria, Fraxinus ornus and Rhinanthus serotinus are entomophilous, while Fraxinus excelsior is anemophilous. The pollen of Lathraea squamaria eventually becomes powdery and suited for wind dispersal. The broad transition field between entomo- and anemophily is demonstrated by Plantago and Artemisia. Plantago lanceolata is anemophilous, while Pl. serpentina and Pl. media are amphiphilous. Artemisia nitida and A. mutellina are entomophilous, A. absinthium, A. pedemontana and A. gabriellae are amphiphilous, but tend towards entomo- (A. absinthium) or anemophily (A. gabriellae), while A. chamaemelifolia and especially A. vulgaris are anemophilous. Die Merkmale der Pollenverkittung (Menge, Konsistenz und Verteilung des Pollenkitts in Relation zur Ultrastruktur der Exine) wurden bei verschiedenen miteinander verwandten, aber unterschiedlich bestubten Sippen aus der Unterklasse der Asteridae vergleichend untersucht: Fraxinus ornus und Fr. excelsior (Oleaceae), Rhinanthus serotinus und Lathraea squamaria (Scrophulariaceae), Plantago serpentina, Pl. media und Pl. lanceolata (Plantaginaceae), Tanacetum roseum, Artemisia nitida, A. mutellina, A. absinthium, A. pedemontana, A. gabriellae, A. chamaemelifolia und A. vulgaris (Asteraceae). Es konnte neuerlich gezeigt werden, da fr entomophile Sippen grere Mengen eines vorwiegend elektronendichten, homogenen, vorwiegend auf der Oberflche der Pollenkrner abgesetzten Pollenkitts charakteristisch sind. Dagegen findet man bei anemophilen Sippen vielfach geringere Mengen eines oftmals elektronentransparenten, inhomogenen und vorwiegend in den Hohlraumsystemen der Exine (= infrasexinse Kavernen) abgesetzten Pollenkitts. Darber hinaus ergeben die Merkmale der Pollenverkittung zusammen mit anderen bltenbiologisch relevanten Merkmalen (z. B. Einrichtungen des Schauapparats) einen fr die jeweilige Sippe charakteristischen Merkmalskomplex. Beim Vergleich spezifischer und idealer Merkmalskomplexe lt sich ablesen, ob eine bestimmte Sippe der Wind- oder der Insektenbltigkeit nhersteht. Danach ist Fraxinus ornus rein entomo-, dagegen Fr. excelsior rein anemophil. Rhinanthus serotinus ist rein insektenbltig, whrend bei Lathraea squamaria wegen der schlechten Pollenklebrigkeit und wegen bestimmter kologischer Voraussetzungen auch der Wind zu einem kleinen Teil bei der Bestubung wirksam werden kann. Die untersuchten Plantago-Arten sind unterschiedlich gut an die Windbestubung angepat. Die Glieder der Gattung Artemisia besetzen ein breit gefchertes bergangsfeld zwischen der Entomophilie und der Anemophilie. Dabei sind A. nitida und A. mutellina weitgehend entomophil, A. absinthium, A. pedemontana und A. gabriellae vermitteln zwischen der Insekten- und der Windbltigkeit, whrend A. chamaemelifolia und besonders A. vulgaris anemophil sind.
23655221|The levels of fruit set in different habitats (three inland populations vs. three coastal populations) and the breeding system in the terrestrial orchid Bletilla striata were examined in two groups of populations in Haenam-gun, Jollanam-do Province in southern Korea. In total inland populations (mean fruit set = 13.3%) showed about eight-fold higher fruit set per plant than the coastal populations (1.6%), probably due to mild climatic conditions in the inland populations during the flowering period. Honey bee workers Apis mellifera were observed in the inland populations, but no visitors were found in the coastal populations. However, a great increase in fruit set was achieved by hand-pollination: the percentage of fruit set through artificial self-pollination and geitonogamous pollination were close to 90%, indicating that B. striata is self-compatible. Agamospermy and spontaneous autogamy (automatic self-pollination) were not detected in this study. These indicate that pollinia vectors are essential for achieving fruit set in natural populations of B. striata. Except in one inland population examined in 2001, there was no significant correlation between the patch size per population and the average percentage of fruit set, which might reflect deception-pollination of B. striata and/or paucity of pollinators. Overall levels of fruit sets within and among patches in each population were homogeneous during a two-year period.
23674392|The petals of Angophora flowers are compound structures consisting of two morphologically distinct components that develop along separate morphogenetic pathways. These two components are also evident in the corolline parts of the bloodwood eucalypts. In occasional flowers of Angophora and some bloodwoods, several adjacent corolline primordia may become continuous due to interprimordial growth, but the petals are mostly free at anthesis. In other bloodwood eucalypt species all the primordia in the corolline whorl become continuous at some stage in development, resulting in an operculum that is anatomically unresolvable into its original petaline parts. The varying degrees of this continuity that are evident within individual trees (and even within single flowers) suggests that operculum formation is an epigenetic event that is determined by morphogenetic processes within the flower. It is suggested that these may relate to differing rates of growth in different regions of the bud.
43558389|Three new species of the Andean genus Myrosmodes are described: Myrosmodes cleefi Szlach., Mytnik and S. Nowak, Myrosmodes reticulata Szlach., Mytnik and S. Nowak, and Myrosmodes subnivalis Szlach., Mytnik and S. Nowak. The former two species are known from a single population each, from Columbia, and the latter from Columbia and Ecuador. Each species is described and illustrated, and detailed habitat and distribution data are provided. A distribution map of the new species and the distribution range of the genus is presented. A dichotomous key for determination of the Andean species and Myrosmodes is provided. Conservation status assessments are provided for each species; current International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list categories and criteria are listed. A brief discussion of endemism in the Andes and Tropical Andes biodiversity hotspot is presented.
23644268|More than 100 accessions of Hordeum marinum ssp. marinum, ssp. gussoneanum 2x and ssp. gussoneanum 4x were studied by analyzing the nuclear DNA homologous to the chloroplast translation elongation factor. PCR amplification using the locus-specific primers generated a 932 bp fragment from ssp. marinum, a 915 bp fragment from ssp. gussoneanum 2x, and 915 bp and 931 bp fragments from ssp. gussoneanum 4x. Sequencing of the entire DNAs showed that the 915-bp fragments of diploids and tetraploids are identical, indicating that the diploid probably is the immediate donor of the 915-bp fragment of tetraploids. Although the donor of the 931-bp fragment was not determined, phylogenetic analysis of the data showed that the clade of the 931-bp fragment was included in the H. marinum complex. A MspI site was diagnostic to distinguish ssp. marinum into two clades with disjunct distributions, the Iberian Peninsula (type 2) and other regions (type 1). Nucleotide variation was revealed in the type 2 accessions but all the other clades were highly uniform.
43558148|Chromosome numbers are reported here for 53 accessions belonging to 13 taxa of the genus Schizachyrium.The chromosome counts for the following seven species are recorded here for the first time: S. bimucronatum (2n = 20), S. gracilipes (2n = 20), S. hatschbachii (2n = 20), S. lactiflorum (2n = 20), S. plumigerum (2n = 20), S. salzmannii (2n = 20; 2n = 40) and S. spicatum (2n = 20). Counts differing from those previously reported are given for two species: S. scabriflorum (2n = 20 and 80) and S. tenerum (2n = 40). Most of the analyzed species of this genus are diploids. The occurrence of polyploidy in S. glaziovii, S. lactiflorum, S. salzmanni, S. scabriflorum and S. tenerum is reported here for the first time. Data on chromosome numbers and ploidy levels are discussed in relation to the taxonomy and evolution of the genus.
23655543|To examine geographic differentiation in Asarum heterotropoides var. heterotropoides in Hokkaido Is. in the northern Japan, in which two putative cryptic species have been suspected to exist, extensive and detailed morphological research on 794 individuals from 44 populations throughout Hokkaido Is. was performed. Among the characters examined, the angle between and tip shape of the calyx lobes and the supratecta of the pollen grains were significantly correlated and were found in similar geographic clines. Among them, the pollen showed two discrete states in almost distinct distribution. Multidimensional scaling analysis showed that individuals within each of the two pollen types had different trends in flower characters. Consequently, we assumed a cline from south to north on Hokkaido Is. For the causes of the cline, the two hypotheses were proposed, primary geographic differentiation or extensive introgressive hybridization between two distinct geographical species existing in the past.
23655733|Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) were employed to examine the genetic relationship between Guizotia taxa, to suggest the taxonomic status of some of these taxa, and to identify their diagnostic markers. Results from AFLPs and RAPDs share some features in common, both revealing G. scabra ssp. schimperi as the most closely related taxon to G. abyssinica, and indicating that G. arborescens and G. zavattarii are the most divergent taxa. Most of the diagnostic markers revealed in this study were specific to G. arborescens and G. zavattarii. Our analysis suggests that G. scabra ssp. scabra, G. scabra ssp. schimperi, Chelelu and Ketcha are separate species. In this study, AFLP was found to be superior to RAPD in detecting genetic variation, in internal consistency of the data and in the fitness of its clusters to genetic similarity data. AFLPs revealed genetic relationship between Guizotia taxa that is more inline with the cytogenetic and hybridization studies than that revealed by RAPDs.
23655150|Plantains (Musa spp. AAB) are regarded as the most diverse subgroup of the triploid bananas. Initially they were classified on the basis of morphological characters. New molecular techniques are now being used to explain plantain diversity. Prior to this study no attempt has been made to merge morphological and molecular data in classifying plantains. The objectives of this study were (i) to review the different efforts in plantain taxonomy, (ii) to apply numerical taxonomy to morphological descriptors, and (iii) to evaluate the integration of morphological and molecular data with a common numerical taxonomy method. The results indicate that numerical taxonomy can be an appropriate instrument to compare morphological and molecular data under certain conditions. In the case of plantains, the data sets obtained from morphological and molecular characteristics needs to be quite large. An incomplete match of morphological and molecular data sets could imply that some morphological characters are being influenced by the environment or that the molecular markers have not sampled critical regions of the genome.
23669425|Understanding the mating system of a tree species is important in genetic conservation and tree breeding strategies because it affects the inbreeding and genetic diversity of the descendant populations. Araucaria angustifolia (Bert.) O. Kuntze is a mainly dioecious species that reproduces through outcrossing. However, some monoecious trees have been identified and they may reproduce through self-fertilization. The objective of this study was to confirm the expected relatedness of full-sibs in outcrossed hand-pollinated progenies of female seed trees, self-sibs of hand self-pollinated monoecious seed trees, and to investigate the mating system of open-pollinated progenies of female and monoecious A. angustifolia trees. To do this, eight microsatellite loci were used to genotype hand- and open-pollinated progenies. Our results show that the relatedness of outcrossed hand-pollinated progenies are true full-sibs and progenies from a selfed monoecious seed tree are self-sibs, which confirms the hand-pollination method used. Open-pollinated female seed trees reproduced only by outcrossing, generating progenies with a mixture of full- and half-sibs. Monoecious seed trees reproduced mainly by xenogamy, generating progenies with mixtures of self-sibs, full-sibs, half-sibs and self-half-sibs. We also found that an increase in the effective number of pollen donors (N ep ) would lead to an increase in the total number of alleles (K) within progenies. Our results also suggest that monecious trees have limited potential to modify the genetic structure through selfed seed production due to the very low estimated selfing rate in these trees and the rare occurrence of these trees in natural populations.
23674751|Giemsa C-banding patterns of the grasses Festuca rubra (2n = 6x = 42), Vulpia fasciculata (2n = 4x = 28) and their wild F1 hybrid  Festulpia hubbardii (2n = 5x = 35) show marked differences between the chromosomes of the two parents that enable unequivocal identification of Festuca and Vulpia chromosomes in the hybrid. Moreover, meiotic banding patterns reveal that both homogenetic (Festuca-Festuca and Vulpia-Vulpia) and heterogenetic (Festuca-Vulpia) pairing occurs in the F1. The significance of this in relation to the formation of backcrosses to the Festuca parent and to the evolution of the Festuca polyploid complex in general is discussed.
23643101|We have analyzed the C-banding karyotypes, electrophoretic mobility of isozymes and seed proteins, total genomic DNA hybridization and chloroplast DNA of Aristavena setacea, Deschampsia cespitosa, D. media, Avenella flexuosa and A. stricta, which had been previously considered as belonging to the genus Deschampsia Beauv. s. l., in order to determine their taxonomic relationships. The results obtained with these different approaches indicate that Avenella diverges substantially in all characters analyzed from the other two genera. No differences in six chloroplast DNA segments analyzed were found between Aristavena and Deschampsia, which also show a level of total genomic DNA hybridization that indicates a relatively high proportion of common sequences. The closer relationship of these two genera contrasts with their divergence in karyotype structure that suggests a possible allopolyploid origin of Deschampsia.
23673930|The implications of genome analysis for evolutionary theory and systematics are treated. The precise relationship between the theoretical and operational definitions of chromosome homology is shown to be uncertain. It is pointed out that genera defined by genome analysis may be either monophyletic or non-monophyletic, and that the genus is not a basic unit of evolution. Characters obtained by genome analysis may be useful in a phylogenetic context, provided they are treated as all other characters.
23644339|This paper reviews the origin, nature, systematic distribution, and the respective function of the highly variable and diverse thread-forming structures in angiosperm anthers (including somewhat similar, rare features in ferns and gymnosperms). On one hand, such threads may function as pollen-connecting vectors in forming pollen dispersal units, as sporopollenin threads (viscin threads), e.g. in Onagraceae, or sporopollenin-less threads in surprisingly many other angiosperm families. On the other hand, as is known from the Impatiens  "pollen basket", threads or ropes may be involved in pollen presentation. In addition, for the first time two new examples of "pollen baskets" in Boraginaceae and Scrophulariaceae are reported. In Echium the basket is formed by cellular elements from the modified septal regions, whereas in Esterhazya a similar effect is achieved in an analogous manner by trichomes of the epidermal layer of the thecal wall. There is obviously a different function of these seemingly very similar baskets: in Echium the feature acts preferably as a pollen presentation agent, whereas in Esterhazya the primary function is to prevent all the pollen from being dispersed too soon.
23642782|The breeding systems, reproductive efficacies and population densities of 75 species of trees, shrubs, perennial herbs and vines in a montane tropical cloud forest in Venezuela are investigated. 56.96% and 44.32% of the trees, versus the other life forms considered, respectively possess obligate outbreeding mechanisms. Two shrubs are non-pseudogamous apomicts. The percentage of dioecy among tree species (31%) is among the highest recorded in tropical forests. Reproductive efficacy is similar under all breeding systems in the forest interior. Obligately outbred taxa are slower recolonizers of a disturbed border as compared with non-obligate outbreeders. Explanations are advanced for the high incidence of dioecy combined with a low level of self-incompatibility among hermaphroditic species. It is concluded that the breeding system spectrum reflects an unpredictable pollination pattern, rather than insufficient pollinator servicing.
23642710|B-Chromosomes of Allium flavum, A. stamineum and A. carinatum were C-banded. In A. flavum different types of B's were found, one of them possessing a nucleolus organizer. In the B's of A. flavum and A. stamineum the banding patterns resemble those found in the standard chromosomes. The B in A. carinatum is only terminally banded. In A. flavum chiasma localization in the B's appears to be dependent on C-band location, just as is the case in the A-chromosomes. An increase in B's was found to cause a small (but significant) increase in chiasma frequency in the PMC's. This may result from an alteration in the nucleotype by the B's.
23656014|Hybridization seems to play an important role in speciation of Gagea Salisb., a genus which is characterised by polyploid taxa lines and in which diploids (2n = 24) appear only to be common in basal sections. Hybrid detection was applied utilising direct and cloning nrDNA ITS data (ITS1, 5.8S rDNA, ITS2) combined with neighbour and ribotype networks and discussed in connection with previously published cpDNA, morphological and karyological data of the authors. We have evidence of the hybrid origin of taxa within the section Gagea (G. pomeranica, G. megapolitana) and the monophyletic clade of sections Didymobulbos and Fistulosae (G. microfistulosa, G. polidorii, G. cf. bohemica). Morphologically and karyologically differentiated Gagea megapolitana and G. pomeranica, adapted to synanthropic habitats, represent both hybrids of G. pratensis  G. lutea. Gagea microfistulosa represents a hybrid of G. villosa  G. fragifera; Gagea polidorii could represent the reverse hybrid. G. glacialis is also closely related to the latter complex.
23642168|The vascular pattern and its origin are described in connection with the differentiation of ground tissue in the shoot. Leaf arrangement of Clematis vitalba L. is decussate, and the vascular pattern appears rather simple at first: From internode to internode six strandsthree from each leafalternate. About six internodes from the shoot apex, the pattern is completed by accessory strands which do not leave the axis and differentiate near the primary bark and exactly between the old strands. The formation of the acessory strands is not caused by the enlargement of the axis alone, because the balance between ground and vascular tissue is already regulated by the enlargement of the primary strands. Entstehung und Verlauf des Leitstrangsystems werden im Zusammenhang mit der Differenzierung der brigen Achsengewebe beobachtet. Zunchst folgen die Strnge einem einfachen Muster, indem von Internodium zu Internodium je sechs Strnge miteinander alternieren, wobei je drei einem Blatt zuzuordnen sind. Etwa im sechsten Internodium, noch bevor die Grundgewebe ihre typischen Eigenschaften erlangen, werden in der Rinde zwischen den Hauptstrngen sechs weitere Strnge sichtbar, die nicht in direkter Beziehung zum Blatt stehen. Damit ist das Muster vollstndig. Es bleibt bis in das sekundre Dickenwachstum hinein erhalten. Die Differenzierung dieser Zusatzstrnge fgt sich in die zum Zeitpunkt ihrer Anlage im Internodium herrschenden Verhltnisse ein, ohne die Entwicklung der Hauptstrnge zu wiederholen. Es mu offen bleiben, weshalb bei Clematis whrend der Achsendilatation zustzliche Strnge angelegt werden, obwohl das Verhltnis von Leitgewebe zu Grundgewebe schon durch die Vergrerung der einzelnen Bndelquerschnitte gesteuert wird.
23673903|The perennial taxa of Crucianella in Asia form a coherent group, apparently diploid (x = 11) and outbreeding throughout, and should be placed into sect. Roseae. This Irano-Turanian group has its centre of diversity in the mountain systems south of the Caspian Sea and reaches with outposts NE. and E. Anatolia, NE. Iraq, S. Iran and C. Asia. Four species and 13 subspecies (within the polymorphic C. gilanica) are recognized, described (partly as new), and illustrated (Figs. 1  6). Conspectus, keys and distribution maps (Figs. 7 and 8) as well as plesio- and apomorphic character states and data on size of areas are provided (Table 1). There is an obvious correlation between more plesiomorphic taxa with smaller areas in the distribution centre of the group, and more apomorphic taxa with larger areas towards its periphery (Fig. 9). These findings are linked to a working hypothesis on the evolution of the group.
23673123|The aim of this work was to collect new information about pollen morphology and pollen wall structure comparing Cupressus species from the Old World and New World. Cupressus is a nonmonophyletic genus that includes species that appear to be divided into Old World and New World clades. Observations in this study on cypress pollen indicate that grain size and composition of intine -glucans are different between the considered Old World and New World species. Different from all the other American cypress species, pollen of C. macrocarpa reacted to dying in a similar manner to Old World species. Rehydrated pollen grains collected from 20 Asian, Afro-Mediterranean and American cypress species were measured under a light microscope. The size of the pollen grains and the percentage of intine in relation to the pollen grain diameter were significantly different between Old World and New World species. Pollen wall composition was tested after addition of different dyes to the hydration solution, and subsequent observations were carried out by light and fluorescence microscopy. Lugol and calcofluor staining showed differences in composition of the middle and inner intine layers between New World and Old World species.
23673839|Four new species of the genera Beaufortia, Chamaelaucium, Drosera, and Pultenaea are described based on the author's collections from SW. Australia. Their affinities are discussed and full illustrations are provided.
23642915|A cladistic analysis of the genus Anisopappus (Asteraceae: Inuleae) has been undertaken. A hypothesis of species interrelationships in the genus is presented for the first time. The analysis also included Arctotis (Arctoteae), used as outgroup, and five additional genera from the Inuleae: Geigeria, Calostephane, Asteriscus, Buphthalmum, Pulicaria, and Inula. It is concluded that Anisopappus is a monophyletic group situated at the base of the tribe, diagnosed by, e.g., their obtuse stylar sweeping-hairs. The species with acute sweeping-hairs were found to be derived within the genus. Problems concerning species delimitation, biogeography and character evolution in the genus are briefly discussed.
23642583|The biomorphological radiation of the Campanulaceae is outlined. Certain aspects of ontogeny and life-form are specific and constant for the tribes and genera of the family, and for the sections, subsections and series of Campanula. Therefore, a certain correlation exists between the biomorphological characters and the reproductive structures underlying the taxonomic system.
23642226|In Epithemiaceae gametogenesis and gamete fusion are uniform and unique. Former contrary descriptions of the behaviour of Rhopalodia gibba are erroneous. Only Denticula tenuis which is aberrant also in other respects offers some modifications. The mature gametes in the partners reach only an oblique position instead of turning round by 90 as in other pennate Diatoms. In this oblique position the fusion is accomplished. With regard to the dorsiventrality of the mother cell a turn on the right or the left is realized. In the partners of one pair the direction of turning corresponds or is opposite. In one species one direction and one combination in a pair is strongly favoured, in other species they seem to happen by chance. A sib of Epithemia turgida produces obligatorily automictic auxospores by paedogamy under maintenance of the special mode of gametogenesis in allogamous species. As a new diagnostic character of Epithemia species the cross section image of cells has been found. The perizonium exhibits a lattice structure. The epitheca of the primary cell has a complete girdle with intercalary band. The so-called sphaeroid bodies for some reasons can be interpreted as symbionts. Die Gametogenese der Epithemiaceen verluft in charakteristischer und einmaliger Weise. ltere gegenteilige Angaben fr Rhopalodia erweisen sich als irrtmlich. Nur Denticula tenuis  nicht aber Denticula vanheurcki  zeigt eine gewisse Modifikation, die sich als Grenzfall auffassen lt; die Art verhlt sich auch in anderer Hinsicht aberrant. Allgemein bezeichnend ist, da die beiden Gameten einer Mutterzelle sich nicht wie sonst vor ihrer vollen Reifung um 90 drehen, sondern auf halbem Weg in Diagonalstellung stehen bleiben. In einem Paar knnen sie gekreuzt oder gleichsinnig orientiert sein, im einzelnen Partner kann die Schiefstellung rechts- oder linkslufig sein. Bei einer Art wird die gekreuzte Lage und die Neigung nach rechts signifikant stark bevorzugt, die Festlegung einer bestimmten Richtung erscheint als konstitutionelles Merkmal. Bei anderen Arten herrscht anscheinend Zufalls Verteilung. Eine Sippe von Epithemia turgida verhlt sich automiktisch-pdogam; die Diagonalstellung als Endstadium der Gametogenese wird auch bei ihr beibehalten, dagegen wachsen die Auxosporen entsprechend ihrer abweichenden Entstehung anders aus als bei Allogamie und sind anders geformt. Als neues diagnostisches Merkmal der Epithemia-Arten lt sich das Querschnittsbild der Zellen heranziehen. Das Perizonium zeigt allgemein Gitterstruktur. Die Epitheka der Erstlingszelle ist vollstndig mit Zwischenband und Grtelstcken ausgebildet. Fr die Auffassung, da die Sphroidkrper der Epithemiaceen Symbionten sind, lassen sich gewisse, allerdings nicht zwingende Argumente anfhren.
23644985|We assessed nectar and honey potential of Phacelia tanacetifolia, an American plant, under Mediterranean conditions. Its flowering occurred during the major flowering season unless intensely irrigated, whereas duration and flower life span were shorter compared to continental conditions. Mediterranean climate limitations to nectar secretion were assessed on plants grown under natural conditions (xeric) vs. regular irrigation. May flowering xeric plants produced less nectar per flower than the irrigated ones, but had the same nectar potential per surface area. On the contrary, at the cost of intense irrigation, July flowering plants produced much higher nectar per flower and per surface area compared to xeric ones. In all flowering periods and sections honeybees were the most constant and numerous visitors, visiting the flowers mainly for nectar, whereas solitary bees were scarce. Based on our results, we suggest that although the plant may be a good nectar source for honeybees in some cases, we have serious reservations for a generalised use in the Mediterranean.
23671502|Two species of Penaeaceae (Penaea mucronata and Saltera sarcocolla), a unique South African family of Myrtales, were investigated embryologically. Penaeaceae clearly agrees with other Myrtales in its basic embryological characteristics, and further is characterized by its highly specialized features: ephemeral endothecium, 16-nucleate Penaea-type embryo sac, and unique ovular form. A wider range of affinities of families including Penaeaceae, Oliniaceae, Rhynchocalycaceae, Alzateaceae, and Crypteroniaceae sensu stricto, as well as a possible common divergence from an ancestral line leading to Lythraceae and/or Melastomataceae, are discussed on embryological and other grounds.
43496777|The origin and evolution of angiosperms can be unravelled by using fossil records to determine first occurrences and phytogeographic histories of plant families and genera. Many angiosperm families, for example the Onagraceae, have a poor macrofossil record, but are more common in palynological records. Modern Onagraceae produce pollen clearly distinct from that of other angiosperms. Combined morphological features obtained by use of light and scanning electron microscopy have enabled assignment of fossil Onagraceae pollen to extant genera, and therefore tracing of the origin and past distributions of extant Onagraceae lineages. We studied a Miocene palynoflora from the Daotaiqiao Formation of north-east China. Using the single-grain technique, we examined individual Onagraceae pollen/tetrads using both light and scanning electron microscopy. Fossil Onagraceae pollen is more frequent than macrofossil remains, but is still rare, and usually represented by a single taxon in palynological samples. Remarkably, samples from the Miocene of north-east China contain five different species: two of Circaea, one of Epilobium, and two of Ludwigia, Such a large number of Onagraceae taxa from a single palynoflora is unknown elsewhere. Whereas Ludwigia pollen is known from Cenozoic sediments of the northern hemisphere, the Circaea pollen is the first fossil pollen assignable to this extant genus. This is also the first fossil record of Epilobium from China. Although the young geological age of this sample does not enable consideration of time of origin for the genera encountered, the co-occurrence of Circaea, Epilobium, and Ludwigia in the mid to late-Miocene of East Asia sheds some light on their phytogeographic histories.
23674616|13 species of the lichen genus Catapyrenium are reported from South America. Five species (C. analogicum, C. andicolum, C. exaratum, C. lachneoides, and C. podolepis) are described as new. A key to the species known from South America is presented. Remarks on taxonomy, ecology and distribution of the species are given.
23669395|The Marantaceae family is composed of 550 species of pantropical distribution, with a strong clustering in the Neotropics. Although the family forms a monophyletic group, the circumscription of genera and consequently its phylogenetic relationships are not sufficiently understood. Its species produces silica phytoliths in varied forms, ornamentation and distribution in leaves, and these silica deposits are considered important in vegetable physiology and taxonomy. We have conducted the morphological characterisation of phytoliths and their distribution in foliar blades of Neotropical Marantaceae genera, evaluating the use of such characters to support the morphological delimitation of the genera and the physiological aspects of the family's adaptation to rainforests. Phytoliths of 22 species of 12 genera, namely Calathea, Ctenanthe, Goeppertia, Hylaeanthe, Ischnosiphon, Koernickanthe, Maranta, Monotagma, Myrosma, Saranthe, Stromanthe and Thalia, were analysed using light and scanning electron microscopes. When comparing Neotropical species to those of the old world, one can observe the family's homogeneity by the presence of two morphotypes in the foliar blade, the globular and the irregular, as well as stegmata associated with the fibres. However, two distinguishing features have been identified in these Neotropical species: (1) a new morphotype, the cylindroid, located in the mesophyll, (2) intra- and extracellular amorphous silica deposits associated with the stomata, which play an important role in the restriction of transpiration. In addition, the form, size and distribution of the silica deposits appear conservative in all analysed samples, which makes them useful in the morphological characterisation of the genera and species, and consequently, in the taxonomic circumscription of the Marantaceae.
23674596|Analysis of morphological and phenological data for determining the genetic variation within seven Lolium species led to the recognition of two groups within this genus. One group, containing the two inbreeding species L. temulentum and L. persicum, was clearly distinct from all other species. Strong morphological and phenological intergradation was found between both species. The cross-breeding species, L. perenne, L. rigidum, and L. multiflorum, formed another group. Little differentiation was found between these species, though they were distinct. Two inbreeding species, L. loliaceum and L. remotum, were clearly distinct from each other and the two groups. L. loliaceum had an isolated position and was most related to L. rigidum. L. remotum had an intermediate position between the cross-breeding and inbreeding species, and was almost equally distant from all three cross-breeding species.
23645157|With c. 1400 known species, Begonia is one of the largest plant genera. In order to address the evolution of Begonia we have produced maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood cladograms for 26S and ITS sequence data. Sequences were obtained from a total of 35 species of Begonia, one species of Symbegonia and two species of Datisca. The resulting phylogenetic hypotheses suggest that the most basal members of Begonia are from Africa, with American and Asian clades nested within the paraphyletic African Begonia. Despite marked morphological heterogeneity the endemic Begonia of Madagascar and the south Indian ocean islands form a monophyletic group. As currently circumscribed, Begonia is paraphyletic with the New Guinean endemic Symbegonia nested deeply within it and most closely related to species from the Asian section Petermannia. Analysis of a smaller ITS dataset, including three accessions of Symbegonia and nine accessions of Begonia section Petermannia, further suggests that Symbegonia is nested within section Petermannia, resolving within a monophyletic clade of New Guinean species. Morphological synapomorphies of Symbegonia are reviewed and this taxon is sunk into the genus Begonia, where it is given sectional status.
23655240|The non-rewarding flowers of Disa spathulata (L.f) Sw. have a highly elongated scent-producing lip that varies in size and form between the two subspecies of this orchid. We investigated whether this unusual morphology is associated with the evolution of a specialized scent-based pollination system. Field observations carried out in South Africa showed that flowers of D. spathulata are pollinated solely by bees belonging to the genus Tetraloniella (Anthophoridae). Flowers of D. spathulata subsp. spathulata were visited by Tetraloniella brevikeraia, while flowers of D. spathulata subsp. tripartita (Lindl.) H. P. Linder were visited by Tetraloniella junodi. The floral fragrance of D. spathulata is emitted by the lip blade and differs markedly between the two subspecies only 24 (42.1%) of the 57 compounds identified were shared. Fragrance of D. spathulata subsp. spathulata is dominated by the fatty acid derivatives decyl actetate, octanol, and decanol, while that of D. spathulata subsp. tripartita is dominated by the terpenoids (E)-ocimene, caryophyllene, and (E) nerolidol. Both male and female Tetraloniella bees were strongly attracted to cut flowers of D. spathulata subsp. spathulata, even at sites where the orchid does not naturally occur. Bees visit the orchids repeatedly despite the lack of rewards in their flowers. Sexual deception in D. spathulata can be excluded by the attraction of both male and female bees, and yet the manner in which bees are attracted seems too intense and species-specific to be characterized as food-deception. This implies the existence in D. spathulata of a system of scent-based deception of insects that has not been described previously in plants.
23674966|Several types of pollinium stalk are present in the Corallorhizinae. Govenia has a cellular epidermal pollinium stalk, while Tipularia has a unique stipe that results from prolongation and detachment of the rostellum. Dactylostalix and Ephippianthus have no stipe, but do have a detachable viscidium. Aplectrum, Corallorhiza, Cremastra, and Oreorchis have hamuli. Cladistic analysis of morphological characters suggests that these four genera form a "core" Corallorhizinae, and are sister group to a clade including Tipularia, Calypso, and Yoania (the latter two possessing a true tegula). Govenia is shown to be most closely related to cymbidioid genera (such as Eulophia), sharing with them the cellular epidermal pollinium stalk and Cymbidium type velamen, and indicating that removal of Govenia from Corallorhizinae is appropriate. Dactylostalix and Ephippianthus appear to occupy a more basal position in the subfamily, further arguing that the subtribe as previously recognized is paraphyletic.
23643388|Fifty-eight homologous protein sequences from the completely sequenced chloroplast genomes of Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Nicotiana tabacum, Pinus thunbergii, Marchantia polymorpha and Poryphyra purpurea were investigated. Analyzed individually, only 40 of the 58 proteins gave the true, known topology for these species. Trees constructed from the concatenated 14295 amino acid alignment and from automatically generated subsets of the data containing successively fewer polymorphisms were used to estimate the Nicotiana-Zea and Pinus-angiosperm divergence times as 160 and 348 million years, respectively, with an uncertainty of about 10%. These estimates based upon phylogenetic analysis of protein data from complete chloroplast genomes are in much better accordance with current interpretations of fossil evidence than previous molecular estimates.
23643010|From the vascular plant genera of the tropical Andean montane forests about 65% have a tropical-neotropical, 15% tropical-Andean, 5% amphi-pacific (Malayo-American), 5% Austral-antarctic and 10% Holarctic distribution. The explosive evolution of Andean centred taxa probably started in the lower Tertiary from tropical Gondwana stock, when in the area of the present day Andes, locally there may have been hills up to 1 000 m. With the final upheaval between the Late Miocene and Late Pliocene, extensive areas with a montane climate were created and populated from the low mountain flora by evolutionary radiation. Taxa of Austral-antarctic origin migrated along the Andean chain to the tropics. At the same time the formation of the Panama isthmus connected N. and S. America, and enabled many plants to enter the tropical Andes from the north. First to cross were tropical to subtropical and warm-temperate species from the Tertiary Laurasian flora that had migrated southward during the period of Miocene cooling, taking refuge in the montane tropics. Because the same happened in SE. Asia there is a good number of amphi-pacific taxa known as fossils from Tertiary Laurasia but largely extinct in the present-day Holarctic (e.g., Trigonobalanus). Later to cross were cool-temperate to cold elements that still exist in the Holarctic (e.g., Alnus and Quercus).
23674869|2 C nuclear DNA amounts were determined in 30 collections belonging to 10 species of Eleusine. About a 2.5-fold variation in genome size is evident in the genus. The 2 C DNA amount in the diploid species ranged from 2.50 pg in E. verticillata to 3.35 pg in E. intermedia. In contrast, the tetraploid species showed a range from 4.95 pg in E. africana to 6.13 pg in E. floccifolia. At intraspecific level 10 collections of E. coracana, 6 of E. indica, 4 of E. africana, 2 of E. tristachya, and 2 of E. kigeziensis did not show any significant variation. However, 2 collections of E. floccifolia, connected with polyploidy, displayed about 90% variation. Polyploid species showed approximately double the genome size of that of their corresponding diploids. An evolutionary increase in DNA amount is evident in E. coracana during the course of its origin and domestication from E. africana.
23656090|Seed morphology was studied using scanning electron microscopy in 13 species, one subspecies and one forma of Tephrosia Pers. (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Millettieae) occurring in South America. Macromorphological and micromorphological characters were examined, including seed form, colour and size, testa pattern, reticulum anticlinal wall, boundaries of anticlinal wall and hilum form. Crested and simple-reticulate testa patterns were predominant. A foveolate pattern, multifoveolate pattern and subgrooved pattern are all recorded for the first time in this genus. The macromorphological characters displayed continuous variation in shape and size and are thus are not significant for species separation. The data obtained in this study together with data from the literature provide additional characters to help classify the genus. A key to the taxa under study is presented.
23643025|Sequence data for the rbcL gene from twenty-four taxa of the families Apocynaceae and Asclepiadaceae were cladistically analysed in order to evaluate the existing familial and subfamilial classification. The taxa sampled represent all described subfamilies and a majority of the described tribes. The cladistic analysis shows that the Asclepiadaceae are nested within the Apocynaceae. An amalgamation of the two families is therefore recommended. The subfamilial classification is also in need of revision: the subfamilies Plumerioideae and Apocynoideae of the current classifications are paraphyletic, as are many of the tribes. Potential subfamily candidates and characters traditionally used in the classification are discussed.
23654171|The orchid subfamily Apostasioideae consists of two genera, Apostasia and Neuwiedia. To study the position of Apostasioideae within Orchidaceae and their intra- and intergeneric relationships, a molecular phylogenetic analysis has been conducted on the nuclear ITS region and the two plastid DNA regions trnL-F intron and matK. The two genera traditionally ascribed to Apostasioideae are each monophyletic. In Apostasia, A. nuda, with two stamens and no staminode, is sister to a clade comprising three species characterised by two stamens and one staminode. Within Neuwiedia, maximum parsimony analyses place N. zollingeri as sister to the clade formed by N. borneensis and N. veratrifolia. A family-wide phylogenetic analysis of matK sequences representing all proposed subfamilies of Orchidaceae produced five moderately to well-supported clades. One of these clades, Apostasioideae, is sister to the clade formed by Vanilloideae, Cypripedioideae, Orchidoideae and Epidendroideae. High transition-transversion ratio and the absence of stop codons in the individual sequences suggest that matK is at the transition from a possibly functional gene to a pseudogene in Apostasioideae, contrary to what is found in some other groups of Orchidaceae.
23655898|Heracleum is a large and taxonomically complex genus of the UmbelliferaeTordylieae. The phylogenetic relationships of West Asian Heracleum species and related taxa were explored using data from sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS1 and ITS2) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA. The data set consists of 56 species, of which 47 were analyzed for the first time; it represents all subdivisions of the genus Heracleum, as well as some representatives of Pastinaca complex. Heracleum was shown to be a polyphyletic genus, as its species fall into two different clades, one of which comprises also Symphyoloma and Mandenovia. Section Pubescentia was confirmed, in contrast to the sections Villosa and Heracleum being polyphyletic. A separate position of the section Wendia was supported. H. marashicum was shown to be a member of a clade comprising Pastinaca and related genera. The sequences of chloroplast psbA-trnH intergenic spacer, the region recently proposed for DNA barcoding in plants, were also analyzed for 33 species, representing all principal clades within Heracleum and its relatives. They have been proven to be very similar and not suitable for DNA barcoding in this group. However, some sequence variation was revealed. This variation could be explained by the combination of such evolutionary events as inversion and duplication. It was shown that these events are rather common in Tordylieae and can occur independently in different lineages. The evolution patterns of psbA-trnH spacer are hypothesized.
23674861|The endemic New Guinean genus Ischnea F. Muell. (Asteraceae, Senecioneae, Blennospermatinae) is revised and four species are recognized. Characters of special interest are tubeless ray florets, male disc florets, and secretory spaces in leaves. A principal component analysis is made on the Ischnea elachoglossa F. Muell. complex which shows great variation. One new species, I. capellana Swenson, from the Star Mountains, is described. A key, illustrations, and distribution maps to all species are supplied.
23643639|The pollination biology, breeding system and fruiting success of Caesalpinia calycina and C. pluviosa var. sanfranciscana were studied in caatinga vegetation in Bahia, NE Brazil. The principal pollinators for both species were carpenter bees. Caesalpinia calycina is andromonoecious but in C. pluviosa all flowers are hermaphrodite. In C. calycina all selfed flowers were abscised within 72 h despite rapid self-pollen tube growth to the ovary and ovule penetration. Prevention of selfing therefore seems to be controlled by a post-zygotic mechanism. Both species had very low fruit-set and it is suggested that this is at least in part due to geitonogamous pollinations with ovule penetration by self pollen tubes.
23642347|The large, yellow, bowl-shaped flowers of Opuntia lindheimeri, O. discata, O. phaeacantha major, and O. compressa in Texas are visited by various species of beetles and bees. The beetles and small bees (Perdita, Dialictus) are pollen thieves. The pollinators are the medium-sized and larger bees (Melissodes, Diadasia, Lithurge, Megachile, Agapostemon, etc.). Different species of the Opuntia lindheimeri group have the same pollination system and there is no evidence of any floral isolation between them. The pollination system of these species of Opuntia in Texas is essentially the same as that of Echinocereus fasciculatus and Ferocactus wislizeni in Arizona.
23674654|Although the Cyclamen subg. Cyclamen spp. are morphologically variable, previous studies suggest a superficial cytological uniformity. New chromosome numbers and an indication of karyotypic instability are reported in C. hederifolium and C. africanum that reveal that the cytology of the subgenus is more complicated than previous accounts suggest. The possible significance of these phenomena is discussed. The diploid status of C. purpurascens has been confirmed and a distinction between the three diploid karyotypes has been described. The cytological variation may help to explain the well documented morphological variation exhibited in these species.
43496739|The wild soybean (Glycine soja), which is the progenitor of cultivated soybean (Glycine max), is expected to offer more information about genetic variability and more useful mutants for evolutionary research and breeding applications. Here, a total of 1,600 wild soybean samples from China were investigated for genetic variation with regard to the soybean Kunitz trypsin inhibitor (SKTI). A new mutant SKTI, Tik, was identified. It was found to be a Tia-derived codominant alele caused by a transversion point mutation from C to G at nucleotide +171, leading to an alteration of one codon (AAC  AAG) and a corresponding amino acid substitution (Asn  Lys) at the ninth residue. Upon examination of this variant and others previously found in wild soybeans, it became clear that SKTI has undergone high-level evolutionary differentiation. There were more abundant polymorphisms in the wild than in the cultivated soybean.
23671561|The pattern of callose formation in meiotic cell walls and the order of megaspore degeneration and polarity during embryo sac development are investigated in F2-plants of Oe. hookeri  suaveolens and the reciprocal cross. All investigated characters are variable between the ovules in the same ovary. Plants differ in the frequency of the types of callose pattern and polarity of the embryo sacs. In segregating progenies different combinations of both characters are found. The genetic basis of the polarity phenomena during the embryo sac development is discussed. In our material no correlation can be seen between the callose pattern in the surrounding wall of the meiotic cell and the development of polarity in the later stages.
23673699|New karyological data are reported of Magnoliidae, Violales, Malvales and some other orders. These data include for 102 species from 51 genera and 18 families chromosome counts, karyotypes, interphase nuclear structures and banding patterns. Karyomorphology suggests a new systematic arrangement for the Laurales (Fig. 11), a new circumscription of the Cymbopetalum tribe (Annonaceae), and a placement of the Cochlospermaceae/Bixaceae in the Violates. For Annonaceae and Magnoliidae x = 8 is proposed as the original base number. A model based on extant chromosome numbers in Annonaceae and combining short dysploid series and polyploidization can explain most of the existing numbers in this family and in the other Magnoliidae (Fig. 16). Special attention is drawn to the role of triploids and other anorthoploids in chromosome number diversification (e.g., in Annonaceae, Apocynaceae, Proteaceae). Identical polyploid numbers are shown to have originated from different base numbers. The highest chromosome number for Magnoliidae is found in Myristicaceae (Osteophloeum: 2 n = 280). Polyploid relic genera frequently exhibit highly differentiated and "diploidized" karyotypes with many structural rearrangements. The step diploid polyploid is correlated in several genera with the invasion from humid to more extreme, often xeric habitats. Polyploidy serves as a crossing barrier in related syntopic species. In Annonaceae, Cochlospermaceae and Myristicaceae neotropical taxa have a higher polyploidization rate than palaeotropical ones.  Subsequential fluorochrome- and Giemsa C-banding demonstrates the following pattern for tropical woody plants: Chromosomes mostly have neutral (neither AT- nor GC-rich) proximal heterochromatin (= hc), intercalarly and/or terminal bands are rare. In some cases great variation occurs in regard to location and composition of bands between the investigated taxa. Differences concern genera, species groups or species. Diploid karyotypes tend to contain less different hc-types than polyploid ones. NO-chromosomes also exhibit a remarkable banding pattern differentiation. In general, hc-variation is greater in respect to composition than to distribution.
23645036|Colpias mollis is a perennial lithophyte that secretes non-volatile oil as a pollinator reward. Its white to yellow flowers bear two narrow pouches lined with glandular oil-secreting trichomes. The pollinating bee, Rediviva albifasciata (Melittidae), collects oil with its forelegs and midlegs by rubbing them against the gland patches within the flower. The presence of specialised hairs on these legs facilitates oil-collection. The strongly congruent geographic distributions of C. mollis and R. albifasciata and their close morphological fit suggest a long and close association between plant and pollinator. Although C. mollis appears dependent on R. albifasciata for pollination, R. albifasciata is not always dependent on C. mollis for oil. It can also obtain and utilise oil from flowers of the annual herb Hemimeris racemosa (Scrophulariaceae). At the main study site, fruit set of C. mollis was high (75.7%; N = 202 flowers) in a dry year when H. racemosa was rare and relatively low (11.4%; N = 184 flowers) in a wet year when H. racemosa was common.
23643653|Evolutionary relationships among 116 representatives (80 genera) of Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) subfam. Apioideae were investigated by comparative sequencing of the two internal transcribed spacers of the 18S26S nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat. The resultant phylogenies, inferred using maximum parsimony and neighbor-joining methods, clarified the relationships of several genera whose phylogenetic placements have heretofore been problematic. Comparisons between the phylogenies inferred and the distribution of several phytochemical (coumarins, flavonoids, and phenylpropenes) and morphological (stomates, pollen, and cotyledonary shape) characters were also made, revealing that many of these characters (like those morphological and anatomical characters of the fruit) are highly homoplastic. It is not surprising then that systems of classification of Apioideae based on these characters, particularly with regard to tribal and subtribal designations and relationships, are unsatisfactory. The results of recent serological investigations of the subfamily support several relationships proposed herein using molecular data.
23644038|Because of their basal phylogenetic position, Amborella, Nymphaeales, and Illiciales (and allies) are key to reconstructing ancestral character states and to tracing character state transitions that occurred during the earliest radiation of flowering plants. Endosperm is the sexually-derived embryo-nourishing tissue that is unique to the life cycle of angiosperms. We provide detailed descriptions of endosperm development in Amborella, Nuphar (Nymphaeales), and Illicium (Illiciales) and compare patterns within an explicit phylogenetic context for the three basal lineages that they represent. Amborella and Illicium share a bipolar, cellular pattern of development, characterized by an oblique first division, that was resolved as ancestral for flowering plants. A series of character state transformations occurred within Nymphaeales which led first to a modified cellular pattern with a transverse first division (present in Nuphar). The transverse cellular pattern was transformed to a helobial pattern that is present in Cabombaceae. Endosperm ontogeny involves dissociable elements and appears to fit the model of a modular developmental process.
23645156|The complete 18S rDNA and ITS-2 sequences of two strains of Scenedesmus arcuatus were determined and subjected to phylogenetic analyses. Furthermore, ITS-2 sequences of Scenedesmus obtusus, of S. hindakii, and of Acutodesmus regularis were investigated. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that S. hindakii is most closely related to S. raciborskii and/or S. obtusus, embedded in the Scenedesmus cluster. The morphologically similar S. arcuatus and its variety platydiscus branched outside the Scenedesmus/Acutodesmus cluster (18S) or together with A. regularis and A. pectinatus (ITS-2). Therefore, the genera Acutodesmus and/or Scenedesmus are paraphyletic. S. arcuatus is not closely related to S. hindakii.
43558132|The subgenus Archaesolanum is a group composed of eight species with a characteristic chromosome number based on n = x = 23 and an area restricted to the South Pacific. This subgenus is an isolated group of Solarium for which extensive information about phylogenetic relationships based on molecular genetic methods is lacking. This study represents an approach to analyze genetic relationships within this group. In this context, seven species were examined using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. In further analysis, the amplification products of two chloroplast regions (trnS-trnG and rbcL) were studied with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) method. Screening for the presence of unique mitochondrial rearrangements was also carried out using universal mitochondrial primers for the detection of fragment length polymorphisms. We identified two major groups within the subgenus; one was composed of the members of ser. Avicularia and Laciniata, while the other was formed by species belonging to ser. Similia. It is suggested that the taxonomic status of series within the Archaesolanum clade should be revised. The hybrid origin of S. laciniatum was also tested, and two hypotheses regarding its phylogeny are assumed.
23644203|Plagiochila dubia Lindenb. & Gottsche is reduced to a synonym of the Neotropical P. patula (Sw.) Lindenb. Specimens from the Canary Islands and Madeira proved to belong to the eastern North American P. virginica A.Evans, new to Europe. Phylogenetic analyses of the internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) of nuclear ribosomal DNA of ten Plagiochila species produced four independent lineages that are well supported by all bootstrap analyses (maximum likelihood, maximum parsimony, and distance). These lineages correspond with the Plagiochila sections Arrectae, Contiguae, Cucullatae and Glaucescentes. Spruce's "Ramiflorae" and "Cauliflorae" may no longer be regarded as monophyletic units of Plagiochila.
23644101|The phylogeny of the genus Gunnera is investigated for the first time. Twelve species representing the six currently recognised subgenera are analysed. Two chloroplast DNA regions, the rbcL gene and the rps16 intron, together provide 46 informative characters out of 2335. A combined analysis of both genes gives four most parsimonious trees, firmly establishing the east South American G. herteri as sister group to the rest of the genus. The African G. perpensa is sister group to two well-supported clades, one including the South American subgenera Misandra and Panke, the other the Australian/New Zealand/Malayan species of subgenera Milligania and Pseudogunnera. Thus, South America is a composite area for Gunnera, showing up at two different levels in the cladogram. Our analysis supports a close biogeographic relationship between Australia and New Zealand. The evolution of some morphological characters is discussed. Lastly, the unusual structure of some of the rbcL sequences is reported.
43558605|The rate of pollen exchange within and among flowers may depend on pollinator attraction traits such as floral display size and flowering plant density. Variations in these traits may influence pollinator movements, pollen receipt, and seed number. To assess how floral display size and flowering plant density affect parameters of pollinator visitation rate, pollen receipt per flower, seed number per fruit and the between-plant pollinator movements, we studied the self-incompatible plant, Nierembergia linariifolia. Per-flower pollinator visitation rate and bout length increased linearly with increasing floral display size. Pollen receipt per flower increased linearly with increasing flowering plant density. For seed number per fruit, a polynomial model describing an increased seed number per fruit at low density and a decreased seed number per fruit at high density provided a significant fit. Per-flower pollinator visitation rate was not associated with pollen receipt per flower and seed number per fruit. Bees visited plants located near to the center of the population more frequently than plants located at the periphery. Increases in both floral display size and flowering plant density led to an increased chance of a plant being chosen as the center of the pollinator foraging area. These results suggest that even though large floral displays and high flowering plant density are traits that attract more pollinators, they may also reduce potential mate diversity by restricting pollen movement to conspecific mates that are closely located.
23642968|Complete taxonomic history, lectotypification, and putative generic relationship of Pinckneya are presented. The much debated authorship of Flora boreali-americana and the validity of W. Bartram's binomials relative to this taxon are discussed. A single species, P. bracteata, is recognized. It occurs in the southeastern USA (South Carolina, Georgia, and northern Florida). Circumscription of the genus, complete synonymy, and a description of the species are presented. Distribution map, phenological diagram, notes on phenology, and medicinal and economical uses are included. A short discussion on the conservation biology of this diminishing species is included.
23655707|This study was aimed at examining the relationships between the African material of Solanum americanum (also designated as S. nodiflorum), accessions of this taxon from other geographical areas, and American S. americanum using AFLP markers. 96 individuals representing 39 accessions of S. americanum sensu lato and related diploid species from the widest possible geographical range, and one accession of S. dulcamara (as outgroup) were used. The AFLP results suggested that American S. americanum differs from S. nodiflorum and that the material investigated in this study can be assigned to three different species: S. americanum sensu stricto, S. nodiflorum and a Solanum species from Brazil. These species can be differentiated based on a combination of floral and fruit characteristics.
23664373|Putative synapomorphy assessment (primary homology assessment) is distinct for DNA strings having a codon structure (hereafter, coding DNA) versus those lacking it (hereafter, non-coding DNA). The first requires the identification of a reading frame and of usually few inframe insertions and deletions. In non-coding DNA, where length variation is much more common, putative synapomorphy assessment is considerably less straightforward and highly depends on the alignment method. Appreciating the existence of evolutionary constraints, alignments that consider patterns associated with specific putative evolutionary events are favored. Once the sequences have been aligned, the postulated putative evolutionary events need to be coded as an additional step. In order for the alignments and the alignment coding to be falsifiable, they should be carried out using justified and explicitly formulated criteria. Alternative coding methods for the most common patterns present in alignments of non-coding DNA are discussed here. Simpler putative synapomorphy assessment will not always correlate to more reliable phylogenetic information because simplicity does not necessarily correlate to the degree of homoplasy. The use of non-coding DNA can result in more laborious coding, but at the same time in more corroborated hypotheses, mirroring their accuracy for phylogenetic inference.
23674076|Lomatium is the largest North American genus of Apiaceae (= Umbelliferae). Relations among Lomatium and other genera have not been well understood. The Apiaceae-Araliaceae lineage and genera of North American Apiaceae were analyzed phenetically and cladistically in turn, and seven phenetic alliances of genera are identified. Data on frequencies of character-state combinations were assembled and using Sporne's notions of maximal and minimal co-variation of states, two character-states were identified that are derived among Umbellifer genera. Using cladistic analysis of the alliance consisting of Lomatium and six other genera we identified three sister groups to Lomatium: Polytaenia alone; Polytaenia with Pseudocymopterus, and a group of four genera. Not all genera in the group of seven with Lomatium are supported by autapomorphies impeding phylogenetic reconstructions. Both phenetics and cladistics have helped to suggest and evaluate relationships; to call attention to groups requiring further study, and in particular to identify derived character-states.
23643255|There are few fossil remains that are assigned or compared to Citrus. A new and characteristic leaf from the Pliocene of Italy is described as Citrus meletensis and its systematic position within the Rutaceae is discussed. Together with other sparse remains that are reviewed here it confirms the existence of Citrus in the European Tertiary.
23655907|In fifteen geographically isolated populations of five species of Alstroemeria L. (A. aurea, A. hookeri, A. ligtu, A. pelegrina and A. presliana) collected in Chile, karyotypes and variation of RAPD markers were investigated. Tandemly repeated DNA sequences - 5S and 18/25S rDNA genes and the sequence A001-1 (De Jeu et al. 1997) were used to characterize karyotypes by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Ten somatic metaphases per population were used for measurement of chromosome length. Differences in RAPD marker bands were used for characterization of populations, creating a similarity index. FISH with all three DNA probes shows a high degree of polymorphism between and sometimes also within accessions of A. aurea, A. hookeri and A. ligtu. The number of chromosome pairs showing 5S rDNA signals is more different for the investigated species A. aurea, A. hookeri, A. ligtu, A. pelegrina and A. presliana with 5, 7, 5, 3 and 7, respectively, than the number of 18/25S rDNA signals in this succession with 7, 7, 6, 5 and 7 chromosome pairs, showing a high evolutionary dynamics within the genus. Furthermore, among the four populations of A. hookeri, accession 4181 was different in arm length of chromosome 3. RAPD markers (index of similarity) also showed a greater genetic distance of accession 4181 from the other three accessions of A. hookeri. The possible evolutionary mechanisms providing these polymorphisms were discussed.
43558139|The genus Lippia comprises herbs, shrubs, and small trees, including many species with medicinal properties. The species are distributed throughout South and Central America and Tropical Africa, but the majority of them occur in Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina. The DNA C value of 28 Brazilian species has been estimated by flow cytometry. Estimated DNA C values ranged from 0.825 pg (L. corymbosa) to 2.150 pg (L. brasiliensis). In addition, new chromosome numbers of 12 species have also been described, and meiotic cells with 12, 13, and 14 chromosome pairs were observed. A straightforward correlation between chromosome number and DNA C value was not observed, probably due to two outlier species of Lippia that have been transferred from the genus Lantana. In general, the data confirm previous reports regarding the variation within the taxonomic sections and also suggest a new revision in section Zapania. Aspects of karyotypic evolution of the genus are also discussed.
23664361|The style morphologies of Astragalus subgenus Pogonophace (Leguminosae) were examined using the scanning electron microscope. The results showed that in most species, there are erect and upwardly pointed trichomes on the style. This kind of structure is exactly a pollen brush. The style of A. craibianus Simps. is glabrous, and there are finger-like projections formed by the epidermal cells only on the stigma. A. hoantchy Franch. has a penicillate stigma. The three types of styles are not homologous. These supported the exclusion of sect. Sesbanella and A. craibianus from Pogonophace. In molecular studies, some Pogonophace species are nested within the Coluteinae clade. This study found that those species rightly have the structure of pollen brush. Therefore, the pollen brush is likely to be a synapomorphy of Pogonophace and Coluteinae. The close relationship between Pogonophace and subtribe Coluteinae (tribe Galegeae) can be supported by the pollen brush.
23642684|Mesostigma viride Lauterborn (Prasinophyceae) is the first green flagellate found to have multilayered structures (MLS) in its flagellar apparatus. MLS's were previously known from green algae only in charophycean swarmers, linking the Charophyceae to the origin of land plants, whose male gametes (when flagellated) also possess an MLS. M. viride is, therefore, probably more closely related to the origin of the Charophyceae than any other green flagellate that has been thoroughly studied so far. The occurrence of MLS's in green flagellates and apparently in other algae and protozoans suggests that an MLS occurred in an ancient group of flagellates and has survived in various protistan lines, including the line of green algae related to land plants. The occurrence of a synistosome in M. viride and other of its characteristics suggest that it is more closely related to Pyramimonas than to other genera of scaly green flagellates.
43558296|Continued habitat destruction in lowland areas of the Western Cape, South Africa, due to urbanization has reduced Roella ciliata to a few isolated populations and it is unknown whether this endemic shrublet will persist. Here, we examine the reproductive biology of a small population of R. ciliata occurring in a residential nature reserve 30 km east of Cape Town to provide baseline information for future studies. Data were recorded on the functional structure of the flower, duration of the morphological gender phases, floral visitor profile and the relationship between breeding system and habitat. Observations revealed that this species possesses reproductive characteristics typical of Campanulaceae such as dichogamy, protandry and secondary pollen presentation via pollen collecting hairs. Floral longevity ranges between 1 and 3 days. Anthesis occurs in synchronicity at 0700 hours and individual flowers close between 0930 and 1500 hours daily. The staminate phase lasts between 2 and 29 h and is significantly influenced by the removal of pollen by floral visitors, while the pistillate phase lasts between 21 and 69 h. R. ciliata maintains a generalized, entomophilous pollination system although floral visitors are generally scarce. Despite some intraspecific variation, the pollen/ovule ratio indicates that R. ciliata has a facultatively autogamous breeding system, in contrast to its floral attributes which might favour xenogamy. This reproductive mechanism may ensure survival under these habitat conditions and could represent a shift from outcrossing to selfing at the cost of reducing genetic variation over time.
23655226|In the flower of Hydrolea palustris, unusually orientated with one sepal abaxially, organogenesis starts in following sequence: five sepals (2/5 sequence), five simultaneously initiated alternating petals, five episepalous stamens, two (seldom three) carpels forming a coenocarpous septate gynoecium. The two carpels are orientated rather in the diagonal floral plane than in the median one. Petal primordia fuse very late by forming interprimordial bridges (late sympetaly!). Many ovules develop on considerably widened placentas. On the very basis of the superior ovary a five-humped nectary disk is formed. Within Solanales (APG II 2003) late sympetaly, an intrastaminal disk and a 2-carpellate, septate, superior ovary are found in Hydroleaceae, Convolvulaceae, and Solanaceae. Enlarged axile placentas characterize Hydrolea, Solanaceae, and Sphenocleaceae but Sphenocleaceae differ considerably by early sympetaly. Montiniaceae differ by having a choripetalous corolla. Nearly diagonal orientation of the carpels seems to relate Hydrolea close to Solanaceae, but the orientation of the calyx is different.
23644239|Phylogenetic relationships of Cytisus and allied genera (Argyrocytisus, Calicotome, Chamaecytisus, Cytisophyllum, and Spartocytisus) were assessed by analysis of sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and the cpDNA trnL-trnF intergenic spacer. Genera of the Genista-group (Chamaespartium, Echinospartum, Genista, Pterospartum, Spartium, Teline and Ulex) were included to check the position of Cytisus species transferred to Teline. The tree obtained by combining both sets of data indicates that the Genista and Cytisus groups form two separate clades. Cytisus heterochrous and C. tribracteolatus are more closely related to the Cytisus-group, thus their transfer to Teline is not supported by molecular data. Cytisus fontanesii (syn. Chronanthos biflorus) groups with Cytisophyllum sessilifolium and Cytisus heterochrous within the Cytisus-group. Similarly, Argyrocytisus battandieri falls within the Cytisus-group as a well differentiated taxon. All these taxa seem to have early diverged from the Cytisus-group. Their taxonomic rank should be reconsidered to better reflect their phylogenetic separation from Cytisus. On the contrary, Chamaecytisus proliferus and Spartocytisus supranubius enter in the main core of Cytisus, and they should better be included in sections of Cytisus (sect. Tubocytisus and Oreosparton, respectively). Sect. Spartopsis is not monophyletic and the position of several species, currently included in this section, deserves reevaluation: C. arboreus aggregate is closely related to C. villosus (sect. Cytisus) and to Calicotome; C. striatus is closely related to Cytisus sect. Alburnoides; and the position of C. commutatus (incl. C. ingramii) remains unclear. The relationships and positioning of several minor taxa (C. transiens, C. megalanthus, and C. maurus) are also discussed.
23656121|Karyotypic characters, mitotic metaphase chromosomes, monoploid idiograms and karyograms of Minuartia anatolica (Boiss.) Woronow var. phrygia (Bornm.) McNeill, Minuartia anatolica (Boiss.) Woronow var. scleranthoides (Boiss. & Noe) McNeill, Minuartia corymbulosa (Boiss. & Balansa) McNeill var. gypsophilloides McNeill and Minuartia aksoyi M.Ko & Hamzaolu were investigated for the first time. Analysis of somatic metaphases showed that the chromosome numbers and the formulas of these taxa were 2n = 24 = 14m + 6sm + 4st for Minuartia anatolica var. phrygia, 2n = 14 = 6m + 8sm for Minuartia anatolica var. scleranthoides, 2n = 14 = 6m + 4sm + 4st for Minuartia corymbulosa var. gypsophilloides and 2n = 30 = 14m + 10sm + 6st for Minuartia aksoyi. No satellites were observed in the karyotypes of these taxa. Karyotype asymmetry was estimated by many different methods, namely the Stebbins classification, the karyotype asymmetry index (As K %), the total form percent (TF %), the Rec and Syi indices, the intrachromosomal asymmetry index (A1) and interchromosomal asymmetry index (A2), the dispersion index (DI), the degree of asymmetry of karyotype (A index) and the asymmetry index (AI).
23655752|Theories of optimal resource allocation in flowering plants postulate that allocation to sexual functions are balanced. While many studies have found such evidence in hermaphroditic species among flowers, plants or populations, or at different phenological stages, it has not been supported by other studies. This has been explained by differences among genotypes in ability to acquire resources, resource partitioning among traits unrelated to reproduction or strong selection to maintain positive genetic correlation among traits. I studied how herbivory affected resource allocation to sexual functions in the perennial herb Paeonia broteroi (Paeoniaceae) by measuring a number of floral traits in control plants and in experimental plants under simulated herbivory. The species shows very little plasticity in resource allocation between sexual structures and functions, and appears to be highly sensitive to alterations in the balance of resource acquisition and allocation, with an immediate outcome in terms of seed production and a mid-term response in terms of sprouting and flowering. Plants' ability to collect resources for growth and reproduction before their senescence at the end of the reproductive season, are compromised. This may limit their reproductive potential, the maintenance and growth of their populations, and may influence their demographic state and the plants' ability to respond to selective pressures by external biotic agents.
23674570|Silene acaulis (Caryophyllaceae) is an alpine-arctic plant with a gynodioecious breeding system, but significant variation in sex expression has been reported. In addition, population sex ratio may be modified by the anther-smut Microbotryum violaceum (Pers.) Deml & Oberwinkler, which sterilizes individuals of both sexes. A survey was undertaken at several sites on Baffin Island, Canada, to determine sex ratio and assess variation in female function among morphologically hermaphroditic individuals. The degree of anthersmut infection was also measured. Six sites had high female frequencies ranging from 72 80% and < 2% smut infection. High female frequencies may indicate cytoplasmic control of male-sterility. A seventh site from a mesic habitat had only 50% females and a higher rate of smut infection (22%). Of the three sites studied in detail, 84% of females set at least one capsule compared to only 25% of the hermaphrodites, indicating reduced female function. Hermaphrodites displayed significant variability in female function. Flowers with short styles (< 4.0 mm) had degenerated ovules, and field estimates confirmed that only 5% of these individuals set capsules, but comprised the majority (> 55%) of hermaphrodites. Although hermaphrodites with short-styled flowers functioned solely as males, there was no increase in pollen production compared to long-styled hermaphrodites. Long-styled hermaphrodites produced the same number of ovules as females, and all set at least one capsule but these plants were uncommon (< 11%) at all sites.
43558146|B. kubahense J.J. Verm. & A. Lamb is described, a new species differing from B. refractilingue in having a longer rachis, longer lateral sepals and larger petals. This attractive species is known from a single locality within a national park in Sarawak, Malaysia.Nevertheless, wild-collected plants have turned up in nurseries in Singapore, causing concern about its continued existence in the wild.
23655228|Four populations of the Balkan endemic taxon Lilium bosniacum from Bosnia and Herzegovina were investigated. Conventional karyological study did not reveal any important differences. Molecular-cytogenetic studies pointed out certain interpopulation and intrapopulation variability, and important differences in organization of ribosomal genes in regard to its closest relative L. carniolicum. The results of fluorochrome banding and FISH experiment for L. bosniacum were reported here for the first time. Differences occurred in the number and position of 18S-5.8S-26S ribosomal gene loci for some individuals from population Kladanj. Heterochromatic bands revealed with DAPI after FISH experiment were constant. All investigated populations possess the same number of active NORs except some individuals from Kladanj population. Genome size and GC-bases percentage, estimated by flow cytometry, did not show any significant difference among the populations. However, the present results reveal clear interspecific differentiation between two endemics, L. carniolicum and L. bosniacum.
23645358|To evaluate the sectional classification in Carex, subgenus Carex, the ITS region of 117 species belonging to 32 sections was analyzed with Neighbor Joining (NJ) and Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. In our analyses (1) species of subgenus Indocarex appear as a statistically well supported group within subgenus Carex. (2) The representatives of sections Vesicariae, Hirtae, Pseudocypereae, Ceratocystis, Spirostachyae, Bicolores, Paniceae, Trachychlaenae, Scirpinae, Atratae and Albae group in statistically supported clades with higher support in MCMC than in NJ. (3) C. rariflora clusters with representatives of section Limosae, however only weakly supported. (4) Taxa of section Phacocystis are divided in two statistically supported subclusters that are closely related to a core group of section Hymenochlaenae. (5) Species of sections Montanae, Pachystylae, Digitatae, Phacocystis, Rhomboidales, Careyanae and Frigidae are segregated into two or more clusters each. (6) Five species of section Frigidae cluster together, whereas the seven others are in scattered positions. Based on these results, delimitation of sections is discussed.
23662378|Gnaphalium teydeum and G. luteo-album (Asteraceae) are two closely congeneric taxa native to the Canary Islands. While G. luteo-album is widespread in the Macaronesian Region, G. teydeum is endemic to the island of Tenerife and considered endangered by IUCN. Using the RAPD technique this study investigated the level and apportionment of genetic diversity of these taxa, trying to solve a taxonomic dispute related to G. teydeum. Based on the 102 DNA fragments generated by 11 primers, a high level of genetic differentiation was found between the taxa (FST = 0.366), with G. luteo-album showing levels of genetic variability (P = 100%; H = 0.246) higher than those found in G. teydeum (P = 75.5%; H = 0.173). UPGMA dendrogram and Bayesian cluster analysis clearly separated populations from both the species. Overall, results show that although morphological differentiation between G. teydeum and G. luteo-album is not strong, they show marked molecular divergence, supporting the current taxonomic status.
23655171|American diploid cottons (Gossypium L., subgenus Houzingenia Fryxell) form a monophyletic group of 13 species distributed mainly in western Mexico, extending into Arizona, Baja California, and with one disjunct species each in the Galapagos Islands and Peru. Prior phylogenetic analyses based on an alcohol dehydrogenase gene (AdhA) and nuclear ribosomal DNA indicated the need for additional data from other molecular markers to resolve phylogenetic relationships within this subgenus. Toward this end, we sequenced three nuclear genes, the anonymous locus A1341, an alcohol dehydrogenase gene (AdhC), and a cellulose synthase gene (CesA1b). Independent and combined analyses resolved clades that are congruent with current taxonomy and previous phylogenies. Our analyses diagnose at least two long distance dispersal events from the Mexican mainland to Baja California, following a rapid radiation of the primary lineages early in the diversification of the subgenus. Molecular data support the proposed recognition of a new species closely related to Gossypium laxum that was recently collected in Mexico.
23672609|Within agaric fungi whorled (multiple) clamps have been described so far only for the homothallic Coprinus myceliocephalus Lange. The new species Coprinus verticillatus Schulz-Weddigen (ined.) develops fertile mycelia which form septae without or with 15 clamps. Stronger hyphae tend to branch dichotomously. Most cells of the vegetative system contain many nuclei. Though single spore cultures remain sterile, they can develop multiple clamps, too. Moreover, very young mycelia produce a special type of oidiophores. According to its mating interactions a bipolar pattern characterizes the heterothallic C. verticillatus.
23655484|We report on flowering phenology, floral morphology, pollinators, and nectar for eight species and a putative natural hybrid belonging to Agarista, Gaultheria and Gaylussacia that occur syntopically in a montane area. The campanulate to tubular flowers of eight out of nine Ericaceae taxa are primarily pollinated by either hummingbirds or bees. Flowering overlaps in all species but slight differences of floral shape, colour, and nectar characterize pollination by each pollinator group. Differences in floral traits are not large enough to exclude secondary pollinators. Thus, either the main pollinators of a species belonging to its syndrome, or secondary pollinators of a species belonging to different syndromes, may allow for inter-specific crosses.
23655615|We present the first report on the chromosome number of Strasburgeria robusta, which is confined to montane forests of New Caledonia and is the only known species in Strasburgeriaceae. The species has 2n = 500, which is an exceedingly high chromosome number in angiosperms. Within Crossosomatales, molecular evidence has indicated that S. robusta is sister to Ixerba brexioides, which is endemic to New Zealand and is the sole species in Ixerbaceae. Comparisons to the chromosome number of I. brexioides (2n = 50) support a close affinity between the two species because they share the base number x = 25. It is generally accepted that an increase in ploidy is associated with the origin of novel adaptations. A high level of polyploidy (20x with x = 25) may have allowed S. robusta to survive on a fragment of Gondwana by adapting to its ultrabasic substrate.
23674491|I used a discontinuous population of Scleranthus annuus (Caryophyllaceae) to study the effect of crossing distances on flower morphology of the progeny. Four types of progeny were produced by artificial selfing, crossing with pollen-donors from the same patch in the population, crossing with pollen from donors from other patches in the population and inter-population crosses. The size of gynoecium parts and 12 sepal characters in this petal-lacking species were significantly influenced by the type of cross and the patch in the population from where the seed-parents originated. All comparisons of progeny types except selfed vs progeny produced by within-patch crosses were significantly separated from each other, while all four seed-parent patches used were significantly separated in a multidimensional space.
23674775|Morphometric and isozymic analyses of adjacent cultivated and spontaneous populations of pearl millet in Niger revealed in the field a unique continuous distribution of phenotypes ranging from the most cultivated one to a typical cultivated  wild hybrid. The natural population was subdivided into a major wild group and a hybrid wild  cultivated group. Cultivated millet displayed an equilibrium state between recombined domesticated and wild genes. The natural population, in spite of a high rate of immigration by pollen from cultivated plants, retained its structure by apparently reproducing itself exclusively from the major wild group.
23642297|The cytology and phloroglucinol composition of wild and synthesized hybrids of Macaronesian Dryopteris species have been examined. Both cytological and chemical evidence suggest that the tetraploid D. guanchica has arisen from the diploid species D. aemula and D. maderensis by hybridization and chromosome doubling. However, the formation of the characteristic fully aromatic compounds in D. aemula appears to be suppressed in most of the hybrids involving this species, and in D. guanchica.
23655751|The Lilium carniolicum group consists of several taxonomically dubious taxa endemic to the European flora. Internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) were used to clarify both the delineation of, and relationships among, taxa in the group as well as to provide insight on the phylogenetic position of the group within the genus. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses were in general agreement, with all taxa in the group being very closely related, and the entire group being monophyletic. L. pyrenaicum and L. pomponium are placed at the basal position in the group, while L. chalcedonicum is shown to be more closely related to L. carniolicum than previously thought. Our analyses suggested that L. albanicum and L. jankae are distinct from L. carniolicum, while no evidence was found to support the same separation for L. bosniacum.
43558334|The presented studies are focused on the comparative morphological and anatomical analyses of two wormwood varieties, i.e. the typical variety Artemisia absinthium var. absinthium and var. calcigena, endemic to the Pieniny Mountains (Western Carpathians). The studies comprise descriptions of the characteristics of pollen grains and the achene surface, analyses of seed germination rate and slime formation, stem anatomy, and leaf morphology and anatomy. The pollen grain surface is typical for the whole Artemisia genus. The seed coat consists of proper epidermal cells and slime cells, whose presence is related to the ability to form slime in both taxa. The obtained results show some typical xeromorphic features in the stem and leaf structure, which are more strongly pronounced in A. absinthium var. calcigena than in var. absinthium. These features include a continuous penderai layer and lignified pith cells developed in the early stages of growth. Although some differences between the studied taxa exist (e.g., better germination power, number of flower heads, length of pedicels and anatomy), they are rather a manifestation of phenotypic plasticity and habitat influence than the taxonomic identity. Based on the results we can state that A. absinthium var. calcigena presents a low position as an independent taxonomic unit and may exemplify a local phenotypic form.
23674278|The degree of relationships within Lactuca sativa and three wild relatives L. serriola, L. saligna, and L. virosa was studied by observing the performance, vigour and fertility of the F1 hybrids obtained from crosses made in and between the four species. The crosses of L. saligna  L. virosa and the reciprocal crosses produced no hybrids. L. saligna and L. virosa are the least related of the four species. L. sativa  L. serriola and the reciprocal crosses were successful and produced fertile hybrids. These two species are genetically very closely related. L. saligna is known to produce, as a female parent, hybrids with L. sativa and L. serriola. Now the reciprocal cross was successful for the first time, so the unability to obtain hybrids in the past was based on the choice of accessions and not caused by unilateral incompatibility. L. virosa  L. sativa and the reciprocal combination produced hybrids. The combination L. serriola  L. virosa produced hybrids with very limited fertility. In contrast to earlier reports (sterile hybrids) one combination of the reciprocal cross too produced hybrids with very limited fertility.  Some of the L. saligna  L. sativa (and reciprocal) hybrids were found to look strikingly like L. serriola. This adds evidence for the descent of L. serriola and L. sativa: L. saligna also made part of the ancestral complex of the cultivated lettuce.
23645299|Allozyme polymorphism was used 1) to investigate the relationships of three threatened species of Elaphoglossum from St Helena, E. nervosum, E. bifurcatum and E. dimorphum, and 2) to estimate levels of genetic diversity and its partitioning among populations. Despite showing morphological and ecological variation, the three species are closely related with high genetic identities. Evidence from one enzyme locus (Mdh-1) suggests that E. dimorphum is of hybrid origin involving E. nervosum and E. bifurcatum. Levels of genetic diversity were low in the three species, but comparable with other insular endemic angiosperms. Populations of E. nervosum and E. bifurcatum showed significant genetic differentiation, which should be taken into account in any conservation programme.
23674667|Chromosome numbers and karyomorphological characters have been investigated in Pamphilia and Styrax (Styracaceae). Counted for the first time in the genus, two species of Pamphilia were found to have 2n = 16. The two Styrax spp. investigated share with Pamphilia the same chromosome number, a peculiar condensation behaviour of the chromosomes (Fig. 1 a  c) and the same type of semi-reticulate interphase nucleus, results which indicate a close relationship of the two genera. The base number in Styracaceae is probably x = 8 (2n = 2x = 16) with stabilized triploids in Halesia and Pterostyrax (2n = 3x = 24). A preliminary comparison with Sapotaceae and Ebenaceae does not allow a general karyological characterisation of the order Ebenales.
23671747|The closely related African genera Dictyandra and Leptactina are redelimited. The two genera are distinguished by long tubular corolla-tubes with included anthers (Leptactina) vs. much shorter tubes with exserted anthers (Dictyandra), rather thanas previously thoughtpresence or absence of multilocellate anthers. The discovery of a new species (Dictyandra congolana from the Congo and W-Zaire) confirms this. It can be concluded, especially from comparative morphological studies of fruits and seeds, that Dictyandra and Leptactina are related to Pavetta, Tarenna, Ixora, etc., i.e. the group of genera in the Coffeeae s.l. with terminal inflorescences. It is proposed that the tribe Pavetteae be revived to accomodate those genera.
23655890|ITS and ETS-based sequence analyses of 29 Neolitsea, six Actinodaphne and five outgroup 'core' Laureae taxa show that Neolitsea is monophyletic with two large subclades, whereas most of the sampled Actinodaphne are paraphyletic below it. Inflorescence features appear to be among the more reliable morphological characters for explaining relationships between Neolitsea and other genera within the 'core' Laureae, with the Neolitsea/Actinodaphne clade defined by inflorescences lacking vegetative terminal buds in the main axis. Although the relationships within Neolitsea are still poorly resolved, there is enough structure to suggest that the genus seems to divide into two groups based on fruit shape: elliptic or ovoid, versus globose, although more evidence (both molecular and morphological) and wider taxon sampling are required to confirm this.
23669051|The present study is part of our research project on cytomorphology of gamopetalous flora of Kashmir Himalaya, a zone with rich biodiversity. Out of 134 species of Gamopetalae meiotically investigated, chromosome numbers for 30 accessions belonging to 17 species and six families are new or varied reports. Euphrasia paucifolia (n = 22), Lactuca decipiens (n = 8), Saussurea albescens (n = 17), Saussurea roylei (n = 16), Saussurea taraxacifolia (n = 16) and Veronica deltigera (n = 8) are first cytological reports for these species. Anaphalis nepalensis (n = 28), Codonopsis rotundifolia (n = 16) and Hieracium vulgatum (n = 27) are new euploid chromosome reports for these species suggesting potential speciation through chromosomal evolution. Besides, Androsace mucronifolia (n = 10), A. sempervivoides (n = 10), Cicerbita lessertiana (n = 8), Dracocephalum nutans (n = 5), Erigeron patentisquama (n = 9), Galium pauciflorum (n = 11), Onopordum acanthium (n = 17) and Xanthium spinosum (n = 8) are the first chromosome reports to Indian accessions of the species. Out of the 17 species, 9 species (52.9 %) viz. A. nepalensis, C. lessertiana, C. rotundifolia, D. nutans, E. patentisquama, Euphrasia paucifolia, L. decipiens, O. acanthium and V. deltigera show abnormal meiosis/microsporogenesis of one or other type, thereby leading to pollen anomalies.
23674706|Rumex sect. Axillares first described by the author in 1937 is known to be represented in N. America by 20 endemic species. From S. America only five species, all endemic, were previously known; this number is raised in the present revision to 15. Outside America there exist small groups of endemic species in S. Africa and in the islands of Hawaii as well as in Australia and scattered single species in C. Africa, on the remote Atlantic islands of Tristan de Cunha and Gough Island, and in eastern Asia.  In Europe the section is completely absent, except for three American species which occur as rare aliens. The Axillares are not only morphologically well-characterized by their growth  no leaf rosettes, flowering period practically unlimited by formation of later flowering axillary shoots, flowers often monoecious  but also by their genetic structure expressed by a different behaviour in hybridization. Hybrids are frequent between species of sect. Rumex (syn. Simplices) and are easy to recognize by their sterility which results in a certain peculiarity in habit. In contrast, no spontaneous hybrids are known with certainty among species of sect. Axillares. Most artificial hybrids are fairly fertile. So far only three hybrids between species of the two sections have been known. Three more have been found by the author in Chile, all being highly sterile and showing the growth characteristics resulting from sterility as occur in hybrids between species of sect. Rumex. Rumex seccin Axillares fue descrito por primera vez por el autor en 1937. Se conoce en Amrica del Norte con 20 especies endmicas. De Amrica del Sur se conocan slo 5 especies, todas ellas endmicas; este nmero asciende a 15 en la presente revision. Fuera de las Amricas se encuentran pequeos grupos de especies endmicas en Sudfrica, en las Islas de Hawaii y en Australia; especies aisladas se encuentran en Africa Central, en las lejanas Islas Atlnticas de Tristan de Cunha y Gough Island y en Asia Oriental. La seccin no tiene representantes en Europa, con excepcin de tres especies americanas introducidas, poco frecuentes. La seccin Axillares se caracteriza bien, tanto morfolgi-camente por su forma de creciemiento  sin rosetas foliares, perodo floral prcticamente ilimitado por la formacin de inflorescencias axilares parciales, flores a menudo monoicas  como por su estructura gentica que se manifiesta en un comportamiento diferente de hibridacin. Hbridos son frecuentes en las especies de la seccin Rumex (syn. Simplices) y reconocibles por su esterilidad que se expresa en cierta particularidad del habito. Al contrario, no hay seguridad de hbridos espontneos en la seccin Axillares. La mayor parte de los hbridos artificiales son totalmente frtiles. Hasta ahora se conocan solo tres hbridos entre las especies de ambas secciones. Otros tres han sido encontrados por el autor en Chile. Todos completamente estriles y con las caractersticas de hbito tpicas resultantes la esterilidad, como ocurre en los hbridos de la seccin Rumex.
23643158|Morpholgoical, geographical and ecological evidence suggests that Encelia virginensis is a true-breeding diploid species derived from hybrids of E. actoni and E. frutescens. To test this hypothesis, we examined the chloroplast and nuclear DNA of several Encelia species. PCR amplification targeted three separate regions of chloroplast DNA: trnK-2621/trnK-11, rbcL/ORF106, and psbA3/TrnI-51, which amplify 2600 bp, 3300 bp and 3200 bp fragments respectively. Restriction fragment analysis of chloroplast DNA revealed no variation that could be used to discriminate between the parent species. A RAPD analysis using 109 dekamer primers was used to analyze the nuclear genome. Encelia actoni and E. frutescens were distinguished by several high-frequency RAPD markers. In populations of E. virginensis, these markers were detected in varying proportions, and no unique markers were found. Evidence from the nuclear genome supports the hypothesis that E. virginensis is of hybrid origin. That E. virginensis may have arisen by normal divergent speciation followed by later introgression remains a possibility, however, and is not formally ruled out here. Diploid hybrid speciation in Encelia differs from other documented cases in that there are no discernible chromosome differences between the species, and all interspecific hybrids are fully fertile. In addition, apparent ecological selection against backcross progeny provides an external barrier to reproduction between F1 progeny and the parental species. These characteristics suggest that hybrid speciation in Encelia may represent an alternative model for homoploid hybrid speciation involving external reproductive barriers. In particular, this may be the case for other proposed diploid hybrid taxa that also exhibit little chromosomal differentiation and have fertile F1s.
23657318|Trichomes of Tremandra R.Br. ex DC., Platytheca Steetz and Tetratheca Sm. (Elaeocarpaceae, former Tremandraceae), together with two outgroup species of Elaeocarpus L., are illustrated using scanning electron microscopy, and their distribution on various plant organs is documented. Various trichomes types were identified that relate taxa: simple hairs, stellate hairs, short glandular trichomes, long glandular trichomes, and three forms of tubercules. Both outgroup and ingroup taxa have simple hairs. Stellate hairs are confirmed as unique to Tremandra. Prominent and sculptured multicelled tubercules, some bearing a stout hair, are characteristic of Platytheca. Smaller multicelled tubercules occur in both Platytheca and Tetratheca, except for the Western Australian taxon Te. filiformis Benth. (possibly plesiomorphic). Unicellular tubercules (papilla) characterise two species of Tetratheca. Short glandular trichomes, usually found on the ovary, also occur in both of these genera but not in all species (possibly secondary losses), while long glandular trichomes, usually on stems and leaves, occur only in some groups of Tetratheca. Within Tetratheca, Western Australian taxa that have five-merous flowers fall into three 'groups': seven species (together with one from South Australia) that have short glandular trichomes but no long glandular trichomes; six species that have long glandular trichomes but no short glandular trichomes; and four species that have both trichome types. All other species of Tetratheca have four-merous flowers and form two 'groups': 12 eastern species (including one from South Australia) that have both short glandular trichomes and long glandular trichomes; 4 western species and six eastern species that lack short glandular trichomes. On the basis of these characters, a phylogenetic hypothesis for the three genera is presented.
23655238|A charcoalified fossil flower bud of a new genus and species (Teixeiraea lusitanica) is described from the Early Cretaceous of Portugal. The flower is actinomorphic and unisexually male. At the base of the bud there are several bracts of different sizes, which are followed by sepal-like and petal-like tepals. Bracts and perianth organs seem to be arranged spirally and to exhibit transitions between different organ categories. The androecium has numerous stamens in two sizes, but with unclear arrangement. Pollen is small and tricolpate with a perforate tectum and a densely columellate infratectal layer. No carpels or remains of carpels could be observed on the floral axis. Teixeiraea lusitanica shows most affinities to members of Ranunculales. There are also some similarities with Berberidopsis (Berberidopsidaceae, Berberidopsidales) and members of the Saxifragales (Hamamelidaceae and Daphniphyllaceae).
23642891|We investigate phylogenetic relationships among hornworts, liverworts and mosses, and their relationships to other green plant groups, by analysis of nucleotide variation in complete 18s rRNA gene sequences of three green algae, two hornworts, seven liverworts, nine mosses, and six tracheophytes. Parsimony and maximum-likelihood analyses yield a single optimal tree in which the hornworts are resolved as the basal group among land plants, and the liverworts and mosses are sister taxa that together form the sister clade to the tracheophytes. This phylogeny is internally robust as indicated by decay indices and by comparison (using both parsimony and likelihood criteria) to topologies representing five alternative hypotheses of bryophyte relationships. We discuss some possible reasons for differences between the phylogeny inferred from the rRNA data and those inferred from other character sets.
23643165|The sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of 18S26S nrDNA for a sample of 16 taxa from the Inuleae s. str. and two outgroup taxa are analysed cladistically with PAUP. A consensus tree of the four most parsimonious cladograms is presented. Three different tests of cladogram stability are conducted (Bremer support, parsimony jackknifing and bootstrapping); all tests indicate a high degree of support for the basal nodes of the tree. The ITS phylogeny of the tribe is compared with previous hypotheses based on morphological data. The position of Anisopappus as sister group to the rest of the tribe is supported by the molecular data, but the proposed subdivision of Inuleae s. str. into a paleate grade group and an epaleate clade is not. The interpretation of the character evolution of, e.g. receptacular paleae and pappus features within the tribe is discussed.
23643696|Phylogenetic relationships of ten wild species and several cultivars of Forsythia were reconstructed based on the chloroplast (cp) DNA variation. A total of 216 cpDNA variants, 44 of which were potentially phylogenetically informative, was detected using 24 restriction endonucleases. Phylogenetic analysis using Fontanesia and Abeliophyllum as outgroups revealed four well defined species groups in the genus: 1) F. suspensa, 2) F. europaea  F. giraldiana, 3) F. ovata  F. japonica  F. viridissima, and 4) F. koreana  F. manshurica  F. saxatilis. The amount of support for each monophyletic group was evaluated by various methods including character number, decay analysis, parsimony bootstrapping, Neighbour-Joining (NJ)  bootstrapping, NJ-jackknifing, and the topology-dependent permutation tail probability (T-PTP) test. The data do not support the hybrid origin of F. intermedia from F. suspensa and F. viridissima. The disjunctly distributed European species, F. europaea, was identified as a sister species of the Chinese F. giraldiana and it was probably derived through recent long distance dispersal.
23644240|Eleusine (Poaceae) includes six diploid and three polyploid species and has three basic chromosome numbers, x = 8, 9 and 10. The species are annual as well as perennial and all are wild except E. coracana, which is cultivated for grain and fodder in Africa and the Indian subcontinent. Eleusine coracana and E. africana have the same genome and chromosome number (2n = 36). Eleusine indica and E. floccifolia are identified as two genome donors to these polyploid species. Eleusine kigeziensis is the third polyploid species of the genus with 2n = 38. Its genome may have come from E. jaegeri and from one of the species with x = 9, most probably from E. indica. Eleusine indica, E. tristachya, E. floccifolia and E. intermedia with x = 9 and two polyploid species, E. coracana and E. africana, are closely related and there is free genetic flow between them. Eleusine multiflora with x = 8 is significantly different in morphology and at genomic level from other species. Eleusine jaegeri with x = 10 is morphologically similar to E. indica, however, more information is needed to ascertain its position in the genus. Eleusine coracana, which is commonly called finger millet, is a potential and nutritious crop for the increasing population of the world, particularly in arid and semi-arid regions. It can also serve as a gene pool for various important characters and disease resistant genes.
23642363|Chromosome counts and detailed karyotype analyses are presented for I. attica (2 n = 16), and I. mellita and I. reichenbachii (both 2n = 24). Karyotypes differ in symmetry, number of telocentrics, occurrence of heteromorphic chromosome pairs, etc. For Western Anatolia first unequivocal records of I. attica and local differentiation of I. mellita are demonstrated. The Balkan and West-Ukrainian I. reichenbachii appears not to be indigenous to Anatolia.
23675287|On the basis of the "filament rotation model" that was elaborated for interpretations in cell motility, the lateral hydrodynamic effects of rotating filaments have been investigated by large-scale model experiments. Helices were rotated by small electric motors in a medium of high viscosity (honey or polyethyleneglycol). The observed effects, hitherto not investigated in detail by hydrodynamics, show some features that were attributed to the indefinable "formative power" or "vital force" of the past. The main effects generated by the rotating filaments are (1) flows and flow patterns with "impact zones" where flows collide, (2) regions of excessive pressure and negative pressure ("corner effect") along a wall, (3) grooves and smoothly shaped ridges on a free fluid surface, and (4) "rolling" motions of freely hanging filaments. All effects and flow patterns depend on the appropriate distribution of rotating and counterrotating filaments. Each change of the rotational direction means a dramatic alteration. The application of the observed effects explains largely the function of the microtubule/microfilament hoops or helices during the cytokinesis of a plant cell. Interpretations or simulations are described for events as the formation of secondary wall thickenings, the orientation of their microfibrils, the motion of the preprophase band microtubules, the formation of the phragmosome, the migration, stationary position and shape of the preprophase nucleus, the girdle-, septum- and H-piece formation of cell walls in algae and some events of morphogenesis in Micrasterias. Further interpretations are related to the lateral flows and to invaginations of free cell membranes, to lateral filament motions, to the "right-left problem", to the selfintertwining of filaments, to the rotation of a cell body by its flagellum, to the repulsion of chromatids during meiosis and to the tetragonal and hexagonal arrangement of filaments.
23656026|To estimate genetic relationships between spruces of the Russian Far East, the genetic differentiation in twenty-one populations of Picea ajanensis, P. microsperma, P. komarovii, P. kamtchatkensis, P. obovata, P. koraiensis and P. glehnii was studied. Nei's (1978) genetic distance values based on 20 isozyme loci were low within and between the mainland and Sakhalin populations of P. ajanensis, P. microsperma, and P. komarovii and do not warrant their taxonomic recognition within P. jezoensis. Higher values were revealed between the P. jezoensis and P. kamtchatkensis populations and between the P. obovata and P. koraiensis populations studied. The highest levels of genetic differentiation were revealed among P. glehnii, P. jezoensis P. kamtchatkensis and P. obovata-P. koraiensis and each of the species was clearly separated by the UPGMA and NJ methods of clustering. The UPGMA dendrogram was largely in agreement with the morphological classification while the NJ dendrogram was in agreement with crossability between spruces.
23672715|It is sometimes necessary to identify either H. bulbosum or H. murinum on the basis of the inflorescence or "seeds" alone. The majority of taxonomic keys use the presence of swollen basal culms for the former against the annual habit for the latter. Confusion is due to similarities in inflorescences and spikelet morphology. Lodicules which always persist and are present beside the fruit in a mature caryopsis, and other characters such as the awns of the lemmas of the lateral spikelets enable conclusive distinction.
23674754|Several anatomical characters in leaves were described, and their distribution determined, for 153 species of Polygonum, mostly from herbarium specimens. Structures surveyed were epidermal (glandular and nonglandular trichomes, nodules, specialized parenchyma, stomatal apparatus) and internal (cavities, crystals, laticifer-like cells, nodules, subepidermal fibers). Cleared leaves were supplemented by resin-embedded sections and SEM preparations of selected species. No feature defines any taxonomic section, but some features occur only within one section. Laticifer-like cells, epidermal and internal nodules, resin cups, and unique epidermal and subepidermal cavities seem to be unknown elsewhere; other features (invaginated epidermal cells; enlarged crystal cells confined to paraveinal layer) are rare among angiosperms.
23642478|The reproductive effort of 49 Angiosperms from the herb layers of Oak-Hornbeam forest, Black Pine forest, rock steppe and Bromus erectus meadow was determined on a dry weight basis. The average reproductive effort of these communities appears to depend on habitat factors and competition (e.g. water, temperature and light) and not on the position within the successional position. The general validity of the r- and K-selection concept therefore is questioned.
23644078|Based on the chloroplast matK gene sequence, a phylogenetic analysis of the Urticales in its traditional circumscription and its putative affinities produced three equally most parsimonious trees with tree length = 1527 steps, CI = 0.6863 and RI = 0.6352, indicating that the Ulmaceae s. 1. are polyphyletic while the Celtidaceae are paraphyletic, and particularly, Cannabis and Humulus in the Cannabaceae are consistently nested within the Celtidaceae. Therefore, the present data strongly suggest that the Cannabaceae should be merged with the Celtidaceae to form a monophyletic group. According to the present study, the Celtidaceae including Cannabaceae are more closely related to the Moraceae and Urticaceae than to the Ulmaceae s. str.. Gironniera and Aphananthe are both basal clades of the Celtidaceae rather than members of Ulmaceae s. str.. The Rhamnaceae and Rosaceae are the closest relatives of the traditional Urticales, which is very congruent with the newest system of flowering plants put forward by APG.
43498296|Peracarpeae is a small tribe consisting of three genera: Homocodon, Heterocodon and Peracarpa, with a disjunct distribution between eastern Asia and western North America. Homocodon is endemic to southwestern China and was previously placed in the western North American genus Heterocodon. Our phylogenetic analysis using four plastid markers (matK, atpB, rbcL and trnL-F) suggests the polyphyly of Peracarpeae. Homocodon is sister to a clade consisting of the eastern Asian Adenophora, Hanabusaya and species of Campanula from the Mediterranean region and North America, rather than forming a clade with Heterocodon. Homocodon and its Eurasia relatives are estimated to have diverged in the early Miocene (16.84 mya, 95% HPD 13.35-21.45 mya). The eastern Asian Peracarpa constitutes a clade with the North American Heterocodon, Githopsis and three species of Campanula, supporting a disjunction between eastern Asia and North America in Campanulaceae. The Asian-North American disjunct lineages diverged in the early Miocene (16.17 mya, 95% HPD 13.12-20.9 mya). The biogeographic analyses suggest that Homocodon may be a relict of an early radiation in eastern Asia, and that Peracarpa and its closest North American relatives most likely originated from a Eurasian ancestor.
23673697|Previously published data on flowering phenology and pollination of neotropical families are reviewed and compared with new observations, in order to evaluate some trends of pollination strategies in neotropical savannas and forests. Central American forest Bignoniaceae apparently diminish competition between sympatric species with identical pollination strategies by alternating flowering. On the other hand, in the Bignoniaceae of Brazilian cerrado savannas coincident flowering is more common, suggesting different pollination strategies. Bees specialized in nectar robbery are associated with Bignoniaceae, particularly mass-flowering species. These nectar robbers stimulate pollinator movements between flowers and thus increase pollen-flow. The flowering phenology of the Malpighiaceae from forests and savannas apparently follows the phenology of the Anthophorinae (mainly Centridini)-bees, on which this plant group almost exclusively depends for pollination in the Neotropics. As the flowers of different genera and species are very uniform, the bees quite indiscriminately pollinate coexisting Malpighiaceae taxa. In the Malvaceae, the more primitive tree or shrub habit and an allogamous reproduction system is quite significantly associated with an ornithophilous pollination mode. Hummingbirds in the Neotropics have probably influenced the origin of the primitive bird-pollinated Malvaceae flower. In conjunction with the diversification of the Malvaceae and their migration into more open regions, pollination by bees has apparently become more prominent. Chiropterophilous Malvaceae seem to have developed more recently from ornithophilous ancestors within the neotropical forest regions. As a result of this ecological radiation, parallel modifications of the basic ornithophilous flower principle can be traced in different groups of the Malvaceae. Dynastinae-beetles are pollinators of South and Central American species of Annona, Cymbopetalum, Caladium, Talauma, Philodendron, Victoria, Nymphaea, Cyclanthus, Bactris and others. In many cases the relationship between flowers and their Dynastinae visitors is not very specific, principally reflecting differences in the faunistic spectrum of diverse regions and vegetation types. The attraction of these beetles as flower visitors in several unrelated groups of Angiosperms must have occurred repeatedly. It is suggested that the flower visiting species of this beetle group may have acquired their preference for certain pungent or aromatic flower odours by their feeding habits during the larval stage.
23662391|Our aim was to assess the degree of morphological differentiation of a group of taxa of Schizachyrium Nees, which presents similar inflorescences and shares habitat and geographic areas: Schizachyrium bimucronatum, S. condensatum, S. lactiflorum, S. microstachyum subsp. microstachyum, S. microstachyum subsp. elongatum, and S. plumigerum. To accomplish this purpose, 22 exomorphological traits were analyzed using multivariate methods. The results obtained support the identity of Schizachyrium condensatum and related species as independent taxa. In addition, the analysis evidences the reliability of several inflorescence characters, which had not been previously considered in the identification of the different taxa. Based upon the information obtained, a new identification key for these taxa was constructed.
23673654|A revisionary treatment of Oxylobus is rendered. Four species are recognized. All are confined to the mountainous regions of southern Mexico and Central America, except for O. glanduliferus which has disjunct populations in the highlands of north-central South America. Descriptions, illustrations, dot-maps and a key to species are presented.
23642611|A comparison between geographical distribution and secondary metabolites of 18 species of Aniba (Lauraceae) leads to a coherent picture of spatial and chemical evolution of these species. In chemical evolution, general mechanisms as blocking of reaction steps leading to primary metabolites and diversification of secondary metabolites within biogenetic groups are found to be operative. Sympatric distribution of closely related species seems to imply chemical diversity. The relation between size of distribution area and evolutionary status of individual species shows Aniba to be an evolutionarily more recent, actively evolving genus.
23645178|Phylogenetic relationships based on the chloroplast genome of Taraxacum were studied. Representative samples of 44 sections or species groups and a number of isolated species were analyzed. On the basis of the sequence variation in psbAtrnH and in trnLtrnF, mutations associated with RFLPs were monitored. Five RFLPs without homoplasy were recognized and used to reconstruct four main cpDNA groups (haplotypes); Group I is ancestral and, contrary to the information in the primary sequences, the RFLPs were not distinct from those of the outgroup species of Agoseris and Prenanthes. This group corresponds to dandelions believed to be ancestral on the basis of morphological data and previous studies of the chloroplast genome. A comparison of parsimony analysis of morphological and chloroplast data showed an overall lack of congruence. The conflict can most probably be accounted for as a consequence of reticulation.
23642980|We have found two chromosome levels (n = 10 and n = 20) in Spanish species of Reseda sect. Leucoreseda, four species on the first (R. undata, R. paui, R. suffruticosa, R. barrelieri), only one on the second level (R. alba). As already the species with n = 10 apparently behave as polyploids, we propose x = 5 as the original basic chromosome number for this section. The seed protein profile of R. alba (2n = 40) reveals close relationships with R. undata (2n = 20), while the esterase isozymes suggest affinities with R. paui (2n = 20). Thus, R. alba can be regarded either as an autopolyploid from R. paui or more likely as an allopolyploid from R. paui and R. undata. Finally, the DNA values suggest a diploidization process in R. alba since its origin.
23663571|To understand the correlation between chromosomes behavior and fertility in autotriploid cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.), microsporogenesis in pollen mother cells (PMCs) and male gametophyte development were studied using improved staining and chromosome preparation techniques. Meanwhile, for more efficient selection of trisomics from the progeny of autotriploid-diploid crosses, fertilization rates of ovules from reciprocal crosses were counted to observe the transfer rate of gametes in the autotriploid cucumber. Variable chromosome configurations, e.g. multivalents, quadrivalents, trivalents, bivalents and univalents were observed in the most PMCs of the autotriploids at metaphase I. Chromosome lagging and bridges at anaphase in both meiotic divisions resulted from irregular chromosome separation and asynchronization was frequently observed as well, which led to formation of micronuclei and inviable gametes. The frequency of normal PMCs in autotriploids at the stage of tetrad was only 40.6%. Among those normal microspores, most of them (91.2%) could develop into normal gametophytes with 2 cells and 3 germ pores. Stainability and germination rate of pollen grains were only 18.8 and 13.5%, respectively. However, chromosomes separated to form gametes with 8 chromosomes at anaphase I, suggesting a possible method for the production of primary trisomics from the progeny of autotriploid-diploid crosses. Fruit set of 3n  2n and 2n  3n were 80 and 70%, respectively. It obtained an average of 6.2 plump seeds per fruit in 3n  2n, while 4.9 in 2n  3n crosses. Transfer rates of gametes through the gastrula or the pollen in autotriploids were 13.4 and 10.4%, respectively. Some aneuploid gametes (n + 1 = 8, n + 2 = 9) also have capability of setting seed and sexual reproduction besides normal gametes containing whole chromosome sets (n = 7, 2n = 14). Further, some primary trisomic plants were selected from the progeny of autotriploid-diploid crosses. Based on the results obtained we suggest that abnormal meiosis in PMCs was the cytogenetic reason for low fertility of autotriploid cucumber pollen. 3n  2n cross was more efficient for selecting primary trisomic plants in cucumber.
23655183|The localized hybridization between Orchis mascula and O. provincialis in Sardinia is investigated. The two parental species are closely related and share the same pollinators but do not hybridize in any other areas of sympatry. Artificial crosses between the two species in areas of sympatry on the continent revealed that, in absence of an ethological isolation, a strong post-pollination barrier exists and preserves species integrity in the main part of their distribution. However, on Sardinia, morphological observations, karyological and molecular analyses of intermediate phenotypes confirmed the occurrence of hybridization between the insular O. mascula ssp. ichnusae and O. provincialis and the bi-directionality of pollen flow. The occurrence of hybrids on the island indicates a failure of otherwise strong post-pollination barriers between O. mascula and O. provincialis.
23645355|Rorippa amphibia and R. sylvestris are both self-incompatible, perennial species. In northern Germany they show a geographic pattern of interspecific gene flow: R. amphibia and R. sylvestris form a hybrid zone at the river Elbe but do not hybridise elsewhere in northern Germany. In the present paper we analyse the relationship between molecular diversity, seed set and seed germination within and outside the hybrid zone. In both species we observed high genetic variation and high seed set in the hybrid zone, and low genetic variation and low seed set outside the hybrid zone. In R. amphibia, high genetic variation is correlated with high seed set, but with low germination rates of the seeds. The results of an isolation experiment show that self-incompatibility is maintained in the parental species and their hybrids. The impact of genetic self-incompatibility on hybrid zone formation and hybrid fitness is discussed.
23644286|CpDNA variation in Japanese beech, Fagus crenata (Fagaceae), was studied in 45 populations distributed throughout the species' range. Two cpDNA regions were sequenced: the non-coding region between the trnL (UAA) 5exon and trnF (GAA), and the trnK region (including matK). Thirteen distinct cpDNA haplotypes were recognized and each haplotype was found to be geographically structured. Two major clades (I and II + III) were revealed in phylogenetic analyses among the haplotypes using F. sylvatica as an outgroup. The haplotypes of Clade I were distributed mainly along the Japan Sea side of the Japanese Archipelago, while those of Clade II + III occurred chiefly along the Pacific Ocean side. Consequently, the distribution of the two major cpDNA clades suggests that there were two migration routes in the history of F. crenata; one along the Japan Sea and the other along the Pacific Ocean side of the Japanese Islands.
23655546|Prunus is a large and economically important genus with considerable morphological variation. The evolution of vegetative and reproductive characters are examined here by parsimony reconstruction on trees obtained from data of ITS, trnL-trnF, trnS-trnG, and 25 morphological characters of 37 species of Prunus and representatives of eight other genera of Rosaceae. Prunus grayana is supported as the sister species to the rest of Prunus and the common ancestor of Prunus is reconstructed as having deciduous and serrated leaves, leafy racemes and fruit with well-developed pericarp. All diagnostic characters used in classification of the raceme-bearing species show some degree of convergent evolution and do not reflect phylogenetic relatedness. Some character states, such as evergreen foliage and entire leaf margin, are likely adaptations to environments with higher humidity and mean temperature. However, these hypotheses need to be tested by including species formerly classified in genus Pygeum, which were not available for this study. A clade consisting of subgenera Prunus, Amygdalus, Emplectocladus and section Microcerasus (formerly in subgenus Cerasus) is characterized by having axillary buds organized in groups of three, two of which give rise to flowers or inflorescences and one to a vegetative shoot. Fruits with thin pericarps are common in Prunus but they arose more than once independently. Dry fruits also evolved more than once, and only in species of Prunus living in arid environments, suggesting that this feature is another example of adaptation. Maddenia hypoleuca is nested within Prunus and the morphological characters used to segregate it from Prunus have been misinterpreted or are also found in species of Prunus previously classified in genus Pygeum.
43558130|Chromosome morphology and number in 28 species of Sinosenecio, two of Tephroseris and one of Nemosenecio (Senecioneae-Asteraceae) from China were investigated. Sinosenecio is revealed to have four basic chromosome numbers: x = 13, 24, 29, and 30, with 24 and 30 being predominant and 13 and 29 each occurring in one species only. The incidence of polyploidy is low in the genus. The karyotypes are all rather symmetrical and generally quite uniform in the species of similar chromosome number in respect of chromosome constitution, albeit with some variation in chromosome size among species. The pattern of basic chromosome numbers is largely congruent with results of floral micromorphological and molecular phylogenetic studies, and strongly indicates that Sinosenecio as currently construed is a polyphyletic group, badly needing a taxonomic re-circumscription at the generic level. We propose that only those Sinosenecio species with x = 30 should be retained in the newly defined genus, whereas those with x = 24 (rarely 13) (except for S. newcombei and S. koreanus which may find a home in Tephroseris) may be described as a new genus or preferably transferred to the genus Nemosenecio, and that S. hainanensis, the only Sinosenecio species having x = 29 and a suite of unique morphological and palynological characters, should be described as a new monospecific genus, Hainanecio, possibly positioned in the subtribe Senecioninae. When Sinosenecio is re-circumscribed in this way, not only does the genus Sinosenecio itself tend to be monophyletic, but the subtribe Tephroseridinae, which is composed of Nemosenecio, Sinosenecio, and Tephroseris, also may consequently become a better characterized and thus more acceptable group.
23673659|Ferulago antiochia Saya & Miski is newly described: it is known only from the type locality in Hatay province and has affinities to F. trachycarpa Boiss. of sect. Anisotaenia.
23642593|The endemic Macaronesian members of the genus Echium (Boraginaceae) were examined anatomically to elucidate their relationships. Vessel length to breadth ratio was used as the initial guide to the relative primitive or derived nature of each taxon. Together with other features (e.g. trichome structure) it was possible to establish the phylogenetic pathways within this recently evolved relict group (Fig. 1).
23642558|A Chrysosphaerella species with characteristics of both C. longispina Lauterborn emend. Korshikov and C. multispina Bradley was found to be common in several lakes in Ontario, Canada. Observations of scale and spine structure with both optical and transmission electron microscopes strongly suggest that C. longispina and C. multispina are conspecific. Emended descriptions of the genus Chrysosphaerella and of its type species C. longispina are given. A revised key to genera in the Synuraceae has been constructed which makes the recently proposed subgenus Pseudochrysosphaerella Preisig & Tak. redundant and also provides for the distinction between Chrysosphaerella and the related genus Spiniferomonas based on the morphology of their siliceous spines.
23668873|The mating system of seven sympatric taxa of Chamaecrista occurring in the Chapada Diamantina Mountains, northeastern Brazil, was studied to determine the occurrence of self-incompatibility and interspecific genetic isolation mechanisms within the group. Self- and cross-pollination experiments and inter-taxon bidirectional crosses were performed. All of the populations were self-compatible and showed high percentages of spontaneous seed abortion on both self- and cross-pollinated fruits. The inter-incompatibility among the taxa of Chamaecrista is directed by different mechanisms depending on their degrees of phylogenetic proximity. In the crosses between closely related taxa (same clade), seed inviability was observed in the crossing pairs C. desvauxii var. graminea  C. desvauxii var. latistipula, and C. chapadae  C. glaucofilix. Inter-compatibility between species of the same clade occurred in C. blanchetii and C. confertiformis, with the formation of viable seeds. Pre-zygotic gametophytic reproductive isolation was observed among taxa of different clades, without penetration of the pollen tube into the ovule, or post-zygotic isolation through embryo or endosperm inviability, with abortion of the seeds. Inter-incompatibility represents an important factor in reproductive isolation and thus in the maintenance of the genetic identity of sympatric taxa that flower in synchrony and share pollinators.
23642978|Crocus speciosus is a widely distributed autumn-flowering species showing considerable variation in its morphological characters. Three subspecies are recognised, two of which are endemic to small areas of Turkey. The third, subsp. speciosus, occurs in a much wider area and contains a number of different cytotypes. C. pulchellus is a distinct but closely related species. The morphological relationships between the species and subspecies are discussed and a key to the taxa is provided. Cytological data are given and a distribution map of the cytotypes is provided. A detailed study of the leaf anatomy is presented.
23673136|We compared the floral morphologies, floral scents, and flower visitor compositions of Weigela coraeensis var. coraeensis on the Japanese mainland and its variety fragrans endemic to the Izu Islands to examine the differentiation process of W. coraeensis var. fragrans. The corolla lengths of W. coraeensis were smaller on the Izu Islands than those on the mainland and decreased gradually with the distance from the mainland, probably resulting from changes in pollinator fauna. A total of 13 volatile compounds were identified in the floral scent analyses, and limonene was produced at the highest level, although the floral scents were not different between var. coraeensis and var. fragrans. In this study, it was suggested that the pollinator fauna peculiar to the Izu Islands influenced the morphological differentiation of W. coraeensis var. fragrans.
23674110|Chromosome studies of four Himalayan Torilis species reveal a remarkable inter- and intraspecific differentiation of chromosome numbers and karyotypes: T. arvensis (2n = 12), T. leptophylla (2n = 12), T. Stocksiana (2n = 36) and T. japonica (2n = 16). Base numbers in Torilis are x = 6, 8, 9 and 11.
23668874|To establish relationships among the genera Blepharocalyx, Luma, and Myrceugenia, the phylogeny of tribe Myrteae was reconstructed based on secondary structures of the sequences of ITS (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) and ETS regions from 93 taxa belonging to 29 genera. The DNA sequences were aligned according to their secondary structure and analysed with Bayesian inference (BI) using base substitution models for RNA, which can differentiate between the regions consisting of base pairs (helices) and unpaired bases (loops). The best-fit models were RNA7C for ITS and RNA7B for ETS, which differ in how they predict double substitutions and symmetry of the frequency of base pairs. The phylogenetic hypothesis was compared with results obtained using classical 4-state models, the results of maximum parsimony, and using sequence alignment without considering the secondary structure. Analyses show low support along the backbone of the consensus trees, those using substitution models of paired sites showing more highly supported derived clades than substitution models of independent sites. All tests were consistent and differed in the positioning of certain groups, but they also showed that Blepharocalyx, Luma, and Myrceugenia arise from three independent lineages that are not closely related. The substitution model for RNA shows that Luma is a monophyletic group and sister to the other genera of Myrteae, except for Myrtus communis. Myrceugenia appears as a monophyletic group, except for M. fernandeziana, which is related to Blepharocalyx, a genus that appears to be biphyletic.
23643372|Astragalus maniaticus (Fabaceae), a new species endemic to the Mani Peninsula in Peloponnisos, southern Greece, is described and illustrated. Its closest affinities are still uncertain but within Greece, it lacks close allies.
43558175|In this study, the pollen morphology of 18 wild taxa of Lathyrus L. grown in Turkey: L pallescens (Bieb.) Koch, L. brachypterus Cel., L. haussknechtii Sirj., L. karsianus P. H. Davis, L. satdaghensis P. H. Davis, L. nivalis Hand.-Mazz, L. atropatanus (Grossh.) Sir., L. armenus (Boiss. and Huet) Sirj., L. cyaneus (Stev.) Koch var. cyaneus, L. cyaneus var. pinnatus Davis, L. digitatus (Bieb.) Fiori, L. tukhtensis Czecz., L. variabilis (Boiss. and Ky.) Maly, L. spathulatus Cel. L. elongatus (Bornm.) Sirj., L. cilicicus Hayek and Siehe, L boissieri Sirj., and L. bitlisicus Pemen was examined by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The pollen grains were 3-zonocolporate, of spheroidal-subprolate-prolate (P/E = 0.957-1.252) types, and medium in size. Equatorial view: rectangular or elliptical-obtuse-convex, polar view: circular, triangular or quinquangular-obtuse-convex. The smallest pollen grains belonged to L. elongatus (P = 36.972/E = 38.636) and the largest to L. cyaneus var. cyaneus (P = 46.332/E = 32.864). The ornamentation was perforate-foveolate or slightly reticulate. Some photographs included in this work were taken using both light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy.
23655690|Seeds of 30 species of Moehringia and 12 representatives of the Caryophyllaceae were examined with the Scanning Electron Microscope. High diversity was found in seed coat micromorphology, and a number of novel morphological features have been observed. Comparison with other representatives of the Caryophyllaceae has provided new insight into the potential taxonomic value of discrete morphological characters. Though many characters appear informative within Moehringia, they are affected by a high level of homoplasy when considered in a wider phylogenetic context. Smooth seed is the common condition in Moehringia, except for Eastern Balkan and Iberian species that maintain a secondary ornamentation of the testa cells resembling the plesiomorphic Caryophyllaceae-type. Five types of strophioles were recognized, in accordance with previous literature. Among these, the strophiole of the Iberian species appears very distinctive and a proper strophiole could not be verified in M. glochidisperma and M. fontqueri.
43558194|We report the molecular analysis of the 5S ribosomal RNA intergenic spacer (IGS) region from 57 Vigna species of subgenus Vigna. Sequence analysis revealed that the 5S IGS was highly variable in length (189-237 bp) and sequence (58% polymorphic sites). Most of the Vigna species analysed harboured a single type of 5S rRNA repeat unit, except V. unguiculata and V. reticulata that showed multiple 'intragenomic' 5S types. The intragenomic 5S types among the six V. unguiculata subspecies were characterized by PCR-RFLP, genomic RFLP and sequencing. The 5S IGS was phylogenetically informative (comparable to ITS-1 and ITS-2 spacers) in inferring species relationships among the Vigna species analysed. However, due to the presence of multiple intragenomic 5S types and their incomplete homogenization among V. unguiculata subspecies the relationships in section Catiang could not be resolved below species level. The results presented indicate that intraspecies hybridization might have resulted in the 'horizontal transfer' of 5S types among the V. unguiculata subspecies, while their maintenance could be due to a slow molecular drive.
23643780|We report here on a series of specimens of charcoalified sorophores with characteristics of the extant fern genus Lygodium (Schizaeaceae) collected from sediments of the Raritan Formation (Late Cretaceous). Each elongate lobed fertile pinnule (sorophore) is flattened and bears alternately arranged sporangia on one surface. Each sporangium is covered by an indusium continuous with the margin of the lamina. Sporangia are oblong in shape, short stalked, and have an apical annulus formed by a single ring of radiating cells that dehisces longitudinally. The 'sporangial cap' or 'distal face' is formed by only one cell. All of these features are characteristic of the extant genus Lygodium. Small numbers of trilete, psilate spores are found in the sporangia. Megafossils assignable to Lygodium are known from the Upper Cretaceous of North America and Germany with worldwide distribution during the Tertiary. The new Lygodium fossils are compared with others previously referred to the genus.
23655156|The Aconitum delavayi complex consists of six climbing diploid species distributed mainly in the Hengduan Mountains of China. In order to clarify the circumscription and relationships among species within the complex, RAPD markers were employed to examine the differentiation of 18 populations representing all the six species. The PCO and cluster analyses of RAPD data indicated that the Aconitum delavayi complex comprises three different clusters. The first cluster consists exclusively of A. episcopale populations, which indicates that A. episcopale is a very distinct species, in good agreement with our previous allozyme and ITS data. The second cluster includes one A. campylorrhynchum population and all the A. henryi populations from the northern Hengduan Mountains region and its neighbor areas. The third cluster consists of the populations of A. delavayi, A. stapfianum, A. tuguancunense and A. campylorrhynchum from the southern Hengduan Mountains region. The little genetic differentiation among populations of A. stapfianum, A. delavayi and A. tuguancunense suggests that they would better be treated as a single species. The fact that A. campylorrhynchum populations appear in two different clusters demonstrates that A. campylorrhynchum comprises two different species.
23673886|The contribution of John Gilmour to the philosophy of taxonomy, particularly regarding the concept of natural classification, is discussed. The use of the term by the main schools of taxonomy  phenetic, evolutionary and cladistic  is discussed. It is suggested that classification should be related to the way in which the human brain perceives pattern in nature, and recent developments in optical components, neural computers and random problem solving are considered.
23642557|Observations on two natural and one artificial distylous populations of Primula veris in Britain revealed very high proportions of intramorph pollen on pin stigmas and moderate proportions of intermorph pollen on thrum stigmas. The average ratio of pin: thrum pollen production per flower was 2.4:1. Large amounts of pollen remained in dehisced anthers, perhaps reflecting low levels of pollinator activity. Population size and density had no clear effect on pollen flow patterns, which are asymmetrical for the two morphs.
23655556|The karyotypes of five Brazilian species of Echinodorus; E. bolivianus, E. grandiflorus, E. longipetalus, E. macrophyllus and E. tenellus (Alismataceae); were studied using C-banding, CMA3/DAPI banding and fluorescence in situ hybridization with a 45S rDNA probe. There were few differences in the G-C rich regions of the five species, but marked differences were seen in the number and position of C-bands, A-T rich regions and 45S rDNA sites. Overall, these characteristics were species-specific, with the exception of E. bolivianus and E. tenellus, which were highly similar in all of the karyotypic characteristics studied.
43496796|This study concerns the evaluation of micromorphological and anatomical characters of fruit (achenecypsela) in 12 Turkish endemic Tripleurospermum taxa using multivariate analyses (cluster analysis, principal component analysis, one-way analysis of variance). Pericarp in all taxa examined is mainly composed of several layers of parenchymatous and sclerenchymatous cells with one vascular bundle in each rib. In the achene, the thickness and width of lateral and adaxial ribs with presence or absence of a slime envelope have high taxonomic value for Tripleurospermum at interspecific levels. The slime envelope formation is also correlated with ploidy levels and habitats of some taxa in Tripleurospermum.
23674492|A morphological and anatomical description of the floral syndrome of Nierembergia is given, including a survey of the presence of elaiophores in most of its species, chromatography of the floral oils and observations on the pollinator behaviour. The principal pollinators are Tapinotaspis spp. including T. chalybaea which is endowed with oil collectors on the middle legs. Other exomalopsines (Lanthanomelissa and Paratetrapedia) and centridines (Centris) also visit Nierembergia for pollen and oil. Based on these observations and on a morphological study of the fertile parts, different pollination modes are recognized and the biogeography and evolution of the genus is discussed.
23673965|Justicia brevipedunculata, a new species of J. sect. Ansellia endemic to Tanzania, is described and illustrated. Detailed palynological information is given, and relationships to other species of the section are discussed.
23670057|Veronica fridericae spec. nova, described from the type locality in the S.E. Turkish province Van, is related to V. acrotheca and V. farinosa, both endemic to W. Iran. All 8 perennial species with pinnatifid leaves in S.W. Asia are presented in a key.
23674101|(1) The ability to produce cephalodia is usually a genus-specific character in lichens. (2) Lecidea shushanii Thoms., is a member of the genus Tephromela, closely related to T. aglaea. It is not clear, whether or not the cephalodia of this taxon are true cephalodia or colonies of epiphytic cyanobacteria and whether or not Lecidea shushanii is an independent species. (3) Lecidea dovrensis Nyl., is, in contrast to the traditional concept, not conspecific with Lecidea alpestris Sommerf., but an earlier name for Lecidea pallida Th. Fr. (4) Lecidea dovrensis is described in some detail. Chemically the species is characterized by the presence of isousnic acid (previously unknown in lecideoid lichens). It is restricted to areas north of the 60th parallel with an oceanic climate. (5) In connection with the attempt to clarify the taxonomic relationships of Lecidea dovrensis, figures of ascus apical structures of the following species are given (marked by an asterisk are genera where we found discrepancies with published data): Austrolecia antarctica, Catillaria chalybeia, Lecidea alpestris, L. caesioatra, L. limosa, Lecidoma demissum, Koerberiella wimmeriana, Micarea assimilata, M. crassipes, M. melaenida, M. prasina, Pilophorus robustus, Placodiella olivacea, Placolecis opaca, Porpidia trullisata, Protoblastenia rupestris, Psilolechia lucida, Psorula rufonigra, Squamarina gypsacea, Xanthopsorella texana. (6) Among crustaceous lichens we find no groups related to Lecidea dovrensis. We support Timal's concept of including this species in the genus Pilophorus. Pilophorus, as well as Lecidea dovrensis is characterized by the same ascus type, by a similar structure of thallus, cephalodia, paraphyses, and ascocarp (although there is no pseudopodetium developed in Lecidea dovrensis), and the presence of isousnic acid. In addition, both taxa are restricted to cool oceanic climates and non-calciferous substrates. The following combination is proposed: Pilophorus dovrensis (Nyl.) Timdal, Hertel & Rambold, comb. nova. (7) The species of the Lecidea alpestris-group form an independent genus, probably near to Austrolecia Hertel.
23674075|The distinctive spores produced by Lophosoria, an extant monotypic fern, are examined ultrastructurally and correlated with the sporoderm of fossil Cyatheacidites. The morphological and ultrastructural similarity of the two taxa provide additional information that can be used to trace the evolutionary history of this spore type.
43496794|The karyotypes of nine Tanacetum taxa distributed in north-east Anatolia, Turkey, were determined and evaluated by cluster analysis and principal-components analysis. Chromosome numbers were 2n = 2x = 18 (8 taxa) and 4x = 36 (1 taxon). Somatic chromosome numbers of two taxa and a new ploidy level in one taxon are reported for the first time. Karyotype analysis indicated that chromosomes of Tanacetum taxa have predominantly median centromeres. The taxa studied differed significantly in the size of the short arms and long arms, and the arm ratio of each pair of homologous chromosomes, indicating structural rearrangements of the chromosomes have been involved in diversification of the taxa. They were placed in 2A, 3A, and 2B of Stebbins' karyotype classification, showing the presence of a primitive symmetrical karyotype in the genus. Several systematic and evolutionary aspects of the genus are discussed on the basis of karyological data.
23670052|The somatic karyotypes of six North American Allium species and the European A. scorzonerifolium have been investigated using a Giemsa C-banding technique. All species have a chromosome number of 2 n = 14. In A. scorzonerifolium and the three North American species A. dichlamydeum, A. fibrillum and A. unifolium C-bands are restricted to two pairs of nucleolar chromosomes. Each chromosome has a band proximal to the nucleolar constriction and a positively banded satellite. In A. acuminatum, in addition to the bands associated with the nucleolar constrictions, all chromosomes also have pericentromeric bands. A. cernuum exhibits a distinctive banding style: two chromosome pairs with bands adjacent to the nucleolar constrictions and four pairs with telomeric bands on their short arms. In the karyotype of A. geyeri neither C-bands nor nucleolar chromosomes were found.A comparison of the banding styles together with other cytological and morphological characters of these species with old world members of Allium reveals: A. cernuum closely resembles species within subgenus Rhizirideum, whereas the other species studies exhibit many similarities with subgenus Molium. Their sectional grouping and their relationships with Old World species are discussed.
23643263|Taxonomic relationships amongst the genera of the southern African tribes Podalyrieae and Liparieae are discussed. Data gained from morphological, cytological and chemical investigations are analyzed cladistically to determine relationships. The genus Cadia (tribe Sophoreae) is included in the investigation to establish whether it should be transferred to the Podalyrieae. The results clearly indicate that the Podalyrieae and Liparieae are monophyletic and that they should be united, but that Hypocalyptus and Cadia should be excluded. Within the monophyletic group, there are two distinct subclades each supported by three apomorphies. The results also show that there is a strong sister relationship between Amphithalea and Coelidium. In the taxonomic treatment the Liparieae are placed into synonymy under the Podalyrieae and two subtribes are recognized. A key to the genera in the tribe is given, followed by a synopsis of the genera.
23643379|The biology, ecology, and distribution of Selenicereus (Strophocactus) wittii, one of the least known taxa of Cactaceae, are described. This epiphyte climbs appressed to tree trunks with leaf-like, flattened stems and is found exclusively along the high waterline of black water rivers (Rio Negro, Vaups, Apaporis) in the Igap inundation forests of Amazonia. Ecophysiologically, S. wittii is a crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) plant. It bears white, nocturnal flowers 25 cm in length which emit a fragrance consisting mainly of benzylalcohol, benzyl benzoate, and benzyl salicylate. They exhibit an extreme sphingophilous syndrome as an adaptation to pollination by probably only two species of hawkmoth from the genera Amphimoena and Cocytius. The seeds, aberrant for the family, contain air-filled chambers and are water-dispersed. Thus, S. wittii represents the paradoxical life form of an hydrochorous epiphytic cactus which withstands periodical inundation.
23643636|Genetic diversity in an insular endemic plant Aster asa-grayi was examined using enzyme electrophoresis. Distribution of A. asa-grayi is restricted to only four subtropical islands of Japan, and this species is listed as 'vulnerable to extinction' in the Red Data Book of Japanese wild plants. A total of 161 individuals were sampled from five populations on four islands. Genetic diversity values at the population level were very low, compared to other plant species with a similar life history. Genetic variability at the species level is comparable to the mean value of endemic species. Genetic differentiation among populations is extremely high (GST = 0.71), indicating that the gene flow among populations is highly impeded, and pollen and seed dispersal is limited due to the pollinators and the seed morphology. This is because the four islands are geographically isolated. Fixation indices suggested that most populations do not randomly cross. To conserve the genetic diversity of the species, artificial crossings among different island populations are necessary.
23654204|A widely cultivated fern with dimorphic sterile and fertile pinnae, abundant production of vegetative bulbils, and aborted spores is described as Asplenium lucrosum Perrie et Brownsey nothosp. nov. It has previously been confused with A. bulbiferum, with which it shares the production of bulbils. Evidence from chloroplast DNA sequences and morphology is presented for the origin of A.  lucrosum, probably in cultivation, as a hybrid between the New Zealand endemic A. bulbiferum and the Norfolk Island endemic A. dimorphum. The confusion of A. bulbiferum with A.  lucrosum has led to the latter being used inadvertently in revegetation projects in New Zealand where it is has become a 'casual' adventive through its vegetative bulbil propagation.
23645016|The presence of copia-like retrotransposons has been investigated in genus Setaria by using PCR amplification with degenerated primers to conserved motifs of the predicted reverse transcriptase (RT) Ty1-copia-like protein sequence. Amplification products from each genotype of Setaria grass species with different genomic composition (A versus B) and different ploidy levels (2n = 18 and 2n = 36) were cloned and sequenced. Sequence analysis of RT clones revealed a high degree of similarity between sequences of the deduced amino acid and RT from diverse plants including mono- and dicotyledon species. Cluster analysis of these sequences has shown a great heterogeneity among RT domains cloned from different Setaria species and even from the same species. FISH analysis using the cloned RT sequences as probes on metaphase chromosomes showed that these sequences were dispersed throughout the genome, albeit excluded from the nucleolus-organizing regions. These characteristics make copia-like retrotransposon clones good candidates to study the genetic structure of the S. italica (foxtail millet) gene pool.
23674591|Three taxa are distinguished in the section Phleum Griseb. in Poland: P. nodosum (2n = 14), P. pratense (2n = 42), and the third one unformally named here P. "commutatum" (2n = 14). It corresponds morphologically to P. commutatum Gaud. reported as a tetraploid taxon (2n = 28) from other geographic regions. Giemsa C-banded karyotypes of these three taxa help clarify the taxonomic status of P. "commutatum" and the origin of the hexaploid P. pratense. It is suggested that changes in the amount of telomeric heterochromatin played an important role in the evolution of Phleum karyotypes.
23642140|Most Madagascar Bignoniaceae have indehiscent fruits and have been assigned to the tribe Crescentieae. As thus constituted, the Crescentieae are remarkably disjunct between Central America (and the West Indies) and Madagascar with a single monotypic genus also on continental Africa. This paper analyzes the evolutionary relationships of the Madagascar Crescentieae and concludes that they are descended from a different ancestral stock than the New World Crescentieae. A revised tribal taxonomy is proposed to reflect phylogenetic relationships with Crescentieae restricted to the neotropic species and Coleeae resurrected for the indehiscent-fruited Madagascar species.
23642507|The toxicity of various Cu and Zn concentrations, as well as their mutual influence upon tolerant and non-tolerant clones of Agrostis tenuis originating from soils of different metal content has been studied. Specific resistance has been clearly established. Co-existence of toxic metals causes an increase in toxicity. Uptake of metals (Cu and Zn) obviously occurs rather independently, and the toxic activity of the one is not affected competitively by the presence of the other. Above normal concentrations of Cu and Zn negatively affect cell division and growth in roots of non-tolerant genotypes. There is less ability to store metals than in tolerant genotypes.
23673740|The pollen wall ultrastructure of the primitive Angiosperm Lactoris fernandeziana Phil. (Lactoridaceae) is described. The monosulcate aperture, granular wall structure and sacci (all primitive features) suggest placement of this family in the Magnoliales. Pollen of Lactoris is compared to fossil dispersed pollen from the Lower and lower-Upper Cretaceous. The fossil pollen shares characteristics which are restricted to the Lactoridaceae suggesting that this family was present during the early Cretaceous.
23674820|The alkane and fatty acid composition of the lipid extracts from leaves of 14 populations of Condalia: C. microphylla f. xanthocarpa, C. microphylla f. erythrocarpa, C. microphylla f. melanocarpa, C. montana, and C. buxifolia, were determined by gas chromatography. Seventeen alkanes and 14 fatty acids were investigated and a predominance of nonacosane, hentriacontane, palmitic and linoleic acids in all species was found.
23656089|The Mediterranean harbours the highest number of Hedera (Araliaceae) species, lineages, ploidy levels, and trichome morphologies of any area where the genus occurs. Previous molecular and cytogenetic studies identified two main centres of diversity for Hedera (Araliaceae), the eastern and western parts of the Mediterranean region. An explicit analysis of key traits was performed to investigate geographical patterns and ancestral character states of ivy lineages. Interestingly, the greatest diversity of Hedera was found in the western Mediterranean, including the three species of Macaronesia (H. azorica in the Azores, H. maderensis in Madeira and H. canariensis in the Canary Islands). Phylogenetic and phylogeographical analyses of the nrITS and plastid trnT-L sequences revealed multiple connections between the Mediterranean region and Asia, and suggest recurrent colonization between these two areas. Reconstruction of three important characters long used to distinguish members of the genus (trichome types, ploidy levels, and geographical areas) suggests that a diploid species with scale-like trichomes from the Mediterranean basin was the most recent common ancestor of the extant species of Hedera.
23643315|Feulgen and silver-stained karyotypes and meiosis of two triploid viviparous onion forms (Allium cepa var. viviparum), the Croatian "Ljutika" and the Indian "Pran", were comparatively analyzed. The results of chromosome measurements show that "Ljutika" and "Pran" are karyologically not identical, although significant similarities were found in the morphology of their chromosomes. Five geographically distant clones of "Ljutika" showed good agreement in the number and gross morphology of the chromosomes and in the number and position of NORs and interphase nucleoli. Heterotrivalents were predominant in meiosis of "Ljutika" but a relatively high frequency of higher multivalents together with univalents and bivalents were also observed. The relationship between "Ljutika" and "Pran" and their possible origin are discussed.
23656050|Aegilops geniculata Roth is an annual grass relative to cultivated wheats and is widely distributed in North Africa. In order to understand the diversity of this species, 14 populations collected in different bioclimatic areas in northern Algeria were analyzed using morphological and biochemical characters. Principal component analyses (PCA) based on the inflorescence characters and ecological parameters allowed the separation of populations in two mainly bioclimatic clusters characterized by different morphological patterns. Populations originated from humid and sub-humid coastal areas were characterized by vigorous spikes. Samples collected from intermediate and high mountains with humid and semi-arid conditions had long and lanceolate spikes. Individuals with small and narrow spikes were characteristics of steppic highlands in semi-arid conditions and high mountains with humid bioclimate. Individuals were distinguished successively by spike width, spike length, rachis length and awns number. Electrophoretic analyses of high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) based on the phenotypic variability and genetic distances revealed a significant variation within and between populations associated with bioclimatic conditions, in particular winter temperature. Genetic diversity was higher in populations growing under warm bioclimates than in those from cold bioclimates. These results suggest that a part of the variation for HMW glutenin variability is adaptive.
43558274|Intrachromosomal asymmetry, one of the two aspects of karyotype asymmetry, increases because of shifts of the centromere position from the median/submedian to terminal or subterminal. Conventional measures of asymmetry use comparisons with the most symmetrical karyotype and thus are an absolute measure of variation in the centromeric index. Conversely, the CVCI index, the coefficient of variation for the centromeric index, only evaluates the relative variation in the centromeric index. We performed a detailed analysis of the capability of the CVCI index and conventional measures of karyotype asymmetry to accurately characterize differences in intrachromosomal asymmetry. Our results show that the CVCI index is unable to accurately evaluate intrachromosomal asymmetry. In fact, the CVCI index evaluates a different measure than other conventional measures of karyotype asymmetry. Therefore, to avoid confusion, we propose that the variation evaluated by the CVCI index should be named heterogeneity of the centromeric index.
23645305|Competition for pollination may occur between pollinator-sharing sympatric plants and this may cause character displacement of their floral traits. We examined this possibility by comparing flower morphology of the sympatric population of Clerodendrum trichotomum and its co-flowering congener, C. izuinsulare, with that of the allopatric populations. The two species were visited in common by such insects as diurnal hawkmoths, bees, swallowtails and nocturnal hawkmoths, and were pollinated nocturnally as well as diurnally. Interspecific pollen transfer can occur by sharing pollinators; however, they did not hybridize when artificially pollinated. Flower size, including stamen and style lengths, is larger in C. trichotomum with an overlap in range. The style of C. izuinsulare in the sympatric population was significantly shorter than that in the allopatric population, while there was no significant difference in style length between the allopatric and the sympatric C. trichotomum. This seems to facilitate avoidance of interspecific pollen transfer in the sympatric population.
23642159|The group (stirps) Laccaria laccata, consisting of seven species and numerous varieties around L. laccata and L. tetraspora, is an accumulation of closely related microspecies or ecotypes. In order to be able to undertake sexuality studies, particularly on the interfertility degree between representatives of these microspecies and varieties, it is necessary to first elaborate the specific and infraspecific taxonomy which is worked out in the present paper whereby all taxa are defined and keyed out. Where full descriptions are not available these are provided. New varieties here proposed are: L. laccata var. vulcanica Veselsk et Sing. in Sing., var. nova; var. subalpina Sing., var. nova; var. peladae (Sing.) Sing., comb. nova; var. tatrensis Sing., var. nova; var. intermedia Sing., var. nova.
43558592|Sequence-related amplified polymorphism (SRAP) was used to assess the genetic diversity of 63 cultivated, wild, and ornamental pomegranate genotypes from five different geographical regions of Iran. A total of 250 fragments were amplified using 13 primer combinations; among these, 133 bands (53 %) were polymorphic. The average PIC value was 0.28 over all PCs. The genetic distance among genotypes ranged from 0.10 to 0.37 with an average of 0.24. Cluster analysis using the neighborjoining (NJ) method suggested there are close relationships between ornamental and some wild genotypes. Although AMOVA results revealed significant differences in the genetic diversity among the regions (P = 0.0048), the genetic variation was mainly caused by variation of intra regions. The results indicated low genetic differentiation (Fst = 0.025) and high gene flow (Nm = 2.28) among regions. These results confirmed that SRAP markers could be powerful tools and an effective marker system for determining the genetic diversity and population genetic structure of the pomegranate.
23673258|A phylogenetic analysis of the New World genus Cuphea was conducted employing sequences from the nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and chloroplast trnL-trnF spacer and rpl16 intron. The analysis expands the number of Cuphea species from 53 in an earlier ITS study to 70 and adds two chloroplast data sets in order to generate a more complete and robust phylogeny and to test a previous result that suggested the presence of a large North American clade. Results reaffirm the monophyly of Cuphea with Pleurophora as the sister genus and recover a basal divergence event that mirrors the two subgenera of the current classification. Phylogenies of the two chloroplast regions are largely unresolved beyond the initial dichotomy and some resolution at the terminal and subterminal nodes. Based on the ITS phylogeny, five major clades are recognized. Subgenus Cuphea (Clade 1), defined morphologically by the synapomorphic loss of bracteoles, is sister to the much larger subg. Bracteolatae (Clades 25). Clades 24, comprising the South American and Caribbean species, grade successively to Clade 5, an exclusively North American lineage of 29 species. Among the 12 sections included in the study, only section Trispermum, a subclade of Clade 4, is monophyletic. Sectoin Pseudocircaea is nested within Clade 3, which is largely equivalent to section Euandra. The North American endemic clade includes four sections, of which none are recovered as monophyletic in this study.
23673187|Genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) with Secale cereale cv. 'Jingzhou rye' DNA as a probe to chromosomes of hexaploid triticale line Fenzhi-1 revealed that not only were all chromosomes of rye strongly hybridized along the entire chromosome length, but there were also stronger signals in terminal or subtelomeric regions. This pattern of hybridization signals is referred to as GISH banding. After GISH banding, sequential fluorescene in situ hybridizaion (FISH) with tandem repeated sequence pSc200 and pSc250 as probes showed that the chromosomal distribution of pSc200 is highly coincident with the GISH banding pattern, suggesting that GISH banding revealed chromosomal distribution of pSc200 in rye. In addition, FISH using pSc200 and pSc250 as probes to chromosomes of 11 species of the genus Secale and two artificial amphiploids (Triticum aestivum-S. strictum subsp. africanum amphiploid and Aegilops tauschii-S. silvestre amphiploid) showed that (1) the chromosomal distribution of pSc200 and pSc250 differed greatly in Secale species, and the trend towards an increase in pSc200 and pSc250 binding sites from wild species to cultivated rye suggested that pSc200 and pSc250 sequences gradually accumulated during Secale evolution; (2) the chromosomal distribution of pSc200 and pSc250 presented polymorphism on homologous chromosomes, suggesting that the same species has two heterogeneous homologous chromosomes; (3) the intensity and number of hybridization signals varied differently on chromosomes between pSc200 and pSc250, suggesting that each repetitive family evolved independently.
43496767|In flowers of Chimonanthus (Calycanthaceae), stamen movements have been known for 150 years. Stamens are initially recurved when flowers open. Subsequently, within approximately 48 h, the stamens gradually turn upright and eventually enclose the gynoecium. However, the exact mechanism involved in this process is still unresolved. In this study, we found that in recurved stamens at the female stage the cell lengths in the epidermal and hypodermal tissue of the abaxial surfaces were significantly smaller than those of the adaxial surfaces. In erect stamens, however, no significant difference in cell length between the hypodermal tissues of both surfaces was found. Although the difference in cell length between the epidermal tissues for erect stamens was significant, it was smaller than that in recurved filaments. We found no variations in cell number between the epidermal tissues or between the hypodermal tissues among recurved and erect stamens. Thus, we conclude that in Chimonanthus the differential cell growth rates between the adaxial and abaxial surfaces of filaments could account for the gradual inward stamen movement following flower opening rather than cell division. Furthermore, application of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and gibberellic acid (GA) to intact flowers in vitro or the wounding of stigmas significantly promoted the stamen erection rate. Surprisingly, we did not observe any effect on this movement following hand-pollination. Different patterns of stamen movement in Calycanthaceae and their implications for reproductive biology are also discussed.
43558061|Opuntia spp. belong to the Cactaceae family and are native to Central America. The most economically important species is O. ficus indica, cultivated both for fruits and cladodes. The genus includes other important edible species (from diploid to octoploid) that occur worldwide as either wild or cultivated species in many arid or semiarid areas (e.g., the Mediterranean region). Several accessions are cultivated in different growing regions, but little is known about their ancestries and levels of genetic diversity. The aim of this study was to investigate the level of intraspecific genetic diversity among O. ficus indica cultivated varieties and some related species. Specifically, six highly polymorphic simple sequence repeats (SSR) and two expressed sequence tag (EST)-SSR loci were investigated in 62 wild and cultivated genotypes belonging to 16 Opuntia species. The clusters identified by the distance and model-based analyses clearly separated the wild opuntias from the cultivated ones. However, the O. ficus indica accessions did not cluster separately from other arborescent cactus pear species, such as O. amyclaea, O. megacantha, O. streptacantha, O. fusicaulis, and O. albicarpa, indicating that their current taxonomical classifications do not fit with their genetic variability. In general, the genotypes cultivated in Mexico showed high levels of diversity, whereas most of the spineless accessions collected in other countries had a very narrow genetic base. This study increases our knowledge of the variability among some of the most diffused Opuntia cultivated accessions. This study also points to the inconsistencies of previous taxonomical genotype assignments that were based solely on morphological characteristics.
23655157|Nutlets of Hemigenia R.Br. and Microcorys R.Br. were examined using SEM. Significant variation, mainly useful at the infrageneric level, was found in nutlet shape, nature of the attachment scar, nature of surface sculpturing, exocarp cell shape and sculpturing, and nature of the indumentum. Typical nutlets are ovoidal, strongly reticulate or rugose. The exocarp cells are isodiametric and convex to papillate. Also common are cylindrical nutlets, often with longitudinal ridging and papillate exocarp cells. Surface pitting and concave exocarp cells are rare. A cladistic analysis of nutlet characters suggests both Hemigenia and Microcorys are polyphyletic, and Microcorys paraphyletic with respect to Westringia Sm. Notwithstanding that, the infrageneric classification of Hemigenia was largely supported, while in Microcorys, there was support for sect. Hemigenioides, but sects. Anisandra and Microcorys were not resolved as distinct.
23645064|Spartina alterniflora, a perennial grass native to the North American Atlantic coast, was introduced during the 19th century in western Europe (Southern England and western France) where it hybridized with the native Spartina maritima. In England, the sterile hybrid S.  townsendii gave rise by chromosome doubling to the highly fertile allopolyploid Spartina anglica, which has now invaded many salt marshes and estuaries in western Europe, and has been introduced in several continents. In South-West France, another sterile hybrid was discovered in 1892 in the Bidassoa Estuary, and named Spartina  neyrautii. According to their morphology, some authors suggested that S.  neyrautii and S.  townsendii result from reciprocal crosses. During the 20th century, the hybridization site was severely disturbed, and surviving of S.  neyrautii was questioned. In this paper, various Spartina populations are investigated in the Basque region (France and Spain), and compared to the hybrid taxa formed in England (S.  townsendii and S. anglica). The samples were analyzed using molecular fingerprinting (RAPD and ISSR) and Chloroplast DNA sequence (trnL-trnT spacer, trnL intron and trnL-trnF spacer). In the Bidassoa estuary, a hybrid isolated clone has been found, that displays additive species-specific nuclear markers of S. maritima and S. alterniflora, and that is subsequently considered as a surviving clone of S.  neyrautii. The molecular analyses indicate that S.  neyrautii and S.  townsendii share the same maternal (S. alterniflora), and paternal (S. maritima) parental species, but also that the two independent hybridization events have involved different parental (nuclear) genotypes in England and in South-West France.
23644236|The origins of wild melon (Cucumis melo) populations in the New World have been in question since their initial description in the mid-nineteenth century by Charles Naudin. Typically, these populations have been assumed to represent escaped forms of cultivated vars. chito or dudaim, and have been labelled accordingly, or more rarely as var. agrestis. To clarify the origins of New World melons, North American, chito, and dudaim accessions were studied with respect to 45 quantitative and 10 qualitative morphological and physiological characters. Also collected were RAPD and SSR data for 42 North American populations, 10 cultivar accessions of vars. chito and dudaim, 10 other small-fruited Old World accessions, and 4 other varieties of C. melo  vars. conomon, flexuosus, inodorus, and cantalupensis. All data revealed that New World populations are distinct, and should be classified as ssp. agrestis var. texanus Naudin. This variety showed the greatest genetic affinities to var. chito and to cultivars from Eastern Asia, including var. conomon.
23673852|A new aquatic species of Rotala (Rotala cookii) is described from Kerala, India. Growing in the flooded lowlands, along the coastal belt, the plant is a "Hippuris mimic".
23673194|Idiospermum australiense (Diels) S.T. Blake is considered to be one of the few remaining species of an ancient assemblage to have survived the attrition of Australian tropical rain forest during historically drier periods. This monotypic species is currently restricted to two very wet lowland rain forest locations in Australia's wet tropical World Heritage Area that are thought to have provided refuge for humid-adapted taxa during the last glacial maximum. Two dominant (RAPD and ISSR) molecular marker sets were employed to investigate whether the genetic structure of Idiospermum could be attributed to its restriction to these quite disjunct localities. The results reveal that neither its restriction to purported Pleistocene refugia nor the geographic distance between populations could fully explain the distribution of variation in the Idiospermum data set, with evidence to suggest that potentially deeper time events have played a role in population structuring and the distribution of diversity. Although there is sufficient evidence in the data to suggest that gene dispersal is quite limited in the species, further investigation is still needed to yield more informative detail on additional factors, such as breeding and germination strategies and their potential influence over population structuring and diversity levels within each population and refugium.
23673882|The contribution of J. S. L. Gilmour to numerical taxonomy is reviewed. His important concept of natural classification, as being general-purpose classifications with high predictivity, led to the development of ideas of information content, unit characters and equal character-weighting. The concept of predicitivity is extended to taxonomic trees (phenograms or cladograms). Under certain assumption of random sampling of characters it is shown that the probability of recovering the correct tree topology or tree-form may be small if characters are few. There may be very many topologies or tree-forms, every one of which has individually a low probability. It is, however, possible to estimate the aggregate probability of trees which have more than some specified resemblance to the "correct" tree. The practical prospects of estimating the distribution of tree probabilities are discussed.
23674821|In Malaxis saprophyta, anther wall development corresponds to the Monocotyledonous type. The uninucleate tapetum is of secretory type and the endothecium develops U- and V-shaped thickenings on the inner tangential and radial walls. Cytokinesis is simultaneous; tetrahedral, isobilateral and T-shaped tetrads are formed which are compactly aggregated in pollinia. At anthesis the microspore tetrads are 2-celled. The ovule is anatropous, bitegmic and both integuments are dermal in origin. A single hypodermal cell develops directly into a megaspore mother cell. Embryo sac development is predominantly monosporic and less often bisporic. Irrespective of the type of development, the mature embryo sac is 6-nucleate. Although double fertilization occurs, the primary endosperm nucleus degenerates. Embryogeny is of the Onagrad type. The mature embryo lacks differentiation into cotyledon, plumule and radicle. The reticulate seed coat is formed entirely by the outer layer of outer integument. There are three sterile and three fertile valves in the ovary. Although initially parenchymatous, the entire three sterile valves in the ovary and the upper half of the three fertile valves become sclerified after fertilization. The embryological characters support the disputed systematic position of Malaxis within subtribe Malaxidinae of Epidendreae.
23655149|The phylogenetic relationships of the Chinese species Serratula forrestii and S. chinensis within the subtribe Centaureinae (Asteraceae  Cardueae) were investigated based on nuclear ribosomal DNA external and internal transcribed spacer sequences. Results indicated that Serratula s. l. is clearly polyphyletic, none of the two species showing close affinities to either Serratula s. str. or Klasea, a genus traditionally included in Serratula. Serratula forrestii has a basal position within the subtribe and has retained most plesiomorphic character states. Serratula chinensis is related to the genera of the Rhaponticum group. Its chromosome number was determined as 2n = 26, and the relationship between this species and the Rhaponticum group is discussed from a morphological and karyological point of view.
23655485|A florally dimorphic hexaploid (n = 33), Echinocereus yavapaiensis M. A. Baker, is newly described and possesses the highest number of chromosomes known within the genus. Populations of E. yavapaiensis occur in central Arizona between 1025 and 1860 m elevation and are associated with volcanic bedrock. Fifty three percent of the individuals studied produce only pollen-sterile flowers, which fail to undergo meiosis within the microspore mother cells, while 47% develop only pollen-fertile flowers. Chromosome determinations are presented for 41 populations of Echinocereus, including E. arizonicus (n = 11), E. canyonensis (n = 22), E. coccineus (n = 22), E. matudae (n = 11), E. pacificus (n = 22), E. mombergerianus (n = 22), E. santaritensis (n = 22), and E. yavapaiensis. A phenetic analysis compares morphological variability among populations of E. yavapaiensis to those of its closest allies.
23642630|Both Neuradoideae and Chrysobalanoideae seem rust-free. The Spiraeoideae and Pomoideae are heavily susceptible to Gymnosporangium rusts. While the Prunoideae resemble the Rosoideae in being vulnerable to attacks of Puccinia species, they are additionally susceptible to Tranzschelia and Thekopsora, whereas the Rosoideae are characteristically afflicted by Phragmidium.It is suggested (a) to treat the Chrysobalanoideae as a separate family (Chrysobalanaceae), (b) to transfer Dryas from the Rosoideae-Potentilleae-Dryadinae to the Rosoideae-Cercocarpeae, and (c) to divide the Rosoideae into two main groups of tribes: (i) the rust-free Kerrieae and Cercocarpeae with x = 9, and (ii) the rust-susceptible Potentilleae, Ulmarieae, Roseae and Sanguisorbeae with x = 7.
23643933|Root anatomy of several taxa of Asparagales and some taxa formerly included in Asparagales is described in a systematic context together with a literature review. The presence of a dimorphic outer layer with long and short cells is widespread in monocotyledons, indicating that it originated early in the monocot lineage, but whereas this layer is rhizodermal in most monocotyledons, in Asparagales and Araceae it is usually hypodermal. There may be a correlation between the presence of a velamen or a persistent rhizodermis in many Asparagales and Araceae and the presence of a dimorphic hypodermal layer. Many other root anatomical characters, such as the presence of vascular bundles in the central pith and a multi-layered sclerenchymatous cylinder, are probably xeromorphic and developed convergently.
23673825|Repeated observations are made on species and numbers of individuals in some islets. The changes after 14 years are reported for 11 islets. They include several extinctions and invasions. Great changes in numbers of individuals were found, especially for many of the annuals, in some of them as great as between 010 and over 10000 individuals. The greatest constancy was found in a few dominant and subdominant perennials.
23645303|Mature anthers of Eupatorium serotinum Michx., E. coelestinum L. and E. purpureum L. (Compositae: Eupatorieae) contain both loose mature pollen grains and acetolysis-resistant extratapetal sacs enclosing clusters of immature pollen. Many sacs contain incompletely developed pollen grains that differ in size diameter, with spines of varying lengths and degrees of acuity and with colpal areas having narrow to markedly protracted margins. We presume that all nutrients for pollen development within sacs come from plasmodial tapetum included therein. Thus, pollen in portions of the sac or in isolated sacs with inadequate plasmodial tapetum may be incompletely developed. Such partial development may result from stress, e.g. insufficient nutrients and water. While our data are from three species of Eupatorium, we have long noted the syndrome in other Eupatorieae and other tribes in the Compositae. Curtailing supplies for development of some portions of an anther could be an evolutionary strategy for survival of the species through periods of stress.
23645018|To solve problems concerning the status of the taxa described in the genus Sarcocapnos, we have conducted a study using morphological, pollen morphology (light microscopy), cytogenetic and molecular techniques. Focusing on the last technique, we have sequenced ITS-1 and ITS-2 of nuclear rDNA. The species differ basically according to 5 morphological traits (leaf shape, flower spur, corolla colour, corolla size, and crest of the stigmatic surface). The cytogenetic analyses indicated n = 16 to be the standard chromosome number. The ITS analyses showed that the genus is monophyletic, defining two main well-supported clades, one containing S. saetabensis and S. enneaphylla, and one containing the rest of the species. In this second clade, S. speciosa, S. pulcherrima, and S. baetica subsp. ardalii are related, as are S. integrifolia, S. crassifolia subsp. crassifolia, and S. crassifolia subsp. atlantis; S. baetica subsp. baetica forms a trichotomy with the foregoing groups. S. speciosa is shown to be a species separate from S. crassifolia subsp. crassifolia, as in the case of S. baetica with respect to S. integrifolia. Palynologically, the parameters used enabled us to establish clear differences between the taxa, often corroborating the macromorphological and genetic data. The flower spur has been reduced several times in different groups of the genus, for which the classifications established on the basis of this trait are paraphyletic.
23655885|Solanum section Petota, containing the cultivated potato and its wild relatives, is a group of around 200 species. Many of these species are morphologically very variable with unclear boundaries, and the group as a whole appears to be somewhat over-classified. Describing a new species in this group should only be undertaken with caution, and molecular data can be used to test the distinctness of any putative new taxon. AFLP markers have shown the ability to reliably distinguish species in several groups within the genus Solanum. We tested the distinctness of a new tuber-bearing Solanum species using morphological and AFLP data, and tried to establish its affiliation to the series within the section. There was clear support for the species status of the material known as Solanum hannemanii in genebank collections, but the AFLP data were inconclusive about its relationships to the other investigated species. Also, the distinction of the series Tuberosa and Megistacroloba, to which these species belong, was not supported.
23663563|Three processes play an important role in plant speciation: isolation, hybridization and polyploidization. Galapagos endemic Opuntia display putatively all of these processes. On this archipelago most islands are inhabited by a single Opuntia taxon. Santa Cruz, however, houses two morphologically distinct O. echios varieties (echios and gigantea). Morphological intermediates are found where these two geographically isolated varieties meet. Here we used ten microsatellite loci to reveal the population genetic structure of this system. In contrast to earlier studies, we found high genetic variability within localities. Genetic structuring was weak and no evidence for the existence of hybrids was found. The reasons for this weak genetic structure may include: the species' hexaploid nature, high levels of gene flow, recent colonization, and the lack of geographic barriers. This first detailed genetic study on these threatened species will be important for further conservation planning.
23673847|The Western Australian annual of restricted distribution, Villarsia congestiflora, has distylous flowers and pollen-size heteromorphism. Results of a crossing program indicate that this species is strongly self-incompatible, that crosses among individuals of the same morph produce little or no seed, and that intermorph crosses produce copious seed. The species shares a number of morphological and ecological traits with V. capitata, another distylous, self-incompatible annual species of Western Australia with a greater area of distribution. Artificial hybrids between the two, however, showed reduced pollen stainability. Both species combine a number of specialized morphological features with a breeding system that is primitive for the family Menyanthaceae.
23674572|The present study demonstrates that Cuscuta babylonica Choisy has holocentric chromosomes. Evidence for this phenomenon comes from three different observations. (1) Mitosis: During metaphase and anaphase the sister-chromatids are situated parallel to the equatorial plane with no sign of localized kinetochore activity. (2) Inverted meiosis in microsporocytes. (3) X-rayed microsporocytes, in which the numerous chromosome fragments do not show any lagging or formation of micronuclei. We assume that only one out of the three subgenera in Cuscuta, namely subg. Cuscuta, has holocentric chromosomes, while the two other subgenera have monocentric chromosomes.
23655997|Nitraria retusa (Forssk.) Asch. was subjected to botanical and chemical studies and compared against four selected taxa of Zygophyllaceae viz., Fagonia arabica L., Peganum harmala L., Tribulus terrestris L. and Zygophyllum album L.f. The botanical section included the study of morphological and anatomical characters of both vegetative and reproductive organs using LM and scanning electron microscope. The chemical section included a detailed study of the flavonoids present in N. retusa. Twelve compounds were isolated and identified as flavone, flavonol O-glycosides and flavone C-glycosides. Flavonoid patterns from N. retusa (Forssk.) Asch. of the selected taxa Zygophyllaceae were surveyed through HPLC and correlated with morphological and anatomical criteria.
23642344|Flowering under experimental conditions in Spirodela polyrrhiza, and the development of the spatha, stamina and pistil are described and illustrated by microphotographs. During the development of the microsporangia the existence of the middle layer between endothecium and tapetum has been documented for the first time in Lemnaceae.
23642903|Complete 18S ribosomal RNA sequence data from representatives of all extant pteridophyte lineages together with RNA sequences from different seed plants were used to infer a molecular phylogeny of vascular plants that included all major land plant lineages. The molecular data indicate that lycopsids are monophyletic and are the earliest diverging group within the vascular land plants, whereas Psilotum nudum is more closely related to the seed plants than to other pteridophyte lineages. The phylogenetic trees based on maximum likelihood, parsimony and distance analyses show substantial agreement with the evolutionary relationships of land plants as interpreted from the fossil record.
23672614|Considering that the majority of the algae are unicellular organisms or consist of cell colonies or small thalli, it is obvious that cytology has to play a key role in algal taxonomy. Unfortunately, this has often been neglected, even in more recent work, as can be seen in descriptions of Trebouxia species. If no clear distinction is being made between uni- and multinuclear cells, faulty interpretations of vegetative of developing stages result. Thus, uninuclear cells are only those in which nuclear divisions occur just before reproduction, in which whereas nuclear division accompany the trophic growth of multinuclear cells. Further mistakes concern the description of the chloroplast structures and the separation between naked or starch enveloped pyrenoids. Also significant is the first cell division during asexual reproduction: Here, one has to distinguish between protoplast division (cytogony, eleutheroschisis) and cell division (cytotomy, desmoschisis). All the species of Trebouxia undergo cytogony resulting in the formation of zoospores or autospores. The characteristics of all natural algal groups can be determined mainly by their cytology. Cytological misinterpretations thus often result in serious taxonomic errors.
23642927|An RFLP analysis of the chloroplast gene trnK of 32 species of the genera Papaver, Roemeria, Stylomecon, and Meconopsis leads to the following conclusions: (1) Asian Meconopsis consists of two distinct clades and is paraphyletic in relation to Papaver, Roemeria, Stylomecon, and the W European Meconopsis cambrica. (2) Sister group relationships of Roemeria to Papaver sect. Argemonidium and of Stylomecon to Papaver californicum are well-supported. (3) Meconopsis cambrica is nested within Papaver (incl. Roemeria and Stylomecon). The consideration of morphology, geographical distribution and ecology leads to the conclusion that M. cambrica is best regarded as a member of Meconopsis, and that Papaver arose polyphyletically from within a paraphyletic Meconopsis in response to Tertiary climatic aridification.  The removal of M. cambrica from the taxon matrix is discussed. It is concluded that this experiment illuminates the importance of critical taxon sampling, and shows that at least potentially the assessment of taxa as mono-, para-, or polyphyletic may characterize their present status only and need not reflect their phylogenetic history.
23655614|The micropylar secrete of the ovules of Crocus vernus ssp. vernus was analyzed for the Ca + 2 content by atomic absorption, and its capacity to germinate and attract pollen was tested by pollinating explanted ovules, and incubating in absence of culture medium. The results display a Ca+2 concentration of 28.9 mM in the micropylar secrete. On this secrete both compatible- and incompatible pollen germinates with a mean percentage of 53.7%, and their pollen tubes enter the micropylar canal with percentages of 32.3% to 21.0%. In situ the ovules fail to attract tubes of incompatible pollen. The results are discussed in relation to the ovule receptivity and the guided growth of pollen tubes, substantiating the model of the tropic growth towards increasing calcium concentrations.
43558600|The little known Rubiaceae genus Villaria is endemic mostly to the coastal forests of the Philippines. Traditionally, it has been placed in the tribe Gardenieae. Later it was transferred to Octotropideae sensu Robbrecht and Puff. Villaria was placed among the "primitive" genera of the tribe, which are essentially characterized by large fruits, horizontal ovules and numerous seeds. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of the combined plastid (rps16 and trnT-F) dataset strongly support the inclusion of Villaria in Octotropideae as well as monophyly of the genus. However, our molecular results do not conform to the current informal groups of the tribe delimited by fruit size, ovule position, number of seeds and exotesta thickenings. Instead, a close relationship between Villaria and two "central genera" (Hypobathrum and Pouchetia) is revealed for the first time. This clade is sister to a group comprising "primitive" (Fernelia), "advanced" (Kraussia and Polysphaeria) and "central" (Feretia) representatives. In addition, our combined tree strongly supports a sister taxa relationship between Canephora and Paragenipa. Villaria is characterized by unilocular ovaries, parietal placentation and strictly horizontal ovules. These features are unique within the Octotropideae. We recognize a total of five Villana species, one new species (V. leytensis) is described here, and two species (V. philippinensis and V. rolfei) are transferred into synonymy with V. odorata. Each species is fully described, and a key to the species, a distribution map and illustrations are provided.
23642881|The Simaroubaceae generally have no true stipules. The stipule-like appendages of some genera proved to be pseudo- or metastipules (Weberling & Leenhouts 1965). There seem to be some exceptions, however: the genera Cadellia (incl. Guilfoylia) and Recchia on the one hand, and the Irvingioideae on the other. As these taxa, with exception of Recchia, have simple leaves, there are no indications that their stipule-like appendages might be pseudo- or metastipules. In regard to their position and ontogeny these appendages behave completely like true stipules. Assuming the view of Forman, one could conceive a morphological line from the long, broadly inserted axillary stipules of most Irvingioideae to the small scaly triangular stipules of Ixonanthoideae. The similarities between the stipules of Irvingioideae and Erythroxylaceae (already emphasized by Hallier and others), become even more evident when their ontogeny is investigated. The Irvingioideae, therefore, might be regarded as a separate family (perhaps with some relation to the Erythroxylaceae, Hallier) or as a subfamily of Ixonanthaceae (Forman).In addition to data on stipules some results on the palynology and shoot anatomy of the genera Cadellia (incl. Guilfoylia) and Recchia are reported. Their relationship with the Simaroubaceae also appears doubtful. If they are to be included, they represent a somewhat isolated group near the base of the family which otherwise has lost its stipules.
23655725|Prolonged floral longevity and bumblebees as dominate pollinators in alpine ecosystem have been suggested to overcome pollination limitation of alpine plants arising from the decrease of pollinator activity with increasing altitude. However, this conclusion has never been examined in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP), the highest and largest plateau in the world. In this study, we intended to test year-to-year correlations between floral longevity, visiting frequency and pollen limitation of this species between two populations (at 3200 m and 4000 m) of Gentiana straminea in this plateau. Pollinator exclusion elongated both male and female phases greatly at both sites, and durations of both male and female phases in natural condition varied greatly over three years. The visiting frequency of bumblebees varied greatly at the higher altitude, but seemed to be stable at the lower altitude. Seed production was pollination limited in both populations in most studied years. The floral durations, pollinator frequency and pollination limitation showed no significant and consistent variations with the increase of altitude. The previous hypothesis that the prolonged floral longevity of alpine plants can compensate for low levels of pollinator visitation therefore could not be confirmed, and our results further suggested that in the QTP platform, the altitude shows no consistent effect on the reproductive performance of this species, despite that the fluctuation of visit frequency intensified at the higher altitude.
23642676|The karyotype analysis of Peumus boldus reveals a remarkable differentiation of chromosomes in size and form. C-banding pattern and interphase nuclei are discribed and compared with other genera. The great variation in leaf-shape and growth-form is continuous and correlated with the very diverse habitats of the species. The recognition of infraspecific taxa is therefore not recommended. The lower leaf surface is very uniform within the monotypic genus and  similar with that of Siparuna. The different evolutionary strategies of Peumus and related genera are discussed and show a different eco-systematic situation than in Mollinedia and Siparuna. 1. Die Karyologie und morphologische Variation des monotypischen und in Chile endemischen Peumus boldus wurde an kultivierten Pflanzen und Herbarbelegen untersucht, die kologische Amplitude an Hand von Literaturangaben zusammengestellt. 2. Eine bisher wenig gebrauchte Giemsa-Methode ermglicht die Analyse auch sehr kleiner Chromosomen. Danach zeigt P. boldus einen in Gre und Form der Chromosomen sehr differenzierten Karyotyp mit 2n = 78 (Abb. 1 und 2). Dies und das Auftreten von teolocentrischen Chromosomen signalisieren umfangreiche chromosomenstrukturelle Umbauten und Brche in der Evolution der Sippe. 3. Die C-Bandverteilung ist sehr einfrmig (proximales oder proximales und terminales Heterochromatin), entspricht der vieler anderer nicht nher verwandter Holzpflanzen und ist vorerst als systematisches Merkmal wenig brauchbar. Die Heterochromatinmenge pro Chromosom ist unterschiedlich. 4. Die Interphasekerne entsprechen dem Typus der Prochromosomenkerne; sie sind denen von Mollinedia hnlich, unterscheiden sich aber deutlich von Siparuna. Die Bschelhaare von Peumus gleichen denen von Siparuna, die Epidermisskulptur hingegen ist verschieden (Abb. 4). 5. Zahlreiche morphologische Parameter (z. B. Abb. 3) variieren innerhalb von P. boldus kontinuierlich und ohne Korrelation mit Verbreitung bzw. Standort, andere sind einheitlich (Epidermisskulptur, Abb. 4). Es ergeben sich also keine Anstze fr eine infraspezifische taxonomische Gliederung. Dies steht im Gegensatz zu der in mancher Hinsicht hnlichen Drimys brasiliensis. 6. P. boldus hat im humid-subtropischen Bereich eine auffallend groe kologische Amplitude (Tab. 1) und im Zusammenhang damit eine starke Variabilitt der Wuchsform. Die  verwandten tropisch sdamerikanischen Gattungen Siparuna und Mollinedia sind dagegen in zahlreiche kologisch-morphologisch stabile Arten aufgegliedert, stehen auf einer niedrigeren Ploidiestufe und haben viel einheitlichere Karyotypen. 7. Die vorgelegten Ergebnisse unterstreichen die eher isolierte verwandtschaftliche Stellung von Peumus innerhalb der Monimiaceae s. lat. und erlauben die Rekonstruktion einiger Evolutionsschritte der Gattung bis zum Erreichen des heutigen Reliktareals.
23642814|The floral anatomy of four species of Viviania has been studied. In the basic floral plan and essential floral anatomical features Viviana closely resembles the Geraniaceae. Evidence from vegetative and floral anatomy, ultrastructural studies on phloem as well as phytochemistry supports geranialean affinity of Viviania; the placement within the Pittosporales sensu Hutchinson being unnatural.
23643728|To determine whether inbreeding depression accounts for the maintenance of outcrossing in populations of the self-compatible orchid Encyclia cochleata, the estimated selective advantage of selfing was compared to a measure of inbreeding depression. Individuals from three populations of E. cochleata and some of their progeny were phenotyped using isozyme analysis. The electrophoretic data were used to estimate the outcrossing rate and the theoretical cost of outcrossing. Inbreeding depression was estimated by comparing the fitness of the progeny resulting from both types of pollinations. The seeds from outcrossed and selfed hand-pollinations and naturally pollinated seeds from a population of the triandrous form of E. cochleata were grown aseptically on culture media, and their development over the next three years recorded. Inbreeding was common, particularly in one population (outcrossing rate 40%). However, the level of inbreeding depression was only 12%, considerably less inbreeding depression than expected.
23642162|Erythrina breviflora is visited by large numbers of passerine birds of which orioles (Icterus: Icteridae) are the primary pollinators. The flowers produce large quantities of nectar but they are rarely visited by hummingbirds. Inflorescence and floral morphology, and low levels of sucrose in the nectar probably explain the rarity of foraging hummingbirds. A comparison of Old World Erythrina and their pollinators with New World species pollinated by orioles and hummingbirds suggests that parallel evolution has occurred. When the comparison is expanded to include other species pollinated by orioles, it is clear that various New World Icteridae, Thraupidae, etc. are ecological equivalents of Old World Oriolidae, Pycnonotidae, Sturnidae, etc. and that flowers pollinated by these birds have similar characteristics.
23654160|With approximately 1000 species, Eugenia s.str. (excluding Syzygium) is one of the largest genera in the Myrtaceae. Morphological and anatomical studies concluded that two supraspecific groups (X and Y) exist in African members of Eugenia. A multigene approach was used to investigate phylogenetic/molecular relationships within southern African Eugenia, as well as representatives from elsewhere in the world. The cpDNA rpl16 intron data supported the distinctness of species groups X and Y. Little sequence divergence was found within the rpl16 intron of Eugenia. Nuclear sequence data were more variable than cpDNA and also supported the two groups. Combined data enhanced the resolution of closely related species. Species group X is related to Eugenia of the New World whereas the affinity of species group Y lies with Eugenia of the Old World. It is hypothesised that the origin of Eugenia in southern Africa is twofold. The presence of cryptic dioecy (structural androdioecy) in both groups of Eugenia in Africa is probably due to convergence. The suggestion that E. incerta is not native to Africa is supported by molecular evidence. The genus Monimiastrum is embedded within a clade with Mauritian Eugenia.
23655623|Thymelaea is a Mediterranean genus belonging to a primarily tropical and subtropical family. This genus is here presented as a particular case on which the hypothesis of an in situ evolution of the Mediterranean flora from a Tertiary subtropical stock can be phylogenetically tested. To better understand the evolutionary history of Thymelaea, molecular phylogenies based on ITS (rDNA) sequences are estimated. Phylogenetic analyses strongly support the monophyly of Thymelaea and the sister position of Daphne. Unexpected relationships between sequences of T. granatensis, T. pubescens and T. sanamunda are found and explained as a case of cryptic nuclear introgression. Phylogenetic analyses also reveal the polyphyletic character of Diarthron, sensu Tan, suggesting that Dendrostellera and Stelleropsis should be reinstated as independent genera. Based on the resulting phylogenetic hypothesis and using statistical tests it is suggested that Thymelaea experienced an initial rapid diversification. Time estimates for the origin and radiation of Thymelaea based on independent sources of evidencepaleontological, paleoclimatic and paleogeographic data, on one hand, and ITS substitution rates reported for other angiosperm groups, on the othergive strikingly similar results. The early radiation of Thymelaea is inferred to have occurred in the Upper Miocene, after this lineage diverged from that of Daphne in the Lower or Middle Miocene. Both evolutionary events are related to the overall climatic deterioration (declining temperature and increasing dryness) registered throughout the Miocene in Eurasia. The rapid and extensive diversification of Thymelaea is placed in the Iberian Peninsula or here and in the neighbouring North African territory.
23643071|Two Pyxidanthera morphs of questionable taxonomic rank are described in the eastern United States. We analyzed leaf samples from nine Pyxidanthera populations (four of each morph and one with intermediate morphology) for 13 allozyme loci. Our results do not support differentiation of the two morphs at the species level. Mean genetic identity among populations was high ( = 0.97), and typical of that found for conspecific populations. The proportion of total genetic diversity found among populations was low (GST = 0.079). Several low frequency alleles were confined to each of the morphs, being found in some of the populations of each morph, but not all.
23674824|Micromorphology and distribution of trichomes in different plant parts of Teucrium marum and Teucrium subspinosum from Sardinia and the Balearic Islands are described. The composition of volatile compounds in the same plants has also been studied. The occurrence in Sardinia of two different T. marum entities is evidenced. One of them, growing in the NW. part of the island, is very similar to T. marum from Minorca. T. subspinosum from Sardinia and Majorca differ for the presence in the last one of short capitate hairs and for a higher ratio of dolichodial/teucrein. While the degree of variability of all the characters is very high, there is a good homogeneity between all the taxa, due to the presence of monoterpene cyclopentanoids not found until now in other species.
23645248|Patterns of isozyme variation were examined in 17 populations of P. pusillus and P. berchtoldii, together with one population of P. trichoides taken for comparison. Both P. pusillus and P. berchtoldii displayed low levels of variation within populations associated with high levels of interpopulation differentiation. This pattern of partitioning of genetic variation within and between populations is attributed to the founder effect, frequent vegetative propagation by turions, dominant self-fertilization and limited seedling recruitment. The mechanism of pollen transfer was investigated in cultivation. Effective pollination takes place in air above the water surface (autogamy, geitonogamy, anemogamy), on the water surface (epihydrogamy) or below water surface (hydroautogamy). The species are self-compatible. The low level of infra-population variation together with rare occurrence of heterozygotes suggest that selfing is the most frequent mode of pollination, although the protogynous flowers may occasionally permit some cross-pollination. Unique enzyme markers were found for P. pusillus and P. berchtoldii, and also for the single population of P. trichoides. All multienzyme phenotypes were species-specific. Isozyme data support the separate position of P. pusillus and P. berchtoldii. UPGMA dendogram based on enzyme data of 133 plant samples revealed three distinct main enzymatic entities perfectly corresponding to the three morphologically defined species.
23643270|Variation in high molecular weight (HMW) glutenin subunit composition among wild and cultivated einkorn wheats (2n = 2x = 14, AA) was investigated using one- (SDS-PAGE and urea/SDS-PAGE) and two-dimensional (IEF  SDS-PAGE) electrophoretic analyses. The material comprised 150 accessions of Triticum urartu, 160 accessions of T. boeoticum, 24 accessions of T. boeoticum subsp. thaoudar and 74 accessions of primitive domesticated T. monococcum from many different germplasm collections. The biochemical characteristics of HMW-glutenin subunits of T. boeoticum and T. monococcum were highly similar to one another but distinctly different from those of T. urartu. All the species analysed were characterised by large intraspecific variation and only three HMW-glutenin subunit patterns were identical between T. boeoticum and T. monococcum. Consistent with the distinct nature of T. urartu, all its HMW-glutenin patterns were different from those found in T. boeoticum and T. monococcum. The differences detected between these species might reflect their reproductive isolation and are consistent with recent nomenclatural and biosystematic treatments that recognise T. urartu as separate species from T. boeoticum and T. monococcum. The presence of three distinct glutenin components in some accessions of the species studied seems to be evidence for the existence of at least three active genes controlling the synthesis of the HMW-glutenin subunits in the A genome of wild and primitive domesticated diploid wheats. Results indicate also that HMW-glutenin subunits could represent useful markers for the evaluation of genetic variability present in different wild diploid wheat collections and subsequently for their conservation and future utilisation.
23655943|A survey of our own comparative studies on several larger clades of rosids and over 1400 original publications on rosid flowers shows that floral structural features support to various degrees the supraordinal relationships in rosids proposed by molecular phylogenetic studies. However, as many apparent relationships are not yet well resolved, the structural support also remains tentative. Some of the features that turned out to be of interest in the present study had not previously been considered in earlier supraordinal studies. The strongest floral structural support is for malvids (Brassicales, Malvales, Sapindales), which reflects the strong support of phylogenetic analyses. Somewhat less structurally supported are the COM (Celastrales, Oxalidales, Malpighiales) and the nitrogen-fixing (Cucurbitales, Fagales, Fabales, Rosales) clades of fabids, which are both also only weakly supported in phylogenetic analyses. The sister pairs, Cucurbitales plus Fagales, and Malvales plus Sapindales, are structurally only weakly supported, and for the entire fabids there is no clear support by the present floral structural data. However, an additional grouping, the COM clade plus malvids, shares some interesting features but does not appear as a clade in phylogenetic analyses. Thus it appears that the deepest split within eurosidsthat between fabids and malvids - in molecular phylogenetic analyses (however weakly supported) is not matched by the present structural data. Features of ovules including thickness of integuments, thickness of nucellus, and degree of ovular curvature, appear to be especially interesting for higher level relationships and should be further explored. Although features of interest are not necessarily stable at the level of a large clade, they do show a considerable concentration in particular clades and are rare or lacking in others. This may be viewed as a special trend for this feature to evolve in this group or to be conserved as a synapomorphy (or a combination of both).
23644347|The phylogenetic relationships among 14 Mangifera L. species of Thailand were analyzed by comparing sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA). Parsimony and neighbor joining (NJ) analyses revealed that the common mango (M. indica L.) was closely related to M. laurina Bl., M. sylvatica Roxb., and M. oblongifolia Hook. f. Mangifera foetida Lour. and M. odorata Griff. were also related to M. indica in both parsimonious and NJ trees, although these two species are classified into a different subgenus (subgenus Limus) from the subgenus Mangifera to which M. indica belongs. ITS sequence analysis revealed that several species have nucleotide additivity (two different nucleotides at the same locus) at several sites in the ITS region. Also, M. indica had several polymorphisms among cultivars. This finding may suggest a possibility of hybrid origin of Mangifera species, although Mangifera species are all assumed to be diploid having chromosome number of 2n = 2x = 40.
23664382|Comprehensive morphological characterization and an incidence of gregarious flowering in Thamnocalamus spathiflorus (Trin.) Munro subsp. spathiflorus are described. Twenty-eight key vegetative characters as well as reproductive morphology were studied. They are in gross agreement with prior taxonomic descriptions, yet more elaborate. Statistical analyses of the quantitative vegetative characters revealed significant high variability existing between populations, but not within populations. However, DNA fingerprinting analyses by applying highly polymorphic random primers could not detect any polymorphism either between populations or within populations. Insignificant within-population variability indicates possibility of clonal propagation from the donor(s) possessing similar genetic background and thus reducing genetic variability.
23642728|Reexamination of Xanthoria persica, X. polycarpoides, X. lobulata gave evidence, that the thalli of these species are devoid of a lower cortex and rhizinae. Therefore, they do not fit the definition of the genus Xanthoria and are transferred to Caloplaca (under the new section Xanthoriella) as Caloplaca persica, C. polycarpoides, and C. boulyi, respectively.  Details on development, anatomical structure, ecology and distribution are presented.
23645333|The ecogeographical history of Cardueae-Centaureinae (Asteraceae) in the Mediterranean is discussed on the background of the geological history of the region. Two main phases of radiation are postulated. The first one separated the basal groups of the subtribe (Klasea group, Rhaponticoides/Cheirolophus group, Rhaponticum group, Amberboa group, Psephellus, and Plectocephalus). This happened during late Oligocene and Miocene. The major modern or derived clades (Centaurea, Colymbada group, Cyanus and Carthamus/Carduncellus group) may have differentiated around the transition from Pliocene to Pleistocene. Aridisation favoured the development of biennial and annual species independently in different groups. Different modes of evolution are observed in annual and perennial species, reflected by morphology as well as DNA sequences. The myrmekochory syndrome, adaptation to man-made habitats, chromosome and genome evolution, and modes of reproduction receive special attention.
23655731|The phylogeny of Oedogoniales was investigated by using nuclear 18S rDNA sequences. Results showed that the genus Oedocladium, as a separated clade, was clustered within the clade of Oedogonium; whereas the genus Bulbochaete was in a comparatively divergent position to the other two genera. The relationship among the species of Oedogonium was discussed, focusing on ITS-2 phylogeny analyzed combining with some morphological characteristics. Our results showed that all the dioecious nannandrous taxa involved in this study were resolved into one clade, while all the monocious taxa were clustered into another clade as a sister group to the former. The report also suggests that the dioecious macrandrous taxa form a paraphyly and could be more basally situated than the dioecious nannandrous and the monoecious taxa by means of molecular phylogeny and morphotype investigations.
23644162|The New Zealand fern Polystichum richardii is shown to comprise at least two evolutionary lineages. A narrow-scaled morphological form and a wide-scaled morphological form are recognised. Principal Component Analysis of a set of frond, soral and spore characters supports this morphological separation. Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) DNA fingerprinting shows that the two morphological forms are also genetically distinct. They are sympatric across a broad area of central New Zealand, and often grow together without apparent ecological separation at the local level. Both are known to form sterile hybrids with P. vestitum, suggesting that both morphological forms of P. richardii are at least partially outcrossing. The morphological and genetic distinctiveness of these two morphological forms, combined with their sympatric distributions and their (at least partially) outcrossing mating systems, merits their recognition as separate species.
23673749|First generic chromosome counts reveal the base number x = 7 for the genera Tetrameranthus and Rollinia. T. umbellatus from the Peruvian Amazon is diploid (2 n = 14), T. duckei from Brazil (Manaus) is tetraploid (2 n = 28). In the Neotropics Rollinia (7 species counted) has developed diploid to octoploid taxa (2 n = 14, 28, 42, 56). Counts of 7 South American Annona species are presented for comparison (2 n = 14, 28). The West African Cleistopholis patens has 2 n = 14. The Asian genus Mezettia: 2 n = 14 and the neotropical Guatteria tribe: 2 n = 28 are also revised. A detailed karyomorphological comparison, including karyotypes, banding patterns, condensing behaviour of chromosomes and structure of interphase nuclei reveals that the closely related genera Annona and Rollinia are almost identical in their diploid genomes, whereas the polyploid ones differ in their heterochromatin (= hc) composition and number of NO-chromosomes. Cleistopholis, Mezettia and the Guatteria tribe are karyologically and systematically distinct from each other and from Annona/Rollinia. Tetrameranthus as compared with the karyomorphology of about 60 other Annonaceous genera has a very peculiar and unusual karyomorphology which underlines its isolated position. Nuclear structures are almost identical in the African genus Uvariopsis (2 n = 16) and partly similar in the Guatteria tribe; both also share some morphological similarities and possibly are related. From a comparison of Tetrameranthus with several nuclear types within the Magnoliidae, a new model of chromosome evolution in primitive Angiosperms is suggested. In respect to their eco-morphological differentiation the genera investigated differ strongly from each other.
23673895|In contrast to lichens with green photobionts, the bionts of cyanolichens are difficult to culture and synthesize under laboratory conditions. Problems include difficulties in obtaining growth of the mycobionts, achieving axenic cultures of the photobiont, and maintaining mixed biont cultures for long periods of time.
23673845|The Australian orchid tribe Thelymitreae, composed of Calochilus, Epiblema, and Thelymitra, is unique in the Orchidaceae because of the presence of a mitra or staminodal complex. Evidence from floral structure suggests that Epiblema and Thelymitra are sister genera and that Calochilus is derived from a Thelymitra ancestor. A "Gene Pool Vortex" model and a hypothetical phylogeny illustrate that introgressive hybridization, allopatry, and long distance dispersal have played a major role in the evolution of the tribe. Pollination and hybridization in the tribe are discussed with major emphasis on floral mimicry.
23674673|Seed storage proteins have proved to be a powerful biochemical marker for taxonomic research, but they have not been extensively employed in forest tree studies. In order to improve the understanding of the taxonomy of the genus Pinus, total seed proteins of 12 pine species have been analyzed by means of SDS-PAGE (Sodium dodecylsulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis). The results showed the presence, in the genus Pinus, of two main sub-taxa, corresponding to the subgenera Haploxylon and Diploxylon. Differences and affinities between Mediterranean pine species were found in agreement with classification of Klaus (1989).
23643143|Mating systems are reported for taxa of polypores and agarics considered related. Taxa are Dictyopanus pusillus, Favolus alveolaris, F. tenuiculus, Lentinus bertierii, L. crinitis, L. punctaticeps, L. strigellus, L. strigosus, L. suavissimus, Pleurotus australis, P. levis, P. tuberregium, Polyporus ciliatus, P. elegans, P. squamosus, and P. varius. All are tetrapolar except P. elegans.
23674649|A biometric study of the Sarcocapnos crassifolia complex from eastern Andalusia (Spain), Algeria, and Morocco was carried out. Twentytwo populations were used in a principal components analysis based on 14 variables. The results support the recognition of two species, S. crassifolia and S. pulcherrima, spec. nova. The taxon described by Boissier as S. speciosa (S. crassifolia subsp. speciosa) is maintained in S. crassifolia.
23645306|The comparative floral ontogeny of five species belonging to the primuloid clade of the Ericales are investigated, viz. Maesa japonica, M. perlarius, Aegiceras corniculatum, Embelia laeta and E. ribes. All five species basically show 2/5-spiral phyllotaxis of the sepal primordia, although with some minor modification (particularly in Embelia, where the flowers are predominantly tetramerous). The phyllotaxis of the common petal-stamen primordia is also 2/5-spiral in the Maesa and Aegiceras species investigated, but appears to be unidirectional in Embelia. All five species develop common petal-stamen primordia in which the resultant petal primordia are larger than the stamen primordia, and in which the stamens develop proximally on the adaxial flank of the common primordia. Growth of the placenta in Maesa and Aegiceras partially embeds the ovules, but in Embelia the ovules are almost fully immersed in placental tissue at maturity. A comprehensive review of all previously published studies of floral ontogeny of primuloid genera is presented, and the phylogenetic significance of the variation between genera is evaluated with reference to recently published cladograms.
23674606|Phlox pattersonii, a new species from the northern Sierra Madre of Coahuila and Nuevo Leon, Mexico is described. It is morphologically similar to P. pilosa var. ozarkana of the east-central United States, but differs in its suffruticose habit, alternate upper leaves, many nodes, and summer blooming period. None of the subsections of Phlox can accommodate the new species as currently circumscribed, though it is clearly allied to subsections Divaricatae and Drummondianae. A new circumscription of subsect. Divaricatae is proposed which includes subsect. Drummondianae and P. pattersonii.
23643397|Surveys of oceanic island floras have shown that heterostyly is usually absent in such regions, probably because this floral polymorphism is often associated with a self-incompatibility system. In this context we describe the floral biology of three species of Erythroxylum on La Runion island and examine the compatibility relationships of one of these species, E. laurifolium. All three species are distylous but differ in relative stigma-anther separation in the different morphs. In general, short-styled flowers have greater stigma-anther separation than long-styled flowers, which are often homostylous in appearance. This lack of stigma-anther separation in long-styled flowers is due to style twisting which improves reciprocity at the high organ level. The reduced stigma-anther separation does not appear to be associated with the evolution of selfing as Erythroxylum laurifolium shows heteromorphic self-incompatibility. The presence of heteromorphic incompatibility in a group of species that have colonized an oceanic island is discussed.
23669393|Picrorhiza kurrooa L., a high altitude medicinal plant, is known for its drug content called Kutkin. In the present study, DNA-based molecular marker techniques, viz. simple sequence repeats (SSR) and cytochrome P-450 markers were used to estimate genetic diversity in Picrorhiza kurrooa. Twenty five accessions of Picrorhiza kurrooa, collected from ten different eco-geographical locations were subjected to 22 SSR and eight cytochrome P-450 primer pairs, out of which 13 SSR markers detected mean 5.037 alleles with a mean polymorphic information content (PIC) of 0.7718, whereas eight cytochrome P-450 markers detected mean 5.0 alleles with a mean PIC of 0.7596. Genetic relationship among the accessions was estimated by constructing the dendrograms using SSR and cytochrome P-450 data. There was a clear consistency between SSR and cytochrome P-450 trees in terms of positioning of most Picrorhiza accessions. SSR markers could cluster various Picrorhiza kurrooa accessions based on their geographical locations whereas cytochrome P-450 markers could cluster few accessions as per their geographical locations. The Mantel test between SSR and cytochrome P-450 markers revealed a good fit correlation (r = 0.6405). The dendrogram constructed using the combined data of SSR and cytochrome P-450s depicted two clusters of accessions based on its eco-geographical locations whereas two clusters contained the accessions from mixed eco-geographical locations. Overall, the results of the present study point towards quiet high degree of genetic variation among the accessions of each eco-geographic region.
23655754|The morphology and anatomy of the Cephalocereus columna-trajani flowering region was described and compared with data on other species. The vegetative and reproductive regions were described in detail. The results showed that after the flowering region is differentiated, morphological changes take place which are correlated with anatomical changes. The flowering region in this species is termed a lateral cephalium because of its reduced interareolar space, increased areole size and abundant long bristles and trichomes in the areoles. Periderm development near the apical meristem, lack of chlorenchyma and a delay in xylem fiber differentiation are also traits characteristic of a lateral cephalium. The lateral cephalium of C. columna-trajani shared the same combination of morpho-anatomical characters with its sister taxon, C. senilis, except for the number of ribs in the cephalium. Both species survive in high temperature environments and their cephalium faces north; however, only C. columna-trajani tilts, thus we hypothesize that incorporation of fewer ribs associated with periderm development in the cephalium contributes to stem tilting.
23643443|The chloroplast trnL intron from 46 different Vicia accessions, representing five of the nine sections of the genus Vicia subg. Vicia sensu Maxted (1991a) were amplified by the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) using oligonucleotide primers homologous to conserved regions in trnL. The products fell into two distinct groups; those of approximately 250 nt and those of around 450 nt in length. Of these, products from 17 different Vicia species were cloned and their nucleotide sequences determined. Multiple alignments were assembled and phylogenetic trees constructed by the weighted least-squares distance method. A Lathyrus latifolius trnL intron sequence was used as an outgroup. The resulting trees clearly group and separate the sectt. Narbonensis, Bithynica and Faba species but were less able to distinguish species from sectt. Hypechusa and Peregrinae. Based on these sequence data, V. faba appears to be more distant from sect. Narbonensis than sectt. Hypechusa and Peregrinae. The results are in general agreement with a recent treatment of Vicia subg. Vicia (Maxted 1993) and lend further support to placing V. faba in the monospecific sect. Faba.
23669767|Significant increase of pod production occurs in Lupinus palaestinus Boiss. and L. pilosus Murr. following insect visits. The cause of this increase is investigated through (1) examination of the biology of pollination, (2) examination of pod production under various pollination conditions, (3) examination of cross pollination by genetical markers. All data strongly suggest that "Insect Induced Self Pollination" is the main factor in the increase of pod production of these species in nature.
23642829|This article is based on a survey of literature with particular reference to the structure and functioning of the tapetum during sporogenesis in angiosperms and pteridophytes. Some original observations on Schizaea pectinata and Selaginella japonica are also included. In the past, superficial similarities in the structure and function of pollen grains and spores have dominated the research approach, but patterns of development and the functioning of the tapetum during sporogenesis in angiosperms and pteridophytes are shown to differ quite significantly and raises questions relating to homologies. It is suggested that direct comparisons may no longer be appropriate.
23643264|Seed proteins of individual plants from 14 populations of Striga hermonthica growing on sorghum, millet, maize and wild grasses in Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger were studied using gel electrophoresis in order to assess the population structure and genetic diversity of the parasitic weed. The relative intensity of the different bands within a pattern was used to depict the genotypic constitution of each sample. Genotypic frequencies conformed to Hardy-Weinberg expectations in 13 populations out of 14 for the two loci that were interpreted. Heterozygote deficiencies could be the result of the Wahlund effect. The genetic divergence between populations appears to be low for both Adh and Got loci. Thus, the physiological specialization for a particular host could be a recent phenomenon. A low host specificity of S. hermonthica populations could affect the efficiency of introducing new resistant cultivars as a control measure against the parasitic weed.
23655551|Thymelaea velutina (Thymelaeaceae) is a unique dioecious and heterocarpic shrub, each female producing both dry and fleshy fruits. It is endemic to the Balearic Islands (western Mediterranean) and has suffered an important regression in recent decades, especially due to habitat loss. It lives in coastal areas, mainly in dunes, but a few populations occur up to 1300 m in the mountains of Mallorca. In the present study, we examined its breeding system and pollen vectors, determined whether seed production is pollen-limited, and quantified the relative importance of different insect visitors at coastal and mountain sites. Selective exclusions showed no differences between populations in the relative importance of insects and wind as pollen vectors. Pollen was limiting at both populations, though not consistently in time. Flowers of T. velutina were visited mostly by generalist insects, and species composition and abundance of flower visitors varied both in space and time. The flowering period is about a month later in the mountain than in the dune, and this results in a higher frequency of insect visits to plants in the mountain due to the higher insect abundance; insects were also more diverse in the mountain, although they visited a proportionally lower number of flowers than in the dune. Despite this spatio-temporal variation in the frequency of insect visits and in the importance of a particular insect group, the ambophilous system in this species (previously described as anemophilous) ensures a relatively high fruit set at the two different sites.
23673795|Four types of floral breeding systems  (i) chasmogamy, (ii) aerial pseudocleistogamy, (iii) subterranean pseudocleistogamy and (iv) obligate subterranean true cleistogamy  are observed in the populations of Vigna minima inhabiting the Western Ghats (India). Five categories of phenotypes are recognized based on the number and kinds of floral breeding systems found in a given individual. The frequencies of different categories of phenotypes not only show intra- and interpopulation variation, but also fluctuate from generation to generation suggesting differences in the genetic structure of populations. This polymorphism in the breeding system of a single species is unique and may be adaptive. Obligate subterranean true cleistogamy and amphicarpy appear to be adaptations to jungle fires and soil erosion.  The flowers are of the flag-blossom type and insect visitors act as tripping agents. The tripping mechanism together with the polymorphic floral breeding system result in a balanced mixture of selfing and outcrossing. Such a recombination system may enhance the fitness of V. minima which is essentially a colonizing species.
23675273|Cyanoptyche gloeocystis f. dispersa (Geitler) Starmach is a palmelloid colonial alga that contains prokaryotic blue-green endocytobionts (cyanelles) instead of chloroplasts. The periphery of the host cell shows a peculiar lacunae system with underlying microtubules. Vegetative cells possess two rudimentary flagella. Zoospores are dorsiventrally shaped with two heterokont and heterodynamic flagella which originate from a subapical depression. This depression can also be seen in vegetative cells. Both flagella possess non-tubular mastigonemes. Main reserve product is starch lying freely in the cytoplasm. Cyanelles, enclosed singly in a host vesicle, are provided with a remnant cell wall. Thylakoids are arranged concentrically. The central part of each cyanelle harbours its DNA and one large polyhedral body, probably a carboxysome. Cyanoptyche gloeocystis f. dispersa shares all taxonomically essential characters with the monadoid Cyanophora, the palmelloid Gloeochaete, and the coccoid Glaucocystis. All of them are members of the cyanelle-bearing small algal class Glaucocystophyceae. Members of this class serve as model organisms for the evolution of chloroplasts from cyanophycean ancestors.
23671523|Plant metabolism may be devided in two functional levels: The level of primary metabolism, indispensible for growth and development, and the level of secondary metabolism covering the chemical interactions between organisms, indispensible for survival and maintaining of a species in its ecosystem. Arguments and evidence from various fields of biology are presented in favour of the idea that plant secondary metabolism has most important functions shaped by evolution: historical backgrounds; the difference between plant and animal organisation in respect to defense strategies; the main strategies of plant chemical defense against competitors, predators, and pathogens; complexity of secondary biosynthesis and metabolic integration; variability and richness of structures as essential attributes of secondary metabolism; differences between secondary and primary metabolism are functional not structural.
23674653|The new taxon Moehringia intricata subsp. giennensis, from the calcareous mountains of the south-eastern Iberian Peninsula is described. A comparative morphological study with regard to the most closely related taxa, contributes information of leaf anatomy, seed and pollen morphology, ecology and distribution.
23655612|Caladenia behrii, a sexually deceptive orchid, is an endangered terrestrial orchid endemic to the Adelaide Hills, South Australia. We examined pollination success among individuals of different colours and heights in three populations of C. behrii in the northern Adelaide region. The labellum of C. behrii varies from cream to deep maroon. Over five years, the pollination success (pollinia deposited on stigma) of four colour groups (maroon, maroon and cream, hatched, and cream) was assessed for a total of 782 flowers. Labellum colour had no effect on the pollination success of individuals, indicating no frequencydependent selection. It is likely that pollinators use the sexual pheromone mimic produced by the flowers as the main orientation cue. For three years the height of pollinated C. behrii individuals was recorded, along with the height of the nearest non-pollinated neighbour (distance of labellum from the ground, rather than stem length). Although a range of different heights was pollinated at population level, individual flowers that were taller than their closest neighbours were significantly more likely to be pollinated. Flower head height was not correlated with opening date and was greater for orchids growing among grasstree leaves. Results imply that pollinators are more successful in finding tall flowers than short ones for visual and/or olfactory reasons; however, the effect of height preference is eliminated at population level.
23643149|Nuphar (Nymphaeaceae) comprises a small holarctic group of aquatic perennials whose flowers are pollinated by flies, bees, and beetles. We studied pollination in different populations of the two European species N. lutea and N. pumila in Norway and in Germany. Flowers are self-compatible and protogynous, preventing automatic selfing, and insect pollination is required for seed production. Sympatric populations were studied in Vest-Agder county in Norway to determine whether N. lutea and N. pumila have the same or different pollinators. Allopatric populations of N. lutea in Germany and Norway were then compared to determine whether their pollinator spectra differ as would be expected in an open flower with seemingly easily accessible pollen and nectar. Results of the present as well as previous studies of the pollination of N. lutea and N. pumila show that both species are mainly pollinated by flies, including apparent Nuphar specialists, such as the scatophagid Hydromyza livens and the ephydrids Hydrellia and Notiphila, the last also a long-known pollinator of N. advena in Florida. Pollinator overlap between sympatric heterospecific populations was small, while allopatric conspecific populations had similar visitor and pollinator spectra. We found no evidence of pollination by Donacia beetles as reported from some North American populations of Nuphar.
23673854|The chemosystematics of Rutaceae is reviewed on the basis of updated surveys of various secondary metabolites and their biosynthetic derivation. A comparison of these data with the morphological and geographical differentiation clearly shows that the current taxonomic arrangement of the family is to a large extent artificial and needs improvement. Starting from obviously "natural" groups of genera (or single genera) as "basic taxonomic entities" a new system with informal tribal names is suggested. In particular, the subfamily Toddalioideae is broken up altogether and its former members are rearranged among several of the 17 provisional tribes within the subfamily Rutoideae s. lat. Phylogenetic progressions can be recognized from parallel changes of morphological characters and biosynthetic pathways to secondary metabolites. As a general trend, a stepwise replacement of benzylisoquinolines by simple and complex anthranilic acid derived alkaloids, and eventually by coumarins and/or limonoids is confirmed. The available data are summarized in a discussion of the possible evolutionary relationships among the Rutaceae, with the Zanthoxylum- and Evodia-tribes in a central position.
23644986|Investigations of the effects of two global events  elevated CO2 levels and enhanced ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation  on floral nectar production are reviewed from twelve dicotyledonous families. Furthermore, to allow comparisons between nectary morphology and nectar production in treated plants of these fifteen species, new data on floral nectary structure are provided for Malcolmia maritima (L.) R. Br. (Brassicaceae) and Scabiosa columbaria L. (Dipsacaceae). All but the last taxon possessed mesenchymatic floral nectaries with surface stomata. Few clear relationships existed between nectary morphology and various physiological responses to CO2 or UV-B enrichment, indicating that species responded notwithstanding nectary structure itself. Overall, nectar-solute concentration was least affected by elevated CO2 or UV-B radiation; consequently, changes in nectar volume were responsible for differences in nectar-sugar production per flower. Three species of Fabaceae experienced no change in floral nectar production upon exposure to elevated CO2. To date, no study of enhanced UV-B radiation reported a consistent reduction in floral nectar production; three species of Brassicaceae responded differently, but various levels of ozone depletion were simulated. Experimentation with more taxa  including those possessing nectary types such as septal (gynopleural) nectaries (e.g. many monocotyledons) or aggregations of glandular trichomes  and expanding such physiological studies to species possessing extrafloral nectaries, are recommended.
23654255|The bladderworts (Utricularia, Lentibulariaceae) are the most diverse carnivorous plant genus, with a nearly worldwide distribution. In the present study, chloroplast DNA sequences of the trnK intron were used to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships within the genus. Parsimony, likelihood, and Bayesian analyses resulted in highly congruent and well-resolved trees. The phylogenetic signal provided by the noncoding trnK intron partition of the dataset is similar to that of the matK coding region, although the latter is twice as long. Within matK, indels appeared in multiples of three except very close to the 3 end of the gene. Substitutions were found to result in or eliminate stop codons, thus creating a length variable gene end. Indels in both trnK and matK exhibit low degrees of homoplasy, irrespective of their size. A tree based on indels alone is largely congruent to the substitution-based trees but less resolved. Three major clades found within Utricularia are classified as subgen. Utricularia, subgen. Bivalvia, and subgen. Polypompholyx. The immediate common ancestor of Utricularia is suggested to have been a terrestrial plant whereas epiphytic and aquatic habits evolved later in terminal clades.
43558604|The gynoecium of 122 species and 14 varieties of Cuscuta (dodders) was investigated by light and scanning electron microscopy to assess its diversity and evolution and to provide a morphological foundation for understanding the different reproductive strategies encountered in the genus. Data were optimized into a consensus tree constructed from three large-scale molecular phylogenies of the genus based on nuclear ITS and plastid trnL-F sequences. The number of styles combined with the stigma shape are the only floral/fruit characters that enable the separation of Cuscuta subgenera. In addition, gynoecium morphology is useful for delimiting species in some clades. The one-style gynoecium of subg. Monogynella is mostly likely ancestral whereas gynoecia with two styles are derived in subgenera Cuscuta and Grammica. Gynoecia with two styles encountered in the latter subgenera provide a greater morphological complexity and flexibility for various reproductive strategies. In subg. Cuscuta, both the equal styles and stigmas continue to elongate and modify their position after the flowers open, until pollination occurs. In subg. Grammica, the two unequal styles may cause a spatial separation of the sexes in the flower, herkogamy, while the two stigmas mature sequentially and have a differential timing of their receptivity for pollen. A nectary consisting of a ring of modified stornata at the base of the ovary, the equivalent of the hypogynous nectary disc present in many Convolvulaceae, was observed for the first time in all Cuscuta species. The vasculature of the styles is reduced, represented mostly by phloem; xylem is present only in subg. Monogynella. Some gynoecial characters, for example papillae diameter, stigma surface area, stigma width, and style width were moderately correlated with pollen volume, pollen polar-equatorial ratio and tectum perforation. Gynoecium features suggest that Cuscuta is allied with the "bifid clade" (Dicranostyloideae) in Convolvulaceae.
23664936|The fruit anatomy of 51 species of Apiaceae, representing all 23 genera of the traditional tribe Mulineae (now recognized as Apiaceae subfamily Azorelloideae) and their putative relatives, was studied in detail. Most genera (Asteriscium, Azorella, Bolax, Bowlesia, Dichosciadium, Dickinsia, Diplaspis, Diposis, Domeykoa, Drusa, Eremocharis, Gymnophyton, Hermas, Homalocarpus, Huanaca, Laretia, Mulinum, Oschatzia, Pozoa, Schizeilema and Spananthe) have a combination of woody endocarps with the innermost layer of fibers arranged longitudinally and fruits that are either isodiametric or dorsally compressed (never laterally compressed), with lateral ribs or wings that are usually larger than all other ribs or wings. This combination of anatomical characters is unique to most of subfamily Azorelloideae. Choritaenia, and Klotzschia, however, lack prominent lateral ribs or wings, and also differ in other anatomical features, suggesting the exclusion of these taxa from the Azorelloideae. Carpological characters were found to be helpful in refining the circumscription of the subfamily.
23674765|Micromorphology and distribution of trichomes in six taxa of the Ophrys bertolonii aggregate (O. bertolonii, O. bertoloniiformis, O. benacensis, O. aurelia, O. drumana, O. catalaunica) are described. A fairly good homogeneity between all the taxa, with a moderate degree of variability even within the same taxon, has been observed. Comparison of these characters with those of O. promontorii and O. garganica corroborates the inclusion of the former species into the O. sphegodes aggregate. Trichome analysis of a hybrid is exemplified by O.  chiesesica (O. drumana  O. fuciflora).
23644054|The taxonomic transfer of the 23 Trigonella species previously known as medicagoids to the genus Medicago L. is reanalyzed on the basis of a molecular phylogenetic approach. The internal and external transcribed spacers of 53 Medicago species s. str. and 10 of the 23 medicagoid species were sequenced. Both maximum parsimony or maximum likelihood criteria joined medicagoid species more confidently with Medicago rather than with Trigonella. The basal position of the medicagoid species within the genus Medicago, together with morphologically atypical Medicago species (such as M. radiata and M. platycarpa), raised the question of the expediency to define a new genus and is discussed, relatively to the support of each clade. Using criteria of monophyly and support, it was concluded that the medicagoids are better joined in Medicago rather than placed in a new genus.
23655796|Isozymes were used to study genetic variation in the clonal ferns Culcita macrocarpa and Woodwardia radicans in the northwestern Iberian Peninsula, their northern distributional limit. Despite their high chromosome numbers, both species were isozymic diploids. In C. macrocarpa all 18 resolved loci were monomorphic, with the same allele in all ramets from all populations. In W. radicans only two of the 16 interpreted loci were polymorphic, with two alleles per locus; ramet-level genotypes showed Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, indicating an intergametophytic mating system; the number of genets distinguished was 13 per population; and among-population variation was low (FST = 0.231), suggesting effective gene flow (i.e. spore exchange). More generally, the very low (W. radicans, HT = 0.012) or zero (C. macrocarpa) genetic diversity detected in the present study may be due to genetic drift associated with the reduction of populations in the last glaciation, and to founder effects in the subsequent Holocene expansion.
43498310|The existence of two chemotypes of Pinus pinaster, on the basis of the chemical composition of the resin acids in their needles, is known. An investigation was performed on 54 samples of needles of Spanish Pinus pinaster to study the differences between these chemotypes on the basis of monoterpene, sesquiterpene, neutral diterpene, fatty acid, and resin acid composition. One-hundred and twelve compounds were identified by GC-FID and GC-MS. Statistical analysis of the results established the existence of two groups or chemotypes, in the ratio of 5:1. In one chemotype, total acid compounds were more abundant than neutral compounds, whereas in the other the concentrations of both neutral and acid compounds were similar. Distinction of the chemotypes was based on the presence/absence of a sesquiterpene (germacrene D-4-ol acetate), neutral diterpenes (8(14), 13(15)-abietadiene, anticopalol, an isomer of anticopalol, and pimarol), fatty acids (10-octadecenoic, 14-hydroxy-10-octadecenoic, and 13-hydroxy-9-octadenoic acids and an unidentified fatty acid), and resin acids (levopimaric + palustric, eperuic, and anticopalic acids, and three isomers of anticopalic acid); and on the different relative percentages of other compounds of these types. This study gives a wide view of the composition of the needles of Pinus pinaster, improving the differentiation of chemotypes on the basis of terpene and acid composition.
23643515|The phylogeny of the subfamily Rubioideae (Rubiaceae) was estimated from sequence variation in the rps16 intron (cpDNA) in 143 ingroup and 5 outgroup taxa. The analysis largely confirms a recent one based on rbcL sequences, but branch support is often much stronger. Three of the traditional subfamilies are supported, Rubioideae, Cinchonoideae s. str., and Ixoroideae s. l. while there is no support for Antirheoideae. The Rubioideae are the sister group of all other Rubiaceae and comprise the tribes Anthospermeae, Coccocypseleae, Cruckshanksieae, Coussareeae, Gaertnereae, Hedyotideae, Knoxieae, Morindeae, Ophiorrhizeae, Paederieae, Pauridiantheae, Perameae, Psychotrieae, Rubieae, Spermacoceae, Theligoneae, and Urophylleae. The Hamelieae and Hillieae belong to the Cinchonoideae. Rachicallis and Siemensia should be transferred from the Hedyotideae to the Cinchonoideae. The Pauridiantheae, Urophylleae, Ophiorrhizeae, and Raritebe form the basalmost subclade of the Rubioideae. The second basalmost clade consists of the genera Lasianthus and Perama. The third basalmost clade consists of the tribes Coussareeae, Coccocypseleae and Cruckshanksieae, and the genera Declieuxia and Hindsia. The tribes Knoxieae, Anthospermeae, Argostemmateae, Paederieae, Theligoneae, Rubieae, Hedyotideae, and Spermacoceae are members of one clade. The Knoxieae are monophyletic if Otiophora, Otomeria, and Pentas are included. The tribe Anthospermeae is supported as monophyletic, but its subtribes are not. The Paederieae, together with Theligonum, form a paraphyletic grade basal to the Rubieae. The Hedyotideae, including Schismatoclada, form a grade at the base of the Spermacoceae. The Gaertnereae are monophyletic and distinct from the Psychotrieae. The Morindeae are monophyletic and include Damnacanthus and Mitchella. Schradera is the sister group of the Morindeae. The Psychotrieae are monophyletic when the Gaertnereae, Lasianthus, and Declieuxia are excluded. The recognition of a subtribe Hydnophytineae leaves the rest of the Psychotrieae paraphyletic. Psychotria is paraphyletic with respect to all other genera of the tribe. Approximately 50 genera are here classified for the first time based on molecular data.
23644055|We carried out isozyme electrophoresis in the South African taxa of Androcymbium to compare their levels of genetic variation with those reported for their North African congeners and to evaluate the influence of reproductive traits, phylogenetic relationships and environmental histories on the evolutionary dynamics of this disjunction between arid zones of North and South Africa. One possible factor to explain the higher number of alleles detected in South Africa is that diversification in this area started within the early Oligocene, whereas the ancestor of the North African species is more recent and corresponds to the late Miocene. Strong environmental selection and habitat specialization in South Africa probably fostered genetic differentiation between species further in this area. In South African taxa, isozymic variation levels were significantly correlated to breeding systems but not to lineage circumscription (i.e. phylogenetic closeness). The assessment of the relative influence of diverse biotic and abiotic factors on isozyme variation shows that, on a short geological time scale, breeding system is the most reliable predictor of levels of genetic variation. On a longer time frame, represented by the splitting that gave rise to the southnorth disjunction of the genus in the late Miocene, the influence of environmental histories of North and South Africa on genetic variation overrides that of breeding systems.
23655712|Hybridization and polyploidization are important evolutionary processes in higher plants and have greatly enriched the diversity of the genus Potamogeton (Potamogetonaceae). To study the phylogenetic relationships and hybrid origin of Potamogeton species, 35 accessions representing 20 species, including diploids, tetraploids and hexaploids, and three hybrids were collected in China and their ribosomal internal transcribed spacers (ITS) were cloned, sequenced and statistically analyzed. The data showed that ITS sequences were informative to analyze the phylogeny of Potamogeton, and the phylogenetic tree revealed that Potamogeton species examined could be mainly divided into two groups (Group I and II), corresponding to subgenus Potamogeton and subgenus Coleogeton, respectively. Then, the evolutionary mechanism on the polyploidy of Potamogeton species was discussed. P. natans probably was an allotetraploid and one of its parent might result from aneuploidy change of species with 2n = 28. P. hubeiensis might be derived from the hybridization between P. octandrus and P. cristatus. We suggested that both P. lucens and P. maackianus probably were allotetraploids, and P. obtusifolius might be a diploid hybrid between P. compressus and P. pusillus. Moreover, P. malainoides might have undergone biased concerted evolution toward one of its parent P. wrightii, and P. intortusifolius might be a synonymy of P.  anguillanus.
43558068|Holly oak is the only evergreen oak possessing a circum-Mediterranean range; it has two predominant morphological forms, calliprinos and coccifera, described in the eastern and western Mediterranean Basin respectively. The concordance of allozyme and morphotype variation was analysed in the whole holly oak range, and the most plausible historical events responsible for the current geographic pattern of genetic variation were investigated. Individuals from 24 populations were scored for allozyme variation at seven polymorphic loci. Multilocus genotypes were analysed by using a correspondence analysis (CA) and a Bayesian clustering approach. The relative positions of the populations were obtained from multi-dimensional scaling coupled with UPGMA treatment. A continuous genotype distribution was observed in the CA, and two groups were identified using the Bayesian approach. With a 0.95 threshold, 66 and 69% of the individuals showing the calliprinos and the coccifera morphotypes respectively were assigned to the corresponding genetic groups, which differed by private aleles. As compared to coccifera, the genetic group calliprinos was characterized by higher allelic richness and a strong geographical genetic structure. In agreement with fossil records, the most parsimonious explanation for lack of geographical structure in coccifera is a substantial regression of holly oak in the western Mediterranean Basin during the glaciations and a fast westward post-glacial expansion of coccifera populations, probably from Greece. Two population groups were obtained from the scaling/UPGMA treatment. One included all of the calliprinos populations and a Greek coccifera population, suggesting that the two morphotypes are closely related genetically and constitute two components of the same species.
23642837|We studied leaflet anatomy, emphasizing secretory structures, from herbarium specimens of 128 species of 44 genera of tribe Caesalpinieae, using clearings, resin sections, and scanning electron microscopy. These observations, combined with those from our three earlier papers, provide a survey of 210 species representing all genera. Seventy-three species had secretory structures: 21 had glands or gland-like trichomes, 40 had living mesophyll idioblasts, and nine had cavities (three species each had two different types). Five additional species, all in Cercidium (Caesalpinia group), had paired or clustered large spheroidal, thick-walled, empty cells (veinlet idioblasts) interconnected by perforation plate-like gaps. Secretory structures have systematic significance at various taxonomic levels.
23674583|The seed morphology of 151 species of Southern African Orchidoideae (Orchideae and Diseae; sensu Dressler 1981) was studied by means of scanning electron microscopy. Two different seed types were found. (1) In the majority of species the seeds are minute and fusiform. The seed coat is made up of comparatively few concave and elongate testa cells with straight or slightly undulate and generally unthickened anticlinal cell walls. The seed type was here termed "Satyrium-type". While most species are very similar in the ornamentation of the periclinal walls of their seed coat, considerable variation was found in Holothrix where two distinct groups can be recognized in this respect. (2) A remarkably different seed type was observed in Disa uniflora and three apparently closely related species ("Disa uniflora-type"), where large balloon-like seeds occur. Their seed coat consists of convex cells with undulate anticlinal walls. It is suggested that this seed type is a derived condition and has evolved in adaptation to the specialized habitat alongside streams. The possibility of hydrochory in these four species is briefly discussed.
23674582|Ovule fertilization and seed set were investigated in Crocus thomasii and Crocus vernus subsp. vernus, after different matings. The results gave evidence for a strict ovarian barrier in C. thomasii, which prevents self-fertilization either in self- or mixed- and double-pollination. In C. vernus the ovarian barrier to selfing is not so effective, but a further incompatibility reaction is expressed after self-fertilization resulting in a complete failure of embryogenesis. The implications of the present observations in respect to the mechanisms of pregamic- and postgamic rejection, indicate that a gametophytic system of self-incompatibility controls the ovule fertilization, and a not yet defined system of self-incompatibility controls embryogenesis.
23642308|The octoploid Festuca curvula Gaudin (F. ovina agg.) is new for the Austrian flora. Epidermal structures indicate relationships to F. pallens. Its distribution ranges from the Pyrenees and French Massif Central through the Alps to western Austria.
43498302|The genus Cistus is a widespread family growing around the Mediterranean area. There is a unique natural population of C. heterophyllus subsp. carthaginensis in Europe (Murcia, Spain) containing 22 individuals. Morphology of these plants suggests the co-occurrence of two distinct types within the population. One type would resemble C. heterophyllus, and a second type would be the result of hybridization events between this endangered population and the locally abundant Cistus albidus. These hybrids have been described in Africa as C.  clausonis. We have analyzed sequences of the chloroplast genes trnK-matK, rbcL, rpoB, rpoC1 and two intergenic regions, trnLF and trnH-psbA. Surprisingly, we observed heteroplasmy for rpoB and rpoC1 genes in C. heterophyllus and the local C.  clausonis, but not in C. albidus or C. monspeliensis. We found two distinct alleles of rpoB, one present in all species and a second present only in C. heterophyllus and the local C.  clausonis. We also detected two alleles of rpoC1, one common to all species analyzed and a second present only in the local C.  clausonis. Our results show that there is a distinctive rpoB allele common to C. heterophyllus and C.  clausonis from Africa and Europe. The unique rpoC1 allele found in the local C.  clausonis indicates a different origin of this small population, indicating it is not a hybrid formed with the C. albidus or C. heterophyllus currently present in this location.
23674561|For the first time dioecy in Mikania and in the tribe Eupatorieae is described and discussed. The condition is known only in members of the Mikania swartziana Griseb. complex, a group of eight species, all endemic to the Greater Antillean Islands of Cuba, Hispaniola, and Jamaica.
23656126|Paepalanthus subgen. Psilandra comprises two species known only from the type collections. The aim of this study is to evaluate their unique floral morphology within a given phylogenetic context and its implications for taxonomy. Flowers of both species were analyzed, described, and photographed using a digital microscope. Taxonomically relevant characters were mapped on previous molecular phylogenies. The flowers of both species fit the Paepalanthoideae pattern and are quite similar to each other. The petals of the pistillate flowers, although free, show evidence of previous fusion in the middle. The free condition is interpreted to be secondary, probably because of the handling of the specimens or to the current developmental stage. Character mapping indicates that both species share floral features with Syngonanthus but not with Paepalanthus. Therefore, based on the median fusion of the pistillate flower petals, absence of floral bracts, petals of the pistillate flower being shorter than the sepals, simple stigmas in the commissural position, the pedicellate pistillate flower, and the glabrous petals and sepals, we transfer P. subgen. Psilandra to synonymy of Syngonanthus sect. Syngonanthus and combine both species in this genus.
23663568|The relationship between the floral morphology, especially the heterostyly, and the pollination ability in Epimedium sagittatum was investigated. Three distinct kinds of flowers were observed in this species: (1) about 54% of the flowers had pistils that were of equal length or shorter than the stamens (PESS); (2) in 23.5% of the flowers, the pistils were longer than the stamens (PLS), and; (3) in 22.5% of the flowers, the styles were positioned axially away from the anthers (SAA). No significant difference in fruit setting rate was observed between PLS and SAA flowers, but PESS flowers set less fruits than the other two. A breeding experiment indicated that the species was self-incompatible, and revealed that the presence of PLS and SAA could increase outcrossing and fruit set. A field experiment showed that open-pollinated flowers of E. sagittatum produced significantly less fruits than an artificial xenogamy experiment. This may be because most of the flowers in natural populations have pistils and anthers of the same length (PESS). The principal visitors and effective pollinators are Bombus sp1 and Bombus sp2. Attractant experiments indicated that the fruit set of flowers whose spurs were removed was significantly lower than that of flowers whose stamens were removed, suggesting that the spurs of the flowers could strongly increase the pollinator visitation and fruit set. The results therefore showed that floral morphology could significantly affect fruit set in E. sagittatum.
43558059|Studying the genome structure of Epimedium has been hindered by the large genomes and uniform karyotypes. Consequently our understanding of the genome organization and evolutionary changes of Epimedium is extremely limited. In the present study, the 45S and 5S rDNA loci of 14 Epimedium species were physically mapped by double-probe FISH for the first time. Results showed the following: (1) Chromosomes I and II of all 14 species examined, except for E. shuichengense, hosted one pair of 45S rDNA sites, respectively. Most of the 45S rDNA sites gave clear signals and were positioned in the distal regions of the short arms. (2) All species studied of section Diphyllon were found to have one pair of 5S rDNA sites localized in the interstitial regions of the long arm of chromosome IV, and the two species of section Epimedium, E. alpinum and E. pubi g e rum, had two pairs of 5 S rDNA sites localized in the interstitial regions of the long arm of chromosomes IV and V, respectively. (3) In section Diphyllon, all species of small flower taxa, except E. shuichengense, had three pairs of 45S rDNA sites, clearly more than species of big flower taxa, except E. davidii, with two pairs of 45S rDNA sites. Based on the 45S and 5S rDNA distribution patterns and other chromosomal morphological characteristics, six pairs of chromosomes can be unambiguously identified in all 14 Epimedium species. The stable differentiation in 45S and 5S rDNA FISH patterns between the two sections suggests that chromosomal rearrangements and transpositional events played a role in the splitting of the two sections, and section Diphyllon may be more primitive than section Epimedium. In the same way, big flower taxa may be more primitive than small flower taxa in section Diphyllon.
23655566|The flower organs of Circaeaster are spiral in origin. The primordia of the tepals, stamens and carpels are almost the same in shape and size in early development. Carpel conduplication takes place only in the middle part of the carpel. The basal part of the carpel differentiates into a short stalk and the upper part into the style and the stigma. Flower development is similar to that of Kingdonia. Floral development of Circaeaster is compared with that of other Ranunculales.
23655739|We studied the allocation of reproductive resources in 32 Mediterranean legume species. Correlations between main parameters were analysed at interspecific level. For each species we described the type of pollen presentation and examined its systematic significance. The high P/O values observed reflect low pollen transfer efficiency, typical of xenogamous species. Lowest P/Os were found in species with brush or explosive tripping mechanism, while highest ones were associated to primary pollen presentation. No trade-off was observed between P/O and the volume of a single pollen grain, nor between pollen number and pollen grain volume. Perennials showed higher P/Os compared to annuals, in accordance with the assumption that annual species are often self-compatible while most perennials are outcrossers. Fruit and seed set, evaluated in eight species under different experimental conditions, showed a close dependence on insects, and the existence of self-compatibility in three species (Colutea arborescens, Coronilla emerus, Hedysarum coronarium). In Colutea arborescens and Coronilla emerus pollen-pistil interaction and pre-zygotic barriers to selfing were investigated through stigma receptivity tests and in-vivo pollen germination trials. Results demonstrated the importance of the stigmatic cuticle in reducing levels of autogamy. Productivity tests confirmed the utility of P/O ratio as indirect measure of species' breeding system.
23674629|The perfume syndrome and pollination by fragrance-collecting euglossine bees in the neotropic solanaceous genus Cyphomandra was confirmed by field observations. In SE Brazil, C. sciadostylis was visited by Eufriesea violacea, and C. diploconos by Euglossa mandibularis; C. hartwegii was pollinated by Eulaema meriana in Costa Rica. The primary attractant, fragrant droplets that ooze from the dorsally bulged connectives, is mopped up by the males with the forebasitarsi. Thereby, the poricidal thecae are inadvertently pushed causing the dry pollen to dust the bee's sternum. The number and direction of the pollen jets are related to pollinator size and stigma structure. The flowers are homogamous, self-sterile, and last three days. The androecium is optically non-contrasting or has cryptic colour. Flowers of C. sciadostylis and C. diploconos undergo a colour change and an almost three-fold increase in corolla size when scent production and visits cease. The dorsal papillar epidermis of the connective is underlain by a glandular parenchyma typical of osmophores. GC techniques revealed germacrene D as the main component in the mentholic scent of C. sciadostylis, ipsdienol, heneicosane, and tricosane as dominant in the nutmeg-like scent of C. diploconos, and benzyl acetate and benzyl alcohol in the sweet fragrance of C. hartwegii. In all cases, these were accompanied by numerous minor components of heterogeneous chemical nature.  Pollen release by means of a peculiar pneumatic bellows mechanism appears as a necessary and probably ubiquitous feature of Cyphomandra. Even a slight pressure exerted upon the thin, elastic thecal walls blows pollen jets through the pores. Unusual anatomic changes accompany anther maturation. Initially voluminous parenchymatic locular intumescences (placentoids) contract completely during meiosis, then expand once more when the pollen is ripe, pushing the grains against the locular wall, and contract a second time, allowing air to enter the thecae.  Cyphomandra pinetorum was found to be exceptional in exhibiting a pollen flower syndrome, and not cryptical but optically contrasting yellow anthers, as known for Solanum.
23669764|In Samoa, field observations, experiments, and SEM micrographs of hair and feather samples indicate the dioecious liana Freycinetia reineckei to be both chiropterophilous and ornithophilous with the principal pollinators being an endemic flying fox, Pteropus samoensis, and an endemic starling, Aplonis atrifuscus. Nutritional analysis of staminate and pistillate inflorescenses indicate qualitative and quantitative differences between the rewards offered by the two sexes. No nectar is presented, the principal pollinator rewards being fleshy bracts and pollen. As a result, staminate and bisexual inflorescenses sustain higher levels of pollinator damage, a factor which may tend to maintain dioecism within the population.
23642488|Chromosome numbers for 28 Iranian populations of Dipsacaceae, corresponding to 14 taxa, are presented. New are those for Scabiosa aff. olivieri var. pinnatisecta, S. persica, Pterocephalus canus, P. kurdicus, Dipsacus strigosus, Cephalaria dichaetophora, C. hirsuta, C. microcephala, C. subindivisa and C. aff. sublanata. Except for C. syriaca (x = 5) and C. dichaetophora (x = 7 : new basic chromosome number for Cephalaria), all species examined are characterized by the basic chromosome number (x = 9). Instances of aneusomaty, B-chromosomes, aneuploidy, dysploidy, and polyploidy have also been found.
23655112|Orchid seeds are minute, dust-like, windborne and, thus, would seem to have the potential for long-distance dispersal. Based on this perception, one may predict near-random spatial genetic structure within orchid populations. In reality we do not know much about seed dispersal in orchids and the few empirical studies of fine-scale genetic structure have revealed significant genetic structure at short distances ( < 5m), suggesting that most seeds of orchids fall close to the maternal plant. To obtain more empirical data on dispersal, Ripley's L(d)-statistics, spatial autocorrelation analyses (coancestry, fij analyses) and Wright's F statistics were used to examine the distribution of individuals and the genetic structure within two populations of the terrestrial orchid Orchis cyclochila in southern Korea. High levels of genetic diversity (He = 0.210) and low between-population variation were found (FST = 0.030). Ripley's L(d)-statistics indicated significant aggregation of individuals, and patterns varied depending on populations. Spatial autocorrelation analysis revealed significant positive genetic correlations among individuals located < 1 m, with mean fij values expected for half sibs. This genetic structure suggests that many seeds fall in the immediate vicinity of the maternal plant. The finding of significant fine-scale genetic structure, however, does not have to preclude the potential for the long distance dispersal of seeds. Both the existence of fine-scale genetic structure and low FST are consistent with a leptokurtic distribution of seed dispersal distances with a very flat tail.
23642245|The author has proceeded with a cytotaxonomical study of the genus Sideritis L. Chromosome numbers (mostly new) are reported for about twenty taxa from section Empedoclea (Rafin.) Benth. This section occupies a very isolated position within the genus and has evolved quite independently. L'auteur a procd  l'tude cytotaxinomique d'une vingtaine de taxons appartenant au genre Sideritis L. section Empedoclea (Rafin.) Bentham. La presque totalit des nombres chromosomiques sont nouveaux. La section Empedoclea occupe dans le genre Sideritis une position trs isole, elle volue indpendamment des autres sections.
23673173|Impatiens is a highly diversified genus with remarkable zygomorphic flowers. Floral ontogeny of three species of Impatiens has recently been studied, which suggested that, during the course of evolution, the anterolateral sepals become reduced and that these rudimentary sepals fuse postgenitally or congenitally with the anterior petal. All three belong to the majority type with five carpels and no mature anterolateral sepals. However, a few species of Impatiens have four carpels and two well-developed mature anterolateral sepals, and their floral development has never been examined. From a comparative-ontogenetic viewpoint, we explore the mechanism of formation of well-developed anterolateral sepals and four carpels in I. chishuiensis with five sepals and four carpels. The results show that, if anterolateral sepals are present, their early development statuses will likely influence whether or not the sepals can fully develop later, and that the initiation and development of five stamens have an effect on the shapes of floral apexes, eventually resulting in congenital fusion of two adaxial carpels. Furthermore, we discuss the systematic and evolutional value of floral early development data.
43558204|A detailed account is presented of attendant polysomatic variation in planta and elucidation of the modal karyotype in the difficult-to-study endangered orchid Bulbophyllum auricomum, known as the Royal Flower of Myanmar. The somatic chromosome number of B. auricomum (2n = 38) is reported for the first time. Polysomaty was prevalent in all seed-derived plants studied except two (SC34 and SC42). It was noted that in addition to normal diploid cells occurring in different frequencies (60% in SC21 to 89% in SC22, SC35), root tip cells also showed chromosome numbers <38 (in 0-37% metaphases) and >38 (in 0-33% metaphases). The chromosomes of B. auricomum are very small (0.7-2.7 m) in size. The karyotype of diploid B. auricomum showed 34 chromosomes with primary constriction (14 M + 16m + 4sm) and 4 chromosomes with secondary constrictions (sm:sm). Of the 50 plants analyzed, 2 (SC34 and SC42) were polyploid, showing 70 and 62 chromosomes in the root tip cells. The polyploidization in seed-derived plants clearly indicates the heterogeneous nature of orchid seed stock. Early detection of polyploidization in in vitro-propagated B. auricomum is valuable for conservation of this native endangered orchid species. On the other hand, the clonally propagated plants retained the chromosomal status of parent plants. This protocol could be exploited to protect this native endangered orchid species from natural extinction.
23642969|The evolution of endosperm, the tissue that nourishes developing embryos, has remained an enigma owing to its unique genetic composition. Because it contains both maternal (generally 2 doses) and paternal (1 dose) genomes, it is suggested to have evolved as a compromising tissue between the evolutionary interests of the maternal parent and offspring over resource allocation. This argument implies that in species where endosperm is highly functional and persistent, it quenches competition among developing embryos for resources and facilitates an equitable resource allocation to the developing offspring. Based on this argument we predict the association of well developed endosperm with certain features of fruits such as high ovule number per ovary and low extent of seed abortion. In this paper, we provide evidence in support of these predictions by analysing the data from 1131 species from the Flora of Presidency of Madras. We show that persistent and functional endosperm is more frequent in multiovulated than in uniovulated species and in species with less seed abortion. Our results also suggest that species with well developed endosperm tend to have uni-carpelled ovaries. Our analyses show that these associations are less likely to be emerging due to phylogenetic constraints. We argue that the endosperm has evolved as a maternal strategy of quenching the extent of sibling rivalry.
23674045|A survey of 51 species from Nicotiana subgg. Tabacum, Rustica and Petunioides has shown that evolution was accompanied by a five-fold variation in nuclear DNA amounts. This variation, however, was not directly correlated with the changes in chromosome number. Drastic rearrangement of karyotypes is characteristic for the evolution of Nicotiana spp. Significant gain or loss in nuclear DNA has often accompanied such changes, but DNA variation has also occurred without significant changes in karyotype arrangements.  The distribution of nuclear DNA is discontinuous in Nicotiana, species cluster into DNA groups with consistently regular increments in the mean DNA amounts. The discontinuities are viewed as "steady states" in terms of genomic balance and biological fitness.  Changes in the amount of nuclear DNA and in the heterochromatin are compared with the morphological, chromosomal and adaptive changes which accompanied speciation in 14 subgeneric sections. The evolutionary significance of DNA variation is discussed.
23669766|A key is provided for the 14 Erodium species of the Egyptian flora. The important differential chracters of leaf, inflorescence, flower, and fruit are discussed and illustrated.
23664805|Crocus sativus L. is a sterile species (3n) whose origin has not been yet clarified. A lot of morphological studies supported the theory that it would have been originated from the evolution, or the hybridization, of other Crocus exemplars, especially C. thomasii, C. hadriaticus and C. cartwrightianus. Crocus sativus stigmas are saffron raw source but, because of their high economic value, sometimes this spice is adulterated. By the application of the DNA barcode technique, we analyzed different Crocus species genomes and we partially clarified some aspects of the phylogeny of this genus: in particular, C. sativus possible genetic derivation was elucidated. Our results also showed that different C. sativus species might have evolved by independent events, probably due to several geographical pressures. We demonstrated that barcoding method, usually adopted for interspecific taxonomic identification, could be also applied to intraspecific and population studies. Finally, we proposed this molecular approach as scientific tool able to discriminate and certificate saffron authenticity.
23674687|This paper is the first report of an investigation on differentiation and evolutionary pattern in Ranunculus subg. Batrachium mainly on the Aegean islands and treats the karyology in the subgenus. The following taxa and chromosome numbers are recorded. R. peltatus subsp. peltatus: 2n = 32, subsp. baudotii: 2n = 32, subsp. saniculifolius: 2n = 16, 32, and 40; R. peltatus s.l.: 2n = 32 and 48; R. penicillatus subsp. pseudofluitans: 2n = 16; R. rionii: 2n = 16; R. sphaerospermus: 2n = 16; R. trichophyllus: 2n = 32, 40, and 48; R. tripartitus: 2n = 48. The karyotypes show certain interspecific differences in chromosome size, in number of chromosome types according to centromere position and in occurrence and position of satellite chromosomes. r-Index and RCL have been calculated.
43558242|This study concerns the evaluation of leaf anatomical characteristics of the closely related genera Matricaria (4 taxa) and Tripleurospermum (14 endemic taxa, 15 accessions) in Turkey using cluster analysis (CA) and principal component analysis (PCA). All taxa have the same basic leaf structure composed of lower and upper epidermis including anomocytic or anomocytic-anisocytic stornata, parenchymatic mesophyll, and vascular bundle.Statistically significant differences based on ploidy level have been found without generic delimitation. The differences mainly concern stomatal length and the relative size of the vascular bundle. These anatomical characters can be used to distinguish diploid from polyploid taxa of the genera.
23642205|The formerly obscure genus Oryctina v. Tiegh. is redescribed and validated. It is shown to include two species, an old one, previously known as Oryctanthus scabridus Eichl., now Oryctina scabrida (Eichl.) v. Tiegh., and a new one, Oryctina subaphylla Rizz., both from Brazil.
23654197|We studied an isolated population of Campanula rapunculus and two oligolectic bee species of Chelostoma (Megachilidae), their main pollinators. The population of C. rapunculus consisted of 2808 plants. Measurements of pollen flow showed that 3.7% of the pollen produced by a flower contribute to pollination, 95.5% was collected by bees for their offspring and 0.8% remained on the styles. Pollen analyses of brood cells of Chelostoma rapunculi revealed that females collected on average 4.9 million Campanula pollen to rear one bee. We calculated that approximately 1588 bees of this species could have been reared at the study site during the studied season. The amount of potentially viable pollen deposited on stigmas was 3.6 to 10.7 times higher than the number of ovules. We discuss morphological features of the flowers which may lower the pollen removal rate per bee visit and consequently cause a high visitation and pollination rate.
23673150|Rib numbers have traditionally been used in identification keys of Eupatorieae. Some species, however, demonstrate variations in this character much greater than those registered in the literature, making the use of this trait controversial. The large variations seen among some species of Eupatorieae examined in this work were found to be related to the fact that rib number is more closely associated with the pressure exerted by neighboring flowers on the capitulum than with genetic factors. According to our results, ribs are not a reliable taxonomic character for broad use in Eupatorieae, being especially inappropriate for Chromolaena stachyophylla, Praxelis pauciflora, and Vittetia orbiculata. The association between the occurrence of vascular bundles and ribs is also discussed, and the variability seen in some Eupatorieae is analyzed. Our data indicate that the formation of the ribs on the cypselae is determined more by the position occupied by the flower on the inflorescence than by the occurrence of vascular bundles.
23673771|Chromosome numbers for 16 different taxa of Rubiaceae from Sri Lanka are presented. Counts for 13 species, including 5 genera and 1 tribe, are new. The results are listed, compared with available literature data and discussed in regard to their systematical importance.
43558381|Brazilian orchids are currently threatened with extinction due to habitat loss and, because of their high ornamental value, intense collecting pressure. Genetic diversity can play a key role in the survival of endangered orchid species. Here we provide the first data on genetic diversity and structure of wild populations in the genus Cattleya, in particular C. labiata, using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and intersimple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers. We studied 130 individuals, 117 belonging to Cattleya labiata and 13 from 10 other species in the same genus. Data generated from 12 ISSR and 12 RAPD primers were used to determine genetic variability via a model-based Bayesian procedure (Structure) and molecular variance analysis. In addition, Shannon index, genetic diversity and Jaccard coefficients were also estimated. The marker data indicated that C. labiata has a high level of polymorphism, and five reconstructed populations were identified by Structure. The unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean dendrogram did not group the samples by origin, which was also confirmed by Bayesian analysis, demonstrating the complex genetic structure of C. labiata. Other Cattleya species showed no relationship with any C. labiata sample. This genetic characterization of Cattleya from northeast Brazil contributes to knowledge of the genetic structure of the species and can be used to define strategies for conservation and breeding programmes.
43558588|Limonium barceloi (Plumbaginaceae) is a narrow endemic seasonal halophytic plant, uniquely found in a highly degraded urban wetland in the Bay of Palma Mallorca, located in the northwest Mediterranean. It was awarded critically endangered status in 2004 and is the subject of a recovery plan administered by local government. Despite this, the last ten years have seen a dramatic decline in the population from ca. 3,000 individuals to just ca. 300; reasons for this decline are principally anthropogenic disturbance. Here we present the results of an investigation into some aspects of the reproductive biology of this species in the last remaining in situ population, in order to gain insight into its limited distribution and abundance, and to guide further development of management strategies. Findings indicate that although it provides important floral resources to a number of insect visitors, the plant is an autonomous apomictic that may also be functioning as an obligate asexual reproducer, and low genetic variation is suspected. Germinability is observed to be at ca. 70% and was positively correlated with maternal plant size characteristics. Two seed predators, the moth Goniodoma limoniella (Coleophoridae) and the ant Messor bouvieri (Myrmicinae), were discovered affecting both preand post-dispersal seeds. Rate of removal was high, although it is hypothesised that at this time species recruitment is not seed limited, but rather restricted by lack of suitable microsites. The results of this study are used to make recommendations for the species recovery.
23668878|Juniperus thurifera is an important component of woodland communities of dry sites within the West Mediterranean region and is characterised by a strongly disjunctive geographic range. Two subspecies were recognised, subsp. thurifera in Europe and subsp. africana in Africa. The aim of the study was the comparison of phenetic diversity to the pattern of AFLP geographic differentiation of the species described in the literature. The examination of phenetic diversity was based on the biometrical analysis of 17 populations using 12 morphological characters of cone and seed. The differences among populations were analysed using Student's t test, analysis of discrimination, UPGMA agglomeration and hierarchical analysis of variance. The majority of morphological characters differentiated at a statistically significant level between populations and between J. thurifera subsp. thurifera and subsp. africana. Three groups of populations were detected using multivariate statistical analyses. The first, well separated, is subsp. africana, while the following two concern subsp. thurifera. The morphological differentiation of populations appeared similar to that described on the AFLP. The Gibraltar Straight appeared to be the most important barrier.
23664351|Sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region for 189 accessions representing 184 species in 121 genera of Brassicaceae were used to determine monophyly of tribes and genera, tribal boundaries, and component genera. Parsimony analysis and Bayesian inference suggest that the tribes Camelineae and Arabideae are polyphyletic and should be subdivided into smaller tribes. The study also supports the recent recognition of the new tribes Aphragmeae, Biscutelleae, Buniadeae, Calepineae, Conringieae, Dontostemoneae, Erysimeae, Malcolmieae, Megacarpaeeae, and Turritideae. The data argue for the placement of Borodinia in the tribe Boechereae, Litwinowia and Pseudoclausia in the Chorisporeae, Atelanthera and Streptoloma in the Euclidieae, and Megacarpaea and Pugionium in the Megacarpaeeae, and exclusion of Asperuginoides, Didymophysa, and Ptilotrichum from the Alysseae, Macropodium, Pseudoturritis, and Stevenia from the Arabideae, and Crucihimalaya, Irenepharsus, Pachycladon, and Turritis from the Camelineae. Finally, the findings support the expansion of Stevenia to include both Berteroella and Ptilotrichum, Sterigmostemum to include Oreoloma and one species of Anchonium, Crucihimalaya to include Transberingia and several species of Arabis, and Parrya to include Pseudoclausia. The data also suggest that Calymmatium and Olimarabidopsis may be congeneric.
23655132|Mirror-image flowers (enantiostyly) have long been considered a mechanism to promote cross-pollination between flowers of alternate stylar orientation. However, in monomorphic enantiostyly, the occurrence of both left- and right-styled flowers on the same individual plant might appear to promote geitonogamy rather than outcrossing relative to the condition of dimorphic enantiostyly. We investigated daily floral display during the flowering season in two experimental populations of monomorphic enantiostylous species, Monochoria korsakowii and Monochoria vaginalis (Pontederiaceae) to assess the potential effects of floral display on geitonogamous pollination. The left- and right-styled flowers exhibited a 1:1 ratio both within individuals and populations. In M. korsakowii and M. vaginalis, 86.0% and 71.3% daily floral displays involved fewer than three flowers thus reducing the likelihood of geitonogamy. Moreover, daily displays often involved one floral form and mixed-formed with unequal ratios of left- and right-styled flowers also reducing opportunities for geitonogamy. Therefore variation in daily floral display in these two Monochoria species suggests that the impact of monomorphic enantiostyly in promoting geitonogamy will be reduced by small display sizes, or through simulating dimorphic enantiostyly.
43558589|In this study, the detailed pollen morphological structures of some endemic Turkish species of Centaurea amaena Boiss., C. antalyense H. Duman & A. Duran, C aphrodisea Boiss., C. hierapolitana Boiss., C. luschaniana Heimerl, C. lycia Boiss., C. tossiensis Freyn. Et Sint., and C. wagenitzii Hub.-Mor. (Asteraceae, section Phaloletis) were studied under light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) for the first time. LM and SEM investigations showed that the pollen grains of eight taxa are more or less spheroidal-subprolate, the amb triangular and tricolporate. The exine sculpture is tectate, microechinate-scabrate in the pollen of Centaurea taxa. Spinules are less dense in Centaurea amaena, C. antalyense, C. hierapolitana, and C. lycia, but they are more dense in C. aphrodisea, C. luschaniana, C. tossiensis, and C. wagenitzii. Spinule dimensions are different from each other. The exine has one layer of columellae beneath the spines. We determined all taxa that have the Helianthoid type. Exine sctructure and sculpture as well as spine density and dimensions in Asteraceae are the most reliable characteristics for discriminating taxa.
43496752|Tamarix chinensis, with its important ecological significance, is a vital dominant plant in the Yellow River Delta of China. To understand its genetic structure and population dynamics, five populations of T. chinensis, consisting of 140 individuals, were analyzed in this study using inter simple sequence repeat markers. Seventy-eight polymerase chain reaction fragments were scored, of which 62 were polymorphic. The mean percentage of polymorphic loci (P), the mean Nei's gene diversity (h), and the mean Shannon's information index (I) were 79.5%, 0.239, and 0.363, respectively. These indexes indicated that a moderate level of genetic diversity existed in T. chinensis populations of the Yellow River Delta. Both analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) (st = 0.169) and Popgene (Gst = 0.159) analyses revealed the low level of genetic differences among the five populations of T. chinensis. The results implied that relatively frequent gene flow existed among populations. However, slightly uneven genetic diversity was also found among populations. Unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean and principal component analysis showed that populations with similar soil salinity had a close relationship, rather than populations with closer geographical distance. A significant negative correlation between genetic diversity and soil salinity of the five populations (r = -0.958, p < 0.01) showed that soil salinity played an important role in shaping the population genetic structure of T. chinensis in the Yellow River Delta, China.
23674736|The sex expression in Thymelaea hirsuta was assessed in five habitats in the western Mediterranean desert of Egypt. The survey over two main flowering periods indicated that the sexual expression of this plant is complex and labile. Beside the dioecious male and female states, five monoecious states were detected. The dioecious states are more abundant and less labile. There is a clear shift from monoecious towards dioecious states and in general favour of males from the first (late autumn) to the second (late winter) flowering period. These results are discussed in view of the adaptive theories and evolution.
23669757|Chromosome numbers of 42 species and 3 varieties from 24 genera of the Annonaceae have been determined (Table 1); reports for 15 of the genera are new. Among Asian genera 2 n = 14 occurs only in the specialized Mezzettia, while 2 n = 16 is wide-spread and also has been found in Anaxagorea with some primitive characters. 2 n = 18 is reported for 11 genera, and tetraploidy (2 n = 36) has been observed in Polyalthia. Therefore, an original basic number of x = 8 or x = 9 is suggested at least for the Asian genera of the Annonaceae. Cytotaxonomical notes on the critical species Polyalthia rumphii and P. affinis are given, and the new combination Neouvaria parallelivenia (Boerl.) Okada & Ueda is proposed.
23663579|In 1927, T. G. Halle published an extensive synthesis of the Permian fossil plant assemblages from China's Shanxi Province that included five genera and species of seed plant that either had ovules in organic attachment or closely and repeatedly associated with foliage. These fertile pteridosperms were the subject of a later publication (1929) that provided additional information on each species, but since that time only Nystroemia pectiniformis Halle has been subjected to detailed investigation based on the original materials. Reinvestigation of the remaining four species has yielded additional examples and new information for each species, and has confirmed the pteridospermalean affinity for three of the four species. Alethopteris norinii Halle shows organic attachment of a pollen organ similar to Wittleseya (Newberry) Halle and is reinterpreted as a microsporangiate medullosan pteridosperm. Emplectopteris triangularis Halle and Sphenopteris tenuis (Schenk) Halle both bear numerous ovules attached directly to the leaf laminae, with Emplectopteris conforming with the gross-organisation of callistophytalean pteridosperms and S. tenuis being interpreted as a derived lagenostomalean pteridosperm. However, discovery of the counterpart to the key specimen of Pecopteris wongii Halle that Halle interpreted as bearing ovules demonstrates this species to be a sterile marattialean frond that agrees with its assignment to Pecopteris. In addition, two further specimens are demonstrated to be fertile organs of previously unknown pteridosperms; Norinosperma shanxiensis gen. et sp. nov. bears cardiocarpalean ovules abaxially on the proximal portions of the frond with ovules positioned directly on the veins of a leaf lamina; Norinotheca shanxiensis gen. et sp. nov. bears large pollen organs abaxially and singly on the vein of the leaf lamina. Collectively Halle's pteridosperms remain important today as they are some of the few specimens that actually demonstrate organic connection of fertile organs to foliage, helping to characterise the morphology and organisation of this seed plant group. These species also demonstrate the persistence of seed plant families and genera in the Permian of China that became regionally extinct at the end of the Carboniferous in Euramerica, and show that pteridosperms remained an important component of Permian as well as Carboniferous floras globally.
23643090|The sieve-element plastids of 126 species of the Arales were investigated by transmission electron microscopy. With the exception of Pistia (with S-type plastids) all contained the monocotyledon specific subtype-P2 plastids characterized by cuneate protein crystals. While the species studied from both Acoraceae and Lemnaceae have form-P2c plastids (i.e., with cuneate crystals only), those of the Araceae belong to either form P2c (14 species), P2cs (the great majority) or P2cfs (Monstera deliciosa, only, with form-P2cs plastids in the other Monstera species studied). The form-P2cs plastids of the Araceae are grouped into different categories according to the quantity and quality of their protein and starch contents. The subfamily Lasioideae is redefined to comprise all aroid P2c-taxa and those P2cs-genera that contain only one or very few starch grains. Only little starch is also recorded in the sieve-element plastids of Gymnostachys (Gymnostachydoideae), with the other plastid data denying a close relationship to Acorus. While equal amounts of starch and protein are generally present in sieve-element plastids of the subfamilies Pothoideae, Monsteroideae, Colocasioideae, Philodendroideae, and Aroideae, maximum starch content and only very few protein crystals are found in form-P2cs plastids of Calla (Calloideae), Ariopsis (Aroideae), and Remusatia (Colocasioideae?). In the latter, both morphology and size of sieve-element plastids are close to those of Pistia.  In the Araceae the diameters of the sieve-element plastids exhibit a great size range, but are consistent within a species and within a defined part of the plant body. Comparative data are mainly available for stem and petiole sieve-element plastids.  The accumulated data are used to suggest an affiliation of the species to subfamilies and to discuss the phylogeny of the Arales. Forms and sizes of their plastids support a separation of both Acoraceae and Lemnaceae from the Araceae. The presence of S-type plastids in Pistia does not favour direct and close relationships to the form-P2c genus Lemna.  The prevailing form-P2cs plastids might support proposals that place the Arales (together with also form-P2cs plastid containing Dioscoreales) in the neighbourhood of basal dicotyledons. Besides Asarum and Saruma (Aristolochiaceae), with monocotyledonous form-P2c plastids, Pistia (with dicotyledonous S-type plastids) gives another example for a link between the two angiosperm classes.
23642865|Distylous Linum grandiflorum, L. mucronatum, and L. pubescens have dimorphic pollen grains. In short-styled flowers the exine has monomorphic processes each with a ring of papillae. In long-styled flowers the exine has two types of processes: small processes terminating in a spinule and larger processes with a central spinule surrounded by a ring of spinuels, papillae or buttresses. The distylous Linum species of four different sections, in which morph-specific differences in the wall structure of stigmatic papillae have been reported, also exhibit exine dimorphism. The patterns of these dimorphisms are similar in all four sections in which distyly is present.
23644311|Cupule and pistillate inflorescence morphology is described in detail for the first time for a number of species in Nothofagus subgenus Lophozonia. The architecture and temporal appearance of prophylls, flowers, and cupule valves is dichasial; the cupule valves are third and higher order shoot systems. Comparative studies demonstrate that the dorsal rows of appendages on the cupule valves have a similar arrangement, and each row exhibits the same temporal pattern of development. This suggests that the cupule valves in all species have a modular construction and consist of rows of homologous appendages. This study clearly demonstrates the uniform groundplan of the pistillate inflorescence in this subgenus.
23644390|In gynodioecious species, females contribute genes to future generations only through ovules, and to persist in populations they must have a compensatory advantage compared with hermaphrodites that reproduce via ovules and pollen. This compensation can result from greater fecundity and/or superior success of progeny from females. We examined differences in seed production and progeny success between females and hermaphrodites in the geophyte Wurmbea biglandulosa to explain the maintenance of females. Females produced more ovuliferous flowers and had more ovules per flower than did hermaphrodites but this did not necessarily result in greater fecundity, in part because seed production of females was pollen-limited. Over four years in one population, open-pollinated females produced 1.32 more seeds than open-pollinated hermaphrodites (range 1.091.63). In two other populations examined for one year only females produced 1.07 and 0.79 as many seeds as hermaphrodites. Seed production of open-pollinated females and hermaphrodites was only 55% and 73% that of cross-pollinated plants, respectively, indicating that both genders were pollen-limited but females more so than hermaphrodites. Open-pollinated seeds from females were 1.181.27 times more likely to germinate than seeds from hermaphrodites. No gender differences existed in seedling growth or survival. Hermaphrodites were self-compatible, but selfed seed set was only 80% that of crossed seed set. Crossed seed set of females and hermaphrodites did not differ. Assuming nuclear control of male sterility, relative female fitness is insufficient to maintain females at their current frequencies of 17%, and substantial female fitness advantages at later life-cycle stages are required.
23669421|The leguminous flora of Delhi comprises 78 Papilionoideae, 24 Caesalpinioideae and 24 Mimosoideae species; 80 of them are perennials. Five types of imparipinnate and two types of paripinnate compound leaves were observed in the species. The paripinnate leaves are bipinnate in 25 species (mostly mimosoid) and bifoliate in two species. The imparipinnate leaves were trifoliate or multifoliate in 59 papilionoid species and multifoliate in 16 caesalpinioid species; four of the papilionoid species produced leafletted and tendrilled unipinnate leaves. Leaves were bifacially simple in 22 species, simple with ectopic terminal growth in one species and simple tendril in one species. Twenty-one species (mostly mimosoid) were devoid of stipules. In 82 species stipules were small and free. Stipules were large and lobed in 17 species and large and adnate in four species. Two species of Caesalpinioideae produce compound leaf-like stipules. All four stipule phenotypes of 126 species corresponded with stipular phenotypes observed in wild type, coch, st and coch st genotypes of the model legume P. sativum. The seven leaf phenotypes observed in 126 species corresponded with phenotypes expected among combinations of uni (uni-tac), af, ins, mfp and tl mutants of P. sativum and sgl1, cfl1, slm1 and palm1 mutants of M. truncatula, also an IRL model legume. All the variation in leaf and stipule morphologies observed in the leguminous flora of Delhi could be explained in terms of the gene regulatory networks already revealed in P. sativum and M. truncatula. It is hypothesized that the ancestral gene regulatory networks for leaves and stipules produced in Leguminosae were like that prevalent in P. sativum.
43558380|Iran is one of the most important growing centers for wild and domesticated species and varieties of Prunus subgenus Cerasus plants. Due to the suitable adaptation of wild species to the environmental and edaphic conditions of this country, they can be used as rootstock for sweet and sour cherry cultivars as well as in breeding programs for rootstock improvement, and a program has been initiated for this purpose. As a first step towards exploring the genetic diversity of P. incana Pall., morphological traits were used to evaluate the variation within its population dispersed in East and West Azerbaijan and Kordestan Provinces of Iran. In this study, 32 accessions of P. incana and 3 accessions from related species (Prunus avium L., P. cerasus L., and P. mahaleb L.) were used. Seventeen quantitative and two qualitative traits (vegetative and reproductive) were analyzed, and significant differences among accessions were found for most traits. Results of simple correlation analysis showed significant positive or negative correlations among some important traits such as tree height, leaf area, and leaf blade length and width. Factor analysis showed that leaf area, leaf blade length and width, petiole length, fruit and stone weight, fruit length and diameter, stone volume, and plant height constructed the main factors. Cluster analysis clearly discriminated P. incana accessions from other Prunus species and also differentiated P. incana accessions according to their geographic growing sites. Scatter plot analysis using two main factors also strongly confirmed the cluster analysis results.
23674091|Chromosome numbers for six Australian taxa of Euphrasia have been determined. Improved staining techniques have shown that numbers for four of the taxa published previously by the first author were incorrect. The investigated taxa show high ploidy levels with an apparent base number of x = 11, the same as for the genus outside Australia.
23656027|Documenting the morph-specific variation of floral traits associated with reciprocal herkogamy is of special importance for revealing the functional significance of traits in the evolution and maintenance of the heterostylous syndrome. In order to describe the extent and specificity of variation, stigma height, anther height, stigma-anther separation and corolla tube length were measured on 800 flowers collected in two natural populations of Primula vulgaris and P. veris. Beside the almost complete separation of stigma heights between the two morphs, we found appreciable intermorph overlap in anther height and relatively broad range of stigma-anther separation so far reported for heterostylous species. The corolla tube lengthstigma-anther separation relationship showed striking difference between the two floral morphs, which supports the hypothesis that length of the corolla tube plays a more important role in positioning the sex-organs in the appropriate distance in the short-styled than in the long-styled morph.
23674781|Restriction site variation in the nuclear 18S25S ribosomal RNA genes (rDNA) was analyzed hierarchically in a species complex in the fern genus Polystichum. Two distinct rDNA repeat types were present in all individuals of Polystichum examined. No variation was detected among individuals within a population of P. munitum, among populations of P. munitum or P. imbricans, or among the six diploid species of Polystichum from North America, including the circumboreal P. lonchitis. The identity of rDNA repeats across all six North American species of Polystichum may reflect an overall similarity of the nuclear genomes of these species, an observation supported by isozyme data as well. However, this nuclear similarity contrasts sharply with the highly divergent chloroplast genomes of these six species. The conservative nature of the rDNA in Polystichum also is in contrast to the much more variable rDNAs of most angiosperms investigated. Perhaps the tempo and mode of evolution of rDNA in ferns differ from those of angiosperms; however, the data base for fern rDNA is very small. Furthermore, the number of repeat types per individual is consistent with a diploid, rather than polyploid, condition despite the high chromosome number (n = 41) of these plants, although homogenization of multiple, divergent rRNA genes cannot be disproven.
23642513|Arabis glabra (L.) Bernh. var. pseudoturritis (Boiss. & Heldr.) Fiori (till now treated as a separate Mediterranean species: Arabis pseudoturritis Boiss. & Heldr.) differs from A. glabra var. glabra only in the larger  pleurorhizal seeds with a  conspicuous wing that are arranged in one row in each loculus of the (sometimes longer) pods, the pedicels of the siliquae being shorter than in var. glabra. These closely correlated characters are of little systematic relevance according to biometrical and statistical analyses of both taxa and their experimental hybrids. Furthermore, there is correspondence in pod septum anatomy and chromosome number (2n = 12). This, the lack of intrinsic crossing barriers and sympatric occurence (outside the Mediterranean area!) in North America confirm the classification of these taxa as varieties within A. glabra. Obviously, the seed and fruit characters discussed, are of even less value as generic characters for a separate genus "Turritis" (comprising "Turritis" glabra L.).
43496766|Calypogeia sphagnicola is one of nine species of the genus Calypogeia known in Europe. Occurrence of the species is closely connected with peat bogs. Nowadays, two forms of this species are distinguishedC. sphagnicola f. sphagnicola and C. sphagnicola f. paludosa. The results of the present study, based on two classes of markersisozymes and sequences of chloroplast genom (trnH-psbA, rpoC1)unanimously support the genetic differentiation within the taxon and show that the presentday forms represent genetically distinct species. Phylogenetic analysis resolved two lineages that correspond with the present-day forms with high bootstrap support, which differ in ploidy level: C. sphagnicola f. sphagnicola is haploid, whereas C. sphagnicola f. paludosa is a diploid form. Allopolyploid origin of the diploid form was revealed by the isozyme pattern. Nei's genetic distance between the two present-day forms of C. sphagnicola was 0.472. The forms in Poland have an allopatric pattern of geographic distribution: C. sphagnicola f. sphagnicola occurs exclusively in the lowlands of the northern part of the country on raised peat bogs, whereas C. sphagnicola f. paludosa is found only in the mountains of southern Poland, mainly in the subalpine zone, where it grows on Sphagnum-Polytrichum hummocks on the upper part of north-facing slopes. Plants regarded in this study as C. sphagnicola f. sphagnicola morphologically correspond to the syntype specimen of C. sphagnicola.
23673658|The genus Lens includes 5 taxonomic species: L. culinaris is cultivated and L. orientalis, L. odemensis, L. ervoides, and L. nigricans are wild. All the species are annual and almost exlusively selfers. The wild lentils are distributed over a large geographical area and form small disjunct populations which are composed of a small number of plants. 67 Lens populations were assayed electrophoretically for 9 enzyme systems; 15 enzymic genes with 37 alleles were identified. The genetic distances (D) measured between the pairs of populations indicated a significantly greater similarity between populations belonging to the same taxonomic species. Assuming the populations represent a random sample of the variability in each of the species the genetic distances (D) between the 5 taxa were calculated. The shortest genetic distance was found between L. orientalis and L. culinaris. Another significant feature of the data is the apparent isolation of L. nigricans from the other 4 species. The genetic distances between the Lens species are compared to the patterns of crossability barriers between them.
23664065|Parasite populations do not necessarily conform to expected patterns of genetic diversity and structure. Parasitic plants may be more vulnerable to the negative consequences of landscape fragmentation because of their specialized life history strategies and dependence on host plants, which are themselves susceptible to genetic erosion and reduced fitness following habitat change. We used AFLP genetic markers to investigate the effects of habitat fragmentation on genetic diversity and structure within and among populations of hemiparasitic Viscum album. Comparing populations from two landscapes differing in the amount of forest fragmentation allowed us to directly quantify habitat fragmentation effects. Populations from both landscapes exhibited significant isolation-by-distance and sex ratios biased towards females. The less severely fragmented landscape had larger and less isolated populations, resulting in lower levels of population genetic structure (FST = 0.05 vs. 0.09) and inbreeding (FIS = 0.13 vs. 0.27). Genetic differentiation between host-tree subpopulations was also higher in the more fragmented landscape. We found no significant differences in within-population gene diversity, percentage of polymorphic loci, or molecular variance between the two regions, nor did we find relationships between genetic diversity measures and germination success. Our results indicate that increasing habitat fragmentation negatively affects population genetic structure and levels of inbreeding in V. album, with the degree of isolation among populations exerting a stronger influence than forest patch size.
23655776|The relationship between polyploidy and breeding system is of critical importance for understanding evolution and improving the taxonomy of large Rosaceous genera. Reviewing the data available for the family and for tribe Pyreae (formerly subfamily Maloideae) in particular, it appears that hybridization, pseudogamous gametophytic apomixis, polyploidy, and self-compatibility are closely linked. Studies of the evolutionary significance of any one or two of these factors need to consider the others as well. Taxonomic decisions likewise need to be informed by knowledge of how these factors affect patterns of phenetic and genetic variation.
23654184|Apart from the typical, multifaceted calcium oxalate druses distributed in the mesenchyma of Nelumbo nucifera, another, unique type of druse idioblast exists in this plant. They loosely cover the lateral surface of the obconical flower receptacle. Based on light and SEM microscopy, their structure and ontogeny are described for the first time. The crystal complex consists of a flat, usually six-rayed, sharp-pointed star positioned above, and parallel to, the epidermal surface. The idioblast is supported and elevated by six adjacent columnar epidermal cells alternating with the crystal spikes. The spikes represent individual, lamellate crystals symmetrically arranged around a core of crystal sand. In the ontogeny, six steps can be discerned: 1) Enlargement and dome-like emergence of the idioblast. 2) Appearance of vacuoles below the distal endopolyploid nucleus. 3) The vacuoles coalesce and minute crystal particles collect in the vacuole and aggregate to a cluster. 4) A small six-rayed primary druse forms at a variable position. 5) The druse migrates to the cell top, becomes strictly parallel to the epidermal surface, and while the cell head further expands, a second star complex develops, becoming superimposed on the primary druse, its spikes bulging out the thin cell wall. 6) The cytoplasm vanishes and the proximal cell section becomes compressed by the surrounding columnar cells. Because the star-like bodies are confined to the nutrient-rich receptacle, are freely exposed and easily detached, they represent specialized modifications of the internal druses and apparently serve as a deterrent against herbivory.
23674478|The vascular anatomy of Helminthostachys zeylanica was examined with special reference to anomalous secondary tissue. Primary xylem development gradually takes place centrifugally. In branched rhizomes with destroyed apices, the vascular cylinder apical to the insertion of branch traces is generally composed of primary xylem, accessory xylem, inner parenchyma of radially arranged cells, outer parenchyma of irregularly arranged cells, and partly crushed phloem, listed in order going outwards. The accessory xylem as well as the inner parenchyma of Helminthostachys zeylanica is probably secondarily produced, partly to contribute to the branch traces, in a position corresponding to that of secondary vascular tissue developed from a normal cambium in Botrychium sensu lato. It is suggested that although a cambium is lacking in Helminthostachys zeylanica, the secondary vascular tissues are comparable between the genera. The phylogenetic implication of this tissue is discussed.
23674173|In the Eudesmieae B eucalypts and in Eucalyptus caesia, the perianth of the mature flower consists of a single, anatomically continuous, opercular structure that is crowned by the tips of the original free and separate calycine and corolline whorls. Ontogenetic and comparative evidence supports the hypothesis that this operculum is mostly corolline in composition, and that the calycine parts have been elevated distally onto the dorsal surface. In the Eudesmieae B eucalypts this condition appears to be due to precocious initiation of the corolline primordia, followed by expansion and continuity of their growth centres which incorporates the areas at or below the base of the still differentiating calycine whorl. In Eucalyptus caesia the corolline primordia are not precocious, but a similar situation is effected by a seemingly retarded increase in receptacle diameter relative to lateral expansion of the corolline growth centre(s). In these two examples the same final perianth form apparently derives from two different sets of growth processes which, nonetheless, result in the same allometric relationships within the developing flower. Although identical at maturity, the operculum form in these two taxa is best described in terms of convergence, rather than homology.
23655182|The rewardless orchid Dactylorhiza sambucina shows a stable flower colour polymorphism, with both yellow- and red-flowered morphs growing sympatrically. Pollination biology and breeding system were investigated to examine the effects of density of plants, colour polymorphism, inflorescence dimension, and flower position within inflorescence on male and female reproductive success in three natural populations of D. sambucina. There were significant differences among sites in the number of pollinia removed and in fruit set per inflorescence. Number of removed pollinia and capsule production in D. sambucina were independent from flower and inflorescence size or flower position. As a whole, the red morphs showed the highest number of capsules produced, while the yellow morphs had the greatest male success. The relative male and female reproductive success were independent from plant density but were significantly correlated with the yellow morph frequency at the population level. Overall, our findings show that the contribution to the total reproductive success deriving from the two colour morphs does not conform with the predictions of negative frequency-dependent selection.
23673705|The six species of the section Foenum-graecum of Trigonella have the same chromosome number, 2 n = 16. T. gladiata and T. cariensis have fairly symmetrical karyotypes, while those of T. foenum-graecum, T. berythea, T. macrorrhyncha and T. cassia are asymmetrical. C-bands are present in all six species but the number of bands and their positive vary considerably among the species. The karyotype evidence suggests that none of the available species of the Foenum-graecum section can be considered as the wild progenitor of fenugreek.
23674977|The small genus Exodeconus Rafinesque (Solanaceae) from Ecuador and Peru is revised for the first time. Six species are recognised. Key, descriptions, lectotypifications, illustrations, and distribution maps are provided. The new combination Exodeconus integrifolius (Philippi) Axelius is made. A hypothesis of the phylogenetic relationships within the genus, based on parsimony analyses of morphological data, is presented in form of a cladogram. A method to reveal hybrids by comparing their placement in cladograms based on morphological or on chloroplast DNA data, respectively, is presented. In light of this, a hypothesis of a hybrid origin of Exodeconus, or of the related genus Nicandra Adanson, is discussed.
23674643|The phylogeny of the Polygalaceae is analysed cladistically. The two tribes Xanthophylleae and Moutabeae are maintained in their former circumscription while a new tribe, the Carpolobieae, comprising the African genera Carpolobia and Atroxima is detached from the Polygaleae. Within the Polygaleae, the genera Polygala and Monnina appears to be polyphyletic. It is concluded that Monnina subg. Monninopsis and M. subg. Pterocarya are better recognized as independent genera, here described as Ancylotropis and Pteromonnina, respectively. More work needs to be done before taxonomical decisions are made regarding Polygala. Bredemeyera and Comesperma, which are often joined in a single genus, are found to be only distantly related.
23655154|The pollen of 30 taxa (27 species, one subspecies and two varieties) in two genera, viz Polygonum s. str. and Polygonella was investigated with LM and SEM, and some selected taxa with TEM. In all genera investigated the pollen is prolate to spheroidal, and the aperture is mostly tricolporate, rarely panto-hexacolporate (especially Polygonum section Polygonum). The exine sculpturing pattern is the most variable feature. Three types of exine can be recognized. Type 1 (Avicularia-Type, sensu Hedberg) - All species of section Polygonum and section Tephis share the smooth tectate exine with spinules, sometimes the surface is more or less rough (Polygonum afromontanum in section Tephis). Type 2 (Pseudomollia-Type, sensu Hong) - Pollen of Polygonum molliaeforme (section Pseudomollia) has the exine, which is verrucose on both poles and nearby the mesocolpium, and mostly psilate around the ectoaperture. Type 3 (Duravia-Type, sensu Hedberg) - Pollen grains of Polygonum section Duravia and Polygonella have the exine which is semitectate-reticulate at the mesocolpium and the poles, and rugulate/reticulate or sometimes foveolate with microspinules around the ectoapertures. The pollen grains in four taxa (viz Polygonum section Pseudomollia, P. section Duravia and genus Polygonella) have a well-marked dimorphism of the ektexine, which is considered to be a synapomorphic condition. The differences of pollen grain between the genus Polygonella and Polygonum section Duravia are almost non existent and clearly interrelated. It is therefore postulated that the similarity in pollen of both taxa is not the result of convergency, but is interpreted as a homology. It is noteworthy that the pollen of Polygonum molliaeforme (section Pseudomollia) appears as intermediate between the Avicularia-type and the Duravia-type, and is well supported the value of separated section for its own. Additionally, in TEM, some exine ultrastructures (e.g. columellae, foot layer, endexine) appear to be valuable characters for comparison between/among taxa. The systematic potentialities of the pollen data of the studied taxa at various systematic levels are also discussed.
23674627|Chromosome numbers for 9 tribes and 73 genera of Rutaceae are examined for the probable chromosome base numbers in these taxa. There is abundant dysploidy and infrageneric polyploidy in the large Rutoideae/Toddalioideae complex. We found that x = 18 was typical for the tribes Zanthoxyleae and Toddalieae; probably ancestral in the Boronieae and perhaps in the Ruteae, Diosmieae, and Cusparieae; and characteristic of subfamily Flindersioideae. Considering the basic position of elements of Zanthoxyleae and Toddalieae in the family it appears that diploid x = 18 is ancestral in the Rutaceae. The morphologically advanced Citroideae are invariant for x = 9 and may be a product of dysploid reduction.
23674854|Diameter and fertility of pollen grains were surveyed in nine species of Puccinellia Parl. (Poaceae), mainly from the Iberian Peninsula, allowing information about reproductive behaviour and biological characteristics of pollen of these taxa. Maximum diameter was measured with an image processor and fertility was evaluated by staining the grains with Mntzing's mixture. Significant differences in both characters were found between the taxa. In consequence, maximum diameter and fertility proved to have some taxonomic relevance in Puccinellia.
23642904|In megasporogenesis of Torreya nucifera (Taxaceae) more than one product of meiosis can start to germinate, a process previously observed in Taxus. Ultrastructural analysis of T. nucifera revealed that this behaviour is cytologically determined by the presence of a transfer cell type wall-membrane apparatus and by the presence of uncommonly complex plasmalemmasomes in the megasporocyte. These features may determine a uniform supply of nutrients to the entire megasporocyte cytoplasm, so that after meiosis the germination potential is not restricted to the chalazal megaspore. Even if more than one product of meiosis can originate the female gametophyte in both Taxus and Torreya, this process involves different ultrastructural aspects in the two species. In conclusion, the extension of the germination potential is a common characteristic to both species but it is most probably the result of some evolutionary convergence.
23671746|Morphological and cytological investigations were carried out in Stachys beckeana Drfler & Hayek and S. recta L. subsp. sarajevensis sensu Hayek. These two taxa have the same morphological characteristics (shape and indumentum of leaves; morphology of sepals, petals and fruits) and both have 2 n = 2 x = 34 chromosomes. They cannot be considered as different taxa; S. beckeana Drfler & Hayek is the valid name (synonyms: S. recta L. subsp. sarajevensis sensu Hayek, S. hayekii Mal, S. recta L. subsp. hayekii Mal).
43558136|Photinia Lindl. sensu lato including Photinia, Pourthiaea, Stranvaesia and Aronia, occurs primarily in eastern and southeastern Asia, eastern North America, and Central America. However, generic circumscription within the group has been a taxonomic problem. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted in Photinia sensu lato and several related genera based on two chloroplast DNA regions and nrITS sequences, separately and in combination, and nine non-molecular characters were plotted onto a phylogeny based on the combined molecular data. All phylogenetic trees produced indicated that Stranvaesia should be merged into Photinia, while Pourthiaea and Aronia should be delimited as two separate genera. Ph. davidsoniae and Ph. nussia form a separate clade in our consensus trees and Ph. davidsoniae is speculated to have originated from hybridization between Photinia and some other genus of Pyrinae characterized by spines on the stem, but the specific hybrid origin cannot be inferred in detail due to lack of samples included in our data. The relationships among two taxa of Photinia from Mexico and Central America and species distributed in eastern Asia are also discussed. Ph. microcarpa subsp. hintonii var. hintonii is sister to species in eastern Asia is supported, but with weak support, while the position of a second taxon from Mexico, whose identity is uncertain, is unresolved, indicating the need for further taxonomic and biogeographic studies of these species. Incongruence between chloroplast and nuclear data supports the hypothesis of a hybrid origin of the monospecific genus Heteromeles, with a recent ancestor of extant Photinia as the probable male parent.
23643000|We studied the nectar characteristics in relation to flower age of the summer flowering Mediterranean shrub Capparis spinosa in three localities in Southern Greece. Anthesis was nocturnal. Nectar volume, concentration, and sucrose/hexose ratio varied with site, year, and between individual plants; amino acid concentration varied only with site. The sucrose/hexose ratio decreased considerably with flower age, while the glucose/fructose ratio remained constant (ca. 1), implying that nectar sucrose broke down in the course of anthesis. Sugar breakdown increased with water content of nectar. Amino acid concentration was strongly age-dependent: It was low in fresh flowers, relatively high in middle-aged ones (except aspartic acid that was extremely increased), and very high in senescent ones. We attribute the amino acid changes to phenomena related to flower senescence in the dark.
23644285|In the intermediate zone of the inflorescence of genera of Aroideae one can find flowers with male and female characteristics. Until now, two types of developmental sequences of atypical bisexual flowers (ABFs) have been recognized: the Philodendron type and the Cercestis type. In the Philodendron type, bisexual flowers generally consist of functional carpels and staminodes inserted on the same whorl. In the Cercestis type, the gynoecium and stamens are inserted on two different whorls. These different ontogenetic patterns represent two different pathways in the evolution of unisexual flowers in this subfamily. A molecular phylogenetic analysis of 33 genera of Araceae, based on the chloroplast trnL intron and trnLF intergenic spacer sequences was carried out. We use this phylogenetic analysis and those published by French et al. (1995) and Mayo et al. (1997) to examine the distribution of the two types of ABFs in selected genera. Our results suggest that the two developmental patterns of ABFs in Aroideae sensu Mayo et al. (1997) do not correspond to two separate evolutionary lineages but rather are more or less consistent within clades. Although this new molecular phylogeny does not include all aroid genera, it corroborates in general, at the subfamily level, the molecular analysis of French et al. (1995) based on chloroplast DNA restriction site data and the analysis of Mayo et al. (1997) based on morphological and anatomical data.
23673960|Alkane distribution patterns were determined in the epicuticular wax of the leaves of 13 species and a hybrid from Ericaceae and one species of Empetrum (Empetraceae). As chemotaxonomic indicators, the results are of limited use only. The most uniform genus was Rhododendron, the most heterogeneous Vaccinium. The dominant effect of genetic over environmental factors was apparent in most cases.
23644329|By offering pollen and/or nectar as a food resource, angiosperms exploit flower visitors for pollen transport. Pollen thus acts not only as a means for transportation of male gametes, but also as a food reward for potential pollinators. Many findings provide compelling evidence that pollen acts, in addition, as a visual signal. The present contribution reviews several strategies that angiosperms have evolved to attract potential pollinators to the site of reward. We here consider evolutionary, ecological, sensory-physiological, and behavioural aspects of flower-pollinator interactions that are correlated with visual signals provided by pollen and pollen-producing organs, or imitations thereof.
23663569|Anagyris latifolia is an endemic and endangered species from the Canary Islands, whose distribution is limited to four islands, with less than 400 individuals in fragmented and isolated localities. RAPD markers have been used to assess the genetic diversity and genetic differentiation of its populations, in order to formulate appropriate management and conservation genetics strategies. Nine polymorphic primers generated 74 polymorphic DNA fragments. Genetic variation levels detected in Anagyris latifolia were significant high (H = 0.200; P% = 97.3), principal coordinates analysis and genetic differentiation coefficient showed a high degree of genetic differentiation between islands, without a define east-to-west stepping stone colonization route. AMOVA analysis showed that of the total genetic variation detected, 32.43% was maintained among islands, 20.73% contained among population within islands, and 46.84% resided within populations. According to these results, management strategies should be focused on each island separately.
23642783|The serological investigations support the opinion of Janchen (1942) to combine the genera Bunias, Isatis, and Sisymbrium in the tribe Sisymbrieae; Cheiranthus, Erysimum, and Matthiola in the tribe Hesperideae; and Brassica, Crambe, Sinapis, and Succowia in the tribe Brassiceae. They further underline the central position of the Sisymbrieae and the isolated position of the Heliophileae. In accordance with Eigner (1973) the Brassiceae are placed closer to the Sisymbrieae than in Janchen; the same holds for the Pringleeae. No serological justification could be found to unite Arabis and Barbarea in the tribe Arabideae, and Alyssum and Lunaria in the Alysseae. From the antigen-systems used among the representatives of Janchen's Lepidieae the genera Lepidium and Neslia show remarkable correspondence both to Camelina and Thlaspi, but not to Cochlearia which appears distant from Camelina and Thlaspi also.
43558618|Cherimoya (Annona cherimola) is a subtropical tree crop of Andean origin whose fruit set results extremely low in farming arcas outside of its natural occurrence. The lack of efficient pollinators and dichogamy are often argued to be the main constraints resulting in this low reproductive success. Herein, we describe the reproductive barriers exhibited by this crop and whether wind and insects play a role in cherimoya pollination in Spain, the main region of cultivation. A. cherimola exhibits marked protogynous dichogamy with large differences in the duration of female (around 28 h) and male (<8 h) phases. Stigma receptivity and pollen release do not fully coincide with the morphological changes of the petals defining the female and male phases. Synchronization of sexual phases among different flowers from different trees of the same genotype was high during the whole blooming season. Effective herkogamy of approach type also limits pollen deposition within the same flower. Wind does not play any role in cherimoya pollination. Insect visitors to cherimoya flowers in Spain were found to be inefficient in transferring pollen grains. Cherimoya flowers do not reject self-pollen to achieve fertilization. A. cherimola shows preferential allogamy based on efficient dichogamy reinforced by elevated synchrony among flowers in their sexual phases. Herkogamy hampers autogamy, although pollen deposition by gravity in cherimoya pendulous flowers explains the reduced reproductive success observed in isolated flowers.
23674560|Macromorphological variation within the Ornithogalum umbellatum L. (Hyacinthaceae) complex in France was studied. The resulting data were treated by numerical taxonomy methods. Three morphs can be identified: one corresponding to diploid plants, another made up of triploids and a third which encompasses plants having ploidy level above 3  (4 , 5 , and 6 ). A systematic interpretation of the complex is proposed wherein only one species, O. umbellatum, is retained. This species corresponds to a polyploid complex undergoing evolution.
23671771|The chromosomes of different strains of the top or tree onion, of Allium cepa and A. fistulosum, as well as of cloned progenies from reciprocal crosses between these two taxa have been studied by application of Feulgen- or aceto carmine-, Giemsa- and silver staining. It was possible to differentiate between the satellite chromosomes and 2-4 other chromosome pairs of A. cepa and A. fistulosum. The phylogenetic origin of the top onions [A.  proliferum (Moench) Schrad.] from hybridization of A. cepa and A. fistulosum is substantiated, taking into consideration the variability in size and position of satellites and of active NORs.
23642218|Three new species of Relbunium, R. humilioides, R. catarinense, and R. longipedunculatum (Rubiaceae), endemic in the southern states of Brazil, are described. Flavonoid patterns from two-dimensional thin layer chromatography and peroxidase patterns from gel electrophoresis are presented for two of them. The relationships of the new species, their taxonomic position, and their evolutionary significance within the genus are discussed.
23673832|Comparative morphological, karyological and chorological studies prove the distinctness of the SE European and Asiatic populations of Pulmonaria mollis s.l., to be treated as P. dacica (Figs. 4, 5). P. mollis s.str. is interpreted as a relatively young taxon, which probably has evolved from an older stock of P. dacica ancestors during the Pleistocene (Figs. 6, 8) and might have migrated, perhaps with oak woodland communities, from SE to C. Europe. A similar evolution can be postulated for SSE European dysploid P. rubra-carnica-stiriaca-vallarsae group; this may have involved still unknown tetraploids (P. carnica?, Fig. 7). This group is linked via the hypertriploid species P. vallarsae with the P. saccharata group and at least the eastern species of the P. australis group. The monotypic genus Paraskevia apparently marks the earliest divergence from the common Tertiary ancestral stock (Fig. 8). It exhibits a tetraploid chromosome number (2 n = 28) but has preserved the most primitive characters.  Some comments on the systematics and nomenclature of P. australis and Paraskevia are added.
23674093|Zoospore ultrastructure (incl. flagellar apparatus) has been investigated in three species of Trebouxia (T. glomerata, T. erici, T. pyriformis) and one species of Pseudotrebouxia (P. impressa) using an absolute configuration analysis. Zoospores in all taxa studied are nearly identical in ultrastructure and exhibit a very distinctive disposition of cell organelles: cells are naked, biflagellate and considerably flattened along the plane of flagellar beat, the single contractile vacuole is located anteriorly in the ventral region of the cell, the nucleus is anteriorly to centrally located in the dorsal region of the cell. A single dictyosome is located close to the anterior, ventral edge of the nucleus. The chloroplast occupies a posterior position in the cell and usually has an anterior profile in the left region of the cell. There are two branched mitochondria per cell or a single mitochondrial reticulum with profiles anterior to the nucleus (in the dorsal region of the cell), and posterior to the nucleus. In zoospores of Trebouxia spp. the posterior mitochondrial profile is associated with a microbody, in P. impressa zoospores the anterior mitochondrial profiles are associated with a microbody. The zoospores contain a distinctive system of three ER-cisternae: one system links to both basal bodies and extends to the nucleus, the other two systems subtend the plasmamembrane on the left and right broad cell surfaces and extend to the posterior region of the cell. The flagellar apparatus is structurally identical to that previously described for zoospores of Friedmannia israelensis and exhibits basal body displacement by one basal body diameter into the 11/5 o'clock direction, a non-striated distal connecting fiber, a cruciate microtubular root system lacking system I fibers and presence of a single system II fiber which connects the basal bodies with the nucleus and runs parallel to one of the ER-strands. The left flagellar roots (X-roots) are subtended by a complex set of amorphous and striated material that connects each left root with both basal bodies.  This study demonstrates the close systematic relationship between the phycobionts Trebouxia and Pseudotrebouxia and the genera Friedmannia, Pleurastrum, and Microthamnion and supports recent classification schemes which place all these taxa into a single order separate from other Chlorophyta.
23642913|A new term  the "blastozone"  is proposed to designate regions of the shoot competent for organogenesis. It is argued that the notion of "marginal meristems" is based on the cell theory and thus may not be appropriate to elucidate the process of organ formation. For instance, with respect to the occurrence of initials and of an elevated cell division rate marginal meristems have been shown to be doubtful structures. Furthermore, organogenetic competent regions form only parts of the meristems of the shoot. The study of blastozones from an organismic perspective reveals primary morphogenetic events such as initiation, incorporation, and fusion processes. Loss of morphogenetic competence is associated with histogenetic events, e.g., trichome outgrowth, and indicates the onset of processes leading to maturation. The marginal blastozone of the leaf is then used up although meristem features continue to be expressed. A series of SEM studies in several genera exemplifies the proposed viewpoint, demonstrating some of the morphogenetic potentialities of angiosperm leaf marginal blastozones.
23673791|The various classifications of the orchid tribe Neottieae are reviewed and a new classification is proposed that divides the tribe into three subtribes, Neottiinae, Limodorinae, and Cephalantherinae, based primarily on characters of the column (gynostemium). A cladistic analysis illustrates that these three subtribes are more closely related to one another than either is to any other group in subfam. Neottioideae, although there are very few apomorphic characters for the tribe. Pollination biology is also discussed showing links between breeding systems and distribution. There is also a possible role between column and labellum morphology and the emergence of a deceptive pollination syndrome from one of reward.
23674038|The green flagellate Spermatozopsis exsultans Korshikov has been studied in culture by light and electron microscopy. The organism is naked, bears four flagella and is conspicuously spirally twisted. The ultrastructure and location of cell organelles (except the flagellar apparatus) has been investigated in detail using an absolute configuration analysis. With the exception of a doubling of the flagella and of the secondary cytoskeletal microtubule system, S. exsultans has the exact same complement of organelles occupying the same relative positions as has been described for S. similis. The two species are therefore correctly placed in the same genus. The usefulness of absolute orientations of cell organelles for green algal taxonomy and phylogeny is stressed.
23644406|We performed phylogenetic analyses of the subfamily Rubioideae (Rubiaceae) based on three different pieces of chloroplast DNA, the protein coding rbcL gene, the spacer sequence between atpB and rbcL (atpB-rbcL), and the recently published (Andersson and Rova 1999) rps16 intron data. New rbcL sequences have been produced for 41 taxa and there are 52 new atpB-rbcL spacer sequences. All analyses gave similar results concerning the phylogeny, but they differ slightly in resolution and support for the various branches. The minor tribes Ophiorrhizeae, Urophylleae, Lasiantheae, and Coussareeae form a grade to the rest of the subfamily, which consists of two well-supported branches, the Psychotrieae alliance and the Spermacoceae alliance, including a majority of all genera and species. Based on the resulting phylogenies we present a revised classification of the Rubioideae. We accept 16 tribes of which 12 more or less correspond to earlier tribal circumscriptions: Anthospermeae, Argostemmateae, Craterispermeae, Gaertnereae, Morindeae, Paederieae, Psychotrieae, Schradereae, Spermacoceae, Rubieae, Theligoneae, and Urophylleae; two tribes have received new and very different circumscriptions: Ophiorrhizeae and Coussareeae; and two are new to science: Lasiantheae and Danaideae.
23672720|Methanolic extracts from aerial parts and capsules of plants of 5 populations of Blackstonia perfoliata and 99 populations of nine European and two American Centaurium species (Gentianaceae) have been screened by means of TLC for the secoiridoid glucosides: sweroside, swertiamarin, gentiopicroside and the m-hydroxybenzoyl esters of sweroside, namely centapicrin, desacetylcentapicrin, decentapicrin A and B as well as for the xanthones: 1,8-dihydroxy-3,5-dimethoxyxanthone, 1,8-dihydroxy-3,7-dimethoxyxanthone, 1,8-dihydroxy-3,5,6,7-tetramethoxyxanthone and xanthone--mono-glucosides. The taxonomical significance of the results is discussed. On the basis of chemotaxonomical evidence two Centaurium species, C. pulchellum and C. tenuiflorum, are placed in sect. Parviflora instead of sect. Centaurium subsect. Parviflora.
23643031|A satellite sequence repeat of Allium cepa was tested by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) for cross-hybridization to chromosomes of 27 species (in 37 accessions) belonging to 14 sections of four subgenera of Allium. All investigated species of sect. Cepa, with the two subsects. Cepa and Phyllodolon, revealed clear satellite-specific hybridization signals mainly at their chromosome termini. The tested species belonging to other sections/subgenera revealed no hybridization signals. An exception was A. roylei, assigned to sect. Oreiprason. Its chromosomes also showed strong terminal hybridization signals. This and other features suggest a close relationship of A. roylei to the species of sect. Cepa in spite of deviating morphological characters. The divergence between the satellite repeats to species to which the A. cepa repeat cross-hybridized was determined and revealed high degrees of similarity. Therefore, we conclude that this satellite sequence had evolved already in progenitor forms of sect. Cepa and remained unusually well conserved during speciation. This might indicate selection pressure exerted on a secondarily acquired telomere function of the satellite sequence.
43498297|The genetic diversity and evolutionary divergence in Liquidambar species and Liquidambar orientalis varieties were compared with respect to the matK gene. A total of 66 genotypes from 18 different populations were sampled in southwestern Turkey. The matK region, which is about 1,512 bp in length, was sequenced and studied. L. orientalis, L. styraciflua, and L. formosana had similar magnitude of nucleotide diversity, while L. styraciflua and L. acalycina possessed higher evolutionary divergence. The highest evolutionary divergence was found between L. styraciflua and eastern Asian Liquidambar species (0.0102). However, the evolutionary divergence between L. orientalis and other species was of a similar magnitude. The maximum-parsimony phylogenetic tree showed that L. styraciflua and L. orientalis formed a closer clade while East Asian species were in a separate clade. This suggests that the North Atlantic Land Bridge through southern Greenland may have facilitated continuous distribution of Liquidambar species from southeastern Europe to eastern North America in early Tertiary period. The maximum-parsimony tree with only 18 Oriental sweetgum populations indicated that there were two main clusters: one with mainly L. orientalis var. integriloba and the other with var. orientalis and undetermined populations. High nucleotide diversity (0.0028) and divergence (0.00072) were found in L. orientalis var. integriloba populations and Mula-1 geographical region. This region could be considered as the major refugium and genetic diversity center for the species. The low genetic diversity and divergence at intraspecies level suggest that L. orientalis populations in Turkey share an ancestral polymorphism from which two varieties may have evolved.
23674115|The karyotypes of the three annuals, Microseris bigelovii, M. douglasii and M. pygmaea, consist of 2 n = 18, small, submetacentric chromosomes. Length, centromere position, C-banding pattern, silver staining of NOR's, and the use of base specific fluorochromes, allow the identification of four of the nine chromosome pairs. The banding pattern of M. bigelovii and M. pygmaea is identical, but intraspecific differences are found between strains of M. douglasii.
23645214|Nuclear DNA content (2C) and pollen vitality and colour are used as new criteria to investigate all species of the genus Agapanthus L'Hritier. The species have the same chromosome number (2n = 2x = 30), with exception of four triploid plants found. The nuclear DNA content of the diploids, as measured by flow cytometry with propidium iodide, is demonstrated to range from 22.131.6 pg. This implies that the largest genome contains roughly 1010 more base pairs than the smallest. The species could be divided in two groups based on pollen colour and DNA content: a group with lilac pollen and a DNA content between 22.3 and 24.1 pg containing the species A. campanulatus Leighton, A. caulescens Sprenger and the rarer A. coddii Leighton, and a group with yellow/brownish pollen and a DNA content from 25.231.6 pg containing the species A. praecox Willd., A. inapertus Beauv. and A. africanus (L.) Hoffmanns. Four other taxa, recognized by Leighton (1965) are treated as follows: A. comptonii Leighton, has a nuclear DNA content similar to A. praecox and is considered to be a synonym of A. praecox subsp. minimus Leighton. A. walshii L. Bol., has with 31.6 pg the same high amount of DNA as A. africanus from the same area and is therefore renamed as a subspecies (A. africanus subsp. walshii (Leighton) Zonn. & Duncan comb. nov.). The nuclear DNA amounts of A. dyeri Leighton, including the geographically isolated plants from Mozambique, are shown to be identical to A. inapertus. Therefore A. dyeri is considered synonymous with A. inapertus subsp. intermedius Leighton. A. nutans Leighton is identical in DNA content to A. caulescens and is considered to be synonymous with that species. Concluding there are six species: A. campanulatus Leighton, A. caulescens Sprenger, A. coddii Leighton, A. praecox Willd., A. inapertus Beauv. and A. africanus (L.) Hoffmanns. Nuclear DNA content as measured by flow cytometry and pollen colour are shown to be relevant traits to throw light on the relationships between Agapanthus species.
23656080|Recent studies have proposed a monophyletic circumscription of Filago and a new subgeneric treatment for this genus. The aim of this study was to analyse the nuclear genome size in a phylogenetic framework in order to evaluate the systematic significance of this trait to provide insights into the dynamics of genome size evolution and to assess relationships among DNA content, specific life and ecological features within the study group. A holoploid genome size of 76 samples corresponding to 27 taxa was determined using flow cytometry, which represents the first estimates of genome size in Bombycilaena, Filago, Ifloga and Logfia. Chromosome counts were performed for six species. Parsimony and Bayesian analysis of ITS, ETS and rpl32-trnL intergenic spacer sequence data were used to construct molecular phylogenetic trees. The evolution of genome size was investigated troughout the Brownian motion model with the three scaling parameters ,  and . The mean 2C-value in the Filago group is relatively low (1.3644  0.0079 pg) and homogeneous among species. A high degree of congruence was found between genome size distribution and the major phylogenetic lineages obtained. The generally accepted assumption that annual, ephemeral and autogamous species show low genome sizes was confirmed. Also the relatively high DNA contents found for a couple of species could be correlated with their highly specific ecological requirements. Phylogeny seems to represent the most important factor explaining the pattern of DNA amount variation in the Filago group. The DNA amount does not seem to be strongly influenced by selection.
23655660|The variation and recognition of taxa within the Hemizygia bracteosa complex was examined using multivariate techniques. Morphological characters were sampled on 197 herbarium specimens. Phenetically H. bracteosa and H. welwitschii overlap in many floral characters. However differences in leaf characters and habit maintain their morphological distinctness from each other and they are therefore upheld as species. Hemizygia ornata, synonymized under H. welwitschii in recent treatments of the genus Hemizygia, differentiates from H. welwitschii on the basis of differences in leaf and floral characters and its reinstatement at specific level is here proposed. The concept of H. linearis is revised on account of the type specimen separating from all other elements of the taxon used in the analyses. The latter form a coherent group with H. petrensis and H. canescens thus negating any attempt to give any of them specific recognition. It is proposed that they should be synonymized under the earliest name H. canescens. The specific boundary of H. petiolata is revised but its specific status maintained.
43558329|Low-temperature environments interfere with plant reproduction by reducing the frequency of pollinators, and this may favour reproductive strategies such as self-pollination and apomixis. Tibouchina pulchra is a common tree species that occurs at high and low sites of the Brazilian Atlantic rainforest. This study focussed on the pollination biology and breeding system of this species, describing the pollinators and the reproductive success at the two sites of an elevational gradient. Observations were made to determine extent of flowering and fruiting, to identify the richness and abundance of pollinators, and to record data on the floral and reproductive biology at these two sites. Despite more dense flowering at the high site, five visits of bees (two species) were recorded during the observation time (60 h), whereas at the low site there were 948 visits (seven species) during the same period. In contrast with the low site, the flowers of the high site released and received few pollen grains on the stigma. At the high site less fruit was set with fewer seeds as a result of open pollination than at the low site; at that site, however, more seeds were obtained from cross-pollination than at the low site. Tibouchina pulchra is self-compatible; however it is not apomictic and needs pollinators for seed set at both sites. Life-history traits other than the breeding system, for example more dense flowering, advantage of greater fertility in cross-pollination, and multiple reproductive events during the lifetime of the tree may reduce inbreeding depression, increase the hybrid vigour, and balance the lack of pollinators at the high site.
23655618|Maximum parsimony and likelihood analyses of 40 Lophocoleaceae nrITS sequences and 6 Plagiochilaceae sequences (outgroup) lead to a robust phylogeny of Chiloscyphus. Four main lineages are assigned to as Chiloscyphus subgenera Chiloscyphus, Lophocolea, Connati and Notholophocolea. Chiloscyphus subgen. Connati is resolved sister to the remainder of this genus. Chiloscyphus subgenus Lophocolea is subdivided into sections Heterophylli (incl. sect. Semiteretes, syn. nov.), Lophocolea, Microlophocolea, and Novae-Zeelandiae. Five accessions of Chiloscyphus pallescens with a chromosome number of n = 18 form a robust monophyletic lineage that is placed sister to a well supported clade with 4 accessions of C. polyanthos [n = 9]. Chiloscyphus mandonii is placed in the synonymy of C. latifolius.
23642830|Pennisetum sect. Brevivalvula is a species complex characterized by polyploidy and apomixis. Ploidy level was assessed by DAPI-flow cytometry for 304 plants of the section, originating from Burkina Faso, Benin and southern Niger. The results were confirmed for 54 plants based on chromosome counts. The samples show four euploidy levels (with x = 9) distributed among five species: P. hordeoides (2n = 36, 54), P. pedicellatum (2n = 36, 45, 54), P. polystachion (2n = 18, 36, 45, 54), P. setosum (2n = 54), and P. subangustum (2n = 18, 36, 54). The geographical distribution of these ploidy levels seems related to major vegetation zones present in Africa. Diploid populations of P. polystachion and P. subangustum were found in the Banfora area, in Burkina Faso.
23642467|Four new species are described: Lavandula sublepidota, from S. Iran (related to L. coronopifolia), Phlomis pachyphylla from S. Iran, Prov. Fars (near Ph. polioxantha), Satureia isophylla from N. Iran, Prov. Mazanderan (close to S. mutica and S. intermedia), and Thymbra neurophylla from Iraqi Kurdistan (distinct forth species of the genus).
23643654|The placement of a recently discovered South American monotypic genus, Pseudomonotes tropenbosii, in subfam. Monotoideae (Dipterocarpaceae) extends the geographical range of the subfamily from Africa to the Neotropics. Although morphological and anatomical evidence suggest similarities between Pseudomonotes and Monotes, the close alliance of these two genera was questionable due to their disjunct distribution and a lack of phylogenetic analysis. In the present study, we reconstructed the phylogeny of Pseudomonotes and other putatively related taxa using rbcL sequence data. The analysis of rbcL sequences of 20 taxa belonging to 15 genera and eight families recovered a single most parsimonious tree. The genus Sarcolaena (Sarcolaenaceae) formed a clade sister to the monophyletic Dipterocarpaceae clade. Monotes and Pseudomonotes formed a strongly supported group, sister to the monophyletic clade with Pakaraimaea and the remaining Asiatic dipterocarp species studied. The study strongly supports the placement of Pseudomonotes within subfam. Monotoideae of the Dipterocarpaceae.
23642349|The flowers of Opuntia basilaris and O. littoralis in southern California are visited commonly by beetles (Carpophilus, Trichochrous) and bees (especially anthophorids, megachilids, and halictids), but are pollinated mainly by the bees. This agrees with observations presented in the previous papers in this series for other cactus species in Arizona and Texas. The available evidence indicates that the large, diurnal, cup-shaped flowers in cacti of the American Southwest are primarily bee-pollinated. Our earlier view that these Opuntia flowers are also pollinated to a significant extent by nitidulid and melyrid beetles must be modified now in the light of further evidence. Some pollination probably is carried out by small beetles, but it probably represents only a small proportion of the total pollination.
23643395|The systematic position of Cathaya, a relic genus of the Pinaceae, was discussed based on the rbcL gene sequence. The sequence data were analysed with PAUP and MEGA programs. The great genetic distance value between Cathaya and any other genus of the Pinaceae showed that Cathaya was a distinct and isolated genus. The most parsimonious Fitch tree and neighbor-joining tree showed that Cathaya was distantly related to the clade comprising Abies, Keteleeria, Pseudolarix and Tsuga, and a sister group relationship between Cathaya and Pinus was weakly supported. Pseudotsuga is closely related to Larix. In the Abies-Keteleeria-Pseudolarix-Tsuga clade, Abies has a close relationship to Keteleeria while Pseudolarix is relatively closely related to Tsuga.
23643370|The new genus Caucasalia is described. Four species are included, previously referred to Senecio, Cacalia, Cineraria, Pojarkovia or Adenostyles. The latter genus may be the closest relative, being similar in habit and chromosome number, but different in floret colour and style morphology. The new genus is centered in the Caucasus mountains, with extensions into Anatolia.
23668880|The Philodendron bipinnatifidum complex of Philodendron subgenus Meconostigma may comprise four species, which because of only slight and not very distinct morphological differences are not all unanimously recognized as good species. To find out whether these species are reproductively isolated, we studied the flowering rhythm, thermogenesis and pollination biology of three species of this complex, namely of P. bipinnatifidum, P. aff. bipinnatifidum (provisionally named "P. form selloum") and P. mello-barretoanum in Brazil. Of the first two mentioned taxa, floral scent was collected and scent compounds were identified by GCMS. The results showed that the coastal forest species P. bipinnatifidum has a two-, or three-night flowering rhythm, with the pistillate stage in the first night and the staminate stage lasting the second and sometimes also the third night. Strong thermogenesis with extended heating periods of several hours during the first part of the usual two subsequent nights and the maximum temperatures of up to 40 C absolute heating of the spadices occurred in the pistillate and staminate stages. Concomitant with the heating periods, relatively low amounts of principally (Z)-2-pentenyl acetate and (Z)-jasmone were emitted by both the pistillate and staminate stage inflorescences. The dynastid scarab beetle Cyclocephala variolosa was the only pollinator attracted. The upland forest P. form selloum always had a two-night flowering rhythm with the pistillate stage in the first and the staminate stage in the subsequent night. This world-record holder of thermogenesis can heat up to the remarkable 45 C during a relatively short period in the evening of the pistillate stage. During the thermogenic period, enormous amounts of principally 4-methoxystyrene and 3,4-dimethoxystyrene were produced and which could attract a large number of female and male individuals of the dynastid scarab beetle Erioscelis emarginata. In the staminate stage of P. form selloum, temperature elevation is significantly lower and the scent compounds are different from the pistillate stage. The cerrado biome species P. mello-barretoanum has a flowering rhythm similar to P. form selloum, reaching a maximum heating of about 40 C during the pistillate stage. The sole pollinator attracted was Cyclocephala atricapilla. The differences observed and analyzed among the taxa, including the flowering rhythm, thermogenic activities, scent compounds emitted, pollinating dynastid scarab beetles attracted, as well as slight morphological differences and apparent geographical exclusiveness noted in these three taxa are strong indicators that P. bipinnatifidum, P. form selloum and P. mello-barretoanum are different enough to be considered good species. The morphological affinities of these species might be a hint that speciation has been a recent event and/or also that reproductive isolation based on different, non-overlapping distribution areas, different scent compounds and different pollinators was effective enough to need further morphological differentiation.
43558271|This paper reports the glutenin diversity of a collection of 23 wild populations of the grass Brachypodium distachyon collected in the Mediterranean and southern areas of the Iberian Peninsula. The plant material studied included the three different cytotypes of this species: 2n = 10, 2n = 20 and 2n = 30. A specific method of extraction was used to isolate the glutenin subunits from the caryopsis. Separation by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) showed them to correspond to wheat low-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (LMW-GS). Twenty-two LMW-GS-like were identified that showed great diversity within and between populations. All the populations investigated were polymorphic for the endosperm proteins studied. The 2n = 30 forms had the largest number of subunits; these were also more diverse than those of the 2n = 10 or 2n = 20 forms. The 2n = 10 forms, the most common in the higher, interior areas of the Iberian Peninsula, showed the smallest subunit variation. In fact, negative correlations were found between subunit diversity and altitude and longitude. In contrast, a positive correlation was detected with the annual average temperature and the indices of thermicity and Mediterraneity. The similarity between the populations was estimated using the Sorensen-Dice coefficient, calculated on the basis of the presence/absence of the 22 LMW-GS proteins. The similarity indices were used to produce a dendrogram using the unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic means (UPGMA). This method produced three main groups corresponding to the three cytotypes. An analysis was made of the possible correlation between eco-geographic and climatic factors and the gene diversity and polymorphism shown in the populations. The diversity correlated positively with the number of chromosomes (2n), annual mean temperature, index of thermicity and index of Mediterraneity. In contrast, diversity correlated negatively with altitude, longitude and index of precipitation during the summer. The number of chromosomes correlated negatively with altitude, longitude and precipitation during summer and positively with all the other climatic indices. These results are coherent with the fact that diploid forms were more common in areas of the interior and at higher altitude, where the climate is more extreme.
23644062|We studied the reproductive behavior of Colletia spinosissima Gmel. at six sites in two regions of Argentina during the 19982000 flowering seasons. Flowering takes place in winter. The flowers are homogamous, fragrant, and entomophilous. There was evidence of self-incompatibility and cross-incompatibility between nearby partners. Fruit set of open-pollinated flowers (13.3%) seemed pollen-limited, since low fecundity was consistently associated with small stigmatic pollen loads and with low numbers of successful pollen tubes, and fecundity increased with abundance of efficient pollinators. Reproductive success (percent ovules becoming viable seeds) was 3.6. It is hypothesized that homogamy was established in Colletia because in an impoverished pollination environment  such as the one likely prevailing when this lineage evolved  achieving pollen export and receipt in a single pollinator visit has selective advantages. A large stigma and an extragynoecial compitum would compensate for the homogamydriven, increased pollen-stigma interference.
23674525|Anacamptis pyramidalis is a variable and wide-spread European-Mediterranean taxon. Beside a dominant cytotype with 2 n = 36 it includes cytotypes with 2 n = 54 and 63 in northern Tuscany (and the Eastern Pyrenees) and one with 2 n = 72 on Malta. In contrast, A. urvilleana, formerly often misidentified and included in A. pyramidalis, is a monomorphic and distinct species, endemic to the Maltese Islands. It has 2 n = 36, can be clearly separated by morphological and anatomical features and is isolated from partly sympatric populations of A. pyramidalis with 2 n = 72 by differences in chromosome number, flowering time and habitat preference.
23673743|Oenothera wolfii, endemic in coastal Northern California and Southern Oregon, has been analysed cytogenetically. It is a permanent structural heterozygote composed of two nearly identical genomic complexes which are closely related to the neighboring maritime ecotype of the homozygous Oe. elata subsp. hookeri.  Oe wolfii is believed to have evolved recently from its homozygous ancestor by the accumulation of reciprocal translocations and the acquisition of balanced lethals. Forms such as Oe. wolfii represent an important connecting link in our understanding of the evolution of the complex-heterozygous species of Oenothera.
23642179|A comparative morphological and anatomical analysis of cotyledons, leaves, bracts, growth forms and inflorescences of the genera Valerianella and Fedia is presented. Characters can be typified and used for an improved systematic grouping. Informations on germination, life form and life cycle are summarized and supplemented. The discussion refers to various character phylogenies.
23674904|Leaflets of 65 species of Caesalpinia s.l. and seven species of Hoffmannseggia were studied in clearings supplemented by resin sections and scanning electron microscopy. Three types of secretory structure occurred among 46 species; in 43 species they were distributed mutually exclusively (external glands: 8 species; internal cavities: 5 species; idioblastic cells: 30 species); three other species each had two types. Species with secretory structures conform mostly to proposed subgenera and informal "groups." Other unusual features were external glands with internal spaces, thickened walls or conspicuous localized wall thickenings in epidermal cells or mesophyll cells of certain species, and differentially stained epidermal cells surrounding stomata. Prismatic crystals predominate but druse crystals also occur.
23643934|Pollen heteromorphism, defined here as the production within all flowers of a plant of several pollen morphs differing in aperture number, is common in angiosperms. We have focused on the evolution of pollen heteromorphism in the genus Viola, in which about 1/3 of the species are pollen-heteromorphic. We have studied the distribution of pollen heteromorphism in the genus Viola using a molecular phylogeny based on ITS sequence data. We show that pollen heteromorphism has evolved independently at least six times in Viola. A comparative analysis shows that the occurrence of pollen heteromorphism is correlated with sporophytic polyploidy in all sections of the genus apart from section Melanium. This section differs from all other sections on several aspects such as flower morphology, absence of cleistogamous flowers, and a high proportion of heteromorphic species. We discuss the possible adaptiveness of pollen heteromorphism in this section.
23655778|As a member of the Sanguisorbinae, taxonomically complicated Polylepis Ruiz & Pav. from the South American Andes is one of the few wind-pollinated genera of Rosaceae. Here, it is suggested that problems traditionally faced in species delimitation and phylogeny reconstruction may be in part due to a combination of weak reproductive barriers and the large distances that can be covered by genetic information as a result of wind pollination. The pattern of species distribution as well as molecular data (AFLP) of Polylepis were contrasted with those of an unrelated, insect-pollinated genus of similar species number and distribution, Minthostachys (Griseb.) Spach (Lamiaceae). In the present case, extensive pollen-mediated gene flow may explain the homogenization of genetic variability over larger distances and a lower number of species restricted to individual countries in the wind-pollinated genus Polylepis, but more examples will have to be studied before arriving at final conclusions.
23644043|Biogeographical affinities among cloud forests in the Neotropical region were studied through a track approach, by constructing generalised tracks based on the results of a parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE). Distributional data on 946 genera and 1,266 species of vascular plants (Pteridophyta, angiosperms, and gymnosperms) from 26 cloud forest patches from Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, Puerto Rico, and Venezuela were analysed; and four localities from eastern and western United States were also included as outgroups. The track analysis identified six generalised tracks: a first one that includes the majority of the cloud forests of Mexico, Central America, the Antilles, and northern Colombia; a second one that includes southern Mexico and northern Central America; a third one that includes the mountains in northwestern South America; a fourth one that includes the mountains in southwestern South America; and two others in western and eastern United States. It is concluded that the Neotropical cloud forests are closely related and that those of the Caribbean subregion exhibit complex relationships, which could be due to the complex tectonic history of the area.
23670121|Information and illustrations on somatic chromosomes, structure of interphase nuclei and hair development are presented for 9 genera and 14 species of Annonaceae. A few suggestions tend to improve the unsatisfactory current classification. The spectrum of polyploids found in the family ranges from neo- to meso- and paleopolyploids.
23642198|After allogamous pairing Eunotia tenella produces in each partner cell one gamete containing the two chromatophores of the mother cell and one abortive protoplast without chromatophores. This distribution results from a differential cytokinesis which exhibits the same constant orientation in regard to the epi- resp. hypotheka as in other species of Eunotia. Moreover in Eu. tenella and Eu. spec. the significant right handleft hand dissymmetry during the growth of the daughter chromatophores in vegetative cytokinesis is the same as in other species. Both phenomena are significant for the genus and unique. In connection with the diminution of cell size in vegetative divisions the bending of the valvae increases to a certain degree. Eunotia tenella bildet unter allogamer Paarung in jedem Partner einen Gameten, der beide Chromatophoren der Mutterzelle erhlt, und einen Restprotoplasten ohne Chromatophoren. Die dabei ablaufende differentielle Teilung ist in bezug auf die Epi- bzw. Hypotheka gleich ausgerichtet wie bei anderen Eunotia-Arten. Bei der vegetativen Teilung von Eu. tenella und Eu. spec. zeigt sich die gleiche, nicht in Beziehung zum Thekenbau der Zelle stehende Rechts-Links-Orientierung der beiden heranwachsenden Tochterchromatophoren wie bei anderen Arten. Fr den Formwechsel aller Arten ist charakteristisch, da im Laufe der Zellverkleinerung die Krmmung der Apikalachse in einem bestimmten Ausma zunimmt.
23669034|Crossability relationships between six species of the Mediterranean, North American and Asian firs was tested using Abies alba and A. nordmanniana as female parents and A. alba, A. numidica, A. procera, A. grandis, and A. holophylla as pollen parents. An overwhelming majority of the crosses attempted was found to be compatible. In particular, it is true of the A. alba cross with A. numidica and those of A. nordmanniana with A. alba, A. numidica, A. procera, and A. holophylla. The crossing A. nordmanniana  A. grandis was the only exception producing empty seeds. Cytological study revealed the gametophytic incompatibility to be responsible for reproductive isolation of these species. At seedling level, all the interspecific crosses of A. nordmanniana surpassed in height growth self-pollinated control. The cross A. alba  A. numidica was comparable in this respect with control variants from open and self-pollination. Except for height growth, some characteristics of needle stomata are provided for individual crosses. The crosses A. nordmanniana with A. procera and A. holophylla represent unique interspecific combinations whose existence has not been reported yet. Based on needle stomata characteristics, the potential for increased resistance and drought tolerance of the hybrids with A. numidicia involved as parental species is discussed.
23669761|Three closely related species of the G. linearis group are differentiated by their basic numbers and ploidy levels. The change in basic number involves Robertsonian fusion, but the species also differ by interchange and cryptic structural changes revealed by meiotic pairing in F1 hybrids.
23664941|The breeding system of Eichhornia azurea (Pontederiaceae) has been described as being both self- and heteromorphic incompatible based on crossing experiments performed on plants grown in an experimental garden. We studied the breeding system of tristylous E. azurea population under natural conditions in the Pantanal wetlands, Brazil. Controlled pollinations were conducted using 35 individuals of each floral morph. Legitimate pollinations produced more fruits than self- and illegitimate pollinations, except for the mid-styled morph which was highly self- and heteromorphic compatible. The number of seeds per fruit was higher under legitimate pollinations than in the other treatments, but self- and illegitimate pollinations produced more fruits and seeds in the Pantanal than for individuals of E. azurea in other populations. The higher fruit and seed production resulting from legitimate pollinations corroborate previous studies, but self-compatibility of mid-styled plants was not previously reported. Overall results indicate a partially self- and heteromorphic compatible system for this species in the Pantanal.
23642944|Chromosome numbers, mainly gametic, are given for 28 populations belonging to 13 species in ser. Ceratophyllae as circumscribed by Webb & Gornall. From a cytological point of view, we report or confirm the occurrence of aneuploidy in at least 8 of the 19 species recognized. This phenomenon, together with the technical difficulties inherent to the genus, is responsible for a number of incorrect or imprecise previous reports which are here questioned. Aneuploidy and the karyological instability behind it apparently reflect very active extant processes which might play an important role in the evolution of the group. Cytological and morphological data allow the recognition of four groups; one of them is likely to constitute a monophylectic group (ser. Ceratophyllae sensu stricto) but, the monophyly of the series Ceratophyllae sensu lato is questioned.
23645039|Analyses of ITS sequences for 49 species of Olearia, including representatives from all currently recognised intergeneric sections, and 43 species from 23 other genera of Astereae, rooted on eight sequences from Anthemideae, provide no support for the monophyly of this large and morphologically diverse Australasian genus. Eighteen separate lineages of Olearia are recognised, including seven robust groups. Three of these groups and another eight species are placed within a primary clade incorporating representatives of Achnophora, Aster, Brachyscome, Calotis, Camptacra, Erigeron, Felicia, Grangea, Kippistia, Lagenifera, Minuria, Oritrophium, Peripleura, Podocoma, Remya, Solidago, Tetramolopium and Vittadinia. The remaining four groups and three individual species lie within a sister clade that also includes Celmisia, Chiliotrichum, Damnamenia, Pleurophyllum and Pachystegia. Relationships within each primary clade are poorly resolved. There is some congruence between this molecular estimate of the phylogeny and the distribution of types of abaxial leaf-hair, which is the basis of the present sectional classification of Olearia, but all states appear to have arisen more than once within the tribe. It is concluded that those species placed within the second primary clade should be removed from the genus, but the extent to which species placed within the first primary clade constitute a monophyletic group can only be resolved with further sequence data.
23643795|Variation in chromosome number and internal transcribed sequences (ITS) of nrDNA is used to infer phylogenetic relationships of a wide range of Hedera species. Polyploidy was found to be frequent in Hedera, with diploid, tetraploid, hexaploid and octoploid populations being detected. Nucleotide additivity occurs in the ITS sequences of one tetraploid (H. hibernica) and two hexaploid species (H. maderensis, H. pastuchovii), suggesting that all three species originated by allopolyploidisation. ITS sequence polymorphism and nucleotide characters may indicate the presence of an ancient genome persistent only in some allopolyploid species. Phylogenetic analyses of ITS sequence data reveal two lineages of Hedera: one containing all sequences belonging to extant diploids plus the tetraploid H. algeriensis, and a second that includes this ancient ITS type and others exclusive to several polyploid species. The origin of the polyploids is evaluated on the basis of morphology, chromosome counts, ITS sequence polymorphism, and phylogenetic analyses. Reconstruction of reticulate evolution in Hedera agrees with two allopolyploid areas on both sides of the Mediterranean basin. Morphological, molecular and cytological evidence also suggests an active dispersal of Hedera populations that may account for three independent introductions in Macaronesia.
23671508|The inner staminodes (between stamens and carpels) in some relic Magnoliales (Austrobaileyaceae, Degeneriaceae, Eupomatiaceae, and Himantandraceae) are not just reduced stamens; they are very elaborate organs. In Eupomatiaceae, Himantandraceae, and probably Degeneriaceae they have their own secretory structures which do not occur on the stamens. These play an important role in floral biology. They contribute to the floral coloration pattern; they effect herkogamy by their position and by movements; they provide shelter and food tissue and food secretions (?) for pollinating beetles; they secrete odouriferous oils, mucilage (probably for pollen adherence) and water or nectar (?). For the Himantandraceae a new secretory region on the base of the inner staminode is described. These complicated inner staminodes are extreme specializations of primitive floral types. They have no counterparts in more advanced subclasses of the angiosperms.
23654267|The tribe Antirrhineae consists of 29 genera distributed in the New World and the Old. Phylogenetic analyses of ITS and ndhF sequences served to recognize six main lineages: Anarrhinum group (Anarrhinum, Kickxia); Linaria group (Linaria); Maurandya group (Cymbalaria, Asarina, Maurandella, Rhodochiton, Lophospermum); Schweinfurthia group (Pseudorontium, Schweinfurthia); Antirrhinum group (Antirrhinum, Pseudomisopates, Misopates, Acanthorrhinum, Howeliella, Neogarrhinum, Sairocarpus, Mohavea, Galvezia); Chaenorrhinum group (Chaenorrhinum, Albraunia, Holzneria). Parsimony (cladistics), distance-based (Neighbor-Joining), and Bayesian inference reveal that: (1) the tribe is a natural group; (2) genera such as Linaria, Schweinfurthia, Kickxia, and Antirrhinum also form natural groups; (3) three Antirrhineae lineages containing genera from the New and Old World are the result of three intercontinental disjunctions displaying similar levels of ITS-sequence divergence and differentiation times (Oligocene-Miocene); (4) evolution of flower shapes is not congruent with primitiveness of personate flowers; (5) both polyploidy and dysploidy appear to be responsible for most variation in chromosome number in the six main lineages. Nuclear and chloroplast evidence also supports the split of American and Mediterranean species of Antirrhinum into different genera, a result that should be contemplated in the interest of a more natural (monophyletic) taxonomy. Nucleotide additivity causes poor resolution in the ITS analysis of 22 species of Mediterranean Antirrhinum and lead us to interpret extensive hybridization in the Iberian Peninsula.
43496761|The extent and significance of intraspecific genome size variation were analysed in quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa Willd.), a pseudocereal important for human consumption in the Andean region of South America. Flow cytometry, with propidium iodide as the DNA stain, was used to estimate the genome size of 20 quinoa accessions from Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Argentina, Chile and the USA. Limited genome size variation was found among the analysed accessions. The differences between the accessions were statistically significant but the maximum inter-accession difference between the populations with the largest and the smallest genome reached only 5.9%. The largest genome was found in population C4 from Chile (mean 3.077 pg/2C) and the smallest in the Peruvian population P2 (mean 2.905 pg/2C). The variation was not correlated with collection site; however, the quinoa accessions analysed in this study belonged to three distinct geographical groups: northern highland, southern highland and lowland.
23642982|Placidiopsis pseudocinerea is described as a new species, which up to now is known from six localities in the Alps and northern Norway. The species is morphologically and anatomically very similar to Catapyrenium cinereum (Pers.) Koerb. but differs in having two-celled spores.
23643721|Fruits of Dipsacaceae are single-seeded, have bristle-shaped calyx segments and are tightly enclosed by four fused bracts forming an epicalyx. Comparative morphological and anatomical studies reveal a great diversity of epicalyx and calyx, often relevant to fruit dispersal. The present contribution deals with the Scabiosa group of genera, the core of the Scabioseae tribe. Most of its taxa develop a diaphragma from a meristem on the inside of the epicalyx. This diaphragma, together with the lower part of the epicalyx encloses the fruit proper, whereas the upper parts form a so-called "epi-diaphragma" (ed) and a  hyaline corona. Differences of the epicalyx with respect to the size and position of the ed, elaboration of the corona, origin of pits (= foveoles) and other morphological and anatomical specializations can be demonstrated. Together with palynological and karyological data these new facts support an improved concept of relationships and systematics for the taxa studied: Scabiosa sect. Scabiosa and sect. Cyrtostemma are closely related and should be united to form the genus Scabiosa s. str.; Pycnocomon can be maintained as an independent genus, sister to Scabiosa sect. Trochocephalus which then has to be treated as a genus, Lomelosia. In contrast, the following genera have to be included in Lomelosia: Tremastelma as Lomelosia sect. Callistemma, and Scabiosiopsis as part of Lomelosia sect. Lomelosia. Pseudoscabiosa deviates in so many features that it has to be excluded from the redefined Scabioseae s. str.
23642896|Genista valsecchiae from SW Sardinia is described and illustrated as a species new to science. It is very similar to G. ephedroides and can be distinguished by morphological differences of habit and inflorescence. It typically occurs in the garigue or maquis and is widespread in SW Sardinia.
23669416|Isatis glauca Aucher ex Boiss. has four subspecies: glauca, galatica Yildirimli, sivasica (Davis) Yildirimli and iconia (Boiss.) Davis, naturally growing in Turkey. In this study, 77 accessions from nine I. glauca ssp. populations were characterised in terms of variation in morphological characters, including the number of branches per plant, plant height, diameter of stem base, diameter of middle stem, diameter of apical stem, width and length of fruit, length of fruit stalk, fruit shape, fruit base shape, fruit apices shape, loculus, ondulation, apical process of fruit, fruit weight, basal length of fruit, apical length of fruit, wing width of fruit, loculus length, loculus width, length of seed, dorsal width of seed, lateral width of seed and seed weight. The number of branches had the highest value of coefficient of variation (CV), 0.210.86, while the fruit width had the lowest value of CV 0.080.20. According to Pearson's correlation and multiple regression analyses, eco-geographical factors had a substantial effect on morphological variation. A principal component analysis explained 90.61 % of morphological variation through the study of five extracted components. A dendrogram, which was constructed according to the between-group linkages method, based on squared Euclidean distances, represented a hierarchical cluster analysis of 77 accessions. The results of the principal coordinate analysis, which showed differentiation according to morphological characters between nine populations, were consistent with the dendrogram. Consequently, morphological variation of I. glauca ssp. and the significant effects of eco-geographical factors on its morphological variation were discussed.
23669423|The host-specific relationship between fig trees (Ficus) and their pollinator wasps (Agaonidae) is a classic case of obligate mutualism. Pollinators reproduce within highly specialised inflorescences (figs) of fig trees that depend on the pollinator offspring for the dispersal of their pollen. About half of all fig trees are functionally dioecious, with separate male and female plants responsible for separate sexual functions. Pollen and the fig wasps that disperse it are produced within male figs, whereas female figs produce only seeds. Figs vary greatly in size between different species, with female flower numbers varying from tens to many thousands. Within species, the number of female flowers present in each fig is potentially a major determinant of the numbers of pollinator offspring and seeds produced. We recorded variation in female flower numbers within male and female figs of the dioecious Ficus montana growing under controlled conditions, and assessed the sources and consequences of inflorescence size variation for the reproductive success of the plants and their pollinator (Kradibia tentacularis). Female flower numbers varied greatly within and between plants, as did the reproductive success of the plants, and their pollinators. The numbers of pollinator offspring in male figs and seeds in female figs were positively correlated with female flower numbers, but the numbers of male flowers and a parasitoid of the pollinator were not. The significant variation in flower number among figs produced by different individuals growing under uniform conditions indicates that there is a genetic influence on inflorescence size and that this character may be subject to selection.
23642464|Differences in colours of male strobili, originally encountered in races of Pinus mugo, are found among other pine species too : Species of subsect. Cembrae flower bright red, whereas in subsect. Cembroides yellowgreen is dominant. Recently, blue and grey-blue male flowers have been discovered in P. engelmannii from Mexico, P. palustris, P. elliotti and P. densa from Florida. These flower colour differences apparently reflect some species relationships.
23655981|The number and range of taxa belonging to the Central European section Phaestoglochin (Carex L.) differ significantly among systematic classifications. Our study revealed that all of the quantitative morphological features of perigynia of Carex spicata Huds., Carex muricata subsp. muricata L., Carex muricata subsp. lamprocarpa elak., Carex divulsa subsp. divulsa Stokes, and Carex divulsa subsp. leersii Koch., had statistically significant differences among taxa. However, this differentiation did not reflect the known taxonomic divisions of the group and therefore, it did not represent a determining criterion for distinguishing the particular taxa. It also did not confirm the close and significant connections between subspecies within the species studied. Based on morphological features of perigynia, we showed that C. divulsa is a well-distinguished taxon, while the other taxa form a complex group. Analysis of the differentiation of perigynium features among the taxa studied against the background of the plant communities where the plants were grown indicated a distinct effect of the habitat conditions on the morphological features of perigynia.
23645274|Comprehensive studies were carried out on phenology, floral sexuality, pollination biology, pollen-pistil interaction, breeding system and fruit and seed set on three populations of gum karaya tree (Sterculia urens). The species is andromonoecious and produces a large number of male and a limited number of "bisexual" (functionally female) flowers. The numbers of male and "bisexual" flowers varies not only between trees but also during the flowering period within a tree. Each male flower produces about 5000 fertile pollen grains. Neither in morphology nor in number, is there any difference between pollen grains in the "bisexual" and male flowers. However, pollen grains of "bisexual" flowers are completely sterile and incapable of siring any seeds. Their anthers, however, serve to attract pollinators; the emasculated "bisexual" flowers fail to do so. Thus S. urens is apparently andromonoecious but exhibits cryptic monoecy. That the species is self-incompatible was confirmed by controlled pollinations. The self-incompatibility is of the late-acting type and manifests after the entry of the pollen tube into the ovule. Apis indica is the only pollinator recorded by us and wind plays no role in pollination. The efficacy of pollination is low as only 56% of flowers were estimated to be pollinated. The pollen load on one-third the number of pollinated stigmas was lower than the number of ovules present. Fruit set under open pollination is poor and is highly variable from tree to tree (0.73.2%). Apart from pollination constraint, limited resource availability may also contribute to low fruit set.
23642241|Mazus japonicus is predominantly self-pollinated, M. miquelii mostly cross-pollinated, with a low degree of self-incompatibility. Correlated differences effect structure, development and seismonasty of the stigma, spatial relationships of stigma and anthers, and pollinator visits. M. japonicus produces numerous and light, M. miquelii fewer and heavier seeds. Growth experiments under different temperature regimes demonstrate that M. japonicus dies after flowering and fruiting, and behaves as an annual, while M. miquelii has additional asexual propagation and is clearly perennial. M. japonicus grows in somewhat drier and more disturbed habitats than M. miquelii.
23655498|The vast genetic diversity, specific genome organization and sequencing of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome made crucifers an ideal group for comparative genomic studies. Arabidopsis genomic resources have greatly expedited comparative genomics within Brassicaceae and fostered the establishment of new Arabidopsis relative model systems (ARMS). The extent of genome colinearity, modes and evolutionary rates of genome alterations are being analyzed by genetic mapping with ever increasing levels of precision. Comparative cytogenetic studies in Brassicaceae are employing various chromosome landmarks and cytogenetic techniques, including localization of rDNA, variation in centromeric satellite repeats, genomic in situ hybridization (GISH), fluorescence ISH using bacterial artificial chromosomes (BAC FISH), and large-scale comparative chromosome painting. Some genome alterations may represent rare genomic changes (RGCs) and thus have the potential to resolve complex/conflicting phylogenetic relationships inferred from DNA sequencing. Comparative genomics should increasingly be integrated with molecular phylogenetics and population genetics to elucidate the processes responsible for genetic variation in Brassicaceae.
23645059|The pollen grains of 32 Chinese species of Pedicularis representing 13 groups within the genus were investigated using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The genus is eurypalynous, the apertures may be tricolpate, trisyncolpate, or bisyncolpate and five types of surface ornamentation (microscabrate, microrugulate, retipilate, microreticulate and microfoveolate) were observed. Comparison of the different aperture types using light microscopy allows three pollen types to be distinguished. Examination of exine ornamentation with scanning electron microscopy enabled each pollen type to be divided into two or three sub-types (giving a total of seven sub-types). Pollen morphology within the genus is discussed in relation to infrageneric relationships, evolutionary and pollination biology. There is little correlation with the existing infrageneric taxonomy (some taxonomic groups have more than one pollen type, while the same pollen type may be found in several different species-groups), but greater correlation with the corolla morphology.
23645041|The pollination biology of Musella lasiocarpa (Franch.) C. Y. Wu ex H. W. Li, a monotypic genus in the banana family (Musaceae) endemic to southwestern China, was investigated. Floral phenology, nectar production, and flower visitors were observed, measured, and recorded. Bagging experiments and comparative breeding system studies were carried out at different study sites and in different seasons. Our results revealed four important aspects of the reproductive biology of Musella. 1) This species blooms year round, but most flowering is concentrated from February to August. The longevity of female flowers is greater than that of male flowers and opening of both types of flowers occurs at anytime during the day, but is concentrated in the morning. 2) Although nectar is produced uniformly while flowers are open, the nectar volume and rate of female flowers are significantly higher than that of male flowers. 3) Insects, such as bumblebees (Bombus eximius and B. montivolans), honeybees (Apis cerana and A. florea), and wasps (Vespa mandarinia) are the primary floral visitors and show a preference for female flowers. 4) Both fruit and seed set are pollinator-limited at both study sites. A comparison of the floral biology and pollination characteristics among the three genera in the banana family suggests that insect pollination has played an important role in the reproductive isolation and breeding system evolution of Musella.
23654162|We have investigated the floral ontogeny of Arillastrum, Allosyncarpia, Stockwellia and Eucalyptopsis (of the eucalypt group, Myrtaceae) using scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy. Several critical characters for establishing relationships between these genera and to the eucalypts have been determined. The absence of compound petaline primordia in Arillastrum, Allosyncarpia, Stockwellia and Eucalyptopsis excludes these taxa from the eucalypt clade. Postanthesis circumscissile abscission of the hypanthium above the ovary in Stockwellia, Eucalyptopsis and Allosyncarpia is evidence that these three taxa form a monophyletic group; undifferentiated perianth parts and elongated fusiform buds are characters that unite Stockwellia and Eucalyptopsis as sister taxa. No floral characters clearly associate Arillastrum with either the eucalypt clade or the clade of Stockwellia, Eucalyptopsis and Allosyncarpia.
23674608|Concepts of primitive angiosperm flowers have changed in recent years due to new studies on relic archaic groups, new paleobotanical finds and the addition of molecular biological techniques to the study of angiosperm systematics and evolution. Magnoliidae are still the hot group, but emphasis is now on small primitive flowers with few organs and also on the great lability of organ number. Of the extant groups, a potential basal position of the paleoherbs has been discussed by some authors. Although some paleoherbs have a simple gynoecium with a single orthotropous ovule, anatropous ovules may still be seen as plesiomorphic in angiosperms. Anatropy is not necessarily a consequence of the advent of closed carpels. It may also exhibit biological advantages under other circumstances as is the case in podocarps among gymnosperms. Valvate anthers have now been found in most larger subgroups of the Magnoliidae (recently also in paleoherbs) and in some Cretaceous fossils. Nevertheless, as seen from its systematic distribution, valvate dehiscence is not necessarily plesiomorphic for the angiosperms, but may be a facultative by-product of the thick connectives and comparatively undifferentiated anther shape in Magnoliidae and lower Hamamelididae. A perianth is relatively simple in extant Magnoliidae or even wanting in some families. In groups with naked flowers the perianth may have been easily lost because integration in the floral architecture was less pronounced than in more advanced angiosperm groups. Problems with the comparison of paleoherb flowers with those of Gnetales are discussed. The rapid growth of information from paleobotany and molecular systematics requires an especially open attitude towards the evaluation of various hypotheses on early flower evolution in the coming years.
23643660|Nineteen natural Mediterranean fir populations, belonging to eight species and to one natural hybrid (A.  borisii-regis), were investigated by starch and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A total of 31 alleles was scored at eight loci (IDH-B, ACP-A, PER-B, 6PGD-A, 6PGD-B, MNR-B, PGI-B, PGM-A. Great variation was observed in the heterozygosity among the population studied and ranged from 0.010 (A. pinsapo) to 0.328 (A. cephalonica). The interpopulation genetic diversity was about 26% of the total genetic diversity. From the dendrogram, new phylogenetic relationships were revealed. High affinity was observed between the Calabrian fir population and the one from north-west Greece as well as between A. equi-trojani grown in Asia Minor and the southern Greek populations. Species specific alleles were found in A. cilicica. From the findings of the present work, a new hypothesis concerning the taxonomy, distribution and evolution of Abies species in the Balkan Peninsula is supported.
23643024|The genus Argyranthemum (Asteraceae: Anthemideae) comprises 38 taxa and is restricted to the archipelagos of the Canaries, Selvagens, Madeira, and Desertas in the Macaronesian biogeographic region. An electrophoretic study, including 17 enzyme loci and at least one population of each of the described taxa, was carried out. High identity (low distance) values between taxa (mean of 0.893) were obtained despite the old age of the islands, their close proximity to the African continent, and the fact that Argyranthemum is the most species-rich and variable genus in Macaronesia. These results suggest that the genus is monophyletic and that it has evolved very rapidly in these islands. There is little correspondence between taxonomy and neighbor-joining analysis based on Roger's genetic distances, but in several instances populations from the same islands cluster together despite being from different species or even different sections. It is suggested that repeated genetic bottlenecks associated with the founding of new populations during radiation of the genus resulted in lineage sorting of ancestral allozyme polymorphisms. Because every population has a high average identity with all other populations, lineage sorting could result in populations of different taxa being slightly more similar than populations of the same taxon. Gene flow between different species on the same island could account for some populations clustering by island of origin rather than taxonomic disposition. Average allozyme diversity within populations (0.098) is 50% higher than the mean total diversity for species endemic to oceanic islands.
23669043|Eriocaulaceae occurs primarily in the Neotropics, diversifying mostly in mountainous areas in southeastern Brazil. They are popularly known as everlasting plants, because once dried, they retain the appearance of living structures, being widely used as ornamentals. Most of the commercialized species belong to the genus Comanthera L.B.Sm., which was reestablished from Syngonanthus Ruhland. Comanthera groups 41 species, 26 in Comanthera subg. Comanthera and 15 in C. subg. Thysanocephalus, all restricted to South America. Phylogenetic analyses show Syngonanthus and Comanthera, as well as both Comanthera subgenera, as monophyletic and sister groups. Seed coat ornamentation proved to be useful and informative to help in determining taxonomic relationships in many plant groups. This study aims to characterize the external morphology of the seed coat of Comanthera and its subgenera using scanning electron microscopy, and discuss its taxonomic and phylogenetic implications. Seeds from nine species of Comanthera were analyzed, seven of which belong to C. subg. Comanthera and two to C. subg. Thysanocephalus. The results were compared with four species of Syngonanthus and one of Leiothrix. In Comanthera and Leiothrix the external periclinal walls remain intact, whereas they degenerate in the remaining genera. However, seed coat ornamentation in Leiothrix and Comanthera has distinct origins, as in the former, it comes from projections of the external layer of the outer integument, forming a striate pattern, and in the latter, from projections of the inner layer, conferring a rough pattern. Comanthera subg. Comanthera shows a rugose undulatory pattern, whilst C. subg. Thysanocephalus has a rugose micropapillate pattern. The newly reported features of the seed coat provide support for the Comanthera subgenera, thus presenting taxonomic and phylogenetic value.
23674656|The tribe Plucheeae (Benth.) A. Anderb., has been analysed cladistically by means of a computerized parsimony program (Hennig 86), using the Arctotideae as out-group. The results of the analysis are presented in a consensus tree and one cladogram. Four major monophyletic subgroups can be recognized: The Coleocoma group (3 genera), the Pterocaulon group (3 genera), the Laggera group (6 genera), and the Pluchea group (12 genera). All recognized genera are described and most genera are supplied with taxonomical notes including comments on their taxonomic status. Genera such as Blumea, Pluchea, and Epaltes are demonstrated to be unnatural assemblages. Monarrhenus and Tessaria are both closely related to the Pluchea complex. The old generic name Litogyne Harv. has been taken up for one species of Epaltes, the genus Rhodogeron is reduced to a synonym of Sachsia, and the following new combinations are made; Litogyne gariepina (DC.) A. Anderb., and Sachsia coronopifolia (Griseb.) A. Anderb.
23674397|40 population samples of 17 Greek Fritillaria species were examined morphologically using 22 attributes carefully selected, with a high discriminating ability. Principal component analysis with a nearest neighbour directed network and cluster analysis were used to evaluate the phenetic similarities among the species. The evidence presented here suggests: (1) A close relationship between F. erhartii and F. obliqua and their possible origin from F. bithynica. (2) A strong alliance between F. rixii, F. euboeica, F. carica, and F. drenovskii (group F. sibthorpiana). (3) A link between the F. epirotica and F. graeca group and some affinities between F. pontica, F. gussichiae, and F. graeca. Finally it is proposed that F. tuntasia be reduced to subspecific status as F. obliqua subsp. tuntasia.
23645116|Karyotypes of 93 individuals belonging to 18 accessions of mandarins, mandarin hybrids and two related species were analysed with the fluorochromes CMA and DAPI, to identify marker chromosomes. The karyotypes revealed highly differentiated banding patterns and could be classified in four groups (IIV) according to the presence/absence of chromosomes with three bands (type A) or with two bands (one proximal and one terminal, type B, or both terminal, type C). The accessions of group I exhibited the simplest and homozygous karyotypes (lacking chromosome types A, B and C), represented by 'Sunki' and 'Cleopatra'. Group II (lacking chromosome types A and B) included three accessions of Mediterranean mandarins and 'Cravo' mandarin, all of them with very similar and almost completely homozygous karyotypes. All other karyotypes of groups II and III (lacking chromosome type A) were heterozygous for one or more chromosome pairs and most of them seemed to be hybrid derivatives from non-mandarin accessions. Group IV (with chromosome types A and B) was represented only by two heterozygous hybrids ('Murcott' and 'King'). The karyotype of most hybrids agrees with one of the possible combinations resulting from chromosome types segregation from their putative ancestor karyotypes, but at least 'Orlando' seemed to be a more complex hybrid. Comparing with banding patterns of other Citrus species, those of group I and the Mediterranean mandarins (group II) are the best candidates to represent C. reticulata (sensu Swingle) as a true species.
23642224|Veronica davisii M. A. Fischer, sp. n., limited to the mountains of Kurdistan (S. E. Turkey and N. Iraq), is related to the Turkish-Caucasian V. gentianoides Vahl.V. montbretii M. A. Fischer, sp. n., a local endemic of Erzincan prov. (E. Anatolia), shows affinities to the Caucasian V. liwanensis C. Koch and to the Turkish endemic V. oltensis Woron. & Schelk. from Erzurum province.
23655180|The absolute configurations of the basal/flagellar apparatus during male gametogenesis of Chara contraria var. nitelloides (Charales, Charophyta) were carefully analysed. Emphasis was placed on the changes in the angles and lengths of the basal bodies, the microtubular root angles and the development of the distal as well the proximal connecting fibers. Six principal stages were recognized: a) parallel, non-axonemal, developing basal bodies connected by a non-striated, proximal fiber; b) non-parallel, non-axonemal, mature basal bodies connected by a developing, striated, distal fiber; c) non-parallel, axonemal basal bodies connected by a fully developed, striated, distal fiber; d) opposite, axonemal basal bodies not connected by fibers, e) axonemal basal bodies not connected by fibers and directed backwards and f) parallel, axonemal basal bodies not connected by fibers. A headpiece, a 3-membered root and a reduced multilayered structure developed during ontogeny. The initial parallel disposition of the basal bodies, the initial lack of MLS and the presence of only two microtubular roots from the very inception of the basal apparatus development, suggest a Mamiella-like ancestor for Charales. Ontogenetic evidence supports previous ideas in the sense that similarities of sperm morphology of charalean and bryophytan gametes are likely due to convergent evolution. In addition, the present study clearly reveals the presence of centrin in Charales.
23642207|Ulothrix zonata was studied under natural conditions in situ on slides exposed in a river. On them specimens grow in all stages of development. Older filaments are fixed on the substrate not only by the pointed basal cell but mainly by a branched, horizontally expanded rhizoid produced by this cell. The rhizoid grows in correlation with the growth of the filament as a whole. In addition to the basal cell the following cells of the lower portions of the filament are incapable of division and reproduction. Through these cells the upper fully vital cell grows downwards in older stages. Bei Ulothrix zonata entwickelt sich unter normalen Bedingungen  in situ-Beobachtung des Aufwuchses auf in einem Bach ausgelegten Objekttrgern  aus der Fuzelle des jungen Fadens ein Rhizoid, das mit dem Wachstum des Fadens zu einem in der Ebene der Unterlage reich verzweigten Gebilde heranwchst. Nicht teilungs- und fortpflanzungsfhig sind in lteren Fden nicht nur die Fuzelle, sondern auch einige auf sie folgende Fadenzellen. Sie werden spter von der nchstliegenden vollvitalen Zelle durchwachsen. Der Ulothrix-Faden erweist sich als hher differenziert als bisher angenommen.
23643689|Sequences of 5S rDNA from an Australian group of papilionoid legumes were evaluated for phylogenetic informativeness. Twenty four sequences were sampled from ten species in five closely related genera: Brachysema, Callistachys, Jansonia, Nemcia and Podolobium. These sequences fell into two size classes, 200 bp and 600 bp, which appear to represent paralogous copies of the 5S unit at different loci. As in previous studies, the 5S rRNA gene and both ends of the inter-gene spacer are found to be conserved and almost uninformative about phylogeny at this taxonomic level. By contrast, the middle part of the spacer is highly variable, both in substitutions at individual sites and in length. The short sequences contain virtually no duplications. The long sequences contain numerous short repeats (c.20 bp) which form a regular pattern in the middle section. Phylogenies estimated from these data support monophyly of the study group, and of species. Relationships among species and genera are less clear, perhaps because divergence of the 5S spacer between species is too great. However, non-monophyly of Nemcia and Brachysema, indicated by other data, is corroborated.
23644199|The complete 18S rRNA gene sequences of four Sphaeroplea C.A. Agardh strains (Sphaeropleales, Sphaeropleaceae), two Atractomorpha Hoffman strains (Sphaeropleales, Sphaeropleaceae) and two Ankyra Fott strains (Chlorococcales, Characiaceae) were determined and subjected to phylogenetic analyses. The analyses indicated that all these taxa belong to a monophyletic lineage (Sphaeropleaceae) and are related to a group of chlorophycean algae comprising autosporic taxa and taxa that reproduce by zoospores which are characterized by directly opposed basal bodies. The taxonomic assignment of the Sphaeropleaceae as a family within the Sphaeropleales (Chlorophyta, Chlorophyceae) is discussed.
23672615|Microseris B87 is derived from a single hybrid specimen between M. pygmaea with few, weakly hairy peripheral achenes and a M. bigelovii with many, strongly hairy peripheral achenes. Offspring through the F4 and F5 generations obtained by spontaneous selfing were analyzed for the segregation of quantitative and qualitative characters relating to achene dimorphism. The phenotypic effects of two previously identified unlinked genes determining the relative number of outer achenes are characterized in partially and completely homozygous sublines. We show that two morphological markers genetically linked to one of these genes are themselves regulated by the system inducing heterocarpy. Not more than two more unlinked genes are involved in the genetic basis of the heterocarpic response. The interaction of these genes in determining the heterocarpy phenotypes is discussed in the framework of a model postulating genes for a morphogen gradient across the capitulum and genes responding to this gradient.
23642878|The flowers of Hortonia angustifolia were investigated for their phyllotaxis, morphology, anatomy and development of the perianth, androecium and gynoecium. Certain features were also studied in H. ovalifolia. Characters so far overlooked further support the isolated and intermediate position of the genus between the Atherospermataceae and Monimiaceae s. str. and its archaic position among the Laurales.
23673936|The nuclear DNA content and composition with respect to base composition and the proportion of repetitive DNA was studied in the host-specific mistletoe subspecies, Viscum album subsp. album, V. a. subsp. abietis and V. a. subsp. laxum, using DNA of Loranthus europaeus as a standard. Small but not significant differences were found between the 2C DNA contents and the base composition but significant differences were detected in the patterns of sequence organization. This infraspecific variation is briefly discussed in the light of differences known to occur in the patterns of lectins and viscotoxins, immunostimulating and cancerostatic effects.
23655995|Natural hybrids among the specialized terrestrial oil-secreting orchids of South Africa are extremely rare even where multiple closely related species co-occur. We found putative hybrids between Pterygodium catholicum Sw. and P. acutifolium Lindl., two closely related oil-secreting orchids that lack morphological barriers to inter-breeding. The purpose of this study was to confirm the parentage of the putative hybrids using molecular data from one nuclear (ITS) and two plastid (matK-trnK and trnL/F introns) DNA regions. Phylogenetic analyses of sequences as well as nucleotide substitution patterns of the putative hybrids, putative parents, and their closest relatives were consistent with a hypothesis of hybridization. We suggest that the hybrids were the result of visits to both orchids by a single species of oil-collecting bee during a brief period of flowering overlap. These results suggest that the rarity of hybrids between these orchids is due to factors other than genetic incompatibility.
23655704|The cpDNA trnT-trnF region, a molecular marker widely used in the phylogenetic reconstruction at lower taxonomic levels, is relatively conserved in size and structure. In this region single length variation over 100 bp is much less common than small deletion for congeneric species of angiosperms. Here we examined evolutionary patterns of the trnT-trnF region in 43 species of Pedicularis, a species-rich genus with adaptive radiation. Four independent large deletions, varying from 203 to 297 bp in length, were detected from nine species of the genus, which might result from slipped-strand mispairing. These deletions occurred in different locations of the cpDNA region and in different clades of the phylogenetic tree, indicating that the deletion of large cpDNA fragments may be very frequent in the hemiparasitic lineage of the family Orobanchaceae. Parsimony analyses showed that section Cyathophora of Pedicularis, endemic to the Sino-Himalayan region, was a strongly supported monophyletic group. This section could have a recent origin followed by rapid radiation, considering that it is characterized by a large deletion in the trnT-trnF region and a relatively low interspecific sequence divergence.
23655641|Studies in the 1970's reporting the occurrence of fossil pollen types in the Cretaceous, coupled with surveys of extant pollen morphology of primitive flowering plants, laid the foundation for proposing a Lower Cretaceous origin of angiosperms. Over the last 30 years, morphological, ultrastructural, and ontogenetic studies of both extant and fossil pollen have provided an array of new characters, as well as greater resolution in defining character polarities. Moreover, a range of fossil pollen types exhibiting angiosperm characters occur in low frequency within Triassic and Jurassic sediments. The pollen data provide evidence of a pre-Cretaceous origin of angiosperms. Speciation and extinction rates were likely equal during the Triassic and Jurassic, resulting in the paucity of angiosperm pollen types from different geographic areas in the Atlantic  South American/African rift zone. It was not until the Lower Cretaceous that origination rates exceed extinction rates, resulting in the subsequent diversification of angiosperms and the origin of the eudicots.
23669877|The Weed-Broomcorn Millet, Panicum miliaceum L. subsp. ruderale (Kitag.) Tzvelev, until now observed only in Asiatic countries, is also present in Austria (C. Europe). Whereas the cultivated P. miliaceum subsp. miliaceum, devoid of all natural dispersal ability, cannot actively spread, the Weed-Broomcorn Millet can do so successfully and is increasingly infesting fields of Zea mays. Its spikelets disarticulate at maturity below the glumes, and moreover the florets disarticulate above the sterile floret by means of an abscission layer just beneath a swelling body which developes from the upper rachilla segment. All facts and findings are in favour of the assumption that the Weed-Broomcorn Millet is a product of repeated reverse mutations in P. miliaceum subsp. miliaceum.
23642202|The flowers of Valerianella and Fedia are compared in regard to their morphology and anatomy. Characters are typified and utilized for an improved systematic grouping. Informations on flower development, flower and reproductive biology are summarized and supplemented. The phylogeny of several traits is discussed.
23643384|Recent evidence suggests chloroplast introgression from Microseris bigelovii into M. douglasii. We have examined 23 plants from a population of M. douglasii polymorphic for M. douglasii and M. bigelovii chloroplast types. All 23 plants were completely homozygous for morphological and RAPD markers, and inbred lines derived by selfing have been used for DNA analysis. Chloroplast RFLP analysis identified 16 plants with M. bigelovii chloroplasts and seven with M. douglasii chloroplasts. The nuclear genomes of the 16 plants with M. bigelovii chloroplasts were examined with 22 primers for RAPD amplification products shared exclusively with M. bigelovii. Five of 268 markers appeared to be shared between M. bigelovii and one or more of these 16 plants on the basis of their position in gels. Detailed examination of these five amplification products showed that none of them are nuclear DNA from M. bigelovii. Very little, if any, nuclear DNA from M. bigelovii can be present in M. douglasii plants with chloroplasts typical of M. bigelovii. The study demonstrates the usefulness of the RAPD technique for screening large numbers of markers to select a few potentially informative ones for rigorous examination.
23644980|The dynamics and abundance of nectar secretion as well as sugar productivity were studied in flowers of brown mustard (Brassica juncea) cv. Maopolska and white mustard (Sinapis alba) cv. Borowska. Moreover, floral nectaries were examined under LM and SEM. In both cultivars lateral and median pairs of nectaries secreted nectar. However, differences were found in morphology and activity of these pairs. The lateral nectaries produced more nectar than the median ones. Nectar secretion started at loose bud and peaked during anther dehiscence. Average amount of nectar secreted by 100 flowers of cv. Maopolska and cv. Borowska were 119.9 mg and 134 mg. Mean concentration of nectar was 26.7% and 23.4%, respectively. One hundred flowers of cv. Maopolska and cv. Borowska secreted 28.4 mg and 24.9 mg of sugars in nectar. Estimated sugar productivity per 1 ha of crop was 65.5 kg and 71.2 kg, respectively.
23656070|Macrofossils of Carpinus have been widely reported from the Cenozoic of the Northern Hemisphere. However, the leaf cuticules of the genus have rarely been described. A new species, named Carpinus tengchongensis Dai et B.N. Sun, sp. nov., is identified based on 13 leaf fossils, collected from the late Pliocene Mangbang Formation, Tengchong County of Yunnan Province, China. The important characters of the fossil are its oblong-ovate leaf shape, obliquely cordate base, doubly serrulate margin, straight and moderately thick primary vein, pinnate secondary veins, percurrent tertiary veins, orthogonally reticulate areoles, absence of veinlets, anomocytic stomata with double-layered stomatal rim, well-formed T-pieces and trichome bases, which indicates an affinity within the genus Carpinus section Carpinus subsection Monbeigianae, especially with C. tsaiana. Carpinus fossils were present from the Eocene to Pliocene with disjunctive distribution in the North Temperate Zone, which broadly reflected the present distribution pattern and probably demonstrates the tolerance of Carpinus to environmental change.
23643058|Based on 100 species representative of the four genera, we scored 290 herbarium specimens for a number of morphological characters. The data were subjected to canonical discriminant analysis using characters different from those in the identification key to these genera by Baum, Yen, and Yang (1991). These characters collectively support the four groups Agropyron, Kengyilia, Roegneria, and Elymus as previously defined. The four groups are also supported by the linear discriminant function with an overall rate of 83% correct classification. Length of lemma awn was found to be an additional diagnostic character as Agropyron and Kengyilia have lemma awns shorter than 5 mm, whereas Roegneria and Elymus have longer lemma awns with very few exceptions. Length of glume awns is also a useful supplementary generic diagnostic. Agropyron and Elymus have glume awns, whereas the majority of species of Kengyilia and more than half of the species of Roegneria lack them. If a glume awn is present it is usually not longer than 1 mm.
23659854|The amphi-Adriatic region, and especially the Western Balkan Peninsula, belongs to the most important biodiversity hotspots in the temperate region. Nevertheless, detailed phylogeographic and molecular systematic studies in the Western Balkan are rare due to sporadic sampling in regions, where access has been, until recently, restricted by war. The Cardamine maritima group, which is the focus of this study, comprises not only the currently recognised species C. maritima and C. monteluccii, but also other taxa, which have been rendered to synonymy by most of the national floras and checklists. Molecular data acquired by the amplified fragment length polymorphism method showed a clear pattern within the group. Italian populations of C. monteluccii are well separated from Balkan taxa. In a step forward from previous taxonomic confusion surrounding Balkan populations, the present study confirms that five allopatric unitseach with a clearly delimited and a rather restricted distribution rangecan be easily recognised here. They correspond to C. fialae, C. serbica, C. rupestris, and two genetically distant and allopatric units within C. maritima. While individual taxa gained high bootstrap support in the neighbour-joining tree, there is low support for the internal nodes and it is hard to infer any relationships among taxa based on this information. The majority of Balkan populations of the C. maritima group exhibit features of genetic variability that enable us to hypothesise that these populations are relic ones.
23655191|Structural changes associated with corolla wilting may serve as a mechanism for effecting self-pollination. Low pollinator visitation, high seed production and a corolla that persists after anthesis indicates that Pedicularis dunniana is autogamous. Delayed autonomous self-pollination is facilitated by corolla wilting. Wilting of the upper lip (galea) brought the pollen laden anthers into contact with the stigma resulting in the deposition of self pollen on the stigma. The seed set of flowers either emasculated, or with restrained galeae thus preventing anthers brushing against the stigma, was significantly lower than that of open-pollinated flowers. This demonstrates that autogamy occurs in this species through corolla wilting. Germination experiments indicated that outcross seedlings were more vigorous than selfed seedlings as a result of inbreeding depression. It is likely that autogamy provides reproductive assurance for P. dunniana under conditions of pollinator scarcity.
23674725|The ancestral angiosperm is commonly interpreted as an arborescent to shrubby magnolialean with large, multiparted, complex flowers. We examined this hypothesis using a phylogenetic analysis of new and reevaluated characters polarizabled with outgroup comparison. Our cladistic analysis of basal angiosperms placed the nonmagnolialean Chloranthaceae and Piperaceae at the bottom of the tree. We further inferred the probable ancestral states of characters not polarizable with outgroup comparison by examining their distribution among taxa at the base of our cladogram. The sum of ancestral character states suggests that the protoangiosperm was a diminutive, rhizomatous to scrambling perennial herb, with small, simple flowers.
43498305|Two zinc violets, the yellow form of the Aachen-Lige area and the blue morph of Blankenrode in western Westphalia, have very restricted occurrence on heavy metal waste heaps. Their taxonomic affinities have not been finally resolved. The flower micromorphological analysis presented here indicates that both zinc violets are closely related to the alpine Viola lutea, in line with our earlier published molecular data, but not with the conclusions of other authors. The zinc violets are classed at the rank of subspecies as V. lutea: ssp. calaminaria for the yellow zinc violet and ssp. westfalica for its blue counterpart. Although the violets examined (V. lutea, V. lutea ssp. calaminaria, V. lutea ssp. westfalica) are closely related, there is no evidence that V. lutea ssp. westfalica is a descendent of V. tricolor. Here we provide the most detailed information on generative organ structure in the four violets studied.
43558197|Cattleya elongata is a rupicolous orchid species spread throughout and endemic to outcrop islands in campo rupestre vegetation of the Chapada Diamantina, northeastern Brazil. We scored nine natural populations of C. elongata for morphological and genetic variability, covering the whole distribution area of the species, using allozymes and ISSR markers and morphometric multi variate analyses. Genetic variability in allozimes was relatively high (H = 0.12-0.25), and unexpectedly higher than the values based on ISSR (H = 0.16-0.19). The populations present moderate structuring (allozymes, PT= 0.14; ISSR, PT= 0.18) and low inbreeding (allozymes, FIS = 0.06). Genetic similarity among the populations was high in both markers, in spite of the discontinuity of the outcrops of the Chapada Diamantina. We found no particular biogeographical pattern to the distribution of the genetic and morphologic similarity among the populations of C elongata. We found high morphological variability with moderate differentiation among the populations. We did not find any correlation among genetic, morphological, and geographical distances, and among the variability found in the morphological and genetic markers. The differences observed between the two genetic markers and the various morphological markers examined here indicated that the isolated use of any single parameter of these different populations for conservation planning or management would not consider all of the variability to be found in the species, as found in other Brazilian campos rupestres plants.
23643796|Sequences of the ITS region of nrDNA were analyzed for the seven genera of Papaveraceae subf. Chelidonioideae s.str. Three major clades can be recognized. These are 1. Chelidonium/Hylomecon/Stylophorum, 2. Eomecon/Sanguinaria, and 3. Bocconia/Macleaya. The monophyly of genera in the first of these three clades is doubtful, and clades two and three are sister to each other. Use of the ITS phylogeny of the subfamily to trace its morphological and ecological evolution shows that morphological change is concentrated in the Bocconia/Macleaya clade, and probably related to the evolution of wind-pollination from insect-pollination in these two genera after habitat shift.
43558056|Onosma is a species-rich genus with complicated patterns of morphological and karyological variation, and controversial taxonomic treatments. In the present study we focused on the Asterotricha group, one of three major infrageneric groups, in the area of central and southern Europe. Ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers were used to assess species differentiation and relationships, and to gain insight into the evolutionary history of the group. ITS data supported the monophyly of the asterotrichous taxa. Six genetically differentiated entities were resolved by AFLP markers, corresponding to O. echioides, O. heterophylla s.l., O. thracica including O. rigida, O. malkarmayorum, O. taurica, and O. stellulata. Onosma stellulata is identified as the most differentiated lineage within the Asterotricha group, which is consistent with its unique chromosome number. Within O. heterophylla s.l., recognition of O. viridis as a species distinct from O. heterophylla s.str. is supported. On the other hand, O. tornensis appears to be conspecific with O. viridis. Inferring from the patterns of genetic diversity and divergence, the evolutionary history of O. heterophylla s.l. is discussed. Genetic variation within the polymorphic Apennine-Dalmatian O. echioides is almost continuous and shaped by isolation by distance, thus none of the previous intraspecific taxonomic concepts are valid. The assumed hybrid origin of O. malkarmayorum is supported, and its affinity to potential ancestors, O. heterophylla s.l. and O. thracica incl O. rigida, is indicated. Future studies of asterotrichous Onosma species should focus on diversity centers in the eastern Mediterranean and Asia Minor, to build up a comprehensive taxonomic concept of the group and to clarify its evolution.
23663566|The reproductive biology of the sympatric species Gagea lutea and Gagea spathacea was analyzed morphologically and by resource allocation measurements. Both taxa reproduce vegetatively by bulbils. The hexaploid G. lutea regularly forms seeds, but flowering plants cease to produce bulbils. Seed set was never observed in non-aploid G. spathacea which does not stop vegetative reproduction when flowering. In this species, the pollen contains a high proportion of non-viable grains. Already sterile plants invest more resources (per cent of total nitrogen) into bulbils than G. lutea (10.9 vs. 5.9%). For flowering plants, the respective values are 6.1% (flowers) plus 18.4% (bulbils) for G. spathacea versus 14.8% (flowers only) for G. lutea. G. spathacea lost the ability to reproduce sexually and relies solely on vegetative reproduction. This seems to require the breakdown of the switch mechanism between the bulbil and flower formation (as in G. lutea) and a higher net investment in reproduction, hampering individual growth.
23664160|The distributions of 77 Arctic-Alpine species in the Balkans are mapped and the centers of their richness and diversity presented. Within the Dinaric Alps these are Mts Vranica, Durmitor, and Prokletije; in the Scardo-Pindhic mountains, arplaninaRudokaKorab form a continuous chain; in the Rhodope-Rila mountain system there are Mts Vitoa, Rila, and Pirin; while in the Balkan mountain system there are the West and Central part of Stara planina. A comparison of floristic richness and distribution of Arctic-Alpine flora in relation to altitude, geographical location, and geological substrate is made. Correlations between floristic richness and geographical distance of the Balkan mountains from the two main centers of Arctic-Alpine flora in Central Europe are also provided.
23655661|Patterns of variation among all microspecies of Hieracium sect. Hieracium and H. sect. Vulgata known from Denmark and southern Sweden are investigated. Forty-three, possibly independent morphological characters are used. Significant correlations were revealed among the majority of the characters. Multivariate analyses did not reveal any discontinuities in the variation or any discrete groups of species. However, there were obvious correlations between previous taxonomic classifications and the result of the multivariate analyses. Based on the statistical analyses, three sections and 38 informal species aggregates are recognized. H. sect. Bifidum T. Tyler is described anew. The characters that turned out to be most influential in the multivariate analyses, and thus most important for the classification, were the distribution of stellate tomentum on the phyllaries, the amount of glandular hairs and the amount and pigmentation of simple hairs on the phyllaries, the shape of the leaf-base and the regularity of the leaf dentation. The evolution of the group and the taxonomic treatment is thoroughly discussed in the light of the results.
43558150|In order to evaluate the phylogenetic relationships and taxonomic classification of the Iranian endemic Tanacetum paradoxum Bornm. (Asteraceae, Anthemideae), a molecular analysis based on nrDNA ITS sequences of 16 species of Tanacetum together with representatives of 27 genera of subtribes Artemisiinae and Handeliinae as well as a micromorphological study of achenes and pollen grains was performed. The chromosome number of 2n = 2x = 16 and the genome size of T. paradoxum (2C = 8.81  0.19 pg) are reported here for the first time.Due to the well-supported close phylogenetic relationship of T. paradoxum to the species of the genus Artemisia (Bayesian inference, posterior probability PP = 1), which is supported by cytological (x = 8) and micromorphological features concerning the achene shape and pollen type, the combination Artemisia paradoxa (Bornm.) Sonboli is proposed.
23642668|Measurements of 16 inflorescence and floral characters from 5 populations of Parahebe linifolia (3 of entomophilous subsp. linifolia; 2 of autogamous subsp. brevistylis) were analysed. Discontinuous variation of three characters associated with the mechanisms of pollination suggests these are under strong selection towards different optima in each subspecies. Variation which is continuous and associated with the type of pollination in 4 characters mostly concerned with display is thought to result from selection for metabolic economies, counteracted strongly in subsp. linifolia, but less so in subsp. brevistylis, by selection for display. Nine more characters vary in a way not known to be associated with the two pollination systems.
23642880|An analysis of the morphology, anatomy and ontogeny of the flowers, particularly of the gynoecium of Lagoecieae is presented. 1. The gynoecial model of angiosperms can be applied to all three genera Arctopus, Lagoecia and Petagnia. 2. In the case of Arctopus an additional "Apikalseptum" is developed. 3. In the synascidiate region of the gynoecium the adaxial carpel is reduced in Arctopus and Petagnia, the abaxial in Lagoecia. 4. The reduced carpel produces either one mature ovule in Arctopus, a rudimentary ovule in Petagnia, or none in Lagoecia. 5. Petagnia and Lagoecia have a completely pseudomonomerous gynoecium. 6. Arctopus displays many flower characteristics which lack in the Saniculoideae but occur in the Hydrocotyloideae. 7. For Petagnia and Lagoecia an independent phylogenetic development within the Saniculoideae is assumed. Die Einfchrigkeit des Gynoeceums ist das entscheidende Merkmal, um die habituell sonst stark voneinander abweichenden Genera Arctopus, Lagoecia und Petagnia in eine Tribus (Lagoecieae) zusammenzufassen. Der schon frher geuerte Zweifel an einem engeren systematisch-phylogenetischen Zusammenhang der drei Genera lie eine nhere morphologische, anatomische und entwicklungsgeschichtliche Untersuchung der Blten wnschenswert erscheinen; dabei wurde der Analyse des Gynoeceums besondere Aufmerksamkeit gewidmet. Aus den Ergebnissen sind folgende Punkte hervorzuheben: 1. Typologie: Das Gynoecealmodell der Angiospermen kann auf alle drei untersuchten Gattungen angewandt werden; a) asymplikate Zone; umfat die Griffel und Nektarien; b) symplikate Zone; bei Lagoecia und Petagnia extrem eingeschrnkt, bei Arctopus zustzlich ein Apikalseptum entwickelt; die Samenanlagen entspringen lateral bis latero-median in der eusymplikaten Zone resp. im Querzonenbereich; c) synascidiate Zone; grter Abschnitt, umfat den berwiegenden Teil des Ovars, steril. 2. Frderung und Asymmetrie: Die Infloreszenzen der untersuchten Gattungen sind peripher gefrdert. Die Ovare von Petagnia und Arctopus (die asymplikaten Bereiche des Gynoeceums und die brigen Bltenphyllome sind symmetrisch) verhalten sich zur Infloreszenzfrderung gleichsinnig (abaxiales Karpell gefrdert), das Ovar von Lagoecia gegensinning (adaxiales Karpell gefrdert), whrend die asymplikaten Teile des Gynoeceums (nur abaxialer Griffel vorhanden) und die brigen Organe der Blte (nur in der frhen Ontogenese feststellbar) wieder gleichen Frderungssinn wie die Infloreszenz aufweisen. 3. Asymmetrie und Fertilitt: Im vollkommenen Karpell werden grundstzlich zwei Samenanlagen angelegt, wobei nur eine davon  die untere  entwickelt wird. Im reduzierten Karpell wird bei Arctopus eine Samenanlage angelegt und entwickelt, bei Petagnia bleibt sie rudimentr, bei Lagoecia fehlt sie vllig. 4. Systematische Konsequenzen: a) Arctopus zeigt viele Merkmale (verholztes Endokarp, Zentralbndel im Ovar, Apikalseptum, Fehlen eines Lobulum inflexum), die nicht nur den Lagoecieae, sondern darber hinaus allen Saniculoideen fehlen, dafr aber bei den Hydrocotyloideae vorkommen. Daher wird eine Einordnung von Arctopus in diese Unterfamilie vorgeschlagen. b) Fr Petagnia und Lagoecia wird auf Grund erheblicher Unterschiede bei Sepalen, Petalen, Ovarsymmetrie, Bltenentwicklung und Fruchtanatomie eine unabhngige phylogenetische Entwicklung innerhalb der Saniculoideen angenommen; die Pseudomonomerie ist konvergent entstanden. c) Innerhalb der Apiaceen sind Petagnia und Lagoecia die einzigen Vertreter mit echt pseudomonomerem Gynoeceum. Danach mssen die Saniculoideen als die hchst evoluierte Unterfamilie der Apiaceen angesehen werden.
23673235|Micromorphological features of the leaf-blade, lemma, and palea were examined under scanning electron microscopy (SEM) for 64 species of the genus Festuca L. occurring in the Iberian Peninsula. The objective of the study was to survey these characters for the first time in the whole of the genus Festuca in this region, to assess their taxonomic value, and to compare the variation with recent DNA sequence-based phylogenies. The principal features include the frequency, shape, and distribution of silica bodies, short cells, crown cells, and prickles, and the morphology of long cells. The abaxial lemma surface shows the most important taxonomical and phylogenetic characters. The variation observed was consistent with the subgenera and sections identified in molecular studies.
23674819|The biflagellate zoospores of Protoderma sarcinoidea and the quadriflagellate zoospores of Chamaetrichon capsulatum are each covered by an amorphous, mucous material and a single layer of square scales, and the pyrenoid matrix is traversed by one or more thylakoid membranes. In the flagellar apparatus the basal bodies of P. sarcinoidea and the upper basal bodies of C. capsulatum are displaced in the counterclockwise absolute orientation, while the lower basal bodies of C. capsulatum are directly opposed. Other components of the flagellar apparatus observed in each alga include: cruciately arranged d and s rootlets, each associated with an electron-dense component; simple terminal caps comprised of large and small subunits; a terminal electron-dense mass located near the proximal end of each basal body in P. sarcinoidea and near the upper basal bodies in C. capsulatum; and two rhizoplasts. Components specific to one or the other species include a single accessory basal body in P. sarcinoidea and a fibrous, electron-opaque band that links the upper and the lower basal bodies in C. capsulatum. The flagellar apparatus architecture of P. sarcinoidea resembles Gayralia oxysperma, while that of C. capsulatum is similar to Trichosarcina polymorphum and Ulothrix species, all of which are included in the Ulothrix-group, Ulotrichales, Ulvophyceae.
43558597|In this study, we analyzed 12 species in the subgenus Potamogeton (8 tetraploids and 2 diploids, 2 putative tetraploid hybrids) at the chromosomal level, including counting the chromosome number and physically mapping the rDNA. The extent of variation in the chromosome number and rDNA loci was determined in the Potamogeton species on both the inter- and intra-specific level. Moreover, one of the hybrid sets (p. perfoliatus   P. wrightii ) was picked for performing artificial pollination for producing F1 generation adults and for sequential morphological character analysis and FISH detection. After comparing the parental species and natural hybrids from three different geographic locations, the intraspecific variations of rDNA loci were revealed in sampled plants; in addition, comparisons between artificial F1 and natural hybrids (P.x intortusifolius) showed a rapid change of 45S rDNA loci in response to the interspecific hybridization. We also compared our results concerning rDNA patterns with phylogenetic documents to derive complementary clues to karoytype evolution and interspecific relationships. Based on frequent hybridizations and active clonal reproduction with weak genetic selection, the rDNA chromosomal repatterning, such as the gain or loss of rDNA loci together with rDNA movements, might be one trend of chromosome evolution in this genus.
23642359|Quantitative characters of the flowering head of a garden population of Microseris laciniata were scored during the second, third, and fourth season of growth. Number of achenes per head, number of phyllaries per head and the average number of pappus parts per achene in single heads show significant plant to plant variation. Achenes per head and pappus parts per achene were scored in identical plants in two subsequent seasons. The number of pappus parts per achene varies freely between five and ten. This contrasts with annual species of Microseris in which either five or ten pappus parts are found, depending on the species. In spite of a clear plant-specific average of pappus parts, both high and low pappus part determination can be demonstrated in all specimens. The number of pappus parts depends on the position of an achene on the receptacle, marginal achenes usually having fewer pappus parts than central ones. This gradient is not closely correlated with the position of an achene on the "genetic spiral".
23643644|RAPDs were employed as genetic markers to detect interspecific hybridization between the closely related oak species Quercus robur and Q. petraea. Fourteen primers were used in order to check the genetic status ("pure" or hybrid) of individuals classified morphologically. Among the 147 PCR fragments obtained 11 appear to be species-specific. In the phenotypically intermediate individuals different combinations of these species-specific bands were obtained. The patterns in these putative hybrids were not additive, which may be either the result of repeated backcrossing and introgression between the two species or of heterozygosity within the parental species. The results of the RAPD study are consistent with morphological analyses and allozyme data obtained for the Got-2 locus. Thus the RAPD markers used in this study may provide a powerful genetic tool for the identification of hybrids and the discrimination between the two "pure" species.
23642292|The rhizome of Posidonia oceanica shows an arrangement of vascular tissue not yet observed in other plants : a series of vascular cylinders all laid out in a single plane. There is a central cylinder, an atactostele, and six lateral cylinders, three on each side. These lateral cylinders are quite unusual too, each of them being formed by a single perixylematic bundle. For these structures the authors suggest the term haploendoleptostele; the whole arrangement might be called xestomeristele. 1. Les auteurs dcrivent, dans une tude consacre  l'anatomie de Posidonia oceanica, une polystle particulire inconnue jusqu' prsent. 2. Le rhizome prsente une srie de stles disposes sur un mme plan. Il s'agit d'une atactostle centrale et de six stles latrales, trois de chaque ct, Les stles latrales elles-mmes sont d'un type particulier, tant constitues d'un seul faisceau perixylmatique. 3. Les auteurs proposent le nom d'haploendoleptostle pour les stles latrales et le nom de xestomristle pour la structure anatomique du rhizome.
23673816|Two species of Consolida are described as new: C. lorestanica is distributed in W. Iran (Lorestan), and C. kandaharica is endemic to S. Afghanistan.
23673913|Azima tetracantha has an asymmetrical karyotype with large chromosomes and a large amount of heterochromatin. The haploid number (n = 11) may represent the base number of the family. However, a possible secondary origin of this base number is also considered.
23655488|We present new comparative morphological and ontogenetic data on flowers and bulbils of Globba (Zingiberaceae) to clarify their homologies. Globba flowers are characteristically Zingiberaceous, possessing a single stamen and epigynous ("supragynopleural") nectaries, but are unusual as the anther bears triangular lateral outgrowths and the style is held tightly in position across the curvature of the filament like a bowstring. Floral ontogeny in Globba is similar to other Zingiberaceae. Characteristic features, such as anther wings, occur late in development, shortly before anthesis. Unusually Globba has zygomorphic style anatomy with only two abaxial vascular bundles, in contrast to most other Zingiberaceae, which possess three stylar traces. The ovary is unilocular and lacks septa. Bulbils have enclosing bracts and replace flowers in the lower part of the inflorescence; they consist of a shoot with an enlarged corky storage root forming the bulk of the propagule.
23674310|Mine spoils and other soils contaminated with cadmium, copper, lead and zinc show natural colonization by species which have strategies of avoidance or tolerance of metal toxicities. The distribution of plants on such substrata in the British Isles is examined in the light of present knowledge of such strategies. Evolutionary processes mediating the selection of tolerant individuals and ecotypic differentiation of adapted populations on metalliferous soils are considered. Other factors determining which species can and which cannot evolve tolerance include constitutional differences in species sensitivity to toxic metals, and phenotypic (environmentally-induced) tolerances. The importance of constitutional properties and phenotypic responses in providing explanations for plant distribution on metalliferous soils is assessed.
23674893|Variation in subunit polypeptide composition of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) from native Australian Lepidium taxa was analyzed by isoelectric focusing (IEF). Species of grex Monoplocoidea on the one hand, and species of greges Pseudoruderalia and Papillosa on the other, were well separated by Rubisco IEF patterns. The protein data suggest grex Monoplocoidea to be placed in sect. Monoploca whereas greges Pseudoruderalia and Papillosa should be integrated into sect. Dileptium. We suggest that the Rubisco type of American and/or Asian Lepidium species was contained in those plants migrating to Australia and evolving into the recent native Australian species. Fossil pollen records and vegetation history indicate that the origin of Lepidium in Australia was restricted to the late Tertiary of Quaternary. Data presented in this study fit best with an immigration by long-distance dispersal of seeds by birds from Asia and/or from South America.
43496774|The objective of this paper is to resolve the taxonomic complex formed by G. neesii, G. martii, their infraspecific taxa, and other similar species, totaling eight names. This group grows from southern Uruguay to northeastern Brazil, and the morphology of individuals gradually changes along this latitudinal gradient, making it possible to identify many morphotypes that have been assigned by previous authors either as species or varieties. We combined ecological and morphometrical approaches to increase the resolution within this complex. We used two techniques of cluster analysis within the ecological data to find the correct number of clusters in the data set. The significant groups found by cluster analysis were then tested a posteriori with a permuted MANOVA to discover congruent morphological groups. Our results showed that from the eight previously hypothesized groups, only two were both ecologically and morphologically significant and could represent separately evolving lineages. The necessary nomenclatural changes as well as a short taxonomic description of the taxa are provided in this paper.
23645097|Female floral structure is compared in Geonomeae (Arecaceae). A perianth is formed by two alternate whorls of three basally congenitally united and imbricate sepals and three basally congenitally united and apically valvate petals. A sterile androecium is formed by a variable number of staminodes, which are united into a tube. The gynoecium shows three more or less equally developed carpels or is pseudomonomerous (Geonoma). The single anatropous ovule per carpel is median, either basal or at mid-height of the ovary. A septal nectary is present at the base and mid-height of the ovaries and exits at different levels of the ovary. Carpels in pseudomonomerous gynoecia seem to be "basistylous", but the styles are more lateral or apical in gynoecia with all three carpels equally developed. Stigmas expose unicellular or multicellular (Welfia) papillae at anthesis. Pollen tube transmitting tracts and a compitum are present in the ventral slits of the postgenitally united styles. Floral structure in Geonomeae is compared with other Arecaceae, especially Arecoideae, in a morphological and systematic context.
43558395|Nearly 5.6 kb of noncoding chloroplast DNA sequence was combined with 9.2 kb of previously published sequence in addressing phylogenetic relationships among Callitropsis, Xanthocyparis, and the New World cypresses (Hesperocyparis; Cupressaceae). Maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses of aligned nucleotide sequence and coded length mutations provide strong support for several relationships. These include a clade in which Xanthocyparis and Callitropsis are successively nested at the base of a monophyletic Hesperocyparis and identification of H. bakeri as sister to the remaining Hesperocyparis. Two principal clades are recovered within Hesperocyparis; (1) the Arizonica group, which contains taxa sometimes recognized as varieties of H. lusitanica, H. guadalupensis, and H. arizonica, and (2) the Macrocarpa group, which contains H. macrocarpa and H. governarla and its allies. Our results are equivocal with respect to placement of H. macnabiana, a morphologically distinct species resolved as the sister group to either the Macrocarpa or Arizonica group, depending on the data set analyzed. We discover many instances in which taxa recognized as varieties or closely related species are placed in disparate parts of the phylogeny. These include segregates of H. lusitanica, H. guadalupensis, and H. arizonica, all of which are included in clades with other species. Despite analyzing 14,799 bp of aligned sequence and 230 binary characters, we find poor support for several relationships, especially within the Arizonica group. These results suggest recovery of well-supported relationships among the closely related taxa of Hesperocyparis will require additional sources of evidence (e.g., morphological, biochemical characters). Implications for morphological evolution and taxonomic revision are discussed.
23645353|Polymorphisms among Mediterranean basin Pistacia species and accessions within species were assessed by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analyses. Twenty-eight Pistacia accessions representing six species from geographically diverse locations in the Mediterranean area were analyzed. With RAPD, a total of 259 DNA fragments were amplified by 27 pre-selected primers, 254 were polymorphic fragments. AFLP analysis with 15 primer sets, produced 954 (93%) polymorphic bands out of a total of 1026. A Mantel test revealed an extremely high correlation (r = 0.99) between similarity matrices generated from RAPD and AFLP data sets, indicating that similar results were obtained by the two techniques. Dendrograms constructed from the similarity matrices showed that Pistacia species could be clustered into two groups, one group containing all the P. lentiscus and the second group containing all other accessions. The latter group was divided into two subgroups, one consisting of P. palaestina and P. terebinthus; the other consisting of P. atlantica, P. khinjuk and P. vera. P. vera and P. khinjuk were highly similar, as were P. palaestina and P. terebinthus.
23656067|Eryngium duriaei (Apiaceae) is an endemic taxa from Iberian Peninsula. Some doubts exist in the literature about the taxa relationships, especially among Iberian populations at different altitudes. Also, as other Apiaceae, this species presents a large potential for essential oil production. Considering all this, a multidisciplinary study comprising taxonomic, cytological (using flow cytometry and chromosome counts) and chemical (essential oils) analyses was performed with the objective to morphologically characterize this species and to evaluate the cytotaxonomical and chemical diversity of E. duriaei Portuguese populations. FCM and chromosome counts have shown that every individual presented the same ploidy level, i.e., 2n = 2x = 16 chromosomes. However, flow cytometric analyses revealed that individuals of E. duriaei from higher altitudes ( 1,700 m) presented a significantly higher genome size than those belonging to E. duriaei populations below 1,700 m (2C = 6.20  0.04 vs. 2C = 5.52  0.05 pg). Moreover, the essential oils analyses revealed that most chemical constituents were sesquiterpenes, but relevant differences in the main components were observed: -neocallitropsene (2853 %), -betulenal (8.515.8 %) and 14-hydroxy--caryophyllene (5.813.7 %) were the main compounds of Eryngium duriaei oil below 1,700 m, whereas caryophyllene oxide (47 %) and E-caryophyllene (6 %) were the major compounds of E. duriaei oil of higher altitude populations. The results provide important evidences to support the taxonomic separation of E. duriaei in two taxa: E. duriaei J. Gay ex Boiss. subsp. duriaei and E. duriaei subsp. juresianum (M. Lanz) M. Lanz, as previously considered by this author.
23655720|Nuclear DNA amounts of 118 cultivated fonio accessions representing 94 landraces collected from the major growing areas of West-Africa (Benin, Burkina Faso, Guinea, Mali and Togo) and eight accessions of four wild relatives were investigated by Laser flow cytometry. In cultivated species, average 2C-values ranged from 1.848  0.031 pg for Digitaria iburua to 1.956  0.004 pg for D. exilis. In D. exilis land-races the chromosome number was determined at 2n = 36. The closely related wild species D. longiflora and D. ternata showed similar 2C DNA contents of 1.869  0.035 pg and 1.775  0.070 pg, respectively. Distinctly larger genomes were identified for more distant species D. lecardii and D. ciliaris with 2.660  0.070 pg and 2.576  0.030 pg per 2C nucleus, respectively. Intra-specific variations were found to be slight and insignificant, suggesting genome size stability mainly within the cultivated gene pool. These results support the distance of cultivated fonio species D. exilis and D. iburua from D. lecardii and D. ciliaris as well as their close relationships with D. longiflora and D. ternata. Relevance of the results for ploidy level considerations in fonio millets is discussed.
23643069|The biological attributes, dispersal mode, growth form, and regeneration strategy were determined for the endemic and non-endemic flora of the southern Langeberg, Cape Province, South Africa.Logistic regression analysis was used to assess the simultaneous effects and interactions between these biological attributes on the occurrence of endemism. The model allowed numerical estimation of the probability that a species with a given set of attributes would be endemic.This approach extends a contingency table analysis of the data, which merely indicated the association between individual biological traits and endemism. Furthermore, the logistic model allows scope for the analysis of the influence of biological traits in determining endemism in other floras, and also tentative prediction of the probability of endemism in species with combinations of biological traits not yet observed in the flora of the southern Langeberg.
23655535|Maximum parsimony and Bayesian likelihood analysis of ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences from 55 samples representing 25 species, subspecies, and/or hybrids of Tropaeolum sect. Chilensia yielded a tree with a large proportion of well-supported nodes at the interspecific and intersubspecific level. However, the tree shows samples from two species, T. azureum and T. brachyceras, arising in two different positions. Samples representing subspecies of T. hookerianum and T. leptophyllum suggest that these species are polyphyletic. The data corroborate evidence for hybridization between T. brachyceras and T. tricolor. Consideration of interfertility data, past and present Chilean ecology, and empirical evidence for the behavior of phenotypic and genotypic characters in known hybrids suggest a high likelihood that reticulate evolution has played a role in the diversification of T. sect. Chilensia. This reticulate evolution may explain the discordance between the ITS tree and the conventional taxonomy. High divergence in ITS sequences between T. sect. Chilensia and other members of Tropaeolum prohibits reliable outgroup-rooting, but midpoint rooting places the root at a partition comprising taxa whose distribution conforms to a relictual eastern-western South American disjunction described for other taxa. Within the Chilean taxa, the analysis suggests that biogeographic diversification has been from the mesophytic southern habitats north-ward to central mediterranean and northern arid zones.
23675271|Certain related oscillatorialean species, originally attributed to the genus Oscillatoria and recently assigned to subg. Geitlerinema of the genus Phormidium (Phormidiaceae-Phormidioideae), are revised and reclassified. Based on a reevaluation of the diacritical features, subg. Geitlerinema is raised to generic rank and assigned to the family Pseudanabaenaceae (tentatively to subfam. Pseudanabaenoideae). The individual species are reviewed and the necessary new combinations are made.
23644356|Forty-five sequences from members of all genera of Asteraceae indigenous to New Zealand and 50 published sequences representing the tribal diversity in the family were analyzed to assess the utility of ITS sequences to resolve phylogenetic relationships. Previous studies using chloroplast DNA sequences and morphology provided support for several clades in the Asteraceae, yet the relationships among some of these were uncertain. The results from ITS analysis were largely consistent with these earlier studies. The New Zealand species are included in at least six clades, most of these corresponding to recognized tribes. Our results have also clarified the tribal affinities of a few anomalous genera. Haastia, previously aligned with the Gnaphalieae or the Astereae, is nested in the Senecioneae. Centipeda, previously included in the Astereae or Anthemideae, emerges near the Heliantheae. The relationships of Abrotanella remain unresolved.
23671345|Moringa oleifera is a less used, drought-tolerant tropical plant, rich in nutritionally and nutraceutically important bioactive compounds. It is native to India and now under cultivation in many countries, but no data is available on genetic variability. Three DNA marker techniques, i.e., random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) and cytochrome P 450 gene-based markers were used for the detection of genetic variability in eight Indian cultivars of M. oleifera, collected from various states of India. A total of 17 RAPD, 6 ISSR and 7 pairs of cytochrome P 450 -based markers generated 48.68, 48.57 and 40.00 % polymorphisms, respectively. The marker index (MI) for each of these marker systems (3.25 for RAPD, 4.73 ISSR and 2.95 for Cyt P 450 -based markers) suggest that ISSR markers are the most effective for assessment of genetic diversity. Based on the three types of marker data, the eight cultivars of M. oleifera were grouped into four sub-clusters in a dendrogram, but without any distinct geographical pattern. This suggests spread of planting material and high rates of gene flow through cross pollination. High bootstrap values (94.4 and 82.3) were obtained at major nodes of the dendrogram using the winboot software. The dendrogram and PCA plots generated from the binary data matrices of the three marker systems were found highly concordant to each other. This study reveals a huge genetic diversity among the cultivars and this can be utilised for conservation and cultivar development in breeding programmes to produce high yielding, nutritionally superior cultivars.
