20793438|Background and aims  Despite being a rather common species throughout Europe, little is known about the effects of habitat change on the fitness of Viscum album. We expected to find a reduction in fitness in V. album populations growing in fragmented habitats resulting from a loss of genetic diversity through increased inbreeding. Methods  We studied seed germination as a measure of fitness among sixteen Belgian V. album populations varying in size and degree of isolation to investigate the fitness consequences of habitat fragmentation. Populations were sampled from two landscapes differing in their degree of habitat fragmentation and V. album population characteristics. We also compared germination percentages of three populations at three different temperatures (5, 20, 30C) to examine the potential effects of climate change on V. album regeneration in northern Europe. Key results  Germination percentages (at 20C) were high (69-100%) and we found no evidence of relationships between germination and population size, density, or area. There was no direct relationship between germination percentage and population isolation within study regions, but connectivity among populations appears to be important. Samples from the more fragmented habitat showed a negative correlation between germination percentage and the proportion of females, suggesting reduced mate availability and pollination resulting from increased isolation of populations. There was no significant difference in mean germination percentages among the three temperature treatments, but the high temperature samples (30C) exhibited the highest variation in germination success. Conclusion  Our results suggest that V. album has evolved high germination success to compensate for limited success in establishing on a host plant. Successful germination under a wide range of environmental conditions is expected to increase the likelihood of establishing on host plants, possibly helping V. album respond to changes in climate.
23209331|Background and aims  The Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Madagascar project aims to evaluate and enumerate the native and naturalized vascular plant flora of Madagascar. In light of the past two decades of intensive collecting and taxonomic work, all relevant published literature and available specimens are being reassessed in order to evaluate the taxonomic status and distribution of the native and naturalized taxa of vascular plants. Here we provide current figures for the total numbers of vascular plants and levels of endemism at the order, family, genus and species levels, comparing them to previous historical counts and analyzing the distribution of the non-endemic element of the flora. Key Results  At the time of writing (April 2010), more than a century after Baron first counted 4,100 species of vascular plants in Madagascar, the Madagascar Catalogue database had registered a total of 14,883 accepted names at all taxonomic levels (64 orders, 243 families, 1,730 genera, 11,220 species and 1,626 infraspecific taxa). Of the 11,220 species of vascular plants in Madagascar, 10,650 (95%) are angiosperms, of which 331 are naturalized introduced species. The remaining accepted indigenous angiosperm species total 10,319, of which 8,621 (84%) are endemic to Madagascar (82% endemism for all indigenous vascular plants). Among the 1,698 non-endemic species of indigenous angiosperms, a total of 1,372 (81%) also occur in Africa, of these 654 (39%) are present only in Africa and Madagascar.
23209419|Background and aims  The effects of gut treatment on the germination of animal-dispersed seeds are critical for the recruitment of many fleshy-fruited plant species, and hence for forest dynamics. However, these effects remain poorly studied especially in African plant species. In this paper, we aim to investigate the effects of gut treatment on the germination capacity and mean germination time of four common plant species of an Afrotropical cloud forest. Methods  We fed Xymalos monospora fruits to its three main avian dispersers to investigate different responses among frugivore species. Next, fruits of four plant species were fed to the most dominant avian disperser, Andropadus milanjensis, to compare responses among plant species. Germination capacity and mean germination time were compared among gut-passed seeds, manually depulped seeds and intact fruits. Key results  Germination of Xymalos monospora seeds was up to nine times more likely and almost twice as fast after bird ingestion compared to intact fruits. An increase in germination capacity, but not in mean germination time, was also detected in four sympatric plant species after ingestion by Andropadus milanjensis. The positive effects of seed ingestion on germination was mainly by fruit pulp removal; only one plant species showed an indication of the combined effect of fruit pulp removal and seed coat scarification on its germination success. Conclusion  Our results indicate that fruit ingestion of four common African forest plant species positively affected germination capacity and mean germination time, and that recruitment success of these plant species may therefore largely depend on their seed dispersers.
41058278|Background and aims - Formal inferences of the diatom phylogeny have largely depended on the nuclear-encoded small subunit of the rDNA gene (SSU). Large parts of the tree remain unresolved, suggesting that new sources of data need to be applied to this question. The next largest dataset consists of the large subunit of the ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase gene (rbcL). The photosystem II gene psbC has also been applied to problems at higher levels of the diatom phylogeny. Thus, we sequenced each of these three genes for 136 diatoms in an attempt to determine their applicability to inferring the diatom phylogeny. Methods - We attempted to obtain a more or less even sampling across the diatom tree. In particular, we increased sampling among the radial and polar centrics and among taxa that morphologically appear to be transitional between polar centrics and araphid pennates. Normal sequencing methods were used. Data were analyzed under maximum likelihood. Key results - Analysis of SSU and chloroplast data returned many of the same clades and the same general structure of the tree. Combined, the data weakly reject monophyly of the radial centrics. The chloroplast data weakly support monophyly of the polar centrics but SSU and combined data weakly reject polar centric monophyly. There may be an hitherto unrecognized clade of araphid pennates sister to the remaining pennates. Conclusion - While it is obvious that more genetic data need to be collected, perhaps the greatest obstacle to inferring an accurate, or at least global and robust, diatom phylogeny is the fact that the parts of the diatom tree that appear to be the most intractable to date (relationships among centric groups and between centrics and pennates) are also the most undersampled. This is in part due to major extinctions in the radial and polar centrics. We believe diatomists need to support more effort in both the molecular and morphological studies of these diatoms, and in the search for more information about the first half of the diatom stratigraphie record.
23209354|Background  The genus Epimedium is well known for its ornamental representatives. However, species boundaries and evolutionary relationships within the genus remain uncertain due to several difficulties. First, potentially diagnostic characters are generally not described with enough detail, hampering linkage of specimens to recognized taxa. Second, previous molecular studies failed to gain resolution, especially within the Chinese distribution area of the genus. Nevertheless, growing scientific interest in the medicinal properties of Epimedium has prompted the need for reliable identification of species. Aims and methods  This study aims at: (1) assessing genetic diversity within Epimedium, using nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences in combination with AFLP fingerprinting, (2) delivering a detailed description for one potentially diagnostic character, pubescence of leaflets. Key results  The DNA sequences and AFLP fingerprints resulted in an unresolved polytomy for the Chinese representatives of Epimedium. Furthermore, this study provided detailed scanning electron microscope images of four clearly distinguishable types of leaflet pubescence. Conclusions  As AFLP is considered capable of detecting rare genetic differences in groups with low sequence variation, we suggest the lack of resolution in the Chinese clade to represent a hard polytomy. This is interpreted as additional evidence for the hypothesis of a recent origin for these taxa. As this implies that several recognized species are still in the process of differentiation, these difficulties in resolving evolutionary relationships are linked to difficulties in species delimitation. Furthermore, the lack of details in some species descriptions has led to the description of new taxa based on small variations. To tackle these problems, we propose a change in view on Epimedium taxonomy. In this view, broader taxonomic entities are recognized, characterized by clearly defined characters. The four types of pubescence described in this study can serve as a first step towards this new interpretation of Epimedium taxonomy.
20793444|Background and aims  The present study is focused on the cytogenetic and morphological criteria allowing to distinguish a new taxon from Onobrychis sect. Heliobrychis. This section is the largest section in O. subg. Sisyrosema represented with 21 species in Iran. The new species belongs to the O. subsect. Boissieriance characterized by perennial plants with well-developed stems and O. andalanica group with uniformely yellow corolla. Methods  The morphological features and meiotic chromosome number and behaviour were studied in O. avajensis Ranjbar. Key results  The novelty Onobrychis avajensis Ranjbar, endemic to Iran, is described and illustrated from two collections from a single locality between Avaj and Abgram in Qazvin Province in the west Zagros. It is closely related to O. andalanica Bornm. but differs from it in a few morphological characters. In addition, meiotic chromosome number and behaviour were studied in O. avajensis. This report is the first cytogenetic analysis of this taxon. O. avajensis is a diploid plant and possesses 2n = 2x = 16 chromosomes, consistent with the proposed base number of x = 8. The general meiotic behaviour of the species was regular, with bivalent pairing and normal chromosome segregation at meiosis. Meiotic abnormalities were observed included a varying degree of sticky chromosomes with laggards, precocious division of centromeres in metaphase I, bridges in anaphase I and multipolar cells in telophase II. Conclusion  Morphological features support the separation of Onobrychis avajensis Ranjbar as a new species.
43491929|Background and aims - While conducting a taxonomic revision of the genera Diaphananthe and Rhipidoglossum (Orchidaceae), a new taxon from Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon was discovered, and is formally described here. Methods - A comparison of about 800 specimens with the nomenclatural types and the specimens housed at BR, BRLU, K, P, WAG and YA herbaria was undertaken in order to confirm the taxonomical status of the new taxon. Its conservation status was assessed using the IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria. Key results - Rhipidoglossum montealenense Descourvires, Stvart & P.J. Cribb sp. nov., here described and illustrated, is endemic to Ro Muni (Equatorial Guinea) and southern Cameroon. The species is found in the mountainous area situated along the transition from the coastal and to the continental regions of Atlantic Central Africa. It is close to R. melianthum but differs by its decurrent petals, a small ovary and a comparatively short spur. The species also differs from R. paucifolium by its elliptical lip lacking a callus and by rounded to subacute sepals and petals, and from R. rutilum by its short leaf internodes. The species is considered as Endangered according to IUCN Categories and Criteria. Its survival in situ will likely depend on the maintenance of the subpopulation in the Monte Aln National Park.
41058277|Background - The traditional approach to diatom systematics assumed that structure and morphology were stable within a taxon and replicated faithfully down the generations, but wall structure is the endproduct of biological processes, potentially modified by environment and over time. Electron microscopy revealed additional structural characters that may be taxonomically informative, but homology continues to be inferred primarily on morphological similarity, without reference to ontogeny. Review - Morphogenetic data reveal that similar structures can be derived in different ways, and that dissimilar end-products may be produced by a single ontogenetic pathway. This paper discusses the importance of understanding valve morphogenesis before wall characters and character states are chosen and described, with particular reference to dorsiventrality, solid areas of silica, raphe and pore structure. Conclusions - A better understanding of character formation will inform the use and development of terminology, which is critical to comparative studies and phylogenetic analyses of morphological data.
43491890|Background and aims - Lentinus species are a major component of the agaricoid flora of tropical Africa where fifteen species have been documented with few studies in Cameroon. This work aims to contribute to the taxonomy of the genus Lentinus by describing a putative new species collected in south-western Cameroon. Methods - A unique lentinoid fungi specimen collected in Korup National Park in the South-West region of Cameroon and preserved in the Edinburgh herbarium (E) was examined macro- and microscopically following classical mycological description methods. Key results - The specimen examined possesses squamules on the pileus and stipe surface, no annulus, furcated branching dichotomous lamellae, oblong-cylindrical basidispores, basidia generally bearing four sterigmata (sometimes two or one) reaching 5 m long, skeleto-ligative hyphae and pleurocystidia. The simultaneous presence of both pleurocystidia and skeleto-ligative hyphae has never been encountered in the genus Lentinus. Due to this unusual combination and other specific features of this specimen, it is considered as a representative of a new species within the genus Lentinus. Discussion - Lentinus cystidiatus exhibits some similar characteristics with Lentinus squarrosulus that possesses squamules on the pileus and stipe surface and mostly with species of the sub-genus Lentinus section Dicholamellatae that are characterized by furcated lamellae. As skeleto-ligative hyphae is characteristic of the sub-genus Lentinus and pleurocystidia characteristic of sub-genus Panus, the simultaneous presence of elements brings into question the taxonomic position of this new species and the systematics of the genus Lentinus in general. Conclusions - The existence of this new species in Cameroon opens a door on the necessity of a taxonomic revision of the genus Lentinus and allied genera.
43491923|Background and aims - Recent molecular studies suggest the polyphyly of Angraecum and the unnaturalness of some of its sections, as exemplified by sect. Pectinaria, which has species in two wellseparated clades, one in Madagascar and the other in continental Africa. However, species delimitation among the five continental African members remained problematic due to morphological variability. In preparation for the taxonomic revision of this group, we used morphological and molecular data to re-assess the circumscription of each species, and to evaluate their monophyly and relationships to one another. Methods - A total of 59 alcohol-preserved specimens were used to perform multivariate analyses on 37 morphological characters. DNA sequences from one nuclear (ITS-1) and five plastid regions (matK, rps16, trnL-F, trnC-petN and ycfI) were analyzed using Parsimony and Bayesian methods. Key results - The morphometric study revealed five distinct morphospecies that correspond to the concepts of the currently recognized species. Angraecum doratophyllum and A. subulatum are the most distinct morphologically, whereas A. atlanticum, A. gabonense and A. pungens are most similar to one another. Phylogenetic analyses using a combined data set of the six markers yielded highly resolved, congruent trees with strong branch support. The polyphyly of A. sect. Pectinaria is confirmed, with continental African members appearing to be most closely related to sect. Dolabrifolia, found exclusively in Africa. The multiple accessions of A. doratophyllum, A. gabonense, A. pungens and A. subulatum each formed a well-supported clade. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses placed A. atlanticum and A. pungens in a subclade within which samples of A. pungens were nested but those of A. atlanticum formed a grade. These two species can be easily distinguished morphologically by leaf dimensions and flower length, but broader sampling in continental Africa is needed to test whether individuals recognized as A. atlanticum might represent two distinct taxa.
23209355|Background and aims  The populations of Epimedium in the western part of Chugoku district on the Japanese island of Honshu are morphologically diverse: most consist of individuals showing wide variation in morphological characteristics, and the character composition varies with population. We explored the morphological variations between Epimedium populations in Chugoku district to test the hypothesis that these variations are the result of natural hybridization between E. diphyllum and E. sempervirens var. rugosum, and to elucidate to what extent natural hybridization between these two species has occurred in this region. Methods  We measured the length of three flower parts using a digital caliper and counted the number of teeth per leaflet. The leaf architecture was also categorized. In addition, we quantified flower colour and leaflet apex shape using a spectrophotometer and principal component analyses of elliptic Fourier descriptions, respectively. From these measurements, we calculated Anderson's hybrid index for each individual. Key results  The populations in Chugoku district showed wide variation in the morphological characters examined. In particular, the populations located near the center of the hybrid zone tended to show greater variation than those located at the periphery. The variation observed across the populations showed similar patterns among the morphological characters examined. No correlations were found among the examined characters. Conclusions  The wide variation in morphological characters likely resulted from natural hybridization between E. diphyllum and E. sempervirens var. rugosum. Hybridization between the two species occurred intensively where the distributions of the species overlap, and bi-directional introgressions of these species are advancing throughout the region. To clarify the factors that produced the hybrid zone, it will be necessary to compare fitness between hybrids and their parental species throughout the parental species' distribution areas and the hybrid zone.
23209337|Background and aims  The Polypores of central Africa (or in biogeographical terms, the Guineo-Congolian phytogeographic region) are still poorly investigated. As part of an ongoing survey of the Polypores in this region, an undescribed species of Perenniporia was collected in the Dja Biosphere Reserve, in south-eastern Cameroon. Methods  Species are described using morphology-based methods. Key results  Perenniporia alboferruginea sp. nov. is proposed, described and illustrated. Several new collections of poorly known species are reported, and an identification key for the Perenniporia species occurring in the Dja Biosphere Reserve and neighbouring areas is presented. Conclusion  About ten years ago, two Perenniporia species were recorded from the Dja Biosphere Reserve. Nowadays, seven species are known from the area, of which four were described based on material originating from this locality.
23209352|Background and aims  Based on presence/absence information for all angiosperms in Tropical Africa, Southern Africa and Madagascar, we review the similarities and differences between these floras. We compare specific and generic richness for the three areas, and examine their degree of overlap. Madagascar and Sub-Saharan Africa are compared in terms of: the specific and generic richness of their angiosperm families, and specific richness of their genera. Methods  Using the African Plant Database, global figures of specific and generic richness for Tropical Africa, Southern Africa and Madagascar have been calculated and illustrated by Venn diagrams. For each family or genus similarity between Sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar has been calculated using the Jaccard Index. Madagascar specificity has been defined as the ratio of Madagascar-exclusive species richness to total richness. Key results  The study confirms the general trends of richness and endemism in the Malagasy flora, but provides accurate figures based on the current state of angiosperm taxonomy. Overlap between the floras of Southern African, Tropical African and Madagascar flora is provided with precise figures. Similarity between Madagascar and Sub-Saharan Africa is very low at species level (0.029) and eight times higher at generic level (0.246). Madagascar specificity reaches 0.165 at specific level and 0.105 at generic level. Calculation of these two indexes for families and genera, based for the first time on APG III, confirms general trends observed so far, and the richest families of the Malagasy flora are listed according to major patterns of their diversity and distribution.
43491883|Background and aims - In Katanga (D.R.Congo), outcrops of bedrocks naturally enriched in Cu and Co ("copper hills"), host unique plant communities. The spatial variation of vegetation has long been attributed almost exclusively to variation in Cu concentration in the soil, but this assumption has not been experimentally tested. We analysed the variation in plant communities and the niches of selected species in relation to edaphic factors within a copper hill. Methods - Forty-eight 1 m plots were sampled for plant community and soil mineral element composition, and classified with Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic mean (UPGMA) using the Bray-Curtis distance. Plant-edaphic relationships were examined using a Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA). Species niches were modelled with Generalized Additive Model (GAM). Mean edaphic factors between the soil of plant communities were compared with one-way Kruskal-Wallis non-parametric ANOVA. Key results - The diversity of communities at the site scale was higher than observed in previous studies at a larger scale. Cu was the most discriminating edaphic factor of plant communities. However, detailed comparisons of mean edaphic factors among communities revealed individual combinations of edaphic parameters for each community, as well as differences in soil Cu content. High covariation appears to be an essential trait of the edaphic factor variation of Katangan Cu-rich soils. This makes it difficult to examine separately the effect of these factors on plant community structures. A bimodal pattern of niche distribution was found for Cu and pH. For physical parameters, niche optima were normally distributed. Conclusions - Global variation in edaphic factors associated with variation in combinations of edaphic parameters generates a highly heterogeneous environment favourable to a high diversity of plant communities over limited areas. Conservation strategies or restoration actions to limit the impact of mining activities on Cu-enriched ecosystems should pay special attention to recreate heterogeneity, taking into account the covariation of edaphic factors.
20793452|Background  The species diversity within the tribe Spermacoceae (Rubiaceae) remains imperfectly known. As part of an ongoing revision of South-American species of the tribe, a new species of the genus Spermacoce s. str. is here presented. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available. Pollen was studied using the acetolysis method. Key results  Spermacoce paganuccii E.L. Cabral & Bacigalupo a new species from Brazil is described and illustrated. The species is endemic of Serra do Orob from the state of Bahia. Morphologically it is most similar to Spermacoce glabra and S. spiralis. It differs from S. glabra in the diameter of the glomerules, the form and indumentum of the capsules and the habit. The new species is easily distinguished from S. spiralis by its indehiscent fruits, the glomerule disposition, the number of bractal leaf and the calyx lobes. Pollen morphology is also analyzed and its relevance is discussed to distinguish the new species from its closest relatives.
23209339|Background  A novelty was discovered by the first author during fieldwork in the Democratic Republic of Congo. After comparing to herbarium collections in BR, K and WAG it is described. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. Key results  A new species, Pancovia lubiniana Belesi, is described and illustrated. The species is found in the lowland forest of the Democratic Republic of Congo and Gabon. It is particular by its number of leaflets and the surface sculpturing of its fruits. Contexte  Une nouvelle espce a t dcouverte par le premier auteur pendant ces recherches en Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo. Elle a t dcrite aprs comparaison avec les chantillons de la collection des herbaria de BR, K. et de WAG. Mthodes  Les pratiques normales de la taxonomie des collections d'herbiers ont t appliques. Rsultats-cls  Une nouvelle espce du genre Pancovia est dcrite. L'espce nouvelle, Pancovia lubiniana Belesi, est connue pour la Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo et le Gabon. Il s'agit d'un arbuste des forts de basse altitude. Cette espce diffre des autres espces de Pancovia de la Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo par le nombre de folioles et par l'ornementation du pricarpe de ses fruits.
41058264|Background -Global environmental changes have become important drivers of plant community shifts and are considered to be threats to biodiversity. Because multiple environmental changes are acting simultaneously, they might antagonistically, analogously or synergistically. affect plant populations and communities. Approach -In this review paper, we attempt to take a single-species-multiple-threats approach to gain insights into the complex impacts of global changes. We selected a well-studied forest herb (Anemone nemorosa) as a case and discuss its response to several prevailing environmental threats. Results -Changes in forest management, land use change, acidifying and eutrophying deposition and climate change are the main topics that have been studied for Anemone. Their impacts have basically been studied at three levels of biological organisation: populations, individual ramets and traits. An important finding that emerged in this review is that the human alterations of the environment have ambiguous effects on the performance of Anemone. While some environmental changes were detrimental, others were rather neutral or even beneficial. The cover of Anemone, for instance, increased following the conversion of coppice towards high forest management, but decreased because of soil acidification and reduced soil moisture. Conclusion -Because the multiple threats may have ambiguous effects on plant performance, the ultimate response of an Anemone population turns out to be very complex. To conclude, we emphasise the need for more integrative studies that assess the impacts of multiple global changes on the different levels of biological organisation of a species.
20793450|Background  A novelty is described in the framework of an ongoing revision of the Arthonia cinnabarina complex. Methods  Normal practises of herbarium taxonomy including high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) have been applied. Key results  Arthonia borbonica is described as new to science. It is characterized by having ascomata covered by an orange pruina and macrocephalic (2)3-septate ascospores. The species is only known from La Runion island.
43491872|Background - The inventory of Cameroon's flora is far from complete and additional work is needed to document the country's extremely rich flora, and thus enhance its conservation. In this framework, botanical exploration was conducted between 2007 and 2011 in various regions of Cameroon and resulted in the discovery of several new national records and new species. Methods - Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. For the endemic or subendemic species, a preliminary IUCN conservation has been proposed using the IUCN criteria. Results - A total of twelve taxa are recorded as new for the flora of Cameroon. Significant range extensions are reported for eight restricted-range species. A new species, Psychotria yaoundensis O. Lachenaud, endemic to Cameroon and only know from two rocky hills in the surroundings of Yaound, is described and illustrated. Additions to the flora of Equatorial Guinea (five species), Nigeria, Ivory Coast and the Democratic Republic of Congo (one species each) are also reported. Psychotria moliwensis and Vangueriopsis gossweileri are synonymised under P. fernandopoensis and V. rubiginosa, respectively. Conclusion - Many areas within Cameroon remain botanically poorly explored. Our exploration highlights the importance of the Rumpi Hills, Tchabal Mbabo, and the rocky hills around Yaound for plant conservation. Our data will help conservationists in determining areas highly valuable for conservation.
43491926|Background and aims - The genus Idertia belongs to the subfamily Ochnoideae, tribe Ochneae, subtribe Ouratinae. This paper aims at a full taxonomic revision and a critical evaluation of the taxonomic position of the genus along with its diagnostic characters. Methods - All characters are studied using 73 herbarium collections of the following herbaria: B, BM, BR, BRLU, COI, EA, G, K, MO, P and WAG. Specimen data were managed using the BRAHMS herbarium management software. Key results - Idertia is characterized by a gynobasic style, apocarpous fruits, ten stamens, persistent and accrescent sepals and intra-axillary fused stipules. It shares these features with its African relatives Campylospermum and Rhabdophyllum, but its axillary inflorescence, smooth anthers and straight cotyledons renders it distinct. The latter feature is reminiscent of the South American relative Ouratea which lacks the persistent sepals and has free lateral stipules. Other diagnostic characters of the wood, leaves, inflorescence, flowers and fruits are discussed. A key to the four genera of the subtribe Ouratinae is provided. The correct author combination for the name Ouratinae is (Engl.) Kanis. The variation amongst the four species of Idertia recognized by other authors was studied carefully and deemed continuous. Only a single, though variable species distributed from Guinea to Uganda is recognized. A full taxonomic treatment is provided and two lectotypes are designated. Conclusions - Idertia is a well-defined and sufficiently distinct monotypic genus.
23209351|Background and aims  Eighty per cent of Gabon's territory is covered by forest with most species inventory work focused on these areas. However, herbaceous open vegetation types are abundant in this country and can be found in savannas on the coast, in the centre and in the south, and on inselbergs. The species diversity patterns of these habitats remain largely unexplored yet are targeted for both conservation and development. Here, we evaluate the floristic diversity of savannas in Gabon, their affinities with the inselberg open vegetation, and their contribution to the national park system in Gabon, which is currently undergoing a gap analysis. We then use a case study from the Batk Plateaux to demonstrate species rarity in a single savanna. Materials and methods  Species presence in the grassy formations of the savannas in Loango, Lop, Pongara, and Plateaux Batk national parks and in Kum inselberg is compared using ordination and clustering based on a similarity matrix (Srensen index). For the Batk Plateaux savannas, the species rarity and distributions are assessed using Star ratings. Key results  The species in the open herbaceous vegetation in Gabon account for at least 11% of the total flora of the country (508 species out of 4,710). Except for the coastal savannas, all sites are highly dissimilar in floristic composition (Srensen index 0.0650.26) and no dominant savanna type occurs within the dataset. The inselberg site is the most dissimilar and constitutes a separate vegetation unit. Most savanna species of the Batk Plateaux area are widely distributed, but not weedy. A few are extremely rare and are linked with moist habitats, substrate, and fire occurrence. Our results show the diversity and the conservation value of open, herbaceous habitats. Currently, the Gabonese National Park network is partly protecting the savanna and inselberg vegetation. However, several areas remain un-assessed and merit further exploration.
23209431|Background and aims  The Shea tree (Vitellaria paradoxa), a multi-purpose species highly valued for the oil obtained from its seeds, is commonly maintained in the semi-arid parklands in West African Sudanian zone. However, most of the trees were reported to be infested with mistletoes  plant parasites that may lead to death of the Shea tree and these parasites are known to be directly dispersed on their host by birds. This study therefore aimed to assess the potential effectiveness of protected area on preventing mistletoes proliferation on Shea tree individuals. Methods  Infestations in two habitats: land use area (fields and fallows) and protected area of Pendjari hunting zone were compared. Overall 54 plots of 1 ha (100 m  100 m) with 487 and 252 individuals of Shea tree in land use and protected area respectively were investigated. ANOVA was used to compare Shea tree infestation rate and infestation degree (with regard to diameter and height of infested Shea tree). Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was performed to correlate the habitats with infestation degree. Key results  The results showed that about 80% of Shea tree individuals were infested in the land use area, this rate was significantly higher than the one of 27.3% observed in the protected area. Overall, heavily infested Shea trees had significantly larger trunks and heights, mainly in land use areas. The land use area was shown to be correlated with high and very high Shea tree infestation degrees while the others infestations degrees (very weak, weak and moderate) were correlated with both areas. Conclusions  Shea trees growing in protected areas are better protected against mistletoe plant parasites than those on cultivated land. Various hypotheses to explain this result are discussed.
43491831|Background and aims - The Ngovayang massif, in southern Cameroon, is part of a group of small hills along the Atlantic coast of the Gulf of Guinea. This area is known for its floristic richness and its high level of endemism. We conducted a phytogeographical analysis of this massif and evaluated its floristic affinities with other forested sites in Central Africa. Methods - Phytogeographical analysis was based on a comparison of lists of tree species with dbh  10 cm, inventoried in 1-ha permanent plots, and established in old growth lowland forests of Central Africa. The floristic list for Ngovayang used for this analysis contained 201 species. Key results - The lowland forests of the Ngovayang massif are dominated by Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae, followed by Olacaceae and Burseraceae, taxa characteristic of dense old-growth Atlantic moist forests. The Ngovayang flora includes a high proportion of Guineo-Congolean species (79%), particularly Lower Guinean species (30%). Phytogeographical analysis showed that forested sites of central Africa are clearly separated into continental sites and the more coastal sites of the Lower Guinean domain, including Ngovayang. Within the Lower Guinean domain, the main floristic discontinuity appears to be situated in southern Cameroon-northern Equatorial Guinea. Ngovayang and Takamanda, which are situated on opposite sides of the Cameroon volcanic line, show stronger floristic affinities with each other than either does with other Lower Guinean forest sites located to the south of the Ngovayang massif. Conclusions - Ngovayang may constitute a transition zone between Nigerian forests and those ranging from southern Cameroon to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. For tree species of the Lower Guinean domain, the climatic hinge separating boreal and austral climates appears to be a more important phytogeographic barrier than the Cameroon volcanic line or the Sanaga River. Objectifs - Le massif de Ngovayang (Sud-Cameroun) fait partie des petits sommets qui longent le golfe de Guine. Cette rgion est connue pour sa forte richesse floristique et son taux d'endmisme lev. Ce travail a pour objectif une analyse phytogographique de ce massif et l'valuation de ses affinits floristiques avec d'autres sites forestiers d'Afrique centrale atlantique. Mthodes - L'analyse phytogographique fut base sur la comparaison des listes d'espces d'arbres de dhp  10 cm, issues de parcelles permanentes de 1-ha tablies dans des forts matures de basse et moyenne altitude d'Afrique centrale atlantique. La liste floristique du massif de Ngovayang retenue pour cette analyse comprend 201 espces d'arbres. Rsultats-cls - Les forts de basse altitude du massif de Ngovayang sont domines par les Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae, suivies des Olacaceae et des Burseraceae, tous taxons caractristiques des forts matures denses humides atlantiques. La flore de Ngovayang compte une forte proportion d'espces guino-congolaises (79%) et plus particulirement d'espces guinennes infrieures (30%). L'analyse phytogographique montre qu'il existe dans la rgion tudie une sparation nette entre les sites continentaux et les sites ctiers du domaine bas-guinen, y compris le massif de Ngovayang. A l'intrieur du domaine bas-guinen, la discontinuit floristique la plus importante apparat aux confins du Sud-Cameroun et du Nord de la Guine-Equatoriale. Ngovayang et Takamanda, situs de part et d'autre de la ligne volcanique du Cameroun, prsentent de plus fortes affinits floristiques entre eux qu'avec les autres forts situes au sud du massif de Ngovayang. Conclusion - Ngovayang pourrait constituer une zone de transition importante entre les forts du Nigria et celles s'tendant du Sud-Cameroun jusqu'en Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo. La charnire climatique sparant les climats boral et austral semble constituer une barrire phytogographique plus importante pour les arbres des forts de basse altitude que la ligne volcanique du Cameroun ou le fleuve Sanaga.
23209348|Background  Seed dispersal appears to be a key process in maintaining plant population and community dynamics, even more so in the current context of global warming and landscape fragmentation. Wild ungulates, due to their capacity to cover long distances in a large variety of habitats, are potential vectors of long-distance dispersal for plants. Methods  In order to estimate their role as seed dispersal vectors, we conducted a cross-species comparative approach on three common wild ungulates: roe deer (Capreolus capreolus), red deer (Cervus elaphus) and wild boar (Sus scrofa). We brushed the fur and hooves of animals shot in Loiret forests during the hunting season and counted and identified the seeds transported on the animals' bodies. Results  We found seeds from 41 different plant species, 24% of which were found in the cleft of the hoof. Wild boar transported 85% of the species identified (versus 34% and 7% for roe and red deer respectively). More seeds from plants representing a greater variety of dispersal modes were carried by wild boar. Less than 50% of the transported plants were epizoochorous species. Moreover, the plants transported were mainly non forest or periforest light-demanding species. We also showed that wild boar is a vector for plants not specifically adapted to external dispersal, whereas red and roe deer are more prone to move epizoochorous species. Conclusion  Globally, our naturalist approach confirmed that common large ungulates are indeed effective vectors plants can rely on. Moreover, since many types of seeds are concerned, ungulates' specific role in plant dispersal should be reconsidered.
43491847|Background and aims  Natural montane grasslands in the Southern Pampas of Argentina are expected to show a high potential for recovery after heavy grazing due to their evolutionary history in the presence of large herbivores and their high productivity. The objective of this work is to compare plant diversity, bare soil percentage, biomass and botanical composition between grazed and non-grazed areas at different times following grazing exclusion. Methods  Vegetation was assessed on exclosures established in 2006 and on nearby areas open to grazing by feral horses in December 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. In 2009 we added 15 year old exclosures to the analysis. Key results  Species richness declined 24 months after grazing exclusion, mainly due to a decrease in the abundance of forb species. Bare soil percentage was significantly reduced 12 months after exclosures were built. Above-ground biomass showed a 3-fold increase 12 months after grazing exclusion. After three years, species richness and biomass were similar to those corresponding to older exclosures (15-years old). The composition of plant communities also changed following horse exclusion, with three and 15-years old exclosures dominated by perennial grasses typical of late serai stages. Conclusions  Our results support the hypothesis that natural montane grasslands in the Southern Pampas of Argentina may recover fast from grazing by large herbivores without application of specific restoration techniques.
41058284|Background and aims - In 2006, during a field expedition in the Amalat (Southern) paleovalley of the Vitim Plateau, 85 samples were taken from sediments of a new key hole 7236. The composition and distribution of siliceous microfossils were studied with light microscope (Usoltseva et al. 2008). The prevailence of species of the planktonic genera of Actinocyclus Ehr. and Aulacoseira Thwaites was recorded. The aims of this paper were electron-microscopic investigations of fossil freshwater species Actinocyclus and Lobodiscus from the Miocene lacustrine sediments of a new key hole 7236, and the comparison of our morphological data with formerly published descriptions of known freshwater taxa of these genera. Methods - Samples from the section 7236 were examined using LM and SEM. Abundance was calculated based on the LM slides. Key results - Valve ultrastructure of dominant biostratigraphically valuable species of Actinocyclus and Lobodiscus from the Miocene freshwater sediments of the Vitim Plateau was for the first time studied with SEM. The comparison of results of carried out investigations with formerly published descriptions of known freshwater taxa of Actinocyclus and Lobodiscus permits to belong the studied species to Actinocyclus gorbunovii (Sheshukova) Moisseeva & Sheshukova and A. krasskei (Krasske) Bradbury & Krebs, to expand their certain morphometric data, as well as to describe A. vitimicus Usoltseva & Khursevich sp. nov., A. intermedius Usoltseva & Khursevich sp. nov. and Lobodiscus peculiaris Usoltseva & Khursevich sp. nov., with definite diagnostic features. Conclusion - Freshwater extinct species of Actinocyclus can be used as stratigraphic markers. Thus, occurred planktonic taxa of Actinocyclus, including the new species of A. vitimicus and A. intermedius, described above, as well as Lobodiscus peculiaris together with dominant accompanying planktonic representatives of Aulacoseira represent the characteristic diatom complex in lacustrine sediments of the Upper Dzhilinda subformation recovered from key hole 7236 within the Amalat paleovalley (the Vitim Plateau). The Middle-Late Miocene age of studied lacustrine deposits agrees with K-Ar dating of lavas in this part of section.
43491835|Background and aim - The non-marine diatom communities in the Antarctic Region are characterized by a typical species composition, in close relationship with their environment. Despite the growing interest, the diatom flora of James Ross Island is only poorly known. The present paper discusses the diversity of limnoterrestrial diatoms on this island: seepages and streams. Methods - The diatom flora of 53 samples taken on the eastern side of the Ulu peninsula on James Ross Island has been studied using light and scanning electron microscopy. Key results - A total of 69 diatom taxa belonging to 26 genera have been observed. The genera Luticola, Diadesmis, Muelleria and Pinnularia dominated the species composition. The flora shows an interesting mixture of cosmopolitan and Antarctic species containing several species reaching on James Ross Island their most northern distribution in the Antarctic Region. The taxonomical position of one widespread Antarctic species, Psammothidium papilio (D.E.Kellogg, Stuiver, T.B.Kellogg & Denton) Kopalov & Van de Vijver comb, nov., is corrected. Conclusions - The limnoterrestrial diatom flora of James Ross Island has a rather low number of species, of which a large proportion shows a restricted Antarctic distribution.
43491868|Aims - Iran is one of the main centres of diversity for the genus Onobrychis Miller. This study includes 55 specimens from eleven representative wild populations of Onobrychis carduchorum C.C.Towns. originating from their natural habitats in Iran. The aims of this study are to provide a detailed taxonomical, morphological, genetic and ecogeographical characterization of O. carduchorum in Iran. Methods - The specimens which represent all Iranian populations were biometrically assessed using 45 quantitative and fifteen qualitative morphological characters. The phenotypic variation among the populations depends on various environmental factors; thus at each sample site we recorded data regarding longitude, latitude, altitude, slope inclination, slope orientation, substrate, minimum and maximum annual temperatures, number of rainy days, annual precipitation as well as soil traits including texture, electrical conductivity, organic carbon, total nitrogen, available phosphorus, available potassium, total neutralizing value, pH, and saturation percentage. The floristic composition of each population habitat was examined as an indicator of environmental conditions. To assess genetic variation, we obtained nucleotide sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) and carried out genomic fingerprints using inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) analysis. Results - Cluster analysis of morphological characters showed that the eleven populations could be divided into two major groups including five subgroups. Principal component analysis (PCA) of floristic data confirmed the two major morphological groups suggesting habitudinal segregation among the groups and the indicative value of floristic composition of study sites in assessing intraspecific variation in the target species. Furthermore, canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) of ecogeographic data showed correlations between morphological variations and ecogeographic factors. Longitude, latitude, substrate, available potassium, clay%, total nitrogen, organic carbon, slope orientation, sand%, texture, altitude and rainy days are apparently the main environmental variables associated with morphological groups of O. carduchorum. Both ITS and ISSR data indicate that O. carduchorum is a young species with a recent divergence of its populations.
43491882|Background and aims - Succulence, a common attribute of floras in dry regions and of species living in microenvironments with transient water shortage, has been typically viewed as an adaptive plant feature for surviving in (semi-)arid conditions. The existence of leaf succulence in a temperate cold rainforest challenges the view of its adaptive value. We studied leaf functional variation in Sarmienta repens Ruiz & Pav. (Gesneriaceae), an epiphyte living in the Valdivian forest of southern Chile. Material and methods - We measured leaf thickness, absolute leaf water content, specific leaf area and leaf anatomy (epidermis, palisade parenchyma, and spongy parenchyma) in two distinct light microenvironments: shaded understory versus border of canopy gaps. We also characterized micro-environmental conditions in terms of light availability, temperature and water evaporation. Key results - We show that leaves from sun conditions, the environment with higher water demand, have lower SLA (specific leaf area), thicker epidermis and store more water due to a thicker spongy parenchyma, than leaves from shade conditions. Conclusions - We found high phenotypic variation in S. repens at intraspecific level in response to contrasting environmental conditions. This variation reflects a two-fold strategy common in epiphytes: increase water storage and reduce water loss. Furthermore, it suggests that leaf succulence has an adaptive value even in a temperate cold rainforest. We discuss that the occurrence of succulence on a cold rainforest might be explained by a combination of ecological, biogeographic and phylogenetic factors.
43491853|Background and aims  Pistachio (Pistacia vera L.) is an interesting crop for arid areas, well adapted to marginal lands and to drought conditions. Traditional production areas of Tunisia harbour an interesting diversity of pistachio germplasm. In order to identify and describe this diversity, a field study was conducted in the traditional pistachio production areas of El-Guetar and Sfax in 2004 and 2005. Material and Methods  A total of 256 female and male pistachio specimens were prospected and compared to the main commercial cultivar 'Mateur'. Flowering, tree habit, nut and seed characteristics were determined for 64 pistachio female land races from the El-Guetar oasis and 25 female land races from Sfax. Key results  Differences were observed among all the land races. Flowering and ripening time were particularly variable. Significant variation of nut weight from 0.48 to 1.03g was also observed. Some land races presented nut weight as much as 10% higher than 'Mateur' i.e. Fouratil and Fourati10 from the region of Sfax and MTSG10, AMHA5 and EPE3 from the El-Guetar oasis. Blank production and split nuts ratio ranged respectively from 2 to 60% and from 14 to 95%. Furthermore, 20 land races had a blank production below 10% while 14 local land races had the split nuts ratio superior to 81% recorded for 'Mateur'. The phenotypic data were evaluated using cluster analysis. Parameters related to leaf and nut size and fruit quality had high discriminating values. Different groups of land races were identified with similar flowering periods, nut and seed characters for each cluster. Conclusion  The evaluation of germplasm in Tunisia revealed promising land races. Additional biochemical and molecular studies will provide the necessary complementary information that could result in potentially valuable land race selection.
23209429|Background and aims  The grasslands of southern Africa are threatened by habitat transformation and invasive alien species. However, the resultant plant species loss per unit area cannot be quantified, as the true richness of grassland have not been determined accurately and current estimates of richness are generally based on once-off site visits. The aim of this study was to quantify and compare the species richness of selected transformed and untransformed grasslands of tropical and temperate regions in South Africa. The study sites were located in four grassland vegetation units: KwaZulu-Natal Coastal Belt and Maputaland Woody Grassland (tropical), and Paulpietersburg Moist Grassland and Rand Highveld Grassland (temperate). Methods  Thirty-two plots of 10  10 m were sampled at the four sites, namely eight in each of the vegetation units. At each site four plots were sampled in untransformed grassland and four in adjacent transformed grassland. Thorough floristic sampling of each plot was undertaken three times during the peak growing seasons. Key results  Plant species richness was higher for untransformed grassland than transformed grassland, and is higher than what was previously estimated. Species richness is not severely affected by alien cover and richness, as species losses are made up by better adapted native and alien species entering the transformed habitat. Rare species and habitat specialists are displaced. The type of transformation has a pronounced effect on species richness. Conclusion  Plant species richness of grassland is higher than previous estimates. Increasing alien cover and richness reduces the species richness of certain grassland growth forms and replaces species of conservation importance such as endemics.
43491846|Background and aims  Climate change imposes new challenges on biodiversity conservation, especially in tropical areas where anthropogenic pressures have already increased the vulnerability of many species. New conservation strategies are needed to anticipate the impacts of future climate change and species distribution modeling remains the most useful approach in predicting these impacts and in assisting conservation planning. The objectives of this study were to develop species distribution models for threatened endemic plant species of Madagascar and to assess the impacts of climate change on the species distributions. Methods  Ten species belonging to the genera Mediusella and Xerochlamys of Madagascar's endemic plant family Sarcolaenaceae were included in this study. Potential distribution models using 19 climatic variables were developed for the ten species and projected onto the present and future to evaluate the potential distribution of each species. Future distributions of these species were predicted for 2050 using three general circulation models and two climate scenarios. We also assessed the patterns of range shifts by comparing present and future distributions under the different models and scenarios. Key results  Most species were predicted to undergo major range contraction as a result of climate change. Species in the Central High Plateau of Madagascar were predicted to experience the highest habitat loss, with narrow-range species being the most sensitive. Southward migration was predicted for species distributed in the northwest, whereas upland migration was predicted for some central species. Conclusions  Future climate change will drastically affect the distribution of our target species, seven of which will experience major range contraction by 2050. Among these, threatened endemic species will face higher risk of extinction due to habitat loss. Range expansion was also predicted for two species. In any case, species' adaptation to a changing climate may not happen soon enough, emphasizing the need to strengthen current conservation efforts, especially in areas where species are most likely to persist.
41058268|Background and aims -The taxonomy of Ancistrocladus Wall. (Ancistrocladaceae) is poorly understood. Recent interest is stimulated by the occurrence of biologically active naphthylisoquinoline alkaloids. The discovery of the here reported novelty was made in the framework of an interdisciplinary research program dealing with alkaloid patterns, chromosome numbers, demography, genetic variability, pollination biology, and phylogenetic relationships. Methods -The morphological study was focussed on A. ileboensis and other related species occurring in the D. R. Congo. Key results -The novelty Ancistrocladus ileboensis Heubl, Mudogo & G. Bringmann is described from the Congolian lowland forests ecoregion in the south of the Congo Basin. A distribution map and illustrations are provided. The new species is compared with four closely related taxa, from which it is distinct morphologically, chemically and biogeographically: A. letestui Pellegrin, A. ealaensis J. Lonard, A. likoko J. Lonard, and A. congolensis J. Lonard. Tables showing morphological and chemotaxonomic differences of the related taxa are presented. Conclusion -The phytochemical peculiarities together with morphological features support the separation of A. ileboensis as a new species.
41058283|Background and aims - The majority of freshwater diatom lineages appear to have evolved before or during the Eocene, with rapid radiation occurring in the Miocene. However, only a few accurately dated fossil localities are available to test this assertion, resulting in an overall poor understanding of the biostratigraphy and early evolution of these organisms. Exquisitely preserved diatoms have been uncovered from Eocene lake sediments deposited post-eruptively in the Giraffe kimberlite pipe (Northwest Territories, Canada). We describe three new pennate diatoms from this deposit and discuss their evolutionary implications. Methods - Both oxidized preparations and whole-rock mudstone samples from the Giraffe Pipe core were examined with light and scanning electron microscopy for diatom remains. Key results - Species belonging to the genera Actinella F.W. Lewis, Oxyneis Round and Nupela Vyverman & Compre are described from the Giraffe Pipe sediments. Oxyneis apporrecta is a unique species with valves that are centrally constricted, inflations midway between the center and apices, and protracted and rostrate apices. Actinella giraffensis is a small taxon that lacks a highly complex head pole, and is most closely related to a species known today only from the highlands of New Zealand. Nupela mutabilis has variably shaped valves possessing a raphe and unique areolae characteristic of this genus. These findings represent the first known fossils for both Oxyneis and Nupela, and the oldest record for Actinella. Conclusions - None of the species are known from extant floras and are therefore considered extinct. However, the morphological features they present, including the structure of the areolae, raphe, rimoportula and girdle bands, share pronounced affinities with modern congeneric taxa. The well-developed raphe found on Nupela mutabilis confirms that the evolution of this structure dates to at least the Middle Eocene, and supports the hypothesis that it may be older than the Paleocene.
43491864|Background and aims - The term 'petal' is loosely applied to a variety of showy non-homologous structures, generally situated in the second whorl of a differentiated perianth. Petaloid organs are extremely diverse throughout angiosperms with repeated derivations of petals, either by differentiation of a perianth, or derived from staminodes. The field of evo-devo has prompted re-analysis of concepts of homology and analogy amongst petals. Here the progress and challenges in understanding the nature of petals are reviewed in light of an influx of new data from phylogenetics, morphology and molecular genetics. Method and results - The complex web of homology concepts and criteria is discussed in connection to the petals, and terminology is subsequently defined. The variation and evolution of the perianth is then reviewed for the major clades of angiosperms. From this pan-angiosperm variation, we highlight and discuss several recurrent themes that complicate our ability to discern the evolution of the petal. In particular we emphasise the importance of developmental constraint, environmental stimuli, interrelationship between organs and cyclic patterns of loss and secondary gain of organs, and the development of a hypanthium or corona. Conclusions - A flexible approach to understanding 'petals' is proposed requiring consideration of the origin of the floral organ (stamen-derived or tepal-derived, or other), the functional role (sepaloid or petaloid organs), evolutionary history of the organismal lineage, and consideration of developmental forces acting on the whole flower. The variety and complex evolutionary history of the perianth may necessitate the exploration of petal development within phylogenetically quite restricted groups, combining data from morphology with evo-devo.
43491833|Background and aims - Variations in floral traits and floral structures influence mating systems. The flowers of Alcea rosea are protandrous and herkogamous, with style curvature at anthesis. Methods - We measured: (1) floral morphology, including style curvature, (2) stigma receptivity and pollen viability, (3) breeding system, and (4) outcrossing rate estimated by ISSR markers. Key results - Results indicate that when stigmas were in contact with anthers via style curvature, stigma receptivity and pollen viability was 89.7 and 42.33%, respectively, indicating the potential of delayed selfing. Delayed selfng in A. rosea did not provide obvious contribution to seed production, because there was no significant difference in seed set between intact and emasculated open flowers (P=0.765). However, successful reproduction of 23.98% flowers in the absence of pollinators suggested that selfing provides reproductive assurance during a year, in which pollinators were limiting. The multilocus outcrossing rates in different populations varied from 0.972 to 0.981, with a mean of 0.977. Conclusion - Our data provide an empirical demonstration of a predominantly outcrossing species with potential delayed selfing when pollinators are absent or scarce.
43491849|Background and aims  Understanding how to ensure connectivity by gene flow between insect-pollinated plant populations is essential for designing functional ecological networks in a human-dominated matrix such as in urban settings. Linear landscape elements (LLEs) might contribute to such connectivity by increasing pollen transfer. Methods  Pollen dispersal was investigated for the insect-pollinated herb Primula elatior in urban forest remnants, using fluorescent dye as a pollen analogue, in three study sites comprising population pairs located in fragments connected or not by a wooded LLE. We examined whether the presence of a small patch of plants of P. elatior placed within the LLE (stepping-stone population) might increase pollen dispersal compared to an LLE where P. elatior is absent. Key results  Dye dispersal showed a leptokurtic decay distribution, with most dye transfer events at short distances (80% at less than 15.4114.8 m) and a maximal distance of 647.5 m. Populations not connected by an LLE, separated by distances of 249 m or more, did not exchange dye, whereas populations that were connected by LLEs (up to 602 m) did show interpopulation dye transfer, suggesting that LLEs function as biological corridors facilitating dye dispersal. The presence of a stepping-stone population of P. elatior within the LLE increased between-population dye transfers (between 1.8 and 3.3 times the proportion of visited individuals) and deposition distances, compared to an LLE with no stepping stone, at least when pollen flow already existed. Conclusions  These results provide evidence that LLEs may be more effective for pollen dispersal when serving as both movement conduit and habitat. In urban settings, developing a network of core populations connected by LLEs comprising small, even temporary, stepping-stone populations should be encouraged.
43491857|Background  A new species of Psychotria (Rubiaceae) from Cameroon is described and illustrated, in the framework of a regional revision of the genus. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. Key results  Psychotria torrenticola O. Lachenaud & Sn is remarkable in its rheophytic habit, narrowly lanceolate leaves, and in having very large flowers for the genus. It is closely related to P. psychotrioides (DC.) Roberty, from which, in addition to flower size, it also differs in having smooth pyrenes and fewerflowered inflorescences. The species is only known from the Ntem river valley near Nyabessan. Since the construction of a dam is scheduled in the region, the species is considered as Critically Endangered (CR B1a,b(iii)) according to IUCN criteria. Contexte - Une nouvelle espce de Psychotria (Rubiaceae) de Cameroun est dcrite et illustre, dans le cadre d'une rvision rgionale du genre. Mthodes - Les mthodes usuelles de taxonomie d'herbier ont t appliques. Rsultats principaux - Psychotria torrenticola O.Lachenaud & Sn est remarquable par son habitat rhophyte, ses feuilles troitement lancoles, et ses fleurs trs grandes pour le genre. Voisin de P. psychotrioides (DC.) Roberty, il en diffre, outre la taille des fleurs, par les noyaux lisses et les inflorescences  fleurs moins nombreuses. L'espce n'est connue que de la valle du Ntem aux environs de Nyabessan. La construction d'un barrage tant prvue dans cette rgion, P. torrenticola est considr comme En danger critique d'extinction (CR B1a,b(iii)) selon les critres de l'UICN.
41058280|Backgrounds and aims - In this paper results on Navicula s. str. species from the (sub) littoral zone of the Black Sea are presented. Navicula pinnata var. pontica Mereschk. was originally described from the Black Sea in the early 20th century but, due to mistakes, incorrectly referred to in the literature as Naviculapennata A.W.F.Schmidt var. pontica Mereschk. A second species, Naviculaparapontica sp. nov. is described as new for science. Analysis of recent and historical diatom assemblages revealed that Mereschkowsky's taxon occurs abundantly. Nevertheless, it was subject of numerous misidentifications in the past; the same applies for the second species. The aim of our study was to clarify the identity and taxonomic position of these taxa. Methods - This study is based on both historical and recent samples. Recent sampling was performed along the Ukrainian (Crimea) coast. In addition, samples from the Black Sea, originally collected and studied by Proshkina-Lavrenko in 1948-1951 and only recently rediscovered, have been analyzed. Results are based on light and scanning electron microscopy examination. We compared line drawings of Mereschkowsky's taxon with illustrations of similar taxa focusing especially on Navcula pinnata Pant, and N. pennata A.W.F. Schmidt. Key results - Comparison of line drawings of Mereschkowsky's taxon revealed no resemblance to N. pinnata. Micrographs of N. pennata illustrated in our paper indicated that any infraspecific relationship between Mereschkowsky's taxon and N. pennata is unlikely. Hence, we propose a new name, Navicula pontica stat. nov. for Mereshkowsky's taxon. In historical samples N. pontica was accompanied by a similar, however, sufficiently different, species, described as new for science: Navicula parapontica sp. nov. Conclusion - Our study resulted in a status change of a taxon originally described as Navcula pinnata var. pontica. In addition N. parapontica was described as new for science. These results will facilitate future identification of both abundant Black Sea littoral diatoms.
23209333|Backgrounds and aims  Origanum vulgare L. is a successfully recovering gynodioecious species in the ecological restoration project along the Common Meuse (Belgium). Strong contrasts exist between spreading  mostly newly established  populations on the one hand, and remnant, declining populations on the other hand. The flowering strategy of the species was assumed to be related to these differences in population status. Two alternative hypotheses for small, isolated populations were postulated: either they contain more sterile individuals due to their presence in marginal conditions, or they show more hermaphrodites for reproductive assurance. Additionally, we aimed at relating neutral genetic variation of the populations with their status and sex ratio. Methods  An analysis at two levels was performed to get a consistent image of the differences in flowering strategy among and within populations. For the population-level survey, 25 populations were sampled for flowering strategy and for genetic analysis. For the within-population analysis, the survey focused on the expanding populations. Five expanding populations on the riverbanks were fully surveyed for the sex ratio of all individuals. Statistical analysis focussed on relationships between the populations' sex ratios and population genetics, size and dynamics, and stand conditions related to management intensity and isolation. Key results  Both hypotheses were supported, but at a different level. At the population level, the smaller populations showed more sterility. But within the expanding populations, isolated parts showed less sterility. For the observed sexual expression at population level, no significant correlation was present between sexual expression and population dynamics, isolation or management intensity. For the within-population differentiation, a relationship with reproductive assurance in expanding populations was shown. For the observed differentiation in sex expression, indications are present for the flower strategy being a developmental plasticity. Conclusion  For O. vulgare, the gynodioecy proves a successful plastic strategy for expanding and new establishing populations to cope with pollen limitation and inbreeding depression.
43491925|Background and aims - The treatment of Calycobolus Willd. ex J.A. Schult. (Convolvulaceae) for tropical Africa by Lejoly & Lisowski, published in 1985, does not work satisfactorily in the identification of specimens from western Central Africa, particularly from Gabon. A revision of their work is undertaken to solve this problem. Methods - Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study most of the available herbarium collections, mainly from BM, BR, GOET, K, LBV, LISC, LISU, MO, P, WAG. Key results - The number of species recognised by Lejoly & Lisowski is reduced from 25 to 13. Calycobolus hallianus Breteler from western Ghana is the only new species that is added. A new key is presented in which three new characters are introduced, namely the position of the anthers, whether being erect or pendulous at anthesis, and having long weak hairs along their slits or not, and the presence or absence of leaf domatia. All species are fully treated and distribution maps are provided. Some illustrations are added.
43491850|Background and aims  In Europe, native Populus nigra generally grows sympatric with related exotic cultivated poplars. Hybridization followed by introgression and genetic swamping is often mentioned as a potential threat for the conservation of P. nigra. This potential threat is supposed to be higher when the cultivated poplars are reproductively more effective compared to P. nigra. We investigated hybridization events of P. nigra females with cultivated P.  canadensis and P. nigra 'Italica' along the IJzer river in Flanders (Belgium). We also compared the reproductive potential of P. nigra and P.  canadensis. Methods  After first determining the genotypic diversity within P nigra, we looked for diagnostic microsatellite aleles of P. deltoides in the offspring of open-pollinated P. nigra. We also studied the possible paternity by the cultivar P. nigra 'Italica'. The reproductive potential of P  canadensis and P. nigra was compared in terms of potential seed set. Key results  This study provides evidence for natural hybridization between P. nigra and P  canadensis in West Flanders. In 58% of the seedlings from the open pollinated P. nigra trees, at least one diagnostic allele of P. deltoides was detected. P. nigra 'Italica' was likely the father of only one seedling. The exotic P.  canadensis showed a significantly higher potential for seed set compared to native P. nigra. The genotypic diversity of P. nigra was extremely low with only two (female) genets among 209 black poplars. Conclusions  Natural hybridization with P  canadensis occurs and may pose a significant threat to the conservation of P. nigra in West Flanders. To reduce the risk of introgression and genetic swamping of P. nigra by P.  canadensis, we strongly advise reforestation using multiple genotypes of P. nigra from neighbouring regions taking into account balanced sex-ratios.
23209332|Background and aims  The Coastal Forests of Eastern Africa, stretching along the Indian Ocean coastline from Somalia to Mozambique, are considered by Conservation International to be a global biodiversity hotspot  an area of high diversity and endemism under increasing threat. Although the largest remaining extent of these forests is reported to be found in Mozambique, very little is known on their extent, condition and composition here. In addition, the term 'coastal forest' has been used in different ways by different authors. This paper defines and characterises coastal dry forests found in northern Mozambique and assesses their present extent, botanical composition, conservation importance and the threats to these forests. Methods  The study area of 18,150 km2 lies in Cabo Delgado Province in north-east Mozambique, adjacent to Tanzania. Its limits are determined primarily by geological substrate and landform. Four smaller study sites were chosen covering a range of landforms. Manual interpretation of satellite imagery dating from 19992002 was used to calculate possible previous and present extent of 'dense vegetation'. Extensive field collecting was used in determining botanical composition and distribution patterns. IUCN Red List assessments were carried out on selected species using distributional criteria. Results  Dry forests similar to those in southern Tanzania are found widely scattered across coastal Cabo Delgado, sitting in a matrix of miombo woodland and other vegetation types. However, forest cover is not as extensive was believed. We calculate that the original extent of 'dense vegetation cover', which includes coastal dry forest, was 6087 km2. Owing to clearance over the last 150 years this is now only 1182 km2, of which perhaps only 400 km2 is moderately-intact dry forest. In this southern part of their range such forests are essentially dry, not moist and mesic, and dominated by a high proportion of deciduous or sclerophyllous evergreen trees. The plant species composition differs significantly from that of the surrounding woodlands. There is a marked change in species composition between forest patches along the coast, and they contain numerous species with restricted global distribution. Since 2003, 68 species new to Mozambique have been recorded from Cabo Delgado in addition to 36 possible new species. Many new records are of species previously only known from south-eastern Tanzania. Previously recorded patterns of restricted distribution and high species turnover between forest patches in Kenya and Tanzania are confirmed. Seven coastal forest species were assessed as Endangered. Regional context and conservation  Coastal dry forests are discussed in relation to the more widespread 'sand forests' of the continental interior of south-central Africa, and shown to have similarities in ecology, species composition, soils and ecology. Very little of the present extent of coastal forests in Mozambique lies within protected areas. The threats to their continued existence in the face of exploitation for timber, agriculture and oil exploration are outlined.
20793448|Background and aims  Orbicules or Ubisch bodies have been recorded in many angiosperm families and although the first observations date back to 1865, their function in the anther remains enigmatic. In flowering plants a general evolutionary trend is observed from common occurrence of orbicules in early diverging lineages towards a more patchy distribution in derived clades of eudicots. Annonaceae was our family of choice for an in depth study of orbicule distribution in early diverging angiosperms since it met the following three criteria: (1) high tapetum diversity, (2) orbicule presence and absence recorded, and (3) recent phylogeny at genus level available. Key results  Our SEM data of eighteen species show that orbicules are more common in Annonaceae than previously perceived. The resulting orbicule distribution pattern on the family topology indicates a consistent absence of orbicules in the 'long branch clade' while orbicules are present in Anaxagorea, the ambavioids, and the 'short branch clade'. Presence of orbicules is the ancestral condition in the family. Morphologically, Annonaceae orbicules are small (< 1 m), spherical and smooth. Conclusions  The orbicule distribution pattern in Annonaceae reflects the general evolutionary trend in flowering plants. We hypothesize that orbicule presence can be considered as a powerful proxy for non-amoeboid tapetum characterization in Annonaceae.
43491921|Background and aims - Subaerial phototrophic biofilms growing on tree bark represent one of the leastknown micro-algal communities. Ecological distribution patterns of major micro-algal groups thriving in corticolous microhabitats on eleven host tree species in sub-Mediterranean and temperate European localities were investigated in the present study. Methods - In total, 169 samples of corticolous biofilms were investigated by direct light microscopy. Microalgae were identified to the lowest putatively monophyletic groups that could be distinguished unambiguously. Among other abiotic factors, the pH of the bark surface was measured using a flathead electrode, and the proportion of open sky at individual sites was evaluated by image analysis of fisheye circular photographs. Key results - The distribution of the putatively trebouxiophycean coccoid green algae was mostly related to microscale factors, such as sample orientation on trunks. Conversely, the distribution of Trentepohliales and Cyanobacteria was related mostly to bark pH values and to regional differences between temperate and sub-Mediterranean localities. The distribution of some streptophytan taxa, such as Mesotaenium or Spirotaenia, was closely related to particular host tree species. Conclusions - Individual major groups of corticolous algae and Cyanobacteria in European ecosystems have distinctly different ecological strategies in relation to important abiotic factors.
43491856|Background and aims  A small cauliflorous treelet found in the South of Sino County in Liberia was identified as Jollydora in the field. This genus was, however, not yet known outside central Africa. The collection indeed proved to be a Jollydora and to represent an undescribed species, the fourth in the genus. Key results  The new forest species Jollydora armandui is described and illustrated here. It is the first Jollydora species known outside central Africa. It resembles J. duparquetiana, but the fruits of the new species are spindle-shaped and usually one-seeded and not pear-shaped and two-seeded. The new species is only known from the type locality in Liberia. Conservation Status  Because it is likely that the new species only lives in a relatively small area between Greenville and Buchanan, and because the forest where it grows is not protected, it should be listed as endangered until more is known about it.
23209443|Background  The genus Staelia (Rubiaceae) remains imperfectly known. As part of the revision of the genus by the first author, a new species is here described and illustrated. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy were used to study all the herbarium material available. Key results  Staelia culcita R.M.Salas & E.L.Cabral, a new species from Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new taxon is apparently endemic to the Espinhao mountain range, Minas Gerais, in campos rupestres montane savannas. It resembles Staelia hatschbachii in its small habit but differs in the opposite and narrowly elliptic leaves with ciliate base (vs. whorled linear leaves with glabrous base), the corolla lobes that are distinctly shorter than the corolla tube (vs. corolla lobes equal or longer than corolla tube), the calyx lobes that are much shorter than the corolla tube (vs. calyx lobes longer than corolla tube) and the reticulo-papillate seed coat surface (vs. reticulo-foveate seed coat surface). Conservation assessment  The species is only known from three localities, representing two locations. Based on the restricted area of occupancy and extent of occurrence and based on the continuing decline in area, extent and quality of habitat, the species should be considered as Endangered: EN B1a,b(iii) + B2a,b(iii).
41058275|Background - Now and in the past, species discovery in diatoms begins, and often ends, with a survey of morphological variation to find breaks in the variation pattern that allow diagnosable entities to be defined and named. For this process to be effective, it needs to be informed by an understanding of the mechanisms that generate variation and many mistakes were made in the early 19th century because of poor knowledge of the diatom life cycle and phenotypic plasticity; some taxonomically important life-cycle characteristics were not properly documented until 1932. Acceptance of the Darwinian view of species as taxa arbitrarily set along a continuum of divergence was accompanied in the late 19th and early 20th century by description of many varieties and forms; most recently described taxa, on the other hand, have been species. The neo-Darwinian emphasis on reproductive isolation as an important factor in speciation, introduced during the 'New Synthesis' of the 1940s, did not become influential in diatom taxonomy until the 1970s. It has since been a source of controversy, some seeing it as having no place in taxonomy, others regarding it as a useful aid to the detection of species boundaries, alongside character-based approaches, both morphological and molecular. Review - This paper discusses changes in how species have been discovered and circumscribed in diatoms, and seeks to establish whether there is a basis for consensus in future work in this field. Conclusion - Whereas morphology is currently still the primary tool for discovering diatom species diversity, molecular methods may be more cost-effective in future and are the only practical means of exploring cryptic (including pseudocryptic) diversity, which appears to be widespread. By treating species as separately evolving metapopulation lineages, as recommended by de Queiroz, different approaches can be accommodated (including tests of reproductive compatibility), providing a framework within which conflicting results can be analysed and reconciled.
43491873|Background - The controversial genus Kalaharia Baill., often placed in synonymy with Clerodendrum L., was known by just one species: K. uncinata (Schinz) Moldenke. A second species, Kalaharia schaijesii, confused with it for a long time, is described based mainly on field observations. Methods - Classical methods of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. Key results - The new species is clearly different from Kalaharia uncinata by his habit prostrate, not erect and bushy, the flowers yellow and subactinomorphic, not red to orange and distinctly zygomorphic, the calyx shorter and the stamens enclosed, not exserted.
43491884|Background and aims - Plant species adapted to metalliferous soil are of high conservation value, and actions for preserving these species (some of them are endemics) are urgent given the threat of mining activities. In the framework of an integrated conservation programme of cuprophytes (plants that tolerate a soil with a high level of copper) in Katanga (D.R.Congo), this study aims at: (1) providing new data on species whose germination has never been studied so far; (2) gaining new insight into the storage behaviour of these species; (3) discussing implications for ex situ conservation of these highly threatened species. Methods - Germination tests were conducted on fresh seeds of nineteen species. These tests were repeated after 6, 12 and 24 months of storage in dry-cold conditions. Key results - Most species kept or increased their germination capacity after 2 years storage in dry-cold conditions. Nine species showed a slight decrease in their viability (from 100% to > 80%) after 2 years storage in dry-cold conditions. The present study gives evidence that at least six of the 19 studied species are desiccation-tolerant (orthodox). Among these, two are strict endemics, Haumaniastrum robertii and Faroa malaissei, and two are broad endemics, Diplolophium marthozianum and Gladiolus robiliartianus. This means that ex situ seed banking of these species could form a useful part of a more comprehensive conservation strategy. Only two species have been identified as desiccation-sensitive (recalcitrant), i.e. inappropriate for conservation in standard seed bank conditions. An orthodox behaviour has not been ruled out for the other species tested, but their response was less clear and needs further investigation.
43491865|Context - During the last two decades, functional biodiversity research has provided strong support for the hypothesis that more biodiverse ecosystems have the potential to deliver more and better services. However, most empirical support for this hypothesis comes from simple structured communities that are relatively easy to manipulate. The impact of forest biodiversity on forest ecosystem functioning has been far less studied. Experiment design - In this paper, we present the recently established, large-scale FORBIO experiment (FORest Biodiversity and Ecosystem Functioning), specifically designed to test the effects of tree species diversity on forest ecosystem functioning. FORBIO's design matches with that of the few other tree diversity experiments worldwide, but at the same time, the FORBIO experiment is unique as it consists of a similar experimental set-up at three sites in Belgium (Zedelgem, Hechtel-Eksel and Gedinne) with contrasting edaphic and climatological characteristics. This design will help to provide answers to one of the most interesting unresolved questions in functional biodiversity research, notably whether the effects of complementarity on ecosystem functioning decrease in less stressful and more productive environments. At each site, FORBIO consists of 41 to 44 plots (127 plots in total) planted with monocultures and mixtures up to four species, selected from a pool of five site-adapted, functionally different tree species. When allocating the treatments to the plots, we maximally avoided any possible covariation between environmental factors. Monitoring of ecosystem functioning already started at the Zedelgem and Gedinne sites and will start soon in Hechtel-Eksel. Multiple processes are being measured and as the trees grow older, we plan to add even more processes. Expected results - Not only basic science, but also forest management will benefit from the results coming from the FORBIO experiment, as FORBIO is, for instance, also a test case for uncommon, not well-known tree species mixtures. To conclude, FORBIO is an important ecosystem experiment that has the potential to deliver badly needed insights into the multiple relationships between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning, which will be valuable for both science and practice.
43491834|Background and aims - Reproductive success through autonomous self-fertilization is thought to be one of the main advantages in plants when effective pollinators are limited. The present study examined an autonomous self-fertilization mechanism in a perennial ginger, Hedychium yunnanense. Methods - We measured the relative stigma-anther positional changes, throughout the flower's lifespan, in an effort to understand the floral mechanism that leads to autonomous seed production. Pollination treatments were carried out and pollen-ovule ratio was estimated to test its breeding system. Preliminary observations on floral biology and flower visitors were also conducted. Key results - Hedychium yunnanense is a protogynous species and anther dehiscing occurred at night on the first day of flowering. The growth discrepancy between filament and style induces a contact between stigma and anthers favoring pollen deposition onto the stigmatic surface, thus facilitating self-pollination. Fruit set and seed set from pollinator-exclusion treatment showed similar results to open pollination treatment but lower than that of cross-pollination treatment. P/O ratio was 132.7  13.4 indicating facultative autogamy. Effective pollinators were not observed in three consecutive years of observation. Conclusions - The reproductive success of H. yunnanense via autogamy seems to be an adaptive strategy under the condition of effective pollinator limitation.
43491836|Background and aims - The taxonomy of the African representatives of the genus Guarea, among them a number of timber species, is badly understood. The group is revised. Methods - Standard herbarium taxonomy practices were used. Specimens from fifteen different herbaria were studied. Using a GIS application and geo-referenced herbarium specimens, IUCN Red List categories are assessed for each species. Key results - Morphological studies show that the group is distinct from the South-American members of Guarea and deserves generic status. This is supported by molecular data. Therefore the genus Leplaea is reinstated to accommodate five of the species formerly placed in Guarea and the new combinations are presented. Furthermore, two new species, L. adenopunctata E.J.M.Koenen & J.J.de Wilde and L. cauliflora E.J.M.Koenen & J.J.de Wilde are formally described. In addition to de Wilde's (2007) revision of Heckeldora, one more species, G. leonensis, is transferred to this genus and the new combination made. G. glomerulata is shown to be morphologically distinct and to deserve generic status as well. This is endorsed by molecular data. As a consequence, Guarea sect. Neoguarea Harms is granted generic rank to accommodate this species; the new genus is described and the new combination made. A generic key to the African Guareeae is provided, as well as a key to the species of Leplaea; botanical drawings, distribution maps and IUCN Red List categories are presented.
23209417|Background and aims  The African genus Isomacrolobium (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) is poorly known. Its species are revised. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available, mainly at BM, BR, COI, FHO, G, K, LBV, MA, MO, OXF, P, WAG, and YA. Key results  Twelve species are recognised, including one new one: I. brachyrhachis from Gabon. All the species are confined to the Guineo-Congolian region. A full taxonomic treatment with key to the species is given. The new species is fully illustrated. The fruits, known of nine species, are illustrated as well. Distribution maps of all taxa are provided. Macrolobium ernae, a synonym of I. obanense, is neotypified. For I. graciliflorum and I. leptorrhachis a lectotype is designated.
23209349|Background and aims  The conservation of a rare and endangered plant species requires a clear knowledge of its habitat distribution. Species Distribution Models (SDM) are generally applied to characterize species' suitable habitats and to predict their potential distribution. However, this method is not well suited to rare species that require a fine spatial scale approach. Co-occurring plant species of a targeted species can be used to define suitable habitats taking into account biotic interactions. Our aim was to construct a predictive model of the presence of the rare Limonium girardianum, using the species that are the best indicators of its presence. Methods  In the main sites in the French coastal salt marshes where L. girardianum occurs, we investigated 198 quadrats (1  1 m) with and without L. girardianum in three strata along a topographical gradient. In these quadrats, we recorded plant species and measured the maximum water level during flooding, the soil moisture, salinity and texture. We calculated the species indicator value of the presence of L. girardianum. For each quadrat, we added the species indicator values to obtain a score used to model the presence of L. girardianum. We compared the predictive power of the model based on co-occurring plant species with a model based on environmental variables. Key results  The best indicator species of the presence of L. girardianum are Limonium virgatum, Hymenolobus procumbens and Frankenia pulverulenta. The predictive power of the model based on the co-occurring plant species appears to be similar to that of the model based on environmental variables, with about 72% of correct predictions. However, the environmental model shows higher False Positive predictions than the plant species model. Conclusions  The co-occurring plant species can be used to define suitable habitats for L. girardianum. The model based on the co-occurring plant species, that integrates the biotic interactions, would appear to be more efficient to define the habitat where L. girardianum is most likely to be found. Furthermore, as extensive and numerous vegetation databases are available, this simple method could be used to predict the presence of several species with low abundance.
43491891|Background and aims - While working on forest inventories in Guine and Liberia a fruiting Cola tree was collected that initially could not be identified. It proved, however, to be conspecific with Cola spec. C of the Flora of West Tropical Africa and is described here. Key results - The new forest tree species Cola baldwinii Jongkind is illustrated and described. It resembles Colaflavo-velutina K. Schum. and C. reticulata A. Chev., but has clearly different fruits. Conservation Status - Currently it is difficult to assess the rarity of this new species. It is relatively widespread and probably undercollected. Considering the ongoing deforestation in this part of Upper Guinea, however, the species should provisionally be listed as Vulnerable.
43491830|Background and aims - Further studies of Madagascan Memecylon have revealed that much of the herbarium material collected in the last 25 years is undescribed. As a prelude to a comprehensive taxonomic revision, the current paper presents an overview and analysis of the remarkable diversity of this genus in Madagascar. Key results - Within the paleotropical distribution of Memecylon, Madagascar contains by far the highest concentration of species proportionate to land area. All of the Madagascan Memecylon species are endemic to the island, with the majority being localized endemics known from just one or two sites. As a result of recent field-and collections-based studies, about fifty new species will be proposed. When this is done the total number of Madagascan Memecylon species will increase to 138 (representing a 70% increase from our state of knowledge in 1985). Memecylon is clearly one of the plant genera that has radiated extensively on the island. Floral morphology is strongly conserved, but leaf morphology and inflorescence position are quite variable and often diagnostic at the species level. In several cases, different species have converged on similar vegetative morphologies, leading to taxonomic confusion. Conclusions - When making species determinations in Madagascan Memecylon, both morphological features and ecogeographic factors should be taken into account. Comprehensive taxonomic revisions in species-rich groups like Memecylon are a prerequisite for further study of the mechanisms of species diversification on the island.
23209433|Background  Habitat fragmentation may have detrimental effects on both plant-mutualistic (i.e. pollination) and plant-antagonistic interactions (i.e. foliar herbivory). Such double negative effects may lead to a change in fitness, because the negative effects of a loss of a mutualism may be counterbalanced by the positive effects of a loss of an antagonism. In spite of being of great importance, however, the assessment of such ecological relationships has traditionally been performed separately. Approach  We evaluated fragmentation and edge effects on floral and foliar display, frequency of pollinator visits, foliar herbivory, and reproductive success, assessed as number of fruits per plant, number of seeds per fruit, and number of seeds per plant, on Bomarea salsilla, a xenogamous vine from southern Chile. Results  Plants occurring at fragments and edge exhibited a smaller floral display and a larger foliar display, and were rarely visited and preyed upon by pollinators and herbivores, respectively. The number of fruits per plant, the number of seeds per fruit, and number of seeds per plant were lower in fragments and at edges than at the core of continuous forest. Although forest fragmentation had a detrimental effect on herbivory, herbivores did not play a modulating role on the lowered pollinator-mediated reproductive success of B. salsilla probably due to the scarcity of foliar attack. Conclusion  Decreased reproductive success of Bomarea salsilla plants due to forest fragmentation and the creation of edge habitats was not counterbalanced by foliar herbivory as expected. The ecological scenario faced by B. salsilla may be a representative phenomenon of numerous other species of the fragmented forests of South America.
23209430|Background and aims  The Lop National Park in Gabon, recently added to the UNESCO world heritage list, presents a mosaic of forest and savanna that dynamically changes. Conserving this landscape requires an understanding of the forest dynamics. This study aims at defining a forest typology at Lop in relation with its dynamics. Methods  Floristic and structural characteristics for 265 tree species belonging to 55 families were measured in 258 sampling plots in the Lop National Park. Multivariate analysis of these data was used to partition the sampling plots into groups on the basis of their floristic or structural characteristics. Key results  Five structural forest types and six floristic forest types were identified. This typology showed that the forests in the forest-savanna mosaic of Lop organize themselves along a gradient of forest recovery, from young forests to mature forests. Typical pioneer species are associated with the youngest forest stages. The gradient on the species also corresponds to a geographical gradient on the sampling plots, associated with features like altitude, rocks, or hydrography. Conclusions  Five forest types were defined on the basis of species abundances. The snapshot of forest types characterizes a dynamic process of forest regeneration.
23209437|Background and aims  Livestock grazing exclusion was widely used to manage degraded grassland ecosystems, but little is known on the effects of long-term grazing exclusion on aboveground and belowground species diversity of the steppe vegetation in China. Material and methods  The species composition of the aboveground vegetation and the soil seed bank were examined on sites after a 25-year grazing exclusion in a typical steppe on the Loess Plateau, NW China. Key results  Results showed that long-term grazing exclusion significantly improved vegetation cover, biomass and aboveground species evenness. Long-term grazing exclusion significantly increased species richness and seed density in the soil seed bank, but significantly decreased belowground species evenness. The seeds were mainly present in the litter and the topsoil (05 cm), accounting for about 76% of the total seed number. Exclusion of grazing significantly decreased seed depletion in soil seed bank from April to July as compared to grazed sites. The Srensen similarity index between aboveground and belowground species composition was low in the typical steppe, and long-term grazing exclusion did not significantly improve this similarity. Conclusion  Our results suggest that long-term grazing exclusion can significantly improve both aboveground and belowground species diversity in the steppe vegetation of the Loess Plateau, but has little or no effect on the similarity in composition between the two compartments.
41058271|Background -A novelty is described in the framework of an ongoing revision of Psychotria in West and Central Africa. Methods -Normal practises of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. Key results -Psychotria sonkeana O. Lachenaud & Sn, a new species endemic to southern Cameroon, is described and illustrated. Belonging to section Confertiflorae, it is related to P. subobliqua Hiern and P. globiceps Hiern, but differs from both in having fistulose branches, puberulent peduncles and green-andwhite-striped immature fruits. The species is assessed to be Endangered according to the IUCN criteria. Contexte - Une nouvelle espce est dcrite dans le cadre d'une rvision en cours des Psychotria en Afrique occidentale et centrale. Mthodes -Les mthodes usuelles de taxonomie d'herbier ont t appliques. Rsultats-cls -Psychotria sonkeana O.Lachenaud & Sn, espce nouvelle endmique du sud Cameroun, est dcrit et illustr. Appartenant  la section Confertiflorae, il est voisin de P. subobliqua Hiern et P. globiceps Hiern, dont il diffre notamment par les rameaux fistuleux, les pdoncules pubrulents etles fruits stris dvert et de blanc  l'tat immature. L'espce est value comme  En danger  selon les critres de l'UICN.
23209356|Background and aims  In Cyperaceae, the single-ovuled, usually triangular gynoecia are widely considered to have a basic number of three carpels, often reduced to two, resulting in dimerous pistils. However, laterally flattened dimerous pistils cannot be explained by any existing carpel reduction theories, because a single stigma in median position replaces the two adaxial stigmata. This paper presents a comparative study of the ontogenetic and anatomical adaptations facilitating the origin of new pistil forms in Cyperoideae, focusing on modified gynoecia. It includes a re-evaluation of Blaser's (1941) anatomical studies in Cyperaceae. We aim to test Blaser's hypothesis that is based on an acropetal developmental model of the floral vasculature and the general Cyperoid ontogenetic model of Vrijdaghs et al. (2009), which states that cyperoid ovaries originate from an annular primordium. Methods  SEM, dark field and phase contrast microscopy. Key Results  All cyperoid pistils studied develop according to a cyperoid floral ontogenetic pattern, in which carpel primordia are congenitally fused. In Pycreus sanguinolentus (and other species), separate procambial initiation zones were observed in both the flower receptacle and separate floral primordia, which connect (or not) at later developmental stages. Conclusions  The presence of an annular ovary primordium instead of individual carpel primordia, combined with the bidirectional development of the pistil vasculature liberate the developing gynoecium from the structural constraints proper to a typical carpellate organisation. Procambial initiation zones in the receptacular vascular plexus and in individual floral primordia constitute the basis for the formation of a flexible vascular system in cyperoid flowers. Moreover the development of the ovary and ovule are decoupled. Consequently, in Cyperoideae the acquired developmental freedom of the pistil resulted in various adaptations.
43491880|Background and aims - Mycorrhizae have a pivotal impact on orchid growth and metabolism. We investigated the diversity of root fungal associates in Himantoglossum adriaticum H. Baumann, an endangered terrestrial orchid species with a central submediterranean distribution, growing in poor grassland, open woodland and garrigue. Methods - Fungal diversity in ten H. adriaticum adult plants collected from two geographically distinct protected areas of Central Italy was analysed by means of molecular methods. Total DNA from orchid roots was extracted and fungal ITS regions were PCR amplified using the primer pair ITS1F/ITS4; these were cloned and sequenced. Key results - A variety of fungal species including basidiomycetes and ascomycetes were found to be associated with the orchid under study. Among them, fungal taxa belonging to Tulasnellaceae were identified in most of the analyzed samples whereas ascomycetous fungi such as Helotiales, Sordariomycetes, and Exophiala were sporadically recovered. Trophic relationship and function of these fungal associates towards H. adriaticum are discussed.
41058270|Background and aims -The identity of Diodia assurgens K.Schum. is unclear and the taxon has never been studied in detail since its description. In the present paper we aim to clarify its status and taxonomic position. Methods -Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available. Pollen of Diodia assurgens and Diodia s. str. species was studied using the acetolysis method. Key results -The comparative morphological study clearly shows that Diodia assurgens K. Schum belongs to the genus Spermacoce s. str. and that it should be excluded from Diodia s. str. The new name Spermacoce spiralis Bacigalupo & E. L. Cabral is proposed and a lectotype is designated. The species is also described and illustrated. The palynological characters of Spermacoce spiralis agree well with those observed in other species of Spermacoce s. str.
43491927|Background and aims - The collections of Lauraceae in the Van Heurck Herbarium (AWH), which is currently on permanent loan to BR, have remained unknown by most of the specialists and by the general public up until the present. The taxonomic status of its one hundred and forty nine specimens of Lauraceae is here presented. Methods - Standard herbarium taxonomy practices were used in conjunction with the literature available. Specimens from fifty eight different herbaria were studied personally, or by checking their holdings available in the internet, or from digital images received from the curators. Key results - The specimens of Lauraceae from AWH are distributed in twenty four genera and seventy eight species with taxonomic status resolved, excepting for three specimens pertaining to species name of status uncertain (one), or to unresolved determination (two). From them, fifty three specimens are nomenclatural types of any sort, which corroborate the relevance of exsiccates acquired by Van Heurck, even for this relatively small set of specimens for the family. Fifteen lectotypifications and one neotypification of species names are proposed here.
23209346|Background and aims  A large variety of methods are used by ecologists for studies at plant community level. While early works were mainly descriptive, more manipulative experiments are now being undertaken because they provide a better functional understanding and a greater insight into underlying mechanisms. Mathematical models are also being increasingly used, in particular for predicting biodiversity under global change. The aim of this study is to highlight the strengths, limitations, and advantages of these three approaches, namely observational, experimental and theoretical modelling. Methods  We assessed 149 papers published during the last four years in three specialized disciplinary journals (DJ) and 151 papers in three generalist high impact journals (HIJ) dealing with plant ecology, and checked the methods that were used. We asked participants of the ECOVEG7 meeting held in Switzerland (Lausanne, April 2011) whether observational, experimental and theoretical modelling approaches can, or should, be used alone or in combination when studying plant communities and ecosystem functioning in the context of global change. Key results  About 50% of articles published in both journal types used only a single approach. Nevertheless, papers in HIJ used the approaches in similar proportions, while articles in DJ had eight times more observational than modelling studies. Combined approaches represented only 8% in DJ, while this percentage was more than double in HIJ. Conclusion  Plant community ecologists favour a combination of several approaches, but for practical difficulties (communicating among people using different approaches and publication strategies), single-approach studies are generally preferred. A combination of the three highlighted approaches seems to be the most appropriate way to respond to future challenges in plant community ecology such as biodiversity loss and impact of climate change as such studies require work on different temporal and spatial scales.
43491866|Context - Oncidium poikilostalix (Kraenzl.) M.W.Chase & N.H.Williams (Orchidaceae) was first reported in Mexico in 2008 and grows on coffee bushes in shaded plantations in Soconusco region in southeast Mexico. Goal - To study the reproductive characteristics and the endophytic fungi with which this orchid is associated to evaluate current conservation status, its possible influence on other epiphytic orchids sharing the same coffee agroecosystem and identify the morphological and adaptive response that have permitted successful colonization of this human landscape. Methods - We determined flower production and percent fruit set, percent loss of seeds due to mechanical or biological damage and total seed rain in two populations, during two years (2008-2009). We characterized morphologically the seed of O. poikilostalix and isolated the fungi associated with its roots. Results - Rapid growth and development of the populations were observed at various levels: recruitment and survival levels were high, with many more adult plants and flowers found in both populations in the second year. Combined percent pollination rose from 1.82% in 2008 to 3.37% in 2009, resulting in the production of 3,387,468 seeds in 2008, rising to 10,001,096 in 2009. We isolated and identified to genus level, thirteen taxa of fungi, including various strains of Rhizoctonia sp. Conclusions - O. poikilostalix interacts with a variety of mycorrhizal symbionts in new habitats. O. poikilostalix is a vigorous and weedy species which should be monitored to prevent it from displacing native, rare and slower growing species, such as Oncidium guatemalenoides M.W.Chase & N.H.Williams, growing in coffee plantations in southeast Mxico.
43491928|Background - As part of taxonomic revisions of tropical African lichens, two species of Piccolia are described as new to science while a third unknown one collected in the Solomon archipelago was kindly send to us by the second author. Material and Methods - Morphology was studied using a stereo and light microscope. Chemistry was studied with spot tests and TLC. Key results - P. congolensis Van den Broeck, Aptroot & Ertz sp. nov. was collected twice in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and is characterized notably by a thallus with KC+ orange soralia. The material recorded recently from Reunion Island as P. elmeri (Vain.) Hafellner was shown to represent a different species characterized by a completely dark brown excipulum and is described here as P. kalbii Van den Broeck & Ertz sp. nov. P. nivea Van den Broeck, Aptroot & Ertz sp. nov. is only known from the type location on the Solomon archipelago and is characterized by grey pruinose ascomata and a thallus resembling a leprose crust. A worldwide key to the genus is provided.
43491848|Background and aims  Monitoring plots are important tools for forest management and can help to predict the directions of changes in species composition in a changing climate. Understanding ecological processes in forest communities is one of the most important goals for a proper management of these ecosystems and for biodiversity conservation. Methods  The compositional data recorded within an inventory were used here to describe plant community composition and investigate how it is affected by climatic or other ecological factors. Six large forests along an altitudinal gradient owned and managed by the regional administration of Tuscany were chosen as study sites. 109 plots of 400 m were randomly located according to a stratified sampling design, with the number of plots in each forest related to forest size. The number of stems and DBH of all plants with DBH > 3 cm were recorded for each woody species within each plot. In addition, the frequency of understory species was recorded by twelve subplots of 0.25 m, randomly located within each quadrant of each plot. Key results  Elevation, soil water capacity, minimum precipitation, annual precipitation/temperature ratio and maximum temperature were found to be the explanatory variables for the gradient of woody species composition. After removing plantation plots from analyses, only elevation, soil water capacity and sum of temperature of the months over 5C were retained as explanatory variables of this gradient. Elevation, soil organic matter and the sum of winter precipitation were the only environmental variables that were related to the compositional gradient of understory species. Conclusions  Present species composition of these forests is unlikely to remain in a next future according to the IPCC climate predictions, whose moderate scenarios predict in the Mediterranean area a severe decrease in precipitations and a raise of 34 degrees on average temperature.
23209422|Background and aims  Turkey is one of the major centers of diversity for Salvia, with 97 species of which 54% are endemic. The aims of this study are to give detailed taxonomical, morphological and ecological accounts of S. cadmica and S. smyrnaea. Methods  Based on herbarium studies and field observations, numerical and morphological studies have been conducted on the taxa. Key results  The main morphological characters such as calyx structure, shape, colour, size and corolla colour are diagnostic. Additionally, pollen and nutlet characteristics provide taxonomically distinctive characters for the taxa. Conclusion  The new variety S. cadmica var. bozkirensis from Turkey is described. Amended and expanded descriptions, with notes on distribution, phenology, ecology, palynology and nutlet features of the taxa are given.
23209416|Background  Pycreus, Kyllinga, and Queenslandiella cluster together with Cyperus within the Cyperus s. lat. clade, one of the two large clades in Cypereae. However, in contrast with Cyperus, they have laterally flattened pistils/nutlets. Pycreus, Kyllinga and Queenslandiella form morphologically well circumscribed independent genera. In the context of a broader systematic project to work out a well supported, evolution based taxonomy for Cyperus s. lat., we present in this paper general morphological and developmental data of species of Pycreus in comparison with three species of Cyperus, including C. laevigatus with dorsiventrally flattened nutlets. Approach  Freshly collected material was investigated using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light microscopy (LM). Special attention was given to spikelet and gynoecial development. Results  SE micrographs of all species studied show an indeterminate rachilla with distichously arranged glumes, each subtending a bisexual flower. In spikelets of C. capitatus and P. pumilus, the proximal glume sometimes subtends a lateral spikelet instead of a flower. In the species of Pycreus studied, each flower sits in a cavity formed by the growth of the rachilla, which is congenitally fused with the wings of the glume of the higher, alternate flower. Glumes appear successively, each soon forming a flower primordium in its axil, which develops according to a general cyperoid ontogenetic pattern. In Pycreus, the stigma branches grow out from dorsiventrally positioned primordia. During gynoecium development, a hypogynous stalklet (gynophore) appears in all species studied. Conclusion  In spikelets of Pycreus, the rachilla and wings of the glumes are congenitally fused and consequently develop with epicaulescent displacements of the glumes resulting in typical spikelets with flowers in cavities. In spikelets of Cyperus, a similar though less pronounced development results in spikelets with zigzagging rachilla. The particular positions of the stigma branches in C. laevigatus and Pycreus are explained by the development of the gynoecium from an annular primordium, which facilitates shifts in localisation of the stigma primordia. Though we consider the combination of the typical spikelet ontogeny and the independently originated laterally flattened nutlets to be strong arguments in favour of a genus Pycreus, a phylogenetic confirmation that the taxon is monophyletic is an absolute, until now unfulfilled, condition. Moreover, the consequences for the giant genus Cyperus must be taken in consideration.
43491840|Background - A new genus of Acanthaceae, Schaueriopsis Champl. & I. Darbysh., is described from the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo in preparation for the account of the family in the Flore d'Afrique Centrale. Methods - Standard practices of herbarium taxonomy were applied. Key results - Schaueriopsis variabilis Champl. & I.Darbysh., representing a new genus of Acanthaceae, is described from the forests of the eastern Congo basin. Morphological evidence, notably the quincuncial corolla aestivation, the reticulate prolate tricolporate pollen and the narrowly oblong 4-seeded capsule with seeds baring minute trichomes, together with results from preliminary molecular analyses, place it within tribe Barlerieae of subfamily Acanthoideae. A key to the four African genera in this tribe is presented, Schaueriopsis being separated from Lepidagathis by the subregular linear calyx lobes, the androecium of two stamens and two staminodes and the seeds with only minute trichomes towards the rim. Schaueriopsis variabilis is provisionally assessed as Endangered based upon the herbarium and field data available.
43491922|Background and aims - Seed dormancy is rarely studied in the Neotropical area preventing attempts to understand its phylogenetic and biogeographic distribution. Methods - We estimated seed viability and germination of fresh-collected seeds of Miconia ligustroides and Miconia pepericarpa. Seed coat permeability tests and embryo anatomy analyses were performed to determine seed dormancy class. The effect of different concentrations of extract of mature berries on seed germination was experimentally tested. Key results - Both species produce dormant seeds with permeable seed coats and differentiated embryos, thus seeds are physiologically dormant. Both species disperse seeds when conditions for seedling establishment are not suitable, thus dormancy is considered a strategy that may have evolved as a response to drought-induced seedling mortality. Fruit extracts of M. ligustroides inhibited lettuce seed germination, suggesting that seed cleaning by frugivores is required prior to seed germination. Conclusions - Seed dormancy in both species should decrease seedling mortality at the onset of the dry season and delay germination to the following rainy season, when conditions for seedling establishment are suitable. Germination inhibitors in Miconia fruits indicate that seed cleaning is an important contribution to plant fitness delivered by frugivores.
43491871|Background and aims - This second precursor to the Acanthaceae treatment in the Flore d'Afrique Centrale deals with the genus Justicia. Methods - The material of BR, BRLU, BM and K was examined. Flowers were boiled in water and dissected under a Wild M5 lens. Other parts of the plants were measured on dry material. Pollen of several species was critical point-dried and studied under a SEM JEOL 5800LV. Results - Eleven new species are recognized; illustrations and distribution maps are provided. One overlooked species is discussed. The pollen of five species was investigated to allow their placement in the classification of Graham.
23209420|Background  On-going botanical research in Gabon continues to yield species new to science, in this case a new member of the leguminous genus Eriosema. Material and methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied; material is present in LBV, MO, and WAG. Key results  A new species, Eriosema batekense Maesen & G.M.Walters, is described and illustrated. The stems of the new species are not as thin as in E. youngii. The tubers are narrow-spindly and straight, vertical in the soil, not napiform as in E. youngii. Another similar species, E. linifolium, is more robust with thicker stems and rootstock. E. batekense occurs on the Batk Plateaux in Gabon, and has also been collected from the nearby Bafuru Plateau in Congo-Brazzaville. It is restricted to Kalahari sands. The species is assessed to be of Least Concern according to the IUCN criteria.
43491869|Background - A new species of Rubiaceae, Psychotria wieringae O.Lachenaud, is described and illustrated. Methods - Normal practises of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. Key results - P. wieringae is endemic to the Libreville peninsula (Gabon), where it is locally abundant in the undergrowth of littoral forests on sandy soils. It is related to P. gabonica Hiern but differs in its pale bark, glabrous inflorescences, flower colour, and leaves with a prominent midrib on the upper surface. IUCN assessment - The species is considered as Endangered EN B2ab(i,ii,iii,iv,v) according to IUCN criteria. Its survival in situ will likely depend on the maintenance of the subpopulation at the "Ferme des crocodiles", situated in the Raponda-Walker Arboretum. The occurence of several other endemic species in the area, and their conservation, are also discussed. Contexte - Une nouvelle espce de Rubiaceae, Psychotria wieringae O.Lachenaud, est dcrite et illustre. Mthodes - Les mthodes usuelles de taxonomie d'herbier ont t appliques. Rsultats-cls - P. wieringae est endmique de la pninsule de Libreville (Gabon) o il est localement abondant dans le sous-bois des forts littorales sur sol sableux. Voisin de P. gabonica Hiern, il en diffre notamment par son corce claire, les inflorescences glabres et la couleur des fleurs, et par la nervure mdiane des feuilles saillante  la face suprieure. Estimation UICN - L'espce est considre comme En danger EN B2ab(i,ii,iii,iv,v) selon les critres de l'UICN. Sa survie en condition in situ dpendra probablement du maintien de la sous-population de la "Ferme des crocodiles", situe dans l'Arboretum Raponda-Walker. La prsence de plusieurs autres espces endmiques dans la rgion, et leur conservation, sont galement discutes.
23209434|Background and aims  Although the effectiveness of protected areas for the conservation of biodiversity is widely accepted, only very little direct scientific evidence exists. For small reserves embedded in hostile agricultural matrix this empirical proof is even lacking all together, although effectiveness can be most questioned here. In this study, we compared the plant species diversity of ten small nature reserves in Flanders, Belgium with the plant species diversity of the adjacent, agricultural landscape matrix. Methods  Plant species diversity was studied for ten nature reserves in Haspengouw, Belgium using 10  10 m2 survey plots at a density of one plot/ha. The same sampling density was applied to the direct vicinity of the reserve in the landscape matrix consisting of intensively managed agricultural landscape. Key results  An overall clear pattern of higher plant species diversity was found for nature reserves compared to landscape matrix at the plot, reserve and regional scale, clearly indicating the effectiveness of nature reserves. This pattern, however, appeared to be influenced by the soil type, with reserves on loamy soils containing higher diversity compared to reserves on sandy loam soils. Also species composition differed between reserves and the landscape matrix, with more threatened, less ruderal species and more stress tolerating species of moist, nitrogen poor soils occurring inside the reserves. Conclusions  These results provide a clear evidence of the effectiveness of nature reserves in the conservation of plant diversity. Reserves may be considered as having a conservation credit when compared to the agricultural landscape.
20793440|Background and aims  Inselbergs are rock outcrops standing out from the surrounding plains. In the rainforest landscape they can be considered as forming "xeric islands". Plants on inselbergs endure very harsh edaphic and microclimatic conditions. The inselberg - rainforest ecotone is characterized by the spatial transition from monocotyledonous mats and grasslands to an herbaceous fringe, a shrubby fringe, a forest fringe and a saxicolous forest. We describe here the plant communities of the shrubby and forest fringes of 25 sites in Southern Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon. We identify their affinities with other inselberg plants communities described in West and Central Africa and evaluate their conservation value. Methods  We used cluster analysis and ordination to classify 191 phytosociological relevs into plant communities, as well as the IndVal method to highlight the character species of each plant community. Key results  A total of 709 vascular plant species and 394 morpho-species were recognized within the 191 plots. The four plant communities recognized correspond to three groups of inselbergs distinct by their geographical location, mean annual rainfall, altitude, rock substrate and the presence of buffaloes. They differ from plant communities described in other habitats in Central Africa and from the rock outcrop and inselberg plant communities described in West Africa. A limited number of species are restricted to the inselberg habitat or endemic to the study area. Conclusions  Inselbergs contribute to the regional biodiversity through (i) the presence of some endemic species restricted to the inselberg habitat and to Atlantic Central Africa, (ii) the presence of species that inside the rainforest zone, can only be found on inselbergs, their main distribution being in the savannas or on mountains at higher elevations and (iii) their unique species assemblages. To preserve the inselberg flora and plant communities in Atlantic Central Africa, several sites and the surrounding rainforest should be protected within each of the three ecogeographical groups identified.
23209428|Aims  It is important to know the contribution of a protected area to global conservation. A new method called 'Relative Floristic Resemblance' that uses databased and georeferenced herbarium specimens, is introduced. Its usefulness and applicability to assess the conservation value of protected areas is addressed. Method  This is tested using the collection database of the National Herbarium of The Netherlands (NHN) and species checklists of Gabon and of five national parks in Gabon and the Central African Republic. Results  The method proved to be a valuable instrument for revealing this conservation value, and can even, though with caution, be used for areas where a species list is still incomplete. We conclude that the four Gabonese parks are well chosen and each clearly conserve a different and comparatively unique flora. The Dzanga-Sangha Reserve captures a flora that ranges across a considerable part of the Congo Basin.
43491870|Background and aims - The treatment of Uapaca (Phyllanthaceae) for the Flore du Gabon revealed many, hitherto unknown, synonymies and some overlooked names that deserve a separate publication. Advantage is taken of this treatment to establish the geography of the forest species on an African scale. Methods - Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available, mainly at BM, BR, COI, FHO, G, K, LBV, LISC, LISU, MO, OXF, P (partly), and WAG. Key results - A synoptic revision with key to the nine Uapaca species of the Guineo-Congolian forest region is presented with their synonymies, typifications, (selection of) the examined material and distribution maps. Some morphological features are illustrated to facilitate the use of the key to the species. Two specific names have been neotypified and fifteen lectotypified. Twenty-one specific names have been placed in synonymy.
23209440|Background and aims  Madagascar is a biodiversity hotspot with a high level of plant endemism. However, not all lineages of plants are equally represented and the highest diversity occurs in forest lineages. Cyperaceae frequently occur in grasslands and wetlands in Africa, and the tribe Hypolytreae and Carex subgenus Vigneastra are among the few predominantly forest lineages. We study the Cyperaceae of Madagascar to discover what lineages are represented (genera/tribes), to determine their unique habitats and key functional traits and to investigate patterns of species richness. Methods  The World Checklist of Monocotyledons was queried for Cyperaceae occurring in Madagascar. The global distribution of these species was investigated to identify endemic taxa and to evaluate other botanical countries where widespread species occur. Data on life form, habitat and photosynthetic type were scored from literature and personal observations. Key results  Madagascar has 321 species of Cyperaceae in 33 genera, representing all major clades of the family. The predominantly tropical Cypereae clade composes about half of the sedge flora, of which Cyperus represents about a third of the species in Madagascar. The Cariceae, a predominantly northern hemisphere temperate clade, is unusually highly represented and composes 10% of the sedge flora, occurring mostly in the highlands. In Madagascar, 55 species (17% of flora, mainly Carex and Cyperus) occur in forests and all are C3 perennials. Bulbostylis and Pycreus, exclusively C4 taxa with high proportion of annuals compared to C3 genera in Madagascar, occur outside forests in seasonal or permanent wetlands. Endemism among the sedge flora is 37% (121 species), a third of which (42 species) occur in forests, mostly in the Central and Eastern highlands. Conclusion  Cyperaceae are among top ten species richest angiosperm families in Madagascar. When compared with other botanical countries, Madagascar has the second highest endemism level, second to the Cape Provinces. The sedge flora assembly has involved long distance dispersal(s) coupled with Neogene radiation in upland humid forests and open wetland habitats.
41058285|Background and aims - With a depth of at least 220 m, Lake Kyaninga is the deepest known maar crater lake in western Uganda. We studied its limnology and phytoplankton community to determine how the frequency and depth of water-column mixing influences nutrient cycling and seasonality in this aquatic ecosystem. Methods - Water-column temperature was measured continuously during a full annual cycle between August 2007 and August 2008. Other physical and chemical variables as well as diatom and other phytoplankton communities were investigated on three occasions, namely during the dry season in August of 2007 and 2008, and during the main wet season in April 2009. Key results and conclusions - The water column of Lake Kyaninga is permanently stratified (meromictic) below ~ 100 m depth. Above this depth, mixing frequency varies from daily (down to 8-12 m depth) over at least once per year (down to 39-47 m depth), to once in several years or decades (between 39-47 and ~ 100 m depth). Nutrient and chlorophyll concentrations as well as phytoplankton data classify the lake as low in aquatic productivity (oligotrophic). Its pelagic, open-water phytoplankton community is dominated by Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) and Chlorophyta (green algae). Bacillariophyta (diatoms) contribute only a minor part of total phytoplankton biomass in both wet and dry seasons, and are characterized by an assemblage of small Nitzschia species. Epiphytic and epipelic diatoms are relatively few, because steep rocky crater slopes limit the littoral zone even though water-column transparency is high. The composition of recently deposited diatom assemblages preserved in offshore surface sediments gives a good, annually integrated representation of the present-day pelagic diatom community. The documented species richness of the diatom flora of Lake Kyaninga is moderate with about 150 taxa. Only ~ 17% of these are biogeographically restricted to tropical Africa; and most of these belong to the genus Nitzschia.
41058265|Background and aims -The only semi-arid plant formations that occur in Andean Bolivia are prepuna with its associated dry valleys and puna. A quantitative ecological study was conducted in the district of Apillapampa, which is situated on the transition between the latter vegetation types. Methods -Vegetation was sampled in twenty-nine 50 x 2 m transects, yielding a total of 280 different plant taxa. Key results -Floristic and ecological findings correspond well with comparable studies in prepuna and puna vegetations in Bolivia and significantly contribute to the still severely understudied Bolivian flora. Our research suggests that a significant part of the variation in species abundances in the sampled transects is explained by a combination of some of the natural and anthropogenic variables we measured. The latter include altitude, travel time (as a measure of site accessibility), proximity to a (temporal) river or stream, and evidence of firewood harvesting. Furthermore, we detected an inverse relationship between diversity of plants in transects and altitude. Of the anthropogenic disturbance variables, only cultivation of exotic tree or shrub species had a negative impact on plant diversity in transects. Conclusions -Vegetation in Apillapampa is highly fragmented and of secondary nature, mainly as a consequence of past and present human activities.
43491854|Background and aims  The genus Chlorophytum is revised for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, in order to prepare the treatment of the genus for the Flore d'Afrique Centrale. Methods  Herbarium taxonomy and SE micrographs of seeds. All the material kept in BR, BRLU, BRVU, FT, K, B and KIP has been examined, supplemented with recent field observations in S Katanga. Nuclear and chloroplast DNA markers have been used to clarify the taxonomic position of some species. Key results  A total of 65 taxa (D.R. Congo: 62, Burundi: 19, Rwanda: 8) are reported for the study area, i.e. fifty species, two subspecies, twelve varieties and one form. A total of 27 taxa are new to the D.R. Congo, five to Burundi and two to Rwanda. Three taxa are endemic to the D.R. Congo. Three new varieties are described (Chlorophytum africanum var. nordalianum, C. colubrinum var. upembense, C. cameronii var. ruziziense). Twelve new combinations, 16 new synonyms and one new name (Chlorophytum sphagnicolum) are proposed. An identification key is included. SEM pictures of seeds are included for fifteen taxa and colour photographs of living plants for fourteen taxa. A brief phytogeographic outline is provided. Upper Katanga, with 47 taxa, appears as a prominent center of diversity of the genus.
23209353|Background  Whereas subfamily Oziroeoideae of the petaloid monocot family Hyacinthaceae is restricted to South America, the three other subfamilies, Ornithogaloideae, Urgineoideae and Hyacinthoideae, have much larger primary distribution areas spanning the Mediterranean and Central Europe, Arabian Peninsula, Indian subcontinent, Far East (China and Japan) and Africa, with some members also in Madagascar. Based mainly on morphology, until recently, most of the Malagasy species have been included in genera found also outside this island. Morphological characters alone have been misleading in many cases, resulting in erroneous generic classifications. Method  Analysis of plastid DNA sequences was used to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships among members of old world Hyacinthaceae. Key results  Phylogenetic analysis based on multiple plastid DNA markers has changed our views substantially, leaving many of the Malagasy Hyacinthaceae taxa as monophyletic groups. All Malagasy members of Urgineoideae form a well-supported clade (Rhodocodon/Drimia cryptopoda) pointing to a single colonization from continental Africa. Drimia cryptopoda is a morphologically deviant species previously misplaced in Hyacinthus. The Urgineoideae from India do not appear to be directly related to African or Malagasy species, but show close relationships to the Mediterranean Urginea s. str. Two members of Hyacinthoideae are present in Madagascar. One of them, Ledebouria sp. ined., is related to South African species, whereas the other, L. nossibeensis, shows strong relationships to L. hyacinthina from India and to L. grandifolia from Socotra. Dipcadi (Ornithogaloideae) forms a well-supported monophyletic clade. Conclusion  We presume a single colonization from mainland Africa followed by rapid radiation in different habitats in Madagascar. The close relationship of Indian Dipcadi with those of the Mediterranean points to a Northern Hemisphere migration route linking India and the Mediterranean and possibly involving also the Arabian Peninsula.
43491889|Background and aims - This study is a part of an ongoing survey of Perenniporia (Basidiomycota, Polyporales) in the Neotropics. Methods - Material is examined and described using morphology-based methods. Key results - Perenniporia subovoidea is proposed as new. New records of little known species are presented. A key to the Perenniporia species with resupinate basidiome is also presented. Conclusion - Perenniporia subovoidea is reported from Costa Rica. New records of P. aurantiaca, P. chromatica, P. parvispora, P. roseo-isabellina, and P. xantha are presented. All these species are endemic to the Neotropical areas.
43491888|Background - Five new species of Psychotria (Rubiaceae) from West Africa are described and illustrated, in the framework of a regional revision of the genus. Methods - Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. Key results - Three of the new species, Psychotria baldwinii, P. tetragonopus and P. voorhoevei, are endemic to Liberia, while the other two, P. blydeniae and P. rubriceps, also occur in adjacent southwestern Cte d'Ivoire. The Ivorian endemic Psychotria copeensis, previously included in the synonymy of P. subobliqua, is separated as a distinct species. Psychotria blydeniae and P. tetragonopus are litterbin plants; we discuss this remarkable adaptation and its occurrence in various Angiosperm families in the African rainforests.
43491924|Background and aims - Ontogenetic studies provide valuable morphological characters to aid interpretation of evolutionary scenarios. But they are rare within the Rubiaceae and the variation in floral ontogenetic patterns in the different Rubiaceae lineages remains underexplored. Here, we provide the first developmental study of the reproductive organs of Canephora madagascariensis, a typical representative of the poorly known tribe Octotropideae in most of its characters except for its unique, flattened, assimilating, 'phylloclade-like' inflorescences. Methods - Using SEM and LM we produced a developmental study of inflorescence, flower and fruit in C. madagascariensis. Key results - The inflorescence of Canephora madagascariensis is a condensed dichasium. Peduncle, first-order bracts and first-order branches together form a flattened, green, phylloclade-like structure, showing both leaf and stem characters. Initially, the dome-shaped floral apex becomes concave and sepals are formed. Next, from the collar of the concave apex, a tubular corolla with epipetalous stamens grows out. Meanwhile, an inferior bilocular ovary is formed. Per locule, up to seven unitegmic ovules are formed on a U-shaped placenta. Fruits are drupes with one to several fibrous seeds with folded exotesta. Conclusions - The double-organ identity of the green, flattened part of the inflorescence is due to a modification leading to leaf analogy. The peculiar inflorescence of C. madagascariensis constitutes just another state of the character 'axillary inflorescence' in Rubiaceae. It results from both reduction and congestion, two trends typical in Rubiaceae inflorescences. Floral cups form the basis of the floral structure in Canephora. The inferior ovary is due to the initial formation of a hypanthium, from which calyx lobes, stamen-corolla tube, corolla tube sensu stricto and calyx tube originate through successive outgrowth of underlaying annular intercalary meristems.
20793442|Background and aims  Recent studies have adopted a broad definition of Sapindaceae that includes taxa traditionally placed in Aceraceae and Hippocastanaceae, achieving monophyly but yielding a family difficult to characterize and for which no obvious morphological synapomorphy exists. This expanded circumscription was necessitated by the finding that the monotypic, temperate Asian genus Xanthoceras, historically placed in Sapindaceae tribe Harpullieae, is basal within the group. Here we seek to clarify the relationships of Xanthoceras based on phylogenetic analyses using a dataset encompassing nearly 3/4 of sapindaceous genera, comparing the results with information from morphology and biogeography, in particular with respect to the other taxa placed in Harpullieae. We then re-examine the appropriateness of maintaining the current broad, morphologically heterogeneous definition of Sapindaceae and explore the advantages of an alternative family circumscription. Methods  Using 243 samples representing 104 of the 142 currently recognized genera of Sapindaceae s. lat. (including all in Harpullieae), sequence data were analyzed for nuclear (ITS) and plastid (matK, rpoB, trnD-trnT, trnK-matK, trnL-trnF and trnS-trnG) markers, adopting the methodology of a recent family-wide study, performing single-gene and total evidence analyses based on maximum likelihood (ML) and maximum parsimony (MP) criteria, and applying heuristic searches developed for large datasets, viz. a new strategy implemented in RAxML (for ML) and the parsimony ratchet (for MP). Bootstrap analyses were performed for each method to test for congruence between markers. Key results  Our findings support earlier suggestions that Harpullieae are polyphyletic: Xanthoceras is confirmed as sister to all other sampled taxa of Sapindaceae s. lat.; the remaining members belong to three other clades within Sapindaceae s. lat., two of which correspond respectively to the groups traditionally treated as Aceraceae and Hippocastanaceae, together forming a clade sister to the largely tropical Sapindaceae s. str., which is monophyletic and morphologically coherent provided Xanthoceras is excluded. Conclusion  To overcome the difficulties of a broadly circumscribed Sapindaceae, we resurrect the historically recognized temperate families Aceraceae and Hippocastanaceae, and describe a new family, Xanthoceraceae, thus adopting a monophyletic and easily characterized circumscription of Sapindaceae nearly identical to that used for over a century.
23209438|Background and aims  Sison amomum reaches the north-western limit of its distribution on the European mainland as a rare species in a very small area in western Belgium. For conservation management it is important to know different aspects of life history such as seed longevity, phenology of germination and survival of seedlings. Methods  Germination requirements in field and laboratory conditions were analyzed in detail. Survival of seedlings in winter conditions was recorded. Key results  Most seeds germinated soon after dispersal in autumn. Eighty percent of the autumn seedlings survived winter conditions and grew up to flowering plants in the 2nd and 3rd calendar year. Buried seeds survived till next spring, but later on very few seeds were able to germinate after exhumation, thus no persistent seed bank was formed. In fresh seeds, the underdeveloped embryo (embryo to seed ratio = c. 0.35) immediately started to grow in light conditions at low temperatures (5, 10C and alternating 20/10C); when the critical E:S ratio of 0.82 was reached after two to four weeks, the radicle protruded. In darkness and at 20 or 23C growth of the embryo was very slow and very few seeds germinated. Conclusions  The small seeds of S. amomum are morphologically dormant, and germinate very soon in light at lower temperatures. No persistent seed bank is formed. Based on life history characteristics revealed in this study, we propose a mowing of the grasslands in late autumn to protect this threatened plant. Well timed mowing reduces the biomass and decreases the competition, while still allowing seed set and dispersal of S. amomum.
20793447|Background  In the course of the identification work of trees in the permanent plots around the "P transect" in the southern part of Korup National Park, Cameroon, two new taxa in Magnistipula Engl. were discovered. Key results  Magnistipula multinervia Burgt and Magnistipula butayei De Wild. subsp. korupensis Burgt (Chrysobalanaceae) are described and illustrated. M. multinervia is the thirteenth described species of Magnistipula. It is a rainforest tree to 41 m high with relatively small leaves (usually 710 cm long), and with stipules to 12  4 mm, with 1020 parallel, longitudinal veins. M. butayei subsp. korupensis is the eleventh described subspecies of M. butayei. It is a rainforest tree to c. 30 m high with relatively elongated flowers and elongated persistent stipules. Conservation status  The two new taxa are only known from the southern part of Korup National Park in Cameroon. Both taxa are very rare; a survey done of 8936 trees over 10 cm stem diameter resulted in respectively four and fourteen trees registered of the two taxa. The numbers of known living trees presently are four and fifteen. The IUCN conservation status of both taxa is assessed as "Critically Endangered" CR D.
23209415|Background and aims  Organellar genome sampling is patchy for non-vascular groups, with the earliest land plants poorly represented; currently only two liverworts, two mosses and one hornwort have sequenced, annotated plastid genomes. This is in part due to methodological difficulties that have hampered attempts to generate plastid genome data from liverworts. In this paper we present a method that overcomes some of the inherent difficulties by circumventing the need for plastid enrichment, but that also provides other valuable information from nuclear and mitochondrial regions including sequences from loci that may be phylogenetically useful, and potential population-level markers such as single nucleotide polymorphisms and microsatellites. Methods  A shotgun library developed from total genomic liverwort DNA was subjected to high-throughput pyrosequencing using the Roche 454 platform. Plastid reads were bioinformatically identified, assembled and annotated. To maximize usage of the vast number of reads generated using 454 sequencing technology, combined nuclear, mitochondrial and plastid contigs were also screened for microsatellite markers, and presumed nuclear contigs were scanned for protein domains. Key Results  This is the first plastid genome to be assembled for a leafy liverwort (i.e. Ptilidium) and also the first such genome to be sequenced using next generation technology for any bryophyte. The 119,007 base long plastid genome of Ptilidium pulcherrimum contains 88 protein-coding genes, four rRNAs and thirty tRNAs. The Inverted Repeat occurs between trnV-GAC and trnN-GUU. Functional copies of the two plastid-encoded sulphate import protein-coding genes (cysA and cysT) are absent, although pseudogenes are present in the same position that the functional genes occupy in Marchantia. Microsatellites: 197 novel potential primer pairs for P. pulcherrimum were found. Presumed nuclear Ptilidium contigs gave multiple hits to Class I transposable elements. Conclusions  The arrangement of genes is identical to the plastid of the complex thalloid liverwort Marchantia, suggesting that structural rearrangements are rare in hepatics. This dataset represents a valuable resource for novel phylogenetic and population level marker design in hepatics.
23209358|Background and aims  The African genus Uapaca of the Phyllanthaceae (formerly Euphorbiaceae) is revised for the Flore du Gabon. Prior to its publication, the present paper publishes a new species from that country. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available mainly at BR, K, LBV, MO, P, WAG. Key results  The new species Uapaca niangadoumae belongs to the group of Uapaca species that lack stipules or have rudimenary stipules only. A key to these species is provided. The new species is illustrated.
23209432|Background and aims  Ligularia virgaurea is an invasive weed species in the alpine meadow community that contains allelopathic compounds, which may affect seed germination of other co-existent species. Material and methods  In a laboratory study, allelopathic effects of root, stem and leaf aqueous extracts of Ligularia virgaurea, were evaluated on seed germination of Bromus inermis, a native grass species. Key results  Results showed that root, stem and leaf extracts of Ligularia virgaurea significantly decreased the germination percentage, relative germination percentage, germination index and weighted germination index of Bromus inermis. First germination time and mean germination time of Bromus inermis were also delayed. The concentration of the extracts had no significant effects on the germination indices. The type of extract (root, stem or leaf), on the contrary, showed the following trend on the mean relative germination percentage: RGP leaf extract treatment > RGP stem extract treatment > RGP root extract treatment. The response index values of root, stem and leaf aqueous extracts differ as follows: RI root extracts > RI stem extracts > RI leaf extracts. Conclusion  Our results demonstrate that aqueous extracts of Ligularia virgaurea have a significant allelopathic inhibition on seed germination of Bromus inermis. The root extracts of Ligularia virgaurea have a greater inhibition effect on seed germination of Bromus inermis, relative to stem and the leaf extracts.
41058263|Background and aims -The occurrence of natural plant communities on Cu-enriched substrates over significant areas of the earth's surface is exceptional. In Katanga (D.R. Congo), natural outcrops of copper-rich rocks are colonised by highly original plant communities. A number of plant species have been proposed as possibly endemic to those sites. Here we revise the taxonomic, phytogeographic and conservational status of these plants. Methods -Almost all the herbarium materials of supposed Cu-endemics available in BR and BRLU have been revised and all relevant taxonomic revisions have been consulted. Literature and herbarium data have been supplemented by original observations in the field. Conservational status was established using IUCN criteria based on current and projected variation of population size and number. Key results -Thirty-two taxa are identified as strict endemics of Cu-rich soil in Katanga, i.e. absolute metallophytes. Twenty-four of these are known from one to five localities only. Twenty-three other taxa are identified as broad endemics, i.e. with > 75% of occurrence on Cu-rich soil. Fifty-seven other names formerly used for supposed endemics are rejected either for nomenclatural or phytogeographic reasons. A number of species formerly regarded as endemics have been discovered off copper-enriched substrates due to progress in the botanical exploration of Katanga. The taxonomic value of a number of proposed endemics is still uncertain and requires further research. For a number of taxa, local geographic distribution still remains insufficiently known. The low proportion of endemics (c. 5%) in the flora of Cu-rich soil in Katanga possibly indicates a recent origin of much of this flora. Arguments in favour of neoendemism and relictual endemism, respectively, are discussed briefly. Ten percent of strict endemics are extinct and 65% are critically endangered, due to actual or projected habitat destruction by copper mining. Endemics restricted to primary habitats may be the most difficult to conserve. Several species, mostly annuals, are able to thrive on secondary metalliferous habitats created by the mining industry and may thus be at lower risk. Conclusions -This review emphasizes the high conservation value of the flora of Cu-rich soil in Katanga and should help prioritise future conservation efforts.
43491892|Background and aims - The species distinction within the tropical African genus Mocquerysia, known for its epiphyllous flowers, is investigated and discussed to clarify some discontinuities in their morphology and distribution. Methods - Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available at BR, LBV, P, and WAG. Key results - The synonymy of Mocquerysia epipetiola and the type species M. multiflora is confirmed. The isolated population part of the latter in Central Gabon, proves to represent a new species Mocquerysia distans. The new species is described and illustrated.
41058279|Background - Diatoms are unicellular algae, prolific in nearly all aqueous environments on earth. They are encased between two siliceous valves that each feature a variety of intricately patterned speciesspecific siliceous structures. How diatoms use biological and physical processes to form these tiny detailed structures is largely unknown. This work is concerned with the smallest regular structures in diatom valves, the pore occlusions, and the processes involved in their formation. Theory and method - We developed a discrete, free-boundary, reaction-diffusion computer model to assess a new physically motivated hypothesis: pore occlusion patterns in the genus Achnanthes are simply expressions of silica diffusion and deposition within a pore covered by a membrane (silicalemma), whose deformation interacts with the growth of the pore boundary to control the silica influx. Preliminary results and discussion - Simulations generate some promising pore features such as bifurcating and curved protrusions that grow towards one another, as seen in diatom pore occlusions. But they tend to be irregular and, to date, taking into account of smoothing and regularizing effects only partially symmetrized formations. Potential future work on this point is outlined.
23209418|Background and aims  This is a first contribution describing novelties in the Acanthaceae, discovered on the occasion of the preparation of the families' instalment for the 'Flore d'Afrique centrale'. It deals with the genus Barleria. Methods  Material from BR, BRLU, BM and K was examined. Flowers were boiled in water and examined under a Wild M5 lens. Others measurements were made on dry material. Results  Two new species representing cases of vicariance and four other novelties belong to sect. Barleria. A vicariant pair of sect. Fissimura and a new species of sect. Cavirostrata are presented. The identity of the overlooked Barleria kaessneri (sect. Somalia) is clarified. The eight new species come from the Zambezian centre of endemism (some of them transgressing in the Guineo-Congolian centre). Drawings or photographs are provided for most species.
23209412|Background and aims  A previous study showed that the visitation rate by pollinators and the seed set of the exotic invasive Senecio inaequidens (Asteraceae) were higher compared to the native relative, Jacobaea vulgaris. The first aim of the present study was to assess if these results could be explained by differences in self-fertility, nectar rewards or floral display between the two species. Moreover, in a second step, we examined if the higher visitation rate on S. inaequidens has a negative effect on the reproductive success of J. vulgaris. Methods  Self-fertility was estimated after self- and cross-hand pollinations. Nectar volume, total sugar concentration and sugar composition were analysed on plants cultivated under controlled conditions. In the field, in order to assess the effect of floral display and impact of the invasive on the pollination success of the native, insect behaviour was assessed by comparing visitation rates, number of visitors per 10 min observation and individual censuses. Floral display (density of capitula per unit area) was artificially modified by clipping or grouping inflorescences in both species. Key results  In terms of self-fertility, seed sets were similarly low after self-pollination (1112%) for both species. S. inaequidens produced lower amounts of nectar with lower sugar concentration compared to J. vulgaris. No influence of floral display was detected on insect visitation rates. The presence of S. inaequidens did not alter pollinator visits and seed set of J. vulgaris. Conclusions  Other traits need to be investigated to explain the different visitation rates and reproductive success between the two species. The higher seed set of S. inaequidens could be due to a higher outcrossing rate, or more frequent pollinator movements between individuals.
41058267|Background and aims -Knowledge on diversity and distribution of algae and cyanobacteria in subaerial habitats still lags behind those of freshwater and marine environments. Notably, data on diversity of microalgae in tropical corticolous habitats are still scarce. We investigated species composition of subaerial epixylic algae and cyanobacteria from two Singaporean rainforest localities. We asked whether there are differences in species composition and alpha-diversity of samples taken in different areas and in different habitat types (bark vs. decaying bare wood). In addition, we asked whether there are differences in species turnover (beta-diversity) among different habitat types and areas. Methods -The cultivation-based approach and the microscopic analysis of populations were used. In total, 20 samples of bark and decaying wood from two forested areas were analyzed. Statistical analyses involved the non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) of species data. Significance of differences in algal composition between groups of samples was evaluated by the non-parametric two-way ANOSIM (Analysis of Similarities) using the crossed design with permutations in blocks. The SIMPER method was used to identify species that characteristically discriminate between habitat types and sampling areas. Key results -In total, 57 species were identified. Green algae (Trebouxiophyceae, Chlorophyceae, Trentepohliales) were dominant, and Cyanobacteria were the second most frequent group. The dominants of the subaerial assemblages differed from corresponding temperate habitats and, in addition, their alpha-diversity was considerably higher. Several green algal morphospecies were characteristic for the bark localities (e.g. Dictyochloropsis spp., Pseudomarvania aerophytica, Printzina effusa and Printzina lagenifera). The alpha-diversity was similar in both habitat types, but the species turnover among samples (beta-diversity) was significantly higher in the decaying wood samples. Conclusions -Tropical corticolous habitats probably harbour higher diversity than corresponding temperate habitats. High beta-diversity of decaying wood illustrates general importance of this substrate for biodiversity of subaerial algae in the tropics.
43491919|Background and aims - Potential natural vegetation (PNV) can provide a basic reference in guiding the restoration activities for damaged landscapes. Our aim was to find a practicable approach of reconstructing PNV based on functional groups (FGs) in species rich and fragmented forest region. Methods - A total of 149 sample plots (20  20 m) were laid and investigated systematically by 1  1 km or 1  2 km grids across the 482 km forest region in Bawangling nature reserve, Hainan Island, China. The 579 woody plant species found were aggregated into eight functional groups (FGs) according to successional status and potential maximum height. The ecological niche model (MaxEnt) was adopted in predicting the potential distribution of the FGs. The relationship between occurrence probability of FGs and environmental factors was determined as a function of the predicted response curves. The PNV was produced by the overlay of maps for the potential distribution of the FGs, while referring the FGs interactions. Key results - The predicted pioneer FGs scattered widely in the whole landscape, while climax FGs mainly distributed in the central and south part of the study region. Pioneer FGs could better withstand environmental change and occurred in warmer and drier sites, while climax FGs are distributed in cooler and wetter conditions. The PNV could be reconstructed by considering interactions among the FGs. Sixteen main functional patch types were reconstructed in the tropical forest landscape, among which twelve were dominated by climax FGs, accounting for 72.7% of the area, and only four were dominated by pioneer FGs, and accounting for 18.8% of the area. Conclusion - We produced successful prediction of the observed PNV by applying a niche-based model (MaxEnt) based on FGs in fragmented and species rich forest region. This is helpful for predicting how PNV will change to natural and anthropic Stressors.
23209336|Background and aims  The Cape Verde Islands were discovered by Portuguese navigators who, throughout the 15th century, explored the African coasts. Despite the recognised value of the Cape Verde flora, the study of medicinal plants is still incipient. The main goal of the present study was to understand the ancestral uses of the exotic medicinal flora that the population of the archipelago still uses, allowing some considerations for the geographic origin of these species. Methods  This study is mostly based on the collection of ethnobotanical data obtained in specimens housed in LISC Herbarium and in available botanical and historical bibliographic data. Key results  A checklist of the exotic medicinal plants of Cape Verde is presented. The use of local flora in folk medicine is common, and 101 exotic naturalized taxa were reported as medicinal in this archipelago. Most of these plants arise from Afrotropical, Neotropical, Palaearctic, or Pantropical regions. Furthermore nineteen non-naturalized exotic taxa, mainly from Neotropical and Oriental regions, were reported as medicinal. Conclusions  This study shows the relevance of historical factors in the determining the composition of the medicinal flora in Cape Verde, namely the importance that the slave trade routes from Africa to the Americas played during the period of the 16th19th centuries. It also allows the recognition and positive valuation of the cultural and biological Cape Verde's patrimony and its sustainable use.
20793443|Background and aims  Species delimitation remains a difficult task in many groups of organisms. Even widespread and conspicuous tropical trees make no exception. Santiria trimera, an African rainforest tree, displays substantial morphological variability. While classical analysis of historical herbarium samples lead to the recognition of a single species, two morphotypes of S. trimera are regularly collected in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea, sometimes in sympatry: one form with stilt roots (SR) and another form without stilt roots (NSR). Methods  To assess whether these forms constitute distinct taxa and to understand evolutionary processes within African Santiria, we combined a morphological and a spatial analysis of both sympatric morphotypes in northern Gabon with a phylogenetic analysis of samples from West and Central Africa, including the island of So Tom. Key results  In Gabon, morphological traits, chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) and nuclear DNA (nuDNA) sequences congruently lead to the recognition of two well differentiated and reproductively isolated taxa corresponding to SR and NSR morphotypes. However, rare cases of the SR morphotype bearing DNA sequences typical of NSR individuals suggest that hybridization might sometimes occur. No evidence for habitat specialization of the two taxa was found. DNA sequences from So Tom formed monophyletic clades at both marker types and the nuDNA gene tree suggests that the So Tom population probably originated from Central Africa and subsequently underwent allopatric differentiation from continental populations. Conclusion  In Central Africa, S. trimera is composed of at least two distinct sympatric species following the Biological Species Concept and calls for further morphological and phenological studies and experimental crosses between them to specify their taxonomic status. Our results also show that classical taxonomic species delimitation may not always be congruent with the Biological Species Concept, calling for more population-based in situ morphological and molecular genetic analyses.
20793453|Background and aims  The mode of inheritance of the chloroplast genome is an important factor in studies dealing with population and evolutionary plant biology. In this paper, we aim to determine the chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) inheritance in Rhinanthus angustifolius. Methods  We studied the cpDNA inheritance using PCR-RFLP. One hundred sixty six offspring obtained from controlled crosses between individuals with two distinct chlorotypes were analysed. Key results  All the progeny exhibited the maternal chloroplast genome. The power analysis of the binomial distribution showed that the frequency of paternal transmission of the chloroplast, if any, should not exceed 1.81% (with 95% confidence). This work indicates that maternal inheritance of the chloroplast genome in Rhinanthus angustifolius is a reasonable assumption.
43491839|Background and aims - This study is a part of an ongoing survey of the genus Perenniporia (Basidiomycota, Polyporales) in sub-Saharan Africa, and reports on several species collected in Central and Southwestern Ethiopia. Methods - Species are described using morphology-based methods. Key Results - Perenniporia abyssinica is proposed as new species. Perenniporia globispora is reported for the first time in Ethiopia. Conclusion - Perenniporia abyssinica and P. globispora are reported from Central and Southwestern Ethiopia. The report of P. globispora constitutes the second report of the species and the first record for Ethiopia.
43491851|Background and aims  Frugivory and seed dispersal are of major importance for plant recruitment and distribution. However, few studies have addressed the effects of gut passage on seed germination in complex fruit-frugivore systems involving multiple species. Here, we examined whether gut passage by seven bird species affects seed germination of eight Melastomataceae species from the Brazilian Cerrado, a Neotropical savanna. Methods  We take advantage of the generalist dispersal system of melastomes in order to compare the dispersal quality among bird species by contrasting seed germination of hand-cleaned, gut-passed seeds and seeds within intact fruits. We studied gut passage effects on seed germination percentage and mean germination time (MGT) of Clidemia urceolata and seven Miconia species. Key results  Less than 4% germinability was observed for seeds within intact fruits across all plant species, indicating that seed cleaning is required prior to germination. The action of guts on the seeds had non-significant or minor additive effects on germinability compared to hand-cleaned seeds depending on the plant species. Gut treatment had no effect on MGT of two species and minor effects on other three species. However, mechanical/chemical effect significantly decreased MGT of C. urceolata and M. albicans while it increased MGT of M. ibaguensis. There were significant species-dependent effects depending on both bird and plant species, suggesting that species-specific outcomes arise from Neotropical fruit-frugivore interactions in plants with generalist dispersal systems. Conclusions  Germination enhancement deriving from gut scarification was not observed for all species, but seed cleaning seems to be an important benefit provided by frugivores to Cerrado melastomes. The variable outcomes resulting from complex fruit-frugivore interactions potentially affect the recruitment of Cerrado melastomes.
23209435|Background and aims  Species grouping in plant functional types (PFTs) according to Grime's CSR theory has been found useful in understanding ecosystem functioning and processes and in quantifying variation along environmental gradients. However, little is known about the relationship between herbaceous plant strategies and stress gradients in submediterranean forest ecosystems. Our aim was to assess variations in CSR strategies along three stress gradients (related to the amount of photosynthetically active radiation, soil water deficit, and soil total nitrogen content) in the herb layer of submediterranean forests. Material and methods  We collected floristic (species cover in the herb layer) and environmental data about topography, soil and light conditions in 48 sampling plots in a forest landscape of central Italy. We performed canonical redundancy analyses (RDAs) of species and PFT data sets, constrained by photosynthetically active radiation, soil water deficit and soil total nitrogen content. Cover trends of PFTs along the environmental gradients were graphically represented. Key results  All the environmental factors considered did affect ecological strategies in the herb layer, but the variation of both species and PFT data sets were best explained by photosynthetically active radiation. Competitors were favoured by low/intermediate stress levels, with regard to soil water and light intensity. Competitive stress-tolerant ruderals peaked in moderate light stress intensity and in well-watered soils. Stress-tolerant competitors peaked in conditions of strong light and moderate dryness. Conclusions  Spatial variations in environmental conditions and in the related stress gradients determine predictable variations in the functional composition of the herb layer. Therefore, it may be possible to use Grimes's PFTs for assessing environmental constraints and predicting whether a species with a specific strategy is likely to be positively or negatively affected by changes in environmental stress due, for instance, to climate change.
20793449|Background and aims  A checklist and key of the Brazilian species of the genus Bauhinia L. are presented. The species examined all have an arboreal or shrub habit or are occasionally vines or decumbent shrubs, although never with tendrils. Method  Information was gathered and collated from an already prepared list of nomenclatural types, the examination of approximately 2,100 specimens stored in approximately 100 herbaria, and by consultation of literature about the genus. Key results  All taxonomic categories including section, series, species, subspecies, and variety, as well as the principal synonyms are included. In addition, references to illustrations in the most recent revisions are included. Accompanying information includes data recorded on the collection labels of herbarium specimens such as state, municipality, month and year of collection, reproductive stage of the specimens (floral bud, flower, or fruit), collector's name and number, and the herbaria where the specimens (including duplicates) are deposited. The list contains 57 species, two subspecies, and seven varieties of the genus Bauhinia native to Brazil. Bauhinia pinheroi is illustrated here for the first time.
23209357|Background and aims  While working on an inventory of forests in Nimba County in Liberia several species were collected that could not be identified. One of them, the Dactyladenia described here, proved to be new to science. Key results  The new forest tree species Dactyladenia globosa Jongkind is described and illustrated. It resembles D. barteri (Hook.f. ex Oliv.) Prance & F.White and D. scabrifolia (Hua) Prance & F.White, but the fruits of the new species are globose and not pear-shaped and pointed as in the other species. The new species is known from four localities in West Cte d'Ivoire, Liberia, and East Sierra Leone. Conservation Status  The new species is not likely to be common with its conspicuous flowers and fruits and only five specimens collected in the fairly well known area where it occurs. Looking at the relatively small area of occupancy and the rapidly ongoing deforestation in this area the species should be listed as Endangered: EN B2ab(iii).
23209334|Background and aims  The pantropical genus Peperomia consists of approximately 1,600 species with an extremely diverse vegetative morphology, especially in the Neotropics. One of the most startling yet overlooked growth forms is the geophytic one, as in subgenus Tildenia. This group occurs in seasonal Neotropical habitats with its highest diversity in Mexico-Guatemala and Peru-Bolivia with few species known from in between these hot spots. Methods  Recent fieldwork in Peru and Bolivia combined with herbarium study and a Bayesian analysis of an aligned sequence matrix of the chloroplast trnK-matK-psbA gene cluster of one accession of each species resulted in new findings within this subgenus. Key results  Fourteen new species are described, discussed in a phylogenetic framework and illustrated. Two species have a wide distribution and occur from central W. Peru to S. Bolivia: the common P. cerrateae and the rare P. parvisagittata. Three endemic species are described from the Amotape-Huancabamba Zone which is particularly rich in tuberous Peperomia species: P. gigantea, P. jalcaensis and P. klopfensteinii. Two species are only known from their type locality in central W. Peru: P. ocrosensis and P. pugnicaudex. Five other Peruvian species are P. ayacuchoana from Ayacucho, P. querocochana from Ancash, P. wernerrauhii from Hunuco, Peperomia umbrosa from three distant localities, and P. pseudoverruculosa which is relatively common in SE Peru. Two species are Bolivian endemics: the rare P. purpureonervosa from La Paz and the more common P. radiatinervosa from Cochabamba and Chuquisaca. Two former varieties, both endemics of the extreme northern Central Andes, are raised to species rank: P. lilliputiana and P. pseudoperuviana. Finally, basionym rejection and lectotypification are proposed for the widespread and commonly collected tuberous Peperomia in the southern Central Andes: P. peruviana. An emended description of Peperomia subgenus Tildenia is also provided.
41058269|Background and aims -The African genus Anthonotha (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) is poorly known. The species are revised. Methods -Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available, mainly at BM, BR, BRLU, COI, FHO, G, K, LBV, LISC, LISU, MA, MO, P, WAG and YA. Key results -Seventeen species are recognized, including three new ones: A. mouandzae from Gabon and A. wijmacampensis and A. xanderi from Cameroon. The species are almost completely confined to the Guineo-Congolian region. A full taxonomic treatment with key to species is given. Some important characters which are used in this key are depicted. The new species are fully illustrated. The fruits of all species are illustrated as well. Distribution maps of all taxa are given. Anthonota cladantha is neotypified. For four other species (A. ferruginea, A. lamprophylla, A. noldeae and A. trunciflora), a lectotype is designated.
23209442|Background  A new species of Barleria (Acanthaceae) from Burundi is described as a part of on-going taxonomic research on the tropical African members of this large genus of c. 250-300 species. Methods  Standard herbarium practices were applied. Key results  Barleria superata I.Darbysh., a new species within section Somalia endemic to the fireprone woodlands of Burundi, is described and illustrated. This species falls within a group of closely allied Tanzanian species: B. diplotricha I.Darbysh. & Ndang., B. mpandensis I.Darbysh. and B. limnogeton S.Moore; it is most closely related to the foremost from which it differs in lacking a tomentellous indumentum throughout and in the leaves being proportionately narrower. This species is provisionally assessed as Vulnerable (VU D2) using IUCN criteria.
43491832|Background and aims - Temporal phenological segregation among species within a plant community can be viewed as a niche differentiation that promotes species co-existence. Following this hypothesis the functional assessment of the flowering pattern was analysed in sub-Mediterranean mountain grassland. Methods - The study was carried out in two sites at different elevations. Four fenced plots of 50 m each were established in both sites. Phenological relevs were carried out in each plot every fifteen days and soil samples were collected in each plot. The functional traits sets of the flowering species were analysed at each considered time interval. Key results - Each phenological phase tends to be linked to a group of functional traits (e.g. bulbs or tuber/rhizome, low height and spring green leaves for the early spring period; rhizome or tuber, hemicryptophyte caespitose, mid height, presence of stolons and persistent green leaves for the late spring period). Dominant species reach their maximum phenological forwardness in the middle of the vegetative season, while non-dominant species 'exploit' the beginning and end of the vegetative season. Two main sets of strategies allowing non-dominant species to co-exist with the dominant ones were highlighted. The first characterizes the tall graminoids-dominated patches, where a pattern of traits allows subordinate species to differentiate the flowering temporal niche compared to the dominant ones. The second set of strategies is related to some small-sized species, which can co-exist with dominant species by exploiting gaps due to livestock disturbance, or by forming patches given their clonal ability. This strategy allows them to share the optimal temporal niche with dominant species. Conclusions - Flowering pattern promotes species co-existence and is driven by functional differentiation of species that in turn is filtered by environmental stress/disturbance type and intensity.
43491837|Background and aims - Floristic inventories are the primary means by which the plant diversity of an area can be understood and are important in underpinning management plans for conservation. One of the priorities set out for Loango National Park (LNP) in an IUCN assessment of Gabon's protected areas was to produce a vascular plant checklist. Therefore, the primary goal of this research was to significantly increase the number of specimens for the park and make a concentrated effort to increase knowledge of plant diversity in the area. The secondary goal of this study was to analyse the flora of LNP in terms of phytogeography and endemism. Methods - A specimen-based botanical inventory was carried out in LNP (1005 herbarium specimens collected for this study were added to 752 existing records) and vegetation observations were made. Phytogeographical analyses were also performed using two different methods and datasets for comparison. Key results - A preliminary checklist of 686 species of vascular plants of LNP is presented, making a significant contribution to our knowledge of the flora of Gabon with more than twenty new country records. Conclusions - There is a surprisingly high proportion (15%) of the overall Gabonese flora recorded from within the park in this preliminary checklist. Further inventory within the park will undoubtedly produce a much higher percentage of the flora of the whole country. This high proportion is explained in part by the combination of restricted coastal endemics, diversity of habitats, and dynamic biological and physical processes. Phytogeographical analyses reveal different floristic relationships between the forest and savanna components of the flora suggesting different origins of these two biomes in coastal Gabon. The forest species are typically Guineo-Congolian in distribution and the savanna species are Sudano-Zambezian or widespread in distribution. Together, the faunal elements and the high diversity of the flora of Loango National Park make it a globally important site for conservation.
43491874|The recently published nomen novum Cyperus spiralis Larridon is illegitimate, because an earlier epithet of a homotypic name is available. A new combination, Cyperus steudneri (Boeckeler) Larridon is proposed for Kyllingiella polyphylla (A. Rich.) Lye.
43491886|Background - Anna is a small genus of Gesneriaceae, occurring in China and Vietnam. During fieldwork in Guizhou, China, a representative of this genus was discovered which did not match the description of any of the three known species. Methods - Herbarium taxonomical and morphological studies, SEM of pollen and seeds and molecular phylogenetic analyses were performed. Key results - A new species, Anna rubidiflora S.Z.He, F.Wen & Y.G.Wei, a stenochoric species from the southern part of China (Kaiyang county of Guizhou province), is described and illustrated. It differs from the morphologically similar species A. ophiorrhizoides (Hemsl.) Burtt & Davidson by being a larger plant with undivided stem, its entire leaf blade margins, its abaxial greenish-white leaf blades with slightly purple nerves, its obovate-lanceolate calyx lobes with truncate and nearly rounded apex without nerves, and its reddish-purple corolla. The newly described species is illustrated both by a line drawing and photographs. A locality and distribution map is also presented. A phylogenetic analysis confirmed that A. rubidiflora is a member of Anna and a close relative of A. ophiorrhizoides.
43491893|The typification of the name Trapa natans L. (Trapaceae) is discussed. A specimen from the Clifford Herbarium (BM) is designated as the lectotype. For a clearer interpretation of the name, a specimen at K is designated as epitype.
23209335|Background and aims  The genus Trianthema (Aizoaceae  Sesuvioideae) is poorly known. Identification of two well circumscribed subgenera is followed by a revision of T. subg. Papularia, presenting for the first time a list of all species identified as members of the subgenus. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available, mainly from AD, B, BRI, C, DNA, E, HBG, K, L, MO, UTB, WAG, and Z. Key results  Based on an extensive investigation into as many characters as possible, results permitted the identification of new character states, supporting the division of the genus Trianthema into the two subgenera, Trianthema and Papularia. In consequence, species limits can be reliably re-circumscribed, resulting in the recognition of 17 species in the latter subgenus, of which five are described as new here: T. corallicola, T. mozambiquensis, T. pakistanensis, T. ufoensis, and T. vleiensis. Raised to species rank are T. clavata and T. corymbosa, and emended and re-circumscribed are T. crystallina, T. hereroensis, T. parvifolia, T. salsoloides, T. sanguinea, T. sedifolia, T. sheilae, T. transvaalensis, and T. triquetra. Unaltered is the description of T. argentina, for which, however, the critical features are also described and figured in order to permit a sound identification of each species in T. subg. Papularia. Distribution patterns are discussed and possible evolutionary pathways are suggested on a morphological base.
41058276|Background and aims - At one time it was believed that without reasonable fossil evidence the phylogeny of any group of organisms was almost unknowable. And so fossils were sought, found and their significance duly proclaimed. Such a dominating viewpoint slowly disappeared in the 1970s and 1980s and data derived from the structure of extant organisms were given more attention. At the same time, molecular data became accessible as another source of phylogenetic information and, eventually, it was believed - as it was with fossils before - that without reasonable molecular evidence the phylogeny of any group of organisms is almost unknowable. Justification for this view has been sought in the explanation that, in general, morphology is misleading (convergence, parallelisms, etc.). These same views have come to prevail in diatom phylogenetic studies. A problem with this constellation of viewpoints is that if morphology is so misleading then so too are fossils (which are, after all, morphological specimens). This paper addresses some of these issues. Methods - Discussion and analysis of classification, past and present, and discussion and analysis of the role played by characters (homologies), taxa and fossils in the search for a comprehensive classification. Conclusion - Classification is equivalent to phylogeny. Sources of data (evidence) are morphology, palaeontology and molecules. Morphology and palaeontology, when understood as derived from specimens (character-bearers), are the same thing. No data source has any unique privilege over another. Stories explaining away character conflict have no place in scientific studies.
43491867|Background and aims - Vincetoxicum rossicum (Kleopow) Barbar., an aggressive European plant invader found in Eastern North America, has properties that enable it to establish large monocultures over time, displacing native species and their associated fauna. It has been proposed that V. rossicum also establishes associations with a subgroup of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) that are generalists described as having high infectivity and are particularly efficient with regard to phosphorus uptake. Such associations may also enhance seedling recruitment in mechanically disrupted areas due to the ability of these AMF to colonize roots directly via hyphal fragments as well as via direct spore germination. As well, invasive plants are also suggested to be fungal generalists, providing advantages when establishing in novel environments where fungi may be different from those in their native range. Materials and methods - In a laboratory study we used molecular techniques to investigate the fungal associations of V. rossicum and local native plants goldenrod (Solidago spp.), wild ginger (Asarum canadense), and Canada anemone (Anemone canadensis) growing in dense patches of V. rossicum. Key results - The findings indicate that V. rossicum forms associations with a broad array of fungal partners relative to proximal native plants, suggesting the likelihood of it being a fungal generalist. As well, V. rossicum was found to associate with a subgroup of described opportunistic AMF such as Glomus intraradices, G. caledonium, G. fasciculatum and Glomus mosseae, while natives growing within V. rossicum patches were not. Conclusion - Our results suggest that V. rossicum is a fungal generalist, a trait that is beneficial in establishment and persistence. It is useful to understand the fungal association dynamics of V. rossicum when attempting to restore invaded sites, as inoculation with fungal species that are particularly beneficial to the establishment of V. rossicum may be avoided.
43491881|Background and aim - Mountain streams represent sensitive ecosystems of prime importance for biodiversity conservation. However, the knowledge of the impact of sewage pollution related to intensive recreational exploitation is still limited in these habitats. Our aim was to assess the response of stream diatom assemblages to sewage pollution in the Giant Mountains and the Bohemian Forest, and to find the main factors influencing the community structure. Methods - Epilithic samples from sixteen streams were collected, both in unaffected stream sections and at sites downstream of sewage outflows from mountain cottages or small villages. Basic physical and chemical parameters were measured and relative abundances of diatoms were determined using light microscopy. Key results - A total number of 153 diatom taxa belonging to 44 genera were identified. Based on species data, samples were divided into two groups: the first belonged mainly to sites influenced by pollution, whereas the second consisted of not or slightly affected sites. Both groups were further divided into several subgroups characterised by specific ecological conditions and assemblage composition. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) revealed five environmental parameters with significant influence on diatom species composition, some of which were related to sewage pollution (pH, water temperature, discharge volume and concentrations of nitrate nitrogen and organic nitrogen). Conclusions - As a consequence of sewage pollution, oligo- to mesotraphentic taxa were outcompeted by pollution tolerant taxa. However, pollution had no significant influence on diatom diversity, which was similar at sites both upstream and downstream of the outflows. In this study, diatom assemblages performed well as indicators of sewage pollution, and biomonitoring proved to be a useful tool in the detection of environmental stress in mountain streams. Overall, the response of diatom assemblages showed that an increase of recreational activities might significantly alter the ecological status of these ecosystems.
23209441|Background and aims  Jumellea pailleri F.Rakotoar. (Orchidaceae), a new endemic species from the Comoro Archipelago is described and illustrated. Methods  Description and comparison of herbarium material from the herbarium of Comoro and Runion Islands University (REU) have been done. Key results  Different from other Jumellea species from Comoro Island, J. pailleri resembles to J. bathiei Schltr. and J. ibityana Schltr., which are endemic to Madagascar. A key to identify Jumellea species from Comoro Islands is provided. The new species is illustrated, its distribution is given and its conservation status. Contexte et but vis  Jumellea pailleri F.Rakotoar. (Orchidaceae), une espce nouvelle endmique des Comores est dcrite et illustre. Mthodes  Une description et une comparaison avec les spcimens d'herbiers de Jumellea dposs aux Herbiers Universitaires des Comores et de La Runion (REU) ont t effectues. Rsultat-cls  Diffrente de toutes les autres espces de Jumellea, Jumellea pailleri est proche de J. bathiei Schltr. et J. ibityana Schltr. qui sont endmiques de Madagascar. Une cl d'identification des espces comoriennes est donne, ainsi que les caractristiques morphologiques, la distribution de la nouvelle espce et son statut de conservation.
23209350|Background and aims  The leaf size/number trade-off has been recently established as a wide-spread and highly predictable relationship associated with between-species leaf size variation. In this study, we examine whether this trade-off relationship also applies at the between-plant (within-species), and at the between-shoot (within-plant) levels associated with spatial variation in incident light availability within tree canopies. Methods  Replicate current-year shoots were sampled from north-facing (shaded) and south-facing (sun-exposed) canopy sides of sixteen broadleaf tree species in eastern Ontario, Canada. For each shoot, measurements were recorded for mean individual leaf dry mass, number of leaves, number of side branches, and stem length, girth, and tissue dry mass. Leafing intensity was calculated as the number of leaves produced per unit of supporting stem tissue dry mass. Key results  All of the direct trait measurements had generally larger values for shoots collected from south-facing canopy sides (as expected). However, negative isometric relationships between leaf size and leafing intensity were found at the between-plant level (for Acer saccharum) and the between-shoot (within-tree) level for at least some individuals of most species. The predominant trend at the within-tree level, however, was allometric  i.e. north-facing (light-limited) shoots generally had lower individual leaf dry mass but disproportionately higher leafing intensity compared with south-facing shoots. Conclusions  The results confirm that there is a fundamental leaf size/number trade-off at the between-plant (within-species) level and also at the between-shoot (within-plant) level, as previously reported at the between-species level. But more specifically, the results reveal distinctly different leaf deployment strategies in response to spatial light variability within tree canopies: Under high light exposure, larger leaves are favoured (with lower leafing intensity imposed as a trade-off), but in deeply shaded portions of the canopy, smaller leaves result, we suggest, for two reasons: (i) they are favoured directly (because they minimize overlap of closely spaced adjacent leaves); (ii) they are imposed as a trade-off of selection favouring high leafing intensity, which in turn maximizes the size of the reserve bud bank (number of axillary meristems per unit of supporting stem tissue) available for initiating continued growth or reproduction in the following year.
41058281|Background and aims - The non-marine diatom flora of Livingston Island (South Shetland Islands, Maritime Antarctic Region) is currently under revision. One of the genera that still needed a revision is the genus Hantzschia, quite common in terrestrial habitats of the Antarctic Region. Methods - Using both Light Microscopical and Scanning Electron Microscopical techniques, the morphology of all Hantzschia taxa, present in the samples from Livingston Island, has been analysed. Each taxon is compared with all other possible similar Hantzschia taxa, known worldwide. Key results - Apart from the already known Hantzschia abundans and H amphioxys f. muelleri, five new Hantzschia species are described: Hantzschia acuticapitata Zidarova & Van de Vijver sp. nov., H. confusa Van de Vijver & Zidarova sp. nov., H. hyperaustralis Van de Vijver & Zidarova sp. nov., H. constricta Van de Vijver & Zidarova sp. nov. and H. incognita Zidarova & Van de Vijver sp. nov. Conclusions - The obtained results confirm the presence of a typical and highly specific non-marine diatom flora in the Antarctic Region and contradict the generally accepted idea about the cosmopolitanism of diatoms.
20793439|Background and aims  Impatiens parviflora DC. is an invasive species which disturbs the natural vegetation composition in many European forests where it is frequently mixed with the native I. nolitangere L. According to the literature, both species seem to share many biological attributes and have very similar ecological requirements. Extinctions have sometimes been reported for I. noli-tangere, and knowledge is lacking about the possible contribution of I. parviflora to this phenomenon. Methods  In a large forest from central Belgium, we compared soil characteristics (inferred by the Ellenberg's indices) and strategies of the species from the recipient vegetation (according to Grime's system) between areas where (1) only one of the two Impatiens is present, and (2) both Impatiens grow together. In order to refine the knowledge of their ecological behaviour, we modelled the response of both species to these soil and community properties. Results  Contrary to what is reported in the literature, we found that, in our study area, I. parviflora prefers soils of low base and N-status, it shows a preference for compacted soils, and it easily penetrates non-ruderal communities and dense groundlayers. Conclusions  These findings suggest that the autecology of I. parviflora in western and central Europe is not very well known yet and deserves further studies. Our results also highlighted major differences in the ecological requirements of both species. We suggest that the regression of I. noli-tangere observed in many regions is not due to the invasion by I. parviflora, although additional studies are necessary to untangle this question.
23209338|Background and aims  In the context of our preparation of the treatment of the genus Chlorophytum for the 'Flore d'Afrique centrale', a new species is described from Burundi and Tanzania. Methods  Herbarium taxonomy and SEM of seeds. Key results  Chlorophytum burundiense Meerts sp. nov. is described. It is a small plant < 35 cm in height, with linear leaves < 6 mm wide, a dense raceme and large, deep purplish brown bracts. It is morphologically not closely related to any other species in the genus. It has a distinct habitat, growing in afromontane grassland and scrub at 20002500 m a.s.l. All collections but one originate from Burundi, and a single collection originates from SW Tanzania. A determination key is provided for Chlorophytum species with linear leaves occurring in Burundi.
20793441|Background and aims  A synchronic study has been achieved in fallows distributed in three age classes (02 years, 35 years and more than five years) in the natural forest reserve of Kigwena (Burundi). The aim was to show that differences in the proportion of plant functional groups could be used as indicators in characterizing the post-cultivation succession stages. Methods  The retained functional groups concerned biological and phytogeographic types, leaf size and diaspores dispersion. Key results  The data analysis gave five floristic associations. The functional group analysis evidences that the young successional stages are often characterized by sclerochorous herbaceous (therophyts) with often anemochorous dispersion, while the aged stages are essentially dominated by sarcochorous phanerophyts with essentially autochorous dispersion. The proportion of species with large distribution distribution with the age of the fallow contrary to species with regional distribution. A progressive increase with the age of species number with large leaves and a reduction of species with small leaves has been observed. Conclusion  The follow-up of the temporal variability of biological traits of species permits to characterize stages of post-cultivation succession. Objectifs  Une tude synchronique a t ralise dans les jachres rparties en trois classes d'ges (02 ans, 35 ans et plus de cinq ans) dans la rserve naturelle forestire de Kigwena (Burundi). L'objectif tait de montrer que les diffrences dans les spectres des groupes fonctionnels de plantes pouvaient tre utilises comme indicateurs pour caractriser les stades de la succession post-culturale. MthodesLes groupes fonctionnels retenus concernaient la forme biologique, l'origine phytogographique, la morphologie foliaire et le mode de dispersion des diaspores. Rsultats  Aprs traitement des donnes phytosociologiques, cinq groupements vgtaux ont t individualiss sur base de la composition floristique. L'analyse des groupes fonctionnels met en vidence que les stades jeunes sont caractriss par les throphytes  diaspores sclrochores souvent anmochores, tandis que les stades gs sont domins par des phanrophytes  diaspores sarcochores essentiellement zoochores. La proportion des espces  large distribution diminue avec l'ge de la jachre contrairement aux espces  distribution rgionale. Une augmentation progressive avec l'ge de la jachre d'espces msophylles et macrophylles et une diminution d'espces nanophylles ont t observes. Conclusion  Le suivi de la variabilit temporelle des spectres des traits biologiques des espces permet de caractriser les stades de la succession post-culturale.
43491852|Background and aims  Megacodon stylophorus (C.B.Clarke) Harry Sm. is an endangered herb native to the East-Himalaya and the Hengduan Mountains, south-west China. We studied reproductive ecology of this species to explore the factors that are critical for its survival and conservation. Methods  We conducted breeding system experiments during 2008 and 2009 in two populations located in the Hengduan Mountains. Key results  The flowers are protandrous and herkogamous, and thus insects are necessary for pollination and seed production. Bumblebees were observed to be the most frequent visitors, and their visitation rates were lower at the higher altitude. Seed production in both populations fluctuated annually, possibly due to pollen limitation, which occurred in both populations in the two years. Conclusions  The pollination level is only marginally responsible for the rarity of this alpine species. We suggest that in situ conservation measures should be given the highest priority at present, considering the strong genetic differentiation among populations.
23209421|Background and aims  A good understanding of the ways in which seeds are dispersed within landscapes is essential to plant ecology and conservation. Carnivorous mammals can act as vectors in dispersal through ingestion and subsequent excretion of seeds (endozoochory). The red fox (Vulpes vulpes L.) is a predatory species that is markedly opportunistic both in habitat and feeding habits, and occurs widespread in many rural and urbanized regions. Due to their high mobility within and among territories, they could contribute to long-distance seed dispersal on a regular basis. To identify the set of species that are potentially dispersed by foxes, we have analyzed scats from the region of Flanders (Belgium) for seeds. Methods  303 scats were collected throughout the region during two field campaigns. All seeds were isolated from the scats and identified. Key results  Seeds were present in 57% of the scats. If present, the seed number was mostly low (< 10), yet amounted to 1135 in one sample. 77 taxa were identified. 82% of the seeds belonged to woody plant species with fleshy propagules (drupes or berries), Rubus being the most abundant taxon (64%). In addition, numerous dry-fruited woody, herbaceous, and graminoid taxa were found. Autumn samples contained more, and more often, seeds than spring samples. Conclusions  The diversity of plant types and species encountered in scats clearly reflects the opportunistic habits of foxes, with many species consumed from anthropogenic sources such as cultivated plants or waste material. We suspect an inadvertent intake for most of the dry-fruited species, for instance, through the manipulation of prey. Although wild foxes thus appear to excrete a diverse set of species, their role as effective seed dispersers needs further investigation, primarily concerning the fate of these scat-borne seeds.
23209347|Background and aims  Intense agriculture phases on old plant communities, such as Mediterranean steppes, can lead to low resilience. Two main obstacles to the spontaneous recolonization of these plant communities are often the low dispersal of target species and the high dispersal and establishment potential of unwanted species. The aim of the study is to find the most efficient restoration treatments to restore these plant communities. Methods  After the rehabilitation of an herbaceous sheep-grazed community on a formerly intensively cultivated orchard in the last French Mediterranean steppe (La Crau, Provence, France), four experimental restoration treatments were applied to restore the steppe plant community: (i) topsoil removal to lower ruderal species seed banks and soil trophic levels, (ii) nurse species seeding to rapidly occupy niches, and then to provide safe sites for target species once sheep grazing is reintroduced, (iii) hay transfer to provide local species seeds, and (iv) soil transfer to provide local species propagules with associated microorganisms. One year later, plant species richness, composition and diversity are compared. Results  Although the communities developing on areas seeded with nurse species and where topsoil was removed differed most widely from the reference ecosystem, i.e. steppe, these restoration treatments succeeded in achieving their goal by significantly lowering the abundance of unwanted dominant species. While hay transfer did not have a significantly higher species richness than that of the rehabilitated area, it showed promising results, as some germinations of target species were observed. One year only after the treatment was applied, soil transfer provided a community richness and composition very close to that of the reference ecosystem, but not with the same vegetation structure. Conclusion  In order to restore plant community composition, the more the treatment strengthens community dispersal, the more efficient it is. The gain in efficiency is closely linked with the cost of the treatment.
43491838|Aim - This paper aims to provide the first exhaustive list of woody species present in the northern part of the Republic of Congo, describing the vegetation types, characterizing the ligneous forest stands and explaining the distribution range of characteristic species. Location - The 1.23 million ha of the logging concession of 'Congolaise Industrielle des Bois', situated in the North of the Republic of Congo (1.41N 16.32E), were prospected during six years. The study area is bordered by the Sangha River to the west and by the Likwala-aux-Herbes swamps to the east. Methods - The checklist, given as an electronic appendix, documents 702 woody species. Each species is annotated with the following headings when the information is known: scientific, pilot and local names, life-form, preferential habitat, distribution, seed dispersal type, human use, abundance and foliage phenology. Field observations have been augmented with existing bibliography. Results - A total of 392 genera and 79 families are presented. Ficus is the largest genus with seventeen species. 73% of taxa are endemic to the Guineo-Congolian Region centre. The sarcochorous functional diaspore type represents 71%. Eleven percent of the species are anemochorous and are mostly emergent trees. Forty-four species newly recorded for the Republic of Congo are especially commented. Main conclusions - Terra firma forests are characterized by deciduous, light-demanding and wind-dispersed emergent tree species. Evergreen stands are mainly found at the confluence of the Sangha River and Likwala-aux-Herbes swamps. This forest could be regarded as equivalent to the other interfluvial forest blocks of the Major Fluvial Refuge in the Congo basin.
23209359|Background  The genus Multidentia Gilli (Rubiaceae-Vanguerieae) includes nine species from tropical Africa. A tenth species, M. saxicola O.Lachenaud & Sn, is here described and illustrated. Methods  Classical methods of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. Key results  Multidentia saxicola occurs in Cameroon and in D.R.Congo; it is only known from two localities about 1,500 km apart. It most closely resembles M. sclerocarpa (K.Schum.) Bridson from Tanzania but differs in the nearly unlobed calyx and lenticellate fruits. It differs from M. dichrophylla (Mildbr.) Bridson in having much larger calyces and fruits and in being a taller tree (1220 m). Multidentia saxicola is evaluated to be Critically endangered (CR B2ab(iii)) according to IUCN criteria. A key to the central African species of Multidentia is presented. Contexte  Le genre Multidentia Gilli (Rubiaceae-Vanguerieae) comprend neuf espces d'Afrique tropicale. Une dixime espce, M. saxicola O.Lachenaud & Sn, est ici dcrite et illustre. Mthodes  Les mthodes usuelles de taxonomie d'herbier ont t appliques. Rsultats principaux  Multidentia saxicola est originaire du Cameroun et de R.D.Congo; il n'est connu que de deux localits distantes d'environ 1500 km. Il ressemble surtout  M. sclerocarpa (K.Schum.) Bridson de Tanzanie, mais en diffre par le calice  peine lob et les fruits lenticells. Il se distingue de M. dichrophylla (Mildbr.) Bridson par ses calices et ses fruits beaucoup plus grands, et par son port plus lev (1220 m). Multidentia saxicola est valu comme En danger critique (CR B2ab(iii)) selon les critres de l'UICN. Une cl du genre Multidentia en Afrique centrale est prsente.
20793451|Background  In the light of loss of mangrove forests and related biodiversity worldwide the overall objective of the online 'Mangrove Reference Database and Herbarium' is to give a current and historic overview of the global, regional and particularly the local distribution of true mangrove species. Databasing and website construction  All data are based on records containing species location information of all mangrove species (approximately 75). All the mangrove zones around the world are recorded in this database and a species list is available for the sites that have been studied or sampled. In addition, the database provides written and visual information on plant physiognomy, ecological adaptations to the intertidal mangrove habitat and nomenclature. Images of herbarium specimens are included as vouchers. Objectives  The website (http://www.vliz.be/vmdcdata/mangroves/) wants: (1) to offer a relational database for all true mangrove plant species using an expandable taxonomic tree; (2) to display a fact sheet for each mangrove plant species; (3) to present a searchable online distribution map for each species based on point-locations submitted by researchers world-wide in order to display historic as well as current distribution maps using a GIS-interface; (4) to preserve a herbarium reference specimen for each true mangrove species; and (5) to provide an automated determination key to identify mangroves world-wide. Results  The result is a functional database that can be rapidly updated and that provides information for research, management and conservation projects on the world's mangroves (biogeographical, forest management or ecological restoration in the light of species present).
43491885|Background and aims - Seed sourcing on a local scale is an emerging awareness among nature conservationists. Guidelines should be tuned for woody species in highly anthropogenic landscapes such as Flanders (Belgium). We investigated the genetic variation within and between eight autochthonous Flemish Prunus spinosa populations and assessed their potential as seed source for gene conservation and ecological restoration. Methods and key results - All sampled sites were old hedges or wooded banks. Using AFLP, the overall gene diversity (H) was estimated at 0.13, with a low average between population diversity (Hb = 0.02) and a comparatively high average within-population diversity (Hw = 0.11). The genetic differentiation was remarkably variable among populations (ST ranging from 0.07 to 0.43). There was no clear relationship between genetic and geographic distances, nor between genetic and morphometric characteristics. Only a small but significant correlation between endocarp and leaf morphological characters was observed. Conclusions - The variable genetic differentiation among populations points to different vegetation histories. Two populations, DEF and WES, were characterized by a dominant presence of sloe, high genetic differentiation from all other populations and low within-population diversities. No obvious morphometric variability of leaves could be related to these genetically deviating populations, however, WES showed a deviating endocarp morphology. Possibly, these two populationswere originally planted or supplemented using local and much related material whereas the others may have been planted with more diverse material. The relatively high within-population diversities and moderate, although variable, between-population differentiation of the other Flemish populations point to a considerable amount of gene exchange and can justify extensive seed sourcing for the production of autochthonous planting stock. These results stress the importance of a proper evaluation of genetic diversity for seed source selection and the need for regional field-applicable guidelines.
20793446|Background and aims  Recent collecting in Equatorial Guinea, a country with incompletely documented biodiversity, resulted in an ample collection of the plant family Acanthaceae. Identifications resulted in the discovery of novelties, presented here. Methods  Specimens from BRLU, BR, BM, P and K were investigated. Critical point-dried pollen was observed in the SEM. Results  Three new taxa are described from Equatorial Guinea, two new species in the genera Crossandrella and Dischistocalyx and one new variety in Ascotheca. Distribution maps and illustrations for the two new species are provided. Pollen morphology adds evidence to distinguish between the three species of Crossandrella.
41058282|Background and aims - Aulacoseira sphaerica (Hrib.) Simonsen is described from samples of a boring made in a Late Pliocene freshwater maar sediments in Nogaret (Escandorgue volcanic massif, France). This species is described and compared with works of other authors. Methods - The morphology of this species is examined using light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscope (SEM). Key results - Our observations correspond with Hribaud's (1903) description of Melosira sphaerica. It is an initial cell of an unknown Aulacoseira that is either extinct or does not form auxospores in recent waters. But we do not agree with Loseva's (1980) identification of this species found in the upper Pliocene deposits from the locality Ornara (Russia) in the Kama river (Volga's tributary) basin. Conclusion - A. sphaerica remains considered as a Late Pliocene fossil, endemic in the south of France (Massif Central, Escandorgue).
43491855|Background and aims  The Malagasy Vohimana Reserve, is situated in an ecologically sensitive area subject to mining and the pressure from neighbouring communities. The aim of this study is to look at the structure of the plant community, to determine indicator species of undisturbed areas and areas affected by human activities, and to present a checklist of ferns and lycophytes of the reserve. Methods  The Vohimana Reserve was visited twice and an improved quadrat method of sampling was used; specimens were collected and identified at both TAN and P herbaria. Ecological data were statistically analysed using the Factorial Correspondence Analysis methods. Key results  One hundred and thirty two lycopod and fern taxa were identified, including four undescribed fern species. The plant community structure suggests a gradation from primary forest to disturbed zones. This can be explained by local ecological factors and topography, as well as the effect of human pressure on the plant community. The narrow altitudinal gradient (780-1,030 m) is not considered as a factor influencing species composition, as shown in analogous studies performed in larger parks or reserves elsewhere in Madagascar. Conclusion  Despite the human impact on the reserve, the fern and lycophyte diversity indices suggest that it should be classified as an area of significant diversity.
23209414|Background and aims  Re-introduction of large grazers in the few remaining natural and semi-natural grasslands are thought to be an effective management tool to prevent dominance of late successional plant species and restoration of plant biodiversity. The main objective of this study was to test whether the introduction of large herbivores retard the succession by reducing the abundance of highly competitive tall species and whether it is accompanied with changes in plant community composition and spatial distribution of plant species. Methods  In order to test this hypothesis, we studied the effect of grazing by large herbivores on vegetation at three hierarchical levels: individual plant species, emergent groups of functionally similar herbaceous plant species, and the main gradients of plant community composition. Study sites were thirteen spatially separated, dry coastal dune grasslands in western Belgium and north-western France. Key results  Grazing had a predominantly negative effect on high competitive dominant species and led to changes in composition of emergent groups toward less competitive plant species. Additionally, these changes in plant community composition were accompanied with changes in spatial distribution patterns of individual plant species and community richness. Conclusions  Our results suggest that the current grazing management applied in these nature reserves is able to prevent the expansion of dominant highly competitive species and establishment of functionally different plant species.
43491887|Background and aims - Gloriosa superba L. is a highly variable species occurring in a wide range of ecological habitats in South Africa, tropical Africa and Asia. The morphological variation in G. superba was found to be complicated and therefore numerical methods were used to re-evaluate morphological variation and species delimitation in the G. superba complex. Methods - This study was based on 79 herbarium specimens from B, BM, BR, C, COI, F, K, L, SRGH, U, UPS and WAG (abbreviations follow Holmgren et al. 1990). Cluster and ordination analyses were used to explore morphological variation within the study group. The morphometric data set based on both qualitative and quantitative characters was entered directly into a computerized matrix and a cluster analysis was computed using NTSYS package. The variability of individual characters was evaluated by box-plots using SPSS. Key results & conclusions - The morphological study has revealed the existence of four phenetic species in the G. superba complex. Recognition of these species is based on habit, inflorescence characters and distribution patterns. It is here proposed that four species should be recognized in the G. superba complex: G. baudii (Terrace.) Chiov., G. carsonii Baker, G. superba L. and G. simplex L. Gloriosa superba is the most widespread taxon, occurring in South Africa, tropical Africa and Asia. Gloriosa simplex, G. carsonii and G. baudii are confined to the African continent, with G. simplex widespread in tropical Africa, G. carsonii common in south, central to east tropical Africa, and G. baudii having the most restricted range, confined to the arid regions of northern Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia.
23209439|Background and aims  Recent molecular studies validate a broad definition of Cyperus (Cyperaceae) uniting genera previously scattered in Cyperoideae. First indication of their affinity with Cyperus was obtained through embryography. Cyperus consists of a paraphyletic C3 Cyperus and monophyletic C4 Cyperus. In this study, we aim to check and clarify the putative positions of the segregate genera in C3 Cyperus. Additional information is given and remarks are made on the position of some as yet unplaced species or sections in the C3 Cyperus phylogeny. Methods  Embryos of Cyperus constanzae and C. gardneri were cleared and drawn. Inflorescences of selected C3 Cyperus species were investigated using scanning electron and light microscopy. Histochemical tests were performed to assess the presence of suberin in the 'corky' tissue of the nutlets of Cyperus pectinatus. Key results  Embryography not only supports tribal classification in Cyperoideae, it is also phylogenetically informative in C3 Cyperus. Morphology and ontogeny support molecular phylogenetic results suggesting the inclusion of the segregate genera in C3 Cyperus as new sections or in established sections, and confirm the need to broaden the circumscription of some of these sections. Conclusion  Although less diverse than C4 Cyperus, C3 Cyperus includes clades which evolved an exceptional morphological diversity compared to its limited species numbers. The segregate genera Courtoisina (deciduous spikelets), Kyllingiella (spirally-arranged glumes) and Oxycaryum (spirally-arranged glumes and dorsiventrally flattened dimerous gynoecia), and the taxon Anosporum (recognised at sectional, subgeneric or generic level) are here included in C3 Cyperus (= Cyperus subg. Anosporum) as sections or included in an existing section (Kyllingiella is included in Cyperus sect. Leucocephali). A formal taxonomic revision is presented with relevant new names and combinations, synonyms, diagnoses and identification keys.
23209436|Background and aims  Seed dimorphism is an adaptive feature to harsh environments such as arid and saline habitats. This is explained as an escape from inadequate conditions. In the current study, we investigated the seed germination of a dimorphic species Atriplex inflata Muell. (Chenopodiaceae). A. inflata occurs in saline habitats, namely in arid regions. Its bracteoles enclose a brown or a black fruit. This unit constitutes the diaspore. Methods  Mature fruits were collected from Kelbia (3546'06"N 1007'34"E), located in the centre of Tunisia, with semi-arid climate. The effect of cold stratification, nitrate (KNO3, 10 mM), light, dry storage (for seven months), chemical scarification and salt pretreatment on germination were determined in order to assess the factors that control germination and dormancy. Key results  The results show that brown fruits germinated rapidly and the final germination percentage was 98% after twenty days. However, germination of black fruits was slower and reached only 19%. This confirms the fact that the difference in morphology is accompanied by a difference in germination capacity and dormancy in A. inflata. Chemical scarification and dry storage increased germination capacity of black fruits. Thus, the black fruit showed a physical dormancy and a non-deep physiological dormancy. Conclusion  The production of two types of fruit in A. inflata, one dormant and the other non-dormant, is of high ecological importance for the survival of populations. Actually, this ensures both rapid germination (brown fruits) and a permanent seed bank (black fruits), which permit the persistence of the species and population establishment in disturbed environments.
20793445|Background and aims  The paleotropical genus Neuropeltis of the Convolvulaceae is imperfectly known. The present paper aims to revise the genus for the Upper Guinea area in West Africa. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available. Key results  Three species are found in Upper Guinea. Neuropeltis velutina is not present in this area and its specimens hitherto assigned to it are classified in a new species N. occidentalis. A key to and a synopsis of all African species is provided. The new species is illustrated and its distribution is mapped. Neuropeltis sanguinea from Angola (Cabinda) is newly synonymised under N. velutina.
43491920|Background and aims - This is the first report on early vegetation dynamics in prescribed slash-pile burns under a sub-Mediterranean climate. We studied a managed forest system of Pinus sylvestris plantations in the upper belt of Quercus pyrenaica forests in the Guadarrama Mountains (Spanish Central System). We investigated post-fire plant succession in order to assess how fire affects tree regeneration and species composition (vascular plants, bryophytes and fungi) in the first three years. Methods - Species composition, species cover, number of pine seedlings and ecological data were recorded in twenty slash-pile burnt plots and twenty control plots the first and second year after fire. To identify ecological indicators and examine post-fire succession, we determined Indicator Analysis and Neighbour Joining Tree, respectively. Wilcoxon's signed-ranks test and Spearman's coefficient of rank correlation were used to study the effects of fire on pine seedlings survival and its changes overtime. Principal Components Analysis was performed to assess the relationships between environmental and structural variables in burnt plots. Key results - The early plant community established after slash-pile prescribed burns was characterized by three pioneer species: Funaria hygrometrica (moss), Coltricia perennis and Psathyrella pennata (fungi). No taxonomical changes were detected in vascular plant families but there was an increased presence of therophytes and pine seedlings. Two early vegetation stages were identified relating to species richness and Funaria hygrometrica cover. Fire significantly increased pine seedlings density, which subsequently decreased overtime. Survival of one-year old pine seedlings was unrelated to the year of the burn. Conclusions - We highlight the importance of bryophyte and fungi species in comparison to seeder species as indicators of recent prescribed slash-pile burns under a sub-Mediterranean climate; and also point out the impact of prescribed slash-pile burns on pine seedling recruitment after the first years post-fire. This recruitment decelerates over time in burnt sites, and it is more pronounced in control plots.
23209413|Background  Hybridization and polyploidization are considered important driving forces of invasive processes. In the invasive Fallopia spp. complex, hybridization between taxa of various ploidy levels has been experimentally demonstrated. Extensive genetic variation has also been observed among hybrids in the field. However, what makes a certain hybridization event of evolutionary importance is still the subject of speculation considering the invasive potential of hybrid Fallopia. Aims  The present study examined landscape scale patterns of interspecific hybridization within the alien invasive Fallopia complex, and tested whether cold winter might act as selective agent for hybrid survival. Methods  Eighty seeds per clone were collected from four taxa (F. japonica, F. sachalinensis, F. aubertii, and F.  bohemica) and sown in greenhouse and outdoor conditions. Ploidy levels of the resulting seedlings were determined by flow cytometry at early stages of seedling growth and compared to those of mature clones present in the same landscapes. Key results  The four studied taxa were involved in interspecific hybridization patterns. Seedlings resulting from hybridization had a large range of ploidy levels, including aneuploid and euploid progeny, and polyploid levels that were not observed in mature clones. Cold winter had a negative effect on germination success. However, a comparison of ploidy levels of seedlings that survived the cold winter with those grown under greenhouse conditions indicated that cold winter was not a significant selection agent for particular ploidy levels. Conclusions  Our results stress the importance of interspecific hybridization and polyploidization events in generating invasive hybrids in the alien Fallopia spp. complex. Cold winter represents a selection agent for the survival of early stages of progeny but does not explain the discrepancies in ploidy levels between produced seedlings and currently occurring mature clones.
43491845|Background and aims  Plants are often overlooked in conservation planning, yet they are the foundation of all terrestrial ecosystems. The East Africa region is used to investigate the effectiveness of protected areas for conserving plants. With a wide range of ecosystems and 771 protected areas covering nearly one quarter of the land area, East Africa is an ideal location to assess the effectiveness of protected areas through distribution modelling of the genus Acacia. Methods  Herbarium specimen data (2,047 records) were collated from East Africa for 65 taxa (species, subspecies, varieties) from the genus Acacia. Generalised Additive Models were used to determine climatic drivers, and thence to extrapolate climatic suitability across the region. For two Acacia taxa, we investigated the potential for climate-induced range-shifts using a downscaled regional climate model under two IPCC scenarios. Key results  Approximately two thirds of Acacia diversity hotspots had < 10% coverage by protected areas. Furthermore, the protected area network covered less of the predicted ranges of the Acacia taxa and contained fewer taxa per unit area than would be expected under randomised placement. Areas with suitable climate for high-elevation, moisture-dependent taxa such as A. abyssinica subsp. calophylla are predicted to contract their potential range by up to 80% towards mountain peaks, where protected areas are dominated by low-level protection forest reserves. Conversely, the area of suitable environment for a xerophytic low-elevation species (A. turnbulliana) is predicted to increase by up to 77%. Conclusions  East Africa's national parks may not be preserving an important component of ecosystem diversity, a situation exacerbated by climate change. Even. within the genus Acacia, different species are predicted to respond differently to climate change. Priority areas for research and conservation are identified based on overlap between predicted high Acacia diversity and gaps in the collection record, with northern and eastern Kenya highlighted as particularly important. High elevation protected areas are also predicted to become increasingly important as climatic refugia in a warmer future.
41058266|Background and aims -It is generally accepted that in terrestrial ecosystems the occurrence and abundance of plant species in late successional stages can be predicted accurately from prevailing soil conditions, whereas in early succession their presence is much more influenced by chance events (e.g. propagule availability). Late successional vegetation stages would therefore be deterministically structured, while early succession would be dominated by more stochastic features. To test this hypothesis in salt marsh conditions, we compared the effect of abiotic environmental factors on vegetation composition and probability of occurrence of individual species in two adjacent salt marshes, differing in age (i.e. successional stage). Material and methods -In 2002, a new salt marsh was created on substrate devoid of plant diaspores in the nature reserve The IJzermonding (Nieuwpoort, Belgium). From 2002 onwards, primary colonization started on that sterile substrate by hydrochoric seed dispersal, induced by tidal water currents from an adjacent 5 ha relic of the old salt marsh. In 2005, three years after the start of the colonization process of the new salt marsh, vegetation and three abiotic environmental factors (soil texture, salinity and elevation) were recorded in a set of 155 relevs on the new and old salt marsh. Key results -In contrast to the general observation in other terrestrial ecosystems, the vegetation composition of the early successional stage of the new salt marsh appeared to be at least as much determined by the combined effect of the measured abiotic factors as that of the old salt marsh. As revealed by logistic regression the presence/absence of perennial species as well as annual species of the young salt marsh could be well predicted by the measured abiotic variables. For the old salt marsh this also held for the perennial species, but not for the annual species. The stochastic appearance of gaps in the perennial vegetation cover appeared to be important for the establishment of annuals in the older salt marsh. Conclusion -In the case of salt marsh succession, the generally accepted hypothesis of early successional stochasticity dominance versus late successional environmental determinism must be rejected.
23209423|Background and aims  Several species of shrubs from the Guayana Highlands of Venezuela have been classified in Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria Steyerm., but are anomalous morphologically in that group. Key results and conclusions  These species are here transferred to Coccochondra Rauschert, which now includes four poorly known species that are all endemic to this region. Coccochondra is provisonally considered related to Psychotria L. but is also similar to Ronabea Aubl. The three newly transferred species belong to the new subg. Durifolia (Steyerm.) C.M.Taylor, distinguished from subg. Coccochondra by its five-merous flowers: C. carrenoi (Steyerm.) C.M.Taylor, C. durifolia (Standl.) C.M.Taylor, and C. phelpsiana (Steyerm.) C.M.Taylor.
20793438|Background and aims  Despite being a rather common species throughout Europe, little is known about the effects of habitat change on the fitness of Viscum album. We expected to find a reduction in fitness in V. album populations growing in fragmented habitats resulting from a loss of genetic diversity through increased inbreeding. Methods  We studied seed germination as a measure of fitness among sixteen Belgian V. album populations varying in size and degree of isolation to investigate the fitness consequences of habitat fragmentation. Populations were sampled from two landscapes differing in their degree of habitat fragmentation and V. album population characteristics. We also compared germination percentages of three populations at three different temperatures (5, 20, 30C) to examine the potential effects of climate change on V. album regeneration in northern Europe. Key results  Germination percentages (at 20C) were high (69-100%) and we found no evidence of relationships between germination and population size, density, or area. There was no direct relationship between germination percentage and population isolation within study regions, but connectivity among populations appears to be important. Samples from the more fragmented habitat showed a negative correlation between germination percentage and the proportion of females, suggesting reduced mate availability and pollination resulting from increased isolation of populations. There was no significant difference in mean germination percentages among the three temperature treatments, but the high temperature samples (30C) exhibited the highest variation in germination success. Conclusion  Our results suggest that V. album has evolved high germination success to compensate for limited success in establishing on a host plant. Successful germination under a wide range of environmental conditions is expected to increase the likelihood of establishing on host plants, possibly helping V. album respond to changes in climate.
23209331|Background and aims  The Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Madagascar project aims to evaluate and enumerate the native and naturalized vascular plant flora of Madagascar. In light of the past two decades of intensive collecting and taxonomic work, all relevant published literature and available specimens are being reassessed in order to evaluate the taxonomic status and distribution of the native and naturalized taxa of vascular plants. Here we provide current figures for the total numbers of vascular plants and levels of endemism at the order, family, genus and species levels, comparing them to previous historical counts and analyzing the distribution of the non-endemic element of the flora. Key Results  At the time of writing (April 2010), more than a century after Baron first counted 4,100 species of vascular plants in Madagascar, the Madagascar Catalogue database had registered a total of 14,883 accepted names at all taxonomic levels (64 orders, 243 families, 1,730 genera, 11,220 species and 1,626 infraspecific taxa). Of the 11,220 species of vascular plants in Madagascar, 10,650 (95%) are angiosperms, of which 331 are naturalized introduced species. The remaining accepted indigenous angiosperm species total 10,319, of which 8,621 (84%) are endemic to Madagascar (82% endemism for all indigenous vascular plants). Among the 1,698 non-endemic species of indigenous angiosperms, a total of 1,372 (81%) also occur in Africa, of these 654 (39%) are present only in Africa and Madagascar.
23209419|Background and aims  The effects of gut treatment on the germination of animal-dispersed seeds are critical for the recruitment of many fleshy-fruited plant species, and hence for forest dynamics. However, these effects remain poorly studied especially in African plant species. In this paper, we aim to investigate the effects of gut treatment on the germination capacity and mean germination time of four common plant species of an Afrotropical cloud forest. Methods  We fed Xymalos monospora fruits to its three main avian dispersers to investigate different responses among frugivore species. Next, fruits of four plant species were fed to the most dominant avian disperser, Andropadus milanjensis, to compare responses among plant species. Germination capacity and mean germination time were compared among gut-passed seeds, manually depulped seeds and intact fruits. Key results  Germination of Xymalos monospora seeds was up to nine times more likely and almost twice as fast after bird ingestion compared to intact fruits. An increase in germination capacity, but not in mean germination time, was also detected in four sympatric plant species after ingestion by Andropadus milanjensis. The positive effects of seed ingestion on germination was mainly by fruit pulp removal; only one plant species showed an indication of the combined effect of fruit pulp removal and seed coat scarification on its germination success. Conclusion  Our results indicate that fruit ingestion of four common African forest plant species positively affected germination capacity and mean germination time, and that recruitment success of these plant species may therefore largely depend on their seed dispersers.
41058278|Background and aims - Formal inferences of the diatom phylogeny have largely depended on the nuclear-encoded small subunit of the rDNA gene (SSU). Large parts of the tree remain unresolved, suggesting that new sources of data need to be applied to this question. The next largest dataset consists of the large subunit of the ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase gene (rbcL). The photosystem II gene psbC has also been applied to problems at higher levels of the diatom phylogeny. Thus, we sequenced each of these three genes for 136 diatoms in an attempt to determine their applicability to inferring the diatom phylogeny. Methods - We attempted to obtain a more or less even sampling across the diatom tree. In particular, we increased sampling among the radial and polar centrics and among taxa that morphologically appear to be transitional between polar centrics and araphid pennates. Normal sequencing methods were used. Data were analyzed under maximum likelihood. Key results - Analysis of SSU and chloroplast data returned many of the same clades and the same general structure of the tree. Combined, the data weakly reject monophyly of the radial centrics. The chloroplast data weakly support monophyly of the polar centrics but SSU and combined data weakly reject polar centric monophyly. There may be an hitherto unrecognized clade of araphid pennates sister to the remaining pennates. Conclusion - While it is obvious that more genetic data need to be collected, perhaps the greatest obstacle to inferring an accurate, or at least global and robust, diatom phylogeny is the fact that the parts of the diatom tree that appear to be the most intractable to date (relationships among centric groups and between centrics and pennates) are also the most undersampled. This is in part due to major extinctions in the radial and polar centrics. We believe diatomists need to support more effort in both the molecular and morphological studies of these diatoms, and in the search for more information about the first half of the diatom stratigraphie record.
23209354|Background  The genus Epimedium is well known for its ornamental representatives. However, species boundaries and evolutionary relationships within the genus remain uncertain due to several difficulties. First, potentially diagnostic characters are generally not described with enough detail, hampering linkage of specimens to recognized taxa. Second, previous molecular studies failed to gain resolution, especially within the Chinese distribution area of the genus. Nevertheless, growing scientific interest in the medicinal properties of Epimedium has prompted the need for reliable identification of species. Aims and methods  This study aims at: (1) assessing genetic diversity within Epimedium, using nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences in combination with AFLP fingerprinting, (2) delivering a detailed description for one potentially diagnostic character, pubescence of leaflets. Key results  The DNA sequences and AFLP fingerprints resulted in an unresolved polytomy for the Chinese representatives of Epimedium. Furthermore, this study provided detailed scanning electron microscope images of four clearly distinguishable types of leaflet pubescence. Conclusions  As AFLP is considered capable of detecting rare genetic differences in groups with low sequence variation, we suggest the lack of resolution in the Chinese clade to represent a hard polytomy. This is interpreted as additional evidence for the hypothesis of a recent origin for these taxa. As this implies that several recognized species are still in the process of differentiation, these difficulties in resolving evolutionary relationships are linked to difficulties in species delimitation. Furthermore, the lack of details in some species descriptions has led to the description of new taxa based on small variations. To tackle these problems, we propose a change in view on Epimedium taxonomy. In this view, broader taxonomic entities are recognized, characterized by clearly defined characters. The four types of pubescence described in this study can serve as a first step towards this new interpretation of Epimedium taxonomy.
20793444|Background and aims  The present study is focused on the cytogenetic and morphological criteria allowing to distinguish a new taxon from Onobrychis sect. Heliobrychis. This section is the largest section in O. subg. Sisyrosema represented with 21 species in Iran. The new species belongs to the O. subsect. Boissieriance characterized by perennial plants with well-developed stems and O. andalanica group with uniformely yellow corolla. Methods  The morphological features and meiotic chromosome number and behaviour were studied in O. avajensis Ranjbar. Key results  The novelty Onobrychis avajensis Ranjbar, endemic to Iran, is described and illustrated from two collections from a single locality between Avaj and Abgram in Qazvin Province in the west Zagros. It is closely related to O. andalanica Bornm. but differs from it in a few morphological characters. In addition, meiotic chromosome number and behaviour were studied in O. avajensis. This report is the first cytogenetic analysis of this taxon. O. avajensis is a diploid plant and possesses 2n = 2x = 16 chromosomes, consistent with the proposed base number of x = 8. The general meiotic behaviour of the species was regular, with bivalent pairing and normal chromosome segregation at meiosis. Meiotic abnormalities were observed included a varying degree of sticky chromosomes with laggards, precocious division of centromeres in metaphase I, bridges in anaphase I and multipolar cells in telophase II. Conclusion  Morphological features support the separation of Onobrychis avajensis Ranjbar as a new species.
43491929|Background and aims - While conducting a taxonomic revision of the genera Diaphananthe and Rhipidoglossum (Orchidaceae), a new taxon from Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon was discovered, and is formally described here. Methods - A comparison of about 800 specimens with the nomenclatural types and the specimens housed at BR, BRLU, K, P, WAG and YA herbaria was undertaken in order to confirm the taxonomical status of the new taxon. Its conservation status was assessed using the IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria. Key results - Rhipidoglossum montealenense Descourvires, Stvart & P.J. Cribb sp. nov., here described and illustrated, is endemic to Ro Muni (Equatorial Guinea) and southern Cameroon. The species is found in the mountainous area situated along the transition from the coastal and to the continental regions of Atlantic Central Africa. It is close to R. melianthum but differs by its decurrent petals, a small ovary and a comparatively short spur. The species also differs from R. paucifolium by its elliptical lip lacking a callus and by rounded to subacute sepals and petals, and from R. rutilum by its short leaf internodes. The species is considered as Endangered according to IUCN Categories and Criteria. Its survival in situ will likely depend on the maintenance of the subpopulation in the Monte Aln National Park.
41058277|Background - The traditional approach to diatom systematics assumed that structure and morphology were stable within a taxon and replicated faithfully down the generations, but wall structure is the endproduct of biological processes, potentially modified by environment and over time. Electron microscopy revealed additional structural characters that may be taxonomically informative, but homology continues to be inferred primarily on morphological similarity, without reference to ontogeny. Review - Morphogenetic data reveal that similar structures can be derived in different ways, and that dissimilar end-products may be produced by a single ontogenetic pathway. This paper discusses the importance of understanding valve morphogenesis before wall characters and character states are chosen and described, with particular reference to dorsiventrality, solid areas of silica, raphe and pore structure. Conclusions - A better understanding of character formation will inform the use and development of terminology, which is critical to comparative studies and phylogenetic analyses of morphological data.
43491890|Background and aims - Lentinus species are a major component of the agaricoid flora of tropical Africa where fifteen species have been documented with few studies in Cameroon. This work aims to contribute to the taxonomy of the genus Lentinus by describing a putative new species collected in south-western Cameroon. Methods - A unique lentinoid fungi specimen collected in Korup National Park in the South-West region of Cameroon and preserved in the Edinburgh herbarium (E) was examined macro- and microscopically following classical mycological description methods. Key results - The specimen examined possesses squamules on the pileus and stipe surface, no annulus, furcated branching dichotomous lamellae, oblong-cylindrical basidispores, basidia generally bearing four sterigmata (sometimes two or one) reaching 5 m long, skeleto-ligative hyphae and pleurocystidia. The simultaneous presence of both pleurocystidia and skeleto-ligative hyphae has never been encountered in the genus Lentinus. Due to this unusual combination and other specific features of this specimen, it is considered as a representative of a new species within the genus Lentinus. Discussion - Lentinus cystidiatus exhibits some similar characteristics with Lentinus squarrosulus that possesses squamules on the pileus and stipe surface and mostly with species of the sub-genus Lentinus section Dicholamellatae that are characterized by furcated lamellae. As skeleto-ligative hyphae is characteristic of the sub-genus Lentinus and pleurocystidia characteristic of sub-genus Panus, the simultaneous presence of elements brings into question the taxonomic position of this new species and the systematics of the genus Lentinus in general. Conclusions - The existence of this new species in Cameroon opens a door on the necessity of a taxonomic revision of the genus Lentinus and allied genera.
43491923|Background and aims - Recent molecular studies suggest the polyphyly of Angraecum and the unnaturalness of some of its sections, as exemplified by sect. Pectinaria, which has species in two wellseparated clades, one in Madagascar and the other in continental Africa. However, species delimitation among the five continental African members remained problematic due to morphological variability. In preparation for the taxonomic revision of this group, we used morphological and molecular data to re-assess the circumscription of each species, and to evaluate their monophyly and relationships to one another. Methods - A total of 59 alcohol-preserved specimens were used to perform multivariate analyses on 37 morphological characters. DNA sequences from one nuclear (ITS-1) and five plastid regions (matK, rps16, trnL-F, trnC-petN and ycfI) were analyzed using Parsimony and Bayesian methods. Key results - The morphometric study revealed five distinct morphospecies that correspond to the concepts of the currently recognized species. Angraecum doratophyllum and A. subulatum are the most distinct morphologically, whereas A. atlanticum, A. gabonense and A. pungens are most similar to one another. Phylogenetic analyses using a combined data set of the six markers yielded highly resolved, congruent trees with strong branch support. The polyphyly of A. sect. Pectinaria is confirmed, with continental African members appearing to be most closely related to sect. Dolabrifolia, found exclusively in Africa. The multiple accessions of A. doratophyllum, A. gabonense, A. pungens and A. subulatum each formed a well-supported clade. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses placed A. atlanticum and A. pungens in a subclade within which samples of A. pungens were nested but those of A. atlanticum formed a grade. These two species can be easily distinguished morphologically by leaf dimensions and flower length, but broader sampling in continental Africa is needed to test whether individuals recognized as A. atlanticum might represent two distinct taxa.
23209355|Background and aims  The populations of Epimedium in the western part of Chugoku district on the Japanese island of Honshu are morphologically diverse: most consist of individuals showing wide variation in morphological characteristics, and the character composition varies with population. We explored the morphological variations between Epimedium populations in Chugoku district to test the hypothesis that these variations are the result of natural hybridization between E. diphyllum and E. sempervirens var. rugosum, and to elucidate to what extent natural hybridization between these two species has occurred in this region. Methods  We measured the length of three flower parts using a digital caliper and counted the number of teeth per leaflet. The leaf architecture was also categorized. In addition, we quantified flower colour and leaflet apex shape using a spectrophotometer and principal component analyses of elliptic Fourier descriptions, respectively. From these measurements, we calculated Anderson's hybrid index for each individual. Key results  The populations in Chugoku district showed wide variation in the morphological characters examined. In particular, the populations located near the center of the hybrid zone tended to show greater variation than those located at the periphery. The variation observed across the populations showed similar patterns among the morphological characters examined. No correlations were found among the examined characters. Conclusions  The wide variation in morphological characters likely resulted from natural hybridization between E. diphyllum and E. sempervirens var. rugosum. Hybridization between the two species occurred intensively where the distributions of the species overlap, and bi-directional introgressions of these species are advancing throughout the region. To clarify the factors that produced the hybrid zone, it will be necessary to compare fitness between hybrids and their parental species throughout the parental species' distribution areas and the hybrid zone.
23209337|Background and aims  The Polypores of central Africa (or in biogeographical terms, the Guineo-Congolian phytogeographic region) are still poorly investigated. As part of an ongoing survey of the Polypores in this region, an undescribed species of Perenniporia was collected in the Dja Biosphere Reserve, in south-eastern Cameroon. Methods  Species are described using morphology-based methods. Key results  Perenniporia alboferruginea sp. nov. is proposed, described and illustrated. Several new collections of poorly known species are reported, and an identification key for the Perenniporia species occurring in the Dja Biosphere Reserve and neighbouring areas is presented. Conclusion  About ten years ago, two Perenniporia species were recorded from the Dja Biosphere Reserve. Nowadays, seven species are known from the area, of which four were described based on material originating from this locality.
23209352|Background and aims  Based on presence/absence information for all angiosperms in Tropical Africa, Southern Africa and Madagascar, we review the similarities and differences between these floras. We compare specific and generic richness for the three areas, and examine their degree of overlap. Madagascar and Sub-Saharan Africa are compared in terms of: the specific and generic richness of their angiosperm families, and specific richness of their genera. Methods  Using the African Plant Database, global figures of specific and generic richness for Tropical Africa, Southern Africa and Madagascar have been calculated and illustrated by Venn diagrams. For each family or genus similarity between Sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar has been calculated using the Jaccard Index. Madagascar specificity has been defined as the ratio of Madagascar-exclusive species richness to total richness. Key results  The study confirms the general trends of richness and endemism in the Malagasy flora, but provides accurate figures based on the current state of angiosperm taxonomy. Overlap between the floras of Southern African, Tropical African and Madagascar flora is provided with precise figures. Similarity between Madagascar and Sub-Saharan Africa is very low at species level (0.029) and eight times higher at generic level (0.246). Madagascar specificity reaches 0.165 at specific level and 0.105 at generic level. Calculation of these two indexes for families and genera, based for the first time on APG III, confirms general trends observed so far, and the richest families of the Malagasy flora are listed according to major patterns of their diversity and distribution.
43491883|Background and aims - In Katanga (D.R.Congo), outcrops of bedrocks naturally enriched in Cu and Co ("copper hills"), host unique plant communities. The spatial variation of vegetation has long been attributed almost exclusively to variation in Cu concentration in the soil, but this assumption has not been experimentally tested. We analysed the variation in plant communities and the niches of selected species in relation to edaphic factors within a copper hill. Methods - Forty-eight 1 m plots were sampled for plant community and soil mineral element composition, and classified with Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic mean (UPGMA) using the Bray-Curtis distance. Plant-edaphic relationships were examined using a Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA). Species niches were modelled with Generalized Additive Model (GAM). Mean edaphic factors between the soil of plant communities were compared with one-way Kruskal-Wallis non-parametric ANOVA. Key results - The diversity of communities at the site scale was higher than observed in previous studies at a larger scale. Cu was the most discriminating edaphic factor of plant communities. However, detailed comparisons of mean edaphic factors among communities revealed individual combinations of edaphic parameters for each community, as well as differences in soil Cu content. High covariation appears to be an essential trait of the edaphic factor variation of Katangan Cu-rich soils. This makes it difficult to examine separately the effect of these factors on plant community structures. A bimodal pattern of niche distribution was found for Cu and pH. For physical parameters, niche optima were normally distributed. Conclusions - Global variation in edaphic factors associated with variation in combinations of edaphic parameters generates a highly heterogeneous environment favourable to a high diversity of plant communities over limited areas. Conservation strategies or restoration actions to limit the impact of mining activities on Cu-enriched ecosystems should pay special attention to recreate heterogeneity, taking into account the covariation of edaphic factors.
20793452|Background  The species diversity within the tribe Spermacoceae (Rubiaceae) remains imperfectly known. As part of an ongoing revision of South-American species of the tribe, a new species of the genus Spermacoce s. str. is here presented. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied to study all herbarium material available. Pollen was studied using the acetolysis method. Key results  Spermacoce paganuccii E.L. Cabral & Bacigalupo a new species from Brazil is described and illustrated. The species is endemic of Serra do Orob from the state of Bahia. Morphologically it is most similar to Spermacoce glabra and S. spiralis. It differs from S. glabra in the diameter of the glomerules, the form and indumentum of the capsules and the habit. The new species is easily distinguished from S. spiralis by its indehiscent fruits, the glomerule disposition, the number of bractal leaf and the calyx lobes. Pollen morphology is also analyzed and its relevance is discussed to distinguish the new species from its closest relatives.
23209339|Background  A novelty was discovered by the first author during fieldwork in the Democratic Republic of Congo. After comparing to herbarium collections in BR, K and WAG it is described. Methods  Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. Key results  A new species, Pancovia lubiniana Belesi, is described and illustrated. The species is found in the lowland forest of the Democratic Republic of Congo and Gabon. It is particular by its number of leaflets and the surface sculpturing of its fruits. Contexte  Une nouvelle espce a t dcouverte par le premier auteur pendant ces recherches en Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo. Elle a t dcrite aprs comparaison avec les chantillons de la collection des herbaria de BR, K. et de WAG. Mthodes  Les pratiques normales de la taxonomie des collections d'herbiers ont t appliques. Rsultats-cls  Une nouvelle espce du genre Pancovia est dcrite. L'espce nouvelle, Pancovia lubiniana Belesi, est connue pour la Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo et le Gabon. Il s'agit d'un arbuste des forts de basse altitude. Cette espce diffre des autres espces de Pancovia de la Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo par le nombre de folioles et par l'ornementation du pricarpe de ses fruits.
41058264|Background -Global environmental changes have become important drivers of plant community shifts and are considered to be threats to biodiversity. Because multiple environmental changes are acting simultaneously, they might antagonistically, analogously or synergistically. affect plant populations and communities. Approach -In this review paper, we attempt to take a single-species-multiple-threats approach to gain insights into the complex impacts of global changes. We selected a well-studied forest herb (Anemone nemorosa) as a case and discuss its response to several prevailing environmental threats. Results -Changes in forest management, land use change, acidifying and eutrophying deposition and climate change are the main topics that have been studied for Anemone. Their impacts have basically been studied at three levels of biological organisation: populations, individual ramets and traits. An important finding that emerged in this review is that the human alterations of the environment have ambiguous effects on the performance of Anemone. While some environmental changes were detrimental, others were rather neutral or even beneficial. The cover of Anemone, for instance, increased following the conversion of coppice towards high forest management, but decreased because of soil acidification and reduced soil moisture. Conclusion -Because the multiple threats may have ambiguous effects on plant performance, the ultimate response of an Anemone population turns out to be very complex. To conclude, we emphasise the need for more integrative studies that assess the impacts of multiple global changes on the different levels of biological organisation of a species.
20793450|Background  A novelty is described in the framework of an ongoing revision of the Arthonia cinnabarina complex. Methods  Normal practises of herbarium taxonomy including high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) have been applied. Key results  Arthonia borbonica is described as new to science. It is characterized by having ascomata covered by an orange pruina and macrocephalic (2)3-septate ascospores. The species is only known from La Runion island.
43491872|Background - The inventory of Cameroon's flora is far from complete and additional work is needed to document the country's extremely rich flora, and thus enhance its conservation. In this framework, botanical exploration was conducted between 2007 and 2011 in various regions of Cameroon and resulted in the discovery of several new national records and new species. Methods - Normal practices of herbarium taxonomy have been applied. For the endemic or subendemic species, a preliminary IUCN conservation has been proposed using the IUCN criteria. Results - A total of twelve taxa are recorded as new for the flora of Cameroon. Significant range extensions are reported for eight restricted-range species. A new species, Psychotria yaoundensis O. Lachenaud, endemic to Cameroon and only know from two rocky hills in the surroundings of Yaound, is described and illustrated. Additions to the flora of Equatorial Guinea (five species), Nigeria, Ivory Coast and the Democratic Republic of Congo (one species each) are also reported. Psychotria moliwensis and Vangueriopsis gossweileri are synonymised under P. fernandopoensis and V. rubiginosa, respectively. Conclusion - Many areas within Cameroon remain botanically poorly explored. Our exploration highlights the importance of the Rumpi Hills, Tchabal Mbabo, and the rocky hills around Yaound for plant conservation. Our data will help conservationists in determining areas highly valuable for conservation.
43491926|Background and aims - The genus Idertia belongs to the subfamily Ochnoideae, tribe Ochneae, subtribe Ouratinae. This paper aims at a full taxonomic revision and a critical evaluation of the taxonomic position of the genus along with its diagnostic characters. Methods - All characters are studied using 73 herbarium collections of the following herbaria: B, BM, BR, BRLU, COI, EA, G, K, MO, P and WAG. Specimen data were managed using the BRAHMS herbarium management software. Key results - Idertia is characterized by a gynobasic style, apocarpous fruits, ten stamens, persistent and accrescent sepals and intra-axillary fused stipules. It shares these features with its African relatives Campylospermum and Rhabdophyllum, but its axillary inflorescence, smooth anthers and straight cotyledons renders it distinct. The latter feature is reminiscent of the South American relative Ouratea which lacks the persistent sepals and has free lateral stipules. Other diagnostic characters of the wood, leaves, inflorescence, flowers and fruits are discussed. A key to the four genera of the subtribe Ouratinae is provided. The correct author combination for the name Ouratinae is (Engl.) Kanis. The variation amongst the four species of Idertia recognized by other authors was studied carefully and deemed continuous. Only a single, though variable species distributed from Guinea to Uganda is recognized. A full taxonomic treatment is provided and two lectotypes are designated. Conclusions - Idertia is a well-defined and sufficiently distinct monotypic genus.
23209351|Background and aims  Eighty per cent of Gabon's territory is covered by forest with most species inventory work focused on these areas. However, herbaceous open vegetation types are abundant in this country and can be found in savannas on the coast, in the centre and in the south, and on inselbergs. The species diversity patterns of these habitats remain largely unexplored yet are targeted for both conservation and development. Here, we evaluate the floristic diversity of savannas in Gabon, their affinities with the inselberg open vegetation, and their contribution to the national park system in Gabon, which is currently undergoing a gap analysis. We then use a case study from the Batk Plateaux to demonstrate species rarity in a single savanna. Materials and methods  Species presence in the grassy formations of the savannas in Loango, Lop, Pongara, and Plateaux Batk national parks and in Kum inselberg is compared using ordination and clustering based on a similarity matrix (Srensen index). For the Batk Plateaux savannas, the species rarity and distributions are assessed using Star ratings. Key results  The species in the open herbaceous vegetation in Gabon account for at least 11% of the total flora of the country (508 species out of 4,710). Except for the coastal savannas, all sites are highly dissimilar in floristic composition (Srensen index 0.0650.26) and no dominant savanna type occurs within the dataset. The inselberg site is the most dissimilar and constitutes a separate vegetation unit. Most savanna species of the Batk Plateaux area are widely distributed, but not weedy. A few are extremely rare and are linked with moist habitats, substrate, and fire occurrence. Our results show the diversity and the conservation value of open, herbaceous habitats. Currently, the Gabonese National Park network is partly protecting the savanna and inselberg vegetation. However, several areas remain un-assessed and merit further exploration.
23209431|Background and aims  The Shea tree (Vitellaria paradoxa), a multi-purpose species highly valued for the oil obtained from its seeds, is commonly maintained in the semi-arid parklands in West African Sudanian zone. However, most of the trees were reported to be infested with mistletoes  plant parasites that may lead to death of the Shea tree and these parasites are known to be directly dispersed on their host by birds. This study therefore aimed to assess the potential effectiveness of protected area on preventing mistletoes proliferation on Shea tree individuals. Methods  Infestations in two habitats: land use area (fields and fallows) and protected area of Pendjari hunting zone were compared. Overall 54 plots of 1 ha (100 m  100 m) with 487 and 252 individuals of Shea tree in land use and protected area respectively were investigated. ANOVA was used to compare Shea tree infestation rate and infestation degree (with regard to diameter and height of infested Shea tree). Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was performed to correlate the habitats with infestation degree. Key results  The results showed that about 80% of Shea tree individuals were infested in the land use area, this rate was significantly higher than the one of 27.3% observed in the protected area. Overall, heavily infested Shea trees had significantly larger trunks and heights, mainly in land use areas. The land use area was shown to be correlated with high and very high Shea tree infestation degrees while the others infestations degrees (very weak, weak and moderate) were correlated with both areas. Conclusions  Shea trees growing in protected areas are better protected against mistletoe plant parasites than those on cultivated land. Various hypotheses to explain this result are discussed.
43491831|Background and aims - The Ngovayang massif, in southern Cameroon, is part of a group of small hills along the Atlantic coast of the Gulf of Guinea. This area is known for its floristic richness and its high level of endemism. We conducted a phytogeographical analysis of this massif and evaluated its floristic affinities with other forested sites in Central Africa. Methods - Phytogeographical analysis was based on a comparison of lists of tree species with dbh  10 cm, inventoried in 1-ha permanent plots, and established in old growth lowland forests of Central Africa. The floristic list for Ngovayang used for this analysis contained 201 species. Key results - The lowland forests of the Ngovayang massif are dominated by Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae, followed by Olacaceae and Burseraceae, taxa characteristic of dense old-growth Atlantic moist forests. The Ngovayang flora includes a high proportion of Guineo-Congolean species (79%), particularly Lower Guinean species (30%). Phytogeographical analysis showed that forested sites of central Africa are clearly separated into continental sites and the more coastal sites of the Lower Guinean domain, including Ngovayang. Within the Lower Guinean domain, the main floristic discontinuity appears to be situated in southern Cameroon-northern Equatorial Guinea. Ngovayang and Takamanda, which are situated on opposite sides of the Cameroon volcanic line, show stronger floristic affinities with each other than either does with other Lower Guinean forest sites located to the south of the Ngovayang massif. Conclusions - Ngovayang may constitute a transition zone between Nigerian forests and those ranging from southern Cameroon to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. For tree species of the Lower Guinean domain, the climatic hinge separating boreal and austral climates appears to be a more important phytogeographic barrier than the Cameroon volcanic line or the Sanaga River. Objectifs - Le massif de Ngovayang (Sud-Cameroun) fait partie des petits sommets qui longent le golfe de Guine. Cette rgion est connue pour sa forte richesse floristique et son taux d'endmisme lev. Ce travail a pour objectif une analyse phytogographique de ce massif et l'valuation de ses affinits floristiques avec d'autres sites forestiers d'Afrique centrale atlantique. Mthodes - L'analyse phytogographique fut base sur la comparaison des listes d'espces d'arbres de dhp  10 cm, issues de parcelles permanentes de 1-ha tablies dans des forts matures de basse et moyenne altitude d'Afrique centrale atlantique. La liste floristique du massif de Ngovayang retenue pour cette analyse comprend 201 espces d'arbres. Rsultats-cls - Les forts de basse altitude du massif de Ngovayang sont domines par les Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae, suivies des Olacaceae et des Burseraceae, tous taxons caractristiques des forts matures denses humides atlantiques. La flore de Ngovayang compte une forte proportion d'espces guino-congolaises (79%) et plus particulirement d'espces guinennes infrieures (30%). L'analyse phytogographique montre qu'il existe dans la rgion tudie une sparation nette entre les sites continentaux et les sites ctiers du domaine bas-guinen, y compris le massif de Ngovayang. A l'intrieur du domaine bas-guinen, la discontinuit floristique la plus importante apparat aux confins du Sud-Cameroun et du Nord de la Guine-Equatoriale. Ngovayang et Takamanda, situs de part et d'autre de la ligne volcanique du Cameroun, prsentent de plus fortes affinits floristiques entre eux qu'avec les autres forts situes au sud du massif de Ngovayang. Conclusion - Ngovayang pourrait constituer une zone de transition importante entre les forts du Nigria et celles s'tendant du Sud-Cameroun jusqu'en Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo. La charnire climatique sparant les climats boral et austral semble constituer une barrire phytogographique plus importante pour les arbres des forts de basse altitude que la ligne volcanique du Cameroun ou le fleuve Sanaga.
23209348|Background  Seed dispersal appears to be a key process in maintaining plant population and community dynamics, even more so in the current context of global warming and landscape fragmentation. Wild ungulates, due to their capacity to cover long distances in a large variety of habitats, are potential vectors of long-distance dispersal for plants. Methods  In order to estimate their role as seed dispersal vectors, we conducted a cross-species comparative approach on three common wild ungulates: roe deer (Capreolus capreolus), red deer (Cervus elaphus) and wild boar (Sus scrofa). We brushed the fur and hooves of animals shot in Loiret forests during the hunting season and counted and identified the seeds transported on the animals' bodies. Results  We found seeds from 41 different plant species, 24% of which were found in the cleft of the hoof. Wild boar transported 85% of the species identified (versus 34% and 7% for roe and red deer respectively). More seeds from plants representing a greater variety of dispersal modes were carried by wild boar. Less than 50% of the transported plants were epizoochorous species. Moreover, the plants transported were mainly non forest or periforest light-demanding species. We also showed that wild boar is a vector for plants not specifically adapted to external dispersal, whereas red and roe deer are more prone to move epizoochorous species. Conclusion  Globally, our naturalist approach confirmed that common large ungulates are indeed effective vectors plants can rely on. Moreover, since many types of seeds are concerned, ungulates' specific role in plant dispersal should be reconsidered.
43491847|Background and aims  Natural montane grasslands in the Southern Pampas of Argentina are expected to show a high potential for recovery after heavy grazing due to their evolutionary history in the presence of large herbivores and their high productivity. The objective of this work is to compare plant diversity, bare soil percentage, biomass and botanical composition between grazed and non-grazed areas at different times following grazing exclusion. Methods  Vegetation was assessed on exclosures established in 2006 and on nearby areas open to grazing by feral horses in December 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. In 2009 we added 15 year old exclosures to the analysis. Key results  Species richness declined 24 months after grazing exclusion, mainly due to a decrease in the abundance of forb species. Bare soil percentage was significantly reduced 12 months after exclosures were built. Above-ground biomass showed a 3-fold increase 12 months after grazing exclusion. After three years, species richness and biomass were similar to those corresponding to older exclosures (15-years old). The composition of plant communities also changed following horse exclusion, with three and 15-years old exclosures dominated by perennial grasses typical of late serai stages. Conclusions  Our results support the hypothesis that natural montane grasslands in the Southern Pampas of Argentina may recover fast from grazing by large herbivores without application of specific restoration techniques.
41058284|Background and aims - In 2006, during a field expedition in the Amalat (Southern) paleovalley of the Vitim Plateau, 85 samples were taken from sediments of a new key hole 7236. The composition and distribution of siliceous microfossils were studied with light microscope (Usoltseva et al. 2008). The prevailence of species of the planktonic genera of Actinocyclus Ehr. and Aulacoseira Thwaites was recorded. The aims of this paper were electron-microscopic investigations of fossil freshwater species Actinocyclus and Lobodiscus from the Miocene lacustrine sediments of a new key hole 7236, and the comparison of our morphological data with formerly published descriptions of known freshwater taxa of these genera. Methods - Samples from the section 7236 were examined using LM and SEM. Abundance was calculated based on the LM slides. Key results - Valve ultrastructure of dominant biostratigraphically valuable species of Actinocyclus and Lobodiscus from the Miocene freshwater sediments of the Vitim Plateau was for the first time studied with SEM. The comparison of results of carried out investigations with formerly published descriptions of known freshwater taxa of Actinocyclus and Lobodiscus permits to belong the studied species to Actinocyclus gorbunovii (Sheshukova) Moisseeva & Sheshukova and A. krasskei (Krasske) Bradbury & Krebs, to expand their certain morphometric data, as well as to describe A. vitimicus Usoltseva & Khursevich sp. nov., A. intermedius Usoltseva & Khursevich sp. nov. and Lobodiscus peculiaris Usoltseva & Khursevich sp. nov., with definite diagnostic features. Conclusion - Freshwater extinct species of Actinocyclus can be used as stratigraphic markers. Thus, occurred planktonic taxa of Actinocyclus, including the new species of A. vitimicus and A. intermedius, described above, as well as Lobodiscus peculiaris together with dominant accompanying planktonic representatives of Aulacoseira represent the characteristic diatom complex in lacustrine sediments of the Upper Dzhilinda subformation recovered from key hole 7236 within the Amalat paleovalley (the Vitim Plateau). The Middle-Late Miocene age of studied lacustrine deposits agrees with K-Ar dating of lavas in this part of section.
43491835|Background and aim - The non-marine diatom communities in the Antarctic Region are characterized by a typical species composition, in close relationship with their environment. Despite the growing interest, the diatom flora of James Ross Island is only poorly known. The present paper discusses the diversity of limnoterrestrial diatoms on this island: seepages and streams. Methods - The diatom flora of 53 samples taken on the eastern side of the Ulu peninsula on James Ross Island has been studied using light and scanning electron microscopy. Key results - A total of 69 diatom taxa belonging to 26 genera have been observed. The genera Luticola, Diadesmis, Muelleria and Pinnularia dominated the species composition. The flora shows an interesting mixture of cosmopolitan and Antarctic species containing several species reaching on James Ross Island their most northern distribution in the Antarctic Region. The taxonomical position of one widespread Antarctic species, Psammothidium papilio (D.E.Kellogg, Stuiver, T.B.Kellogg & Denton) Kopalov & Van de Vijver comb, nov., is corrected. Conclusions - The limnoterrestrial diatom flora of James Ross Island has a rather low number of species, of which a large proportion shows a restricted Antarctic distribution.
43491868|Aims - Iran is one of the main centres of diversity for the genus Onobrychis Miller. This study includes 55 specimens from eleven representative wild populations of Onobrychis carduchorum C.C.Towns. originating from their natural habitats in Iran. The aims of this study are to provide a detailed taxonomical, morphological, genetic and ecogeographical characterization of O. carduchorum in Iran. Methods - The specimens which represent all Iranian populations were biometrically assessed using 45 quantitative and fifteen qualitative morphological characters. The phenotypic variation among the populations depends on various environmental factors; thus at each sample site we recorded data regarding longitude, latitude, altitude, slope inclination, slope orientation, substrate, minimum and maximum annual temperatures, number of rainy days, annual precipitation as well as soil traits including texture, electrical conductivity, organic carbon, total nitrogen, available phosphorus, available potassium, total neutralizing value, pH, and saturation percentage. The floristic composition of each population habitat was examined as an indicator of environmental conditions. To assess genetic variation, we obtained nucleotide sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) and carried out genomic fingerprints using inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) analysis. Results - Cluster analysis of morphological characters showed that the eleven populations could be divided into two major groups including five subgroups. Principal component analysis (PCA) of floristic data confirmed the two major morphological groups suggesting habitudinal segregation among the groups and the indicative value of floristic composition of study sites in assessing intraspecific variation in the target species. Furthermore, canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) of ecogeographic data showed correlations between morphological variations and ecogeographic factors. Longitude, latitude, substrate, available potassium, clay%, total nitrogen, organic carbon, slope orientation, sand%, texture, altitude and rainy days are apparently the main environmental variables associated with morphological groups of O. carduchorum. Both ITS and ISSR data indicate that O. carduchorum is a young species with a recent divergence of its populations.
43491882|Background and aims - Succulence, a common attribute of floras in dry regions and of species living in microenvironments with transient water shortage, has been typically viewed as an adaptive plant feature for surviving in (semi-)arid conditions. The existence of leaf succulence in a temperate cold rainforest challenges the view of its adaptive value. We studied leaf functional variation in Sarmienta repens Ruiz & Pav. (Gesneriaceae), an epiphyte living in the Valdivian forest of southern Chile. Material and methods - We measured leaf thickness, absolute leaf water content, specific leaf area and leaf anatomy (epidermis, palisade parenchyma, and spongy parenchyma) in two distinct light microenvironments: shaded understory versus border of canopy gaps. We also characterized micro-environmental conditions in terms of light availability, temperature and water evaporation. Key results - We show that leaves from sun conditions, the environment with higher water demand, have lower SLA (specific leaf area), thicker epidermis and store more water due to a thicker spongy parenchyma, than leaves from shade conditions. Conclusions - We found high phenotypic variation in S. repens at intraspecific level in response to contrasting environmental conditions. This variation reflects a two-fold strategy common in epiphytes: increase water storage and reduce water loss. Furthermore, it suggests that leaf succulence has an adaptive value even in a temperate cold rainforest. We discuss that the occurrence of succulence on a cold rainforest might be explained by a combination of ecological, biogeographic and phylogenetic factors.
43491853|Background and aims  Pistachio (Pistacia vera L.) is an interesting crop for arid areas, well adapted to marginal lands and to drought conditions. Traditional production areas of Tunisia harbour an interesting diversity of pistachio germplasm. In order to identify and describe this diversity, a field study was conducted in the traditional pistachio production areas of El-Guetar and Sfax in 2004 and 2005. Material and Methods  A total of 256 female and male pistachio specimens were prospected and compared to the main commercial cultivar 'Mateur'. Flowering, tree habit, nut and seed characteristics were determined for 64 pistachio female land races from the El-Guetar oasis and 25 female land races from Sfax. Key results  Differences were observed among all the land races. Flowering and ripening time were particularly variable. Significant variation of nut weight from 0.48 to 1.03g was also observed. Some land races presented nut weight as much as 10% higher than 'Mateur' i.e. Fouratil and Fourati10 from the region of Sfax and MTSG10, AMHA5 and EPE3 from the El-Guetar oasis. Blank production and split nuts ratio ranged respectively from 2 to 60% and from 14 to 95%. Furthermore, 20 land races had a blank production below 10% while 14 local land races had the split nuts ratio superior to 81% recorded for 'Mateur'. The phenotypic data were evaluated using cluster analysis. Parameters related to leaf and nut size and fruit quality had high discriminating values. Different groups of land races were identified with similar flowering periods, nut and seed characters for each cluster. Conclusion  The evaluation of germplasm in Tunisia revealed promising land races. Additional biochemical and molecular studies will provide the necessary complementary information that could result in potentially valuable land race selection.
23209429|Background and aims  The grasslands of southern Africa are threatened by habitat transformation and invasive alien species. However, the resultant plant species loss per unit area cannot be quantified, as the true richness of grassland have not been determined accurately and current estimates of richness are generally based on once-off site visits. The aim of this study was to quantify and compare the species richness of selected transformed and untransformed grasslands of tropical and temperate regions in South Africa. The study sites were located in four grassland vegetation units: KwaZulu-Natal Coastal Belt and Maputaland Woody Grassland (tropical), and Paulpietersburg Moist Grassland and Rand Highveld Grassland (temperate). Methods  Thirty-two plots of 10  10 m were sampled at the four sites, namely eight in each of the vegetation units. At each site four plots were sampled in untransformed grassland and four in adjacent transformed grassland. Thorough floristic sampling of each plot was undertaken three times during the peak growing seasons. Key results  Plant species richness was higher for untransformed grassland than transformed grassland, and is higher than what was previously estimated. Species richness is not severely affected by alien cover and richness, as species losses are made up by better adapted native and alien species entering the transformed habitat. Rare species and habitat specialists are displaced. The type of transformation has a pronounced effect on species richness. Conclusion  Plant species richness of grassland is higher than previous estimates. Increasing alien cover and richness reduces the species richness of certain grassland growth forms and replaces species of conservation importance such as endemics.
43491846|Background and aims  Climate change imposes new challenges on biodiversity conservation, especially in tropical areas where anthropogenic pressures have already increased the vulnerability of many species. New conservation strategies are needed to anticipate the impacts of future climate change and species distribution modeling remains the most useful approach in predicting these impacts and in assisting conservation planning. The objectives of this study were to develop species distribution models for threatened endemic plant species of Madagascar and to assess the impacts of climate change on the species distributions. Methods  Ten species belonging to the genera Mediusella and Xerochlamys of Madagascar's endemic plant family Sarcolaenaceae were included in this study. Potential distribution models using 19 climatic variables were developed for the ten species and projected onto the present and future to evaluate the potential distribution of each species. Future distributions of these species were predicted for 2050 using three general circulation models and two climate scenarios. We also assessed the patterns of range shifts by comparing present and future distributions under the different models and scenarios. Key results  Most species were predicted to undergo major range contraction as a result of climate change. Species in the Central High Plateau of Madagascar were predicted to experience the highest habitat loss, with narrow-range species being the most sensitive. Southward migration was predicted for species distributed in the northwest, whereas upland migration was predicted for some central species. Conclusions  Future climate change will drastically affect the distribution of our target species, seven of which will experience major range contraction by 2050. Among these, threatened endemic species will face higher risk of extinction due to habitat loss. Range expansion was also predicted for two species. In any case, species' adaptation to a changing climate may not happen soon enough, emphasizing the need to strengthen current conservation efforts, especially in areas where species are most likely to persist.
41058268|Background and aims -The taxonomy of Ancistrocladus Wall. (Ancistrocladaceae) is poorly understood. Recent interest is stimulated by the occurrence of biologically active naphthylisoquinoline alkaloids. The discovery of the here reported novelty was made in the framework of an interdisciplinary research program dealing with alkaloid patterns, chromosome numbers, demography, genetic variability, pollination biology, and phylogenetic relationships. Methods -The morphological study was focussed on A. ileboensis and other related species occurring in the D. R. Congo. Key results -The novelty Ancistrocladus ileboensis Heubl, Mudogo & G. Bringmann is described from the Congolian lowland forests ecoregion in the south of the Congo Basin. A distribution map and illustrations are provided. The new species is compared with four closely related taxa, from which it is distinct morphologically, chemically and biogeographically: A. letestui Pellegrin, A. ealaensis J. Lonard, A. likoko J. Lonard, and A. congolensis J. Lonard. Tables showing morphological and chemotaxonomic differences of the related taxa are presented. Conclusion -The phytochemical peculiarities together with morphological features support the separation of A. ileboensis as a new species.
41058283|Background and aims - The majority of freshwater diatom lineages appear to have evolved before or during the Eocene, with rapid radiation occurring in the Miocene. However, only a few accurately dated fossil localities are available to test this assertion, resulting in an overall poor understanding of the biostratigraphy and early evolution of these organisms. Exquisitely preserved diatoms have been uncovered from Eocene lake sediments deposited post-eruptively in the Giraffe kimberlite pipe (Northwest Territories, Canada). We describe three new pennate diatoms from this deposit and discuss their evolutionary implications. Methods - Both oxidized preparations and whole-rock mudstone samples from the Giraffe Pipe core were examined with light and scanning electron microscopy for diatom remains. Key results - Species belonging to the genera Actinella F.W. Lewis, Oxyneis Round and Nupela Vyverman & Compre are described from the Giraffe Pipe sediments. Oxyneis apporrecta is a unique species with valves that are centrally constricted, inflations midway between the center and apices, and protracted and rostrate apices. Actinella giraffensis is a small taxon that lacks a highly complex head pole, and is most closely related to a species known today only from the highlands of New Zealand. Nupela mutabilis has variably shaped valves possessing a raphe and unique areolae characteristic of this genus. These findings represent the first known fossils for both Oxyneis and Nupela, and the oldest record for Actinella. Conclusions - None of the species are known from extant floras and are therefore considered extinct. However, the morphological features they present, including the structure of the areolae, raphe, rimoportula and girdle bands, share pronounced affinities with modern congeneric taxa. The well-developed raphe found on Nupela mutabilis confirms that the evolution of this structure dates to at least the Middle Eocene, and supports the hypothesis that it may be older than the Paleocene.
43491864|Background and aims - The term 'petal' is loosely applied to a variety of showy non-homologous structures, generally situated in the second whorl of a differentiated perianth. Petaloid organs are extremely diverse throughout angiosperms with repeated derivations of petals, either by differentiation of a perianth, or derived from staminodes. The field of evo-devo has prompted re-analysis of concepts of homology and analogy amongst petals. Here the progress and challenges in understanding the nature of petals are reviewed in light of an influx of new data from phylogenetics, morphology and molecular genetics. Method and results - The complex web of homology concepts and criteria is discussed in connection to the petals, and terminology is subsequently defined. The variation and evolution of the perianth is then reviewed for the major clades of angiosperms. From this pan-angiosperm variation, we highlight and discuss several recurrent themes that complicate our ability to discern the evolution of the petal. In particular we emphasise the importance of developmental constraint, environmental stimuli, interrelationship between organs and cyclic patterns of loss and secondary gain of organs, and the development of a hypanthium or corona. Conclusions - A flexible approach to understanding 'petals' is proposed requiring consideration of the origin of the floral organ (stamen-derived or tepal-derived, or other), the functional role (sepaloid or petaloid organs), evolutionary history of the organismal lineage, and consideration of developmental forces acting on the whole flower. The variety and complex evolutionary history of the perianth may necessitate the exploration of petal development within phylogenetically quite restricted groups, combining data from morphology with evo-devo.
43491833|Background and aims - Variations in floral traits and floral structures influence mating systems. The flowers of Alcea rosea are protandrous and herkogamous, with style curvature at anthesis. Methods - We measured: (1) floral morphology, including style curvature, (2) stigma receptivity and pollen viability, (3) breeding system, and (4) outcrossing rate estimated by ISSR markers. Key results - Results indicate that when stigmas were in contact with anthers via style curvature, stigma receptivity and pollen viability was 89.7 and 42.33%, respectively, indicating the potential of delayed selfing. Delayed selfng in A. rosea did not provide obvious contribution to seed production, because there was no significant difference in seed set between intact and emasculated open flowers (P=0.765). However, successful reproduction of 23.98% flowers in the absence of pollinators suggested that selfing provides reproductive assurance during a year, in which pollinators were limiting. The multilocus outcrossing rates in different populations varied from 0.972 to 0.981, with a mean of 0.977. Conclusion - Our data provide an empirical demonstration of a predominantly outcrossing species with potential delayed selfing when pollinators are absent or scarce.
43491849|Background and aims  Understanding how to ensure connectivity by gene flow between insect-pollinated plant populations is essential for designing functional ecological networks in a human-dominated matrix such as in urban settings. Linear landscape elements (LLEs) might contribute to such connectivity by increasing pollen transfer. Methods  Pollen dispersal was investigated for the insect-pollinated herb Primula elatior in urban forest remnants, using fluorescent dye as a pollen analogue, in three study sites comprising population pairs located in fragments connected or not by a wooded LLE. We examined whether the presence of a small patch of plants of P. elatior placed within the LLE (stepping-stone population) might increase pollen dispersal compared to an LLE where P. elatior is absent. Key results  Dye dispersal showed a leptokurtic decay distribution, with most dye transfer events at short distances (80% at less than 15.4114.8 m) and a maximal distance of 647.5 m. Populations not connected by an LLE, separated by distances of 249 m or more, did not exchange dye, whereas populations that were connected by LLEs (up to 602 m) did show interpopulation dye transfer, suggesting that LLEs function as biological corridors facilitating dye dispersal. The presence of a stepping-stone population of P. elatior within the LLE increased between-population dye transfers (between 1.8 and 3.3 times the proportion of visited individuals) and deposition distances, compared to an LLE with no stepping stone, at least when pollen flow already existed. Conclusions  These results provide evidence that LLEs may be more effective for pollen dispersal when serving as both movement conduit and habitat. In urban settings, developing a network of core populations connected by LLEs comprising small, even temporary, stepping-stone populations should be encouraged.
